The US supreme court delves on Monday into the hotly contested question of when software is eligible for patent protection.The nine justices will hear a one-hour argument in a case of interest not just to software companies but also to a wide range of businesses that sell products containing computer-implemented features. The ruling, expected by the end of June, will affect companies involved in such industries as healthcare, IT, communications and high-tech engineering.The case before the US&apos;s highest court involves Alice Corporation, which holds patents for a computer system that facilitates financial transactions. The patents are challenged by CLS Bank International, which says they are not patent eligible. In May 2013, the federal appeals court ruled for CLS but the judges were split on which legal test to adopt.But it&apos;s not just the two sides which are interested in the outcome. Google, Dell, Verizon Communications, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard and engine manufacturer Cummins are among the companies that have filed legal papers weighing in on the issue.The legal question boils down to how innovative an invention should be to receive legal protection. The US Patent Act states that anyone who &quot;invents or discovers a new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter&quot;, or an improvement of an existing one, can get a patent. An invention related to an abstract idea can be patented, but it must include a way of applying the idea.Ain&apos;t got algorithmThe supreme court ruled in the 1970s that an algorithm – a set of simple instructions on how to carry out a task – is not itself patentable. That would suggest that anything which can be carried out solely by a computer is not patentable, because a computer program is by definition an algorithm. But lower courts in effect ignored that, affirming patents that were written and functioned solely on computers without human interaction. Alice Corporation says that because its idea requires the use of a computer, it is patentable. But there has been dissent among judges over whether that makes it patentable under the supreme court rulings of the 1970s – which have never been reversed, and are supposed to be authoritative.Companies vary over what kind of eligibility threshold they would prefer. Those that often get sued for patent infringement, such as Google, favour a tighter definition. Those that want to protect their own patents, such as IBM, would prefer that most software be eligible for patenting.With the rise of computer-based products, courts have struggled to apply patent law. Some legal experts, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital civil liberties group, say that the US Patent and Trademark Office issues too many patents, and that courts are too keen to uphold them. In 2011, the USPTO granted almost 125,000 software patents, up from about 25,000 in 1991, according to a report in August 2013 by the US Government Accountability Office (GAO).Trolling takes its tollTech companies are especially concerned about litigation brought by so-called &quot;patent trolls&quot;, also known as &quot;non-practising entities&quot; (NPEs), defined as companies that hold patents only for the purpose of suing other companies that are seeking to develop new products, rather than making any products that use them. The resulting litigation stifles innovation, the companies say. Congress is considering legislation aimed at reining in patent trolls.Between 2007 and 2011, NPEs accounted for an estimated 19% of all patent infringement lawsuits, according to the GAO report.Patent owners that do not manufacture products are much likelier than ones that do to bring lawsuits based on software inventions, according to a study released last week by RPX, a publicly traded patent clearinghouse.The US court of appeals for the federal circuit in Washington DC which has primary responsibility for interpreting patent law, has struggled to adopt a test that judges can use to review software patent claims, with various judges reaching different conclusions.The problem stems from cases filed in the 1970s, when the US software industry was just beginning to find its feet – and sought patent protection, rather than copyright protection. While copyright protects the precise content of something (and is applied to computer programs), patent protection in software would prevent a rival from imitating its functionality while not having used precisely the same code to achieve it.Curable successThough US software companies were initially unsuccessful, a key case in 1981 did open the door to software patents, when the makers of a rubber-curing system which involved a computer for measuring and reacting to temperatures. Because it linked a real-world application to the computer, the supreme court allowed the patent.Since then software patents which have real-world interaction have been allowed – opening the floodgates to the problems that now plague both large and small companies. The European Union has never allowed &quot;pure&quot; software patents, and has been tougher on patent claims that involve software.By coincidence, the supreme court hearing comes asApple and Samsung, the world&apos;s two biggest smartphone and tablet makers, are beginning a trial in San Joseover allegations that each has infringed the other&apos;s patents – much of which rely on software. But some of the patents involve human interaction with the computer (in the form of the phone), and so would still exist if the supreme court were to strike out pure software patents.Trading Technologies International, which sells software for use in derivatives trading, is one of the companies that favours broad patent eligibility.Steven Borsand, the company&apos;s executive vice president for intellectual property, said his company relies heavily on its patents. It successfully sued a unit of Cantor Fitzgerald for infringement and has settled other cases, he said.Borsand said he was concerned that in seeking to target patent trolls the high court also would hurt businesses that are making legitimate use of their patents.&quot;We spend a lot of money developing stuff. Once it&apos;s out there, it&apos;s pretty easy to copy,&quot; he said. &quot;That&apos;s what happened.&quot;Daniel Nazer, an attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said that restrictions on patent eligibility would lead to greater innovation because companies would be forced to come up with new products instead of relying on patent protections.&quot;That&apos;s how people get cheaper, better products,&quot; he said. &quot;You stay a step ahead.&quot;•Helping Eric Schmidt (and kittens): patents and the smartphone patent wars explained
Fifteen years after the first MP3 players went on sale in the UK, it will soon be legal to copy music you&apos;ve bought on to them from a CD you own.Updates to the UK&apos;s copyright laws mean that from June, &quot;ripping&quot; CDs and putting them on to portable players like Apple&apos;s iPod will no longer be against the strict letter of the law.But it doesn&apos;t appear to allow people to create digital backups of DVDs - unless they can show that the copyright protection being used on them is &quot;too restrictive&quot; in a complaint to the secretary of state, a position presently held by Maria Miller.&quot;The law [on exceptions] is changing in a number of small but important ways, to make our copyright system better suited to the digital age,&quot; the UK&apos;s Intellectual Property Office says in anew advisory(PDF). &quot;These changes will affect how you can use content like books, music, films and photographs.&quot;Under the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, it is not in fact legal to transform a piece of copyrighted content from one storage form to another - so turning a CD, which is encoded in one method, into a file formatted as MP3 or Windows Media Audio or AAC and storing it on a computer hard drive or digital music player is, strictly, against the law.Record labels have known about this for years - but have turned a blind eye, because prosecuting everyone who bought a music player or transferred files to their phone would be both ruinously expensive and terrible publicity.But, the IPO guidance points out, &quot;it will still be illegal to make copies for friends or family, or to make a copy of something you do not own or have acquired illegally, without the copyright owner&apos;s permission. So you will not be able to make copies of CDs for your friends, to copy CDs borrowed from friends, or to copy videos illegally downloaded from file-sharing websites.&quot;In a Q&amp;A section, it points out that making copies of content &quot;for family at home&quot; is already illegal - and that there are no plans to change it.If you give away or sell a CD that you have backed up, you&apos;ll have to destroy the backup copy to stay within the law, the guidance notes.The law is also changing to allow quotations to be taken from works and used in others for purposes other than &quot;criticism, review or news reporting&quot;, previously the only justifications allowed for using them. The growing use of quotations from works on blogs and other formats has driven a shift under which their use will be legal as long as the quote is not excessively long – known as &quot;fair dealing&quot;.Precisely how much or little constitutes &quot;fair dealing&quot; is determined by courts on a case-by-case basis because it varies so widely: using three lines of an eight-line poem might arguably cross the line, but the use of three lines from a 10,000 page book would be unlikely to.The changes follow theHargreaves review, which reported to the government in May 2011, recommending the tweaks to copyright law and noting that the law &quot;has started to act as a regulatory barrier to the creation of certain kinds of new, internet-based businesses&quot;.The EU had already sanctioned such format-shifting, Hargreaves noted, and yet the UK government had not taken advantage of them, even though they would bring &quot;important cultural as well as economic benefits to the UK&quot;.•The big steal: the rise of the plagiarist in the internet age
The news thatbitcoin is to be treated as property by the IRShas sparked fear among fans of the cryptocurrency. But many of the concerns are overblown.America&apos;s Internal Revenue Serviceruledon Tuesday that bitcoin should be treated more like stock than cash. On the one hand, that means that people who buy bitcoin and then sell it at a profit are potentially liable for lower taxes than they would otherwise be.On the other hand, it renders bitcoins significantly more difficult to use as a currency. Spending bitcoin on a product counts as cashing out, and so there would potentially be a capital gain to record in the user&apos;s accounts. In the simplest terms, if a bitcoin bought for $5 appreciates in value enough to be used to buy a $1,000 PC from Overstock.com, the customer would have to declare and pay tax on a $995 profit.That&apos;s concerning, but not the end of the world for bitcoin&apos;s hopes as a currency. But some fear that this ruling is even more damaging than it first seems.Adam Levitin is a law professor at Georgetown University, andhe believesthat the ruling means that bitcoin can never be treated as &quot;fungible&quot; – a term from economics which refers to the fact that particular instances of a good are interchangeable. So, for instance, crude oil is fungible, because if a trader buys a gallon of it, they don&apos;t care which gallon they get. Fine art is not fungible, because which work they get matters a huge amount.After the ruling, &quot;the price at which a particular Bitcoin was acquired (and this is traceable) determines the capital gains on that particular bitcoin when spent,&quot;Levitin argues. &quot;If I spend bitcoin A, which I bought at $10, but is now worth $400, I’ve got a very different tax treatment than if I spend bitcoin B, which I bought at $390.&quot;This means Bitcoins are not fungible, and that makes it unworkable as a currency. If I have to figure out which particular Bitcoin in my wallet I want to spend and what the tax treatment will be, Bitcoin just doesn&apos;t work as a commercial medium of exchange.&quot;But in the absence of further advice from the IRS,some called foul on Levitin&apos;s claim. Even stocks and bonds, the archetypal financial property, are allowed to be accounted for on an &quot;average cost&quot; basis, which involves paying tax on the profit made from the average purchase price of the financial instrument. Such a measure, if applied to bitcoin, would restore fungibility to the currency.However bitcoin is unique in that, even if average cost accounting weren&apos;t allowed, it could be technologically forced. Similar to the way &quot;tumblers&quot; allow users to spend bitcoins without being traced, by mixing hundreds of bitcoins together in the same wallet before passing them on to merchants, it is trivial to exchange one bitcoin for another.A user with two bitcoins, bought for $5 and $10, could simply hand them both over to pay for a good worth one bitcoin, and receive one bitcoin as change. That would force both the spent bitcoin and the one received as change to be accounted for at the average cost of $7.50, since it would be impossible to tell which was which.The treatment of bitcoin as property will still have some irritating effects for those who want to use it as currency, requiring much better record-keeping and raising the prospect of having to include a coffee purchase in your tax return.But the really interesting problems will come when a similar treatment is applied to criminal law.In many legal systems, receipt of stolen property is treated very differently to receipt of stolen money. If a pawn shop accepts a stolen bike, its operators are expected to return it to its rightful owner if discovered, without reward. If a coffee shop takes a stolen fiver, it can keep it.Until someone brings a case to court, it&apos;s impossible to say definitively which version would happen with bitcoin. But the IRS ruling suggests that, in America at least, it could be the former.In other words, if you think the hassle of having to file taxes on your bitcoin is bad, just wait til the shop you&apos;re spending them in has to check to make sure they aren&apos;t stolen before you can make a purchase at all.•Bitcoin to be treated as property instead of currency by IRS
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHTC admits boosting One M8 benchmarks; makes it a feature &gt;&gt; CNETEric Mack:I asked HTC how the One M8 handles benchmark apps like AnTuTu, and received this response:"Thanks for your email about the HTC One (M8). Benchmarking tests look to determine maximum performance of the CPU and GPU and, similar to the engine in a high-performance sports car, our engineers optimize in certain scenarios to produce the best possible performance. If someone would like to get around this benchmarking optimization there are ways to do so, but we think most often this will not be the case."You have to love how HTC is now turning it around: "If someone would like to get around this benchmarking optimisation..."Teens don't use email, so email is dead, right? Wrong. &gt;&gt; austinpreneurJoshua Baer:I don't know about you, but email sure doesn't feel dead to me. I check my email more than ever now that I always have a mobile phone and other ways to get notified of important emails such as my Pebble watch or Google Glass. I seem to get more email than ever, been though I've shifted many of my newsletters and groups to Facebook and Twitter.Microsoft aims at global shipments of 25 million Windows tablets in 2014, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesMicrosoft has set an internal goal of increasing global Windows tablet shipments, including its Surface, in 2014 to 25m units, five times the 5m units shipped in 2013, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.The target shipments are too optimistic, and 18-20m units is more likely, according to the sources.In order to reach the goal, Microsoft has offered subsidies to vendors developing and launching Windows tablets, the sources indicated. While Sony and Lenovo are less interested in developing Windows tablets, Asustek Computer and Acer have been very cooperative with Microsoft, the sources noted. Asustek aims to ship 12m tablets in 2014, including about 4m  Windows units, while Acer aims to ship 10m tablets including 2m Windows units, the sources said.And Surfaces? Aiming to go from 3m in 2013 to 6m.RIM's quarterly results &gt;&gt; Bare FiguresRIM/BlackBerry's story, told through its own financial reports made into clear graphics. Note how much the "cost of sales" (part of "cost and operating expenses") has been cut in the most recent quarter compared to the former.New HTC One doubles repair score, still flunks the test &gt;&gt; iFixitSay hello to the second-least-repairable smartphone we've laid our hands on. The M8 is easier to pull out of its rear case, with screws replacing some of the adhesive and clips from last year. So now it's merely difficult—instead of nearly impossible—to disassemble the phone without destroying it. Once opened, the same demerits are present in the second generation: the battery is still layered beneath the motherboard, which is still layered beneath a year's supply of tape, and removing and replacing the display still requires tunneling through the entire phone.Last year's HTC One was the least-repairable smartphone. The full list is athttp://www.ifixit.com/smartphone_repairabilitySamsung may cut S5 supply to SKT &gt;&gt; Korea TimesSamsung Electronics said Thursday it could possibly reduce shipments of Galaxy S5 smartphones to SK Telecom (SKT) to penalize it for its "unauthorized" release of the firm's latest cellphone.However, it remains to be seen if Samsung truly wants to opt for punitive measures, considering SKT is its largest vendor and any reduction in supplies could negatively affect sales of its latest device."Heads we reduce, tails we don't. Keep flipping the coin until it comes up tails."Barometer: tech &gt;&gt; FT.comTim Bradshaw:as San Francisco becomes a one-horse town, it risks becoming detached from mainstream tastes. A consumer app that catches fire with normal folks can be completely ignored here, while things that get the uber-geeks excited don't always transfer to the outside world. Pinterest is an example of this. Millions of Midwestern moms signed up to the online scrapbooking service long before the geeks had heard of it.But in 2012, around the same time as Pinterest moved to San Francisco, the hot local app was Path. A mobile social network founded by a former Facebook executive, it is a beautiful and useful app. But being Silicon Valley's darling did not help Path to reach the masses, who were soon to fall for something quite different: Snapchat. While filling a similar need – sharing photos on the go – Snapchat is as inelegant and fast as Path is well-crafted and considered.Data Explorer &gt;&gt; International Telecomms UnionExplore and visualize key ICT indicators from 1960 to 2011 for about 200 economies worldwide by creating line graphs, bar graphs, maps and bubble charts.One for the bookmarks. (When will it get mobile internet connections?)Everything You Hate About Advertising in One Fake Video That's Almost Too Real | AdweekStock video provider Dissolve has taken the text of Kendra Eash's brilliant advertising takedown,"This Is a Generic Brand Video", originally published by McSweeney's, and set it to actual stock video clips.It's quite disquieting.Uber's biggest problem isn't surge pricing. What If It's sexual harassment by drivers? &gt;&gt; The Daily BeastOlivia Nuzzi's investigation merits reading in full, and does seem to point to a problem with some drivers.How scammers turn Google Maps into fantasy land &gt;&gt; BusinessweekDune Lawrence on how a Seattle resident created a fake Secret Service office by making one call and two changes on two websites:The stunt highlights the downside of Google's grand experiment in crowdsourcing, one that's felt mostly by small businesses providing things such as locksmith services, carpet cleaning, and home repairs, according to Seely and other critics.It's cheap and easy to game the system, putting up false listings with virtual numbers that forward to a main office or call centers, according to Dan Austin, who has been trying to get Google to fix its spam-listing problem for years. Austin, who lives in Olympia, Wash., likes to call himself a "geo specialist" because of all the time he spends on Google Maps. The company promised four years ago to fix problems with verification, Austin pointed out in arecent blog post.The comments are educational, especially the one from "struggling locksmith". All redolent ofthis story from January 2014.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The UK games development scene has long faced a problem that – to put it mildly in an era in which countless graduates perennially struggle to find jobs – seems counter-intuitive. It just can’t find enough young talent with the requisite skills to carve out a career in games development, despite a proliferation in games-related university degree courses.Since 2007, the UK has fallen from number three to number six in the global games development league table – and while there are many other factors contributing to that slippage, the lack of a reliable supply of fresh, work-ready talent is one. So a new organisation has emerged, backed by industry veterans and specifically designed to address the problem.Announced in February, the Business and University Games Syndicate (Bugs), is the brainchild of Jon Hare, co-founder of legendary Britsoft studio Sensible Software, nowadays CEO at Tower Studios and the University of Bedfordshire’s Prof Carsten Maple. &quot;We put our heads together, to see how we could deliver something to make the students more industry-facing,&quot; says Hare. &quot;So they could hit the ground running when they left – and that is the remit of Bugs.”He says that currently, there are roughly 2,500 students in the UK studying games design, plus other affiliated courses such as animation, but the percentage of those students who move on to jobs in games development is shockingly low: “About 10% of that intake is very good and actually employable,&quot; says Hare. &quot;They will have the right attitude and the right skills. Below that, there is another 10 to 15% that, with the right tuition and right guidance can become employable. The biggest challenge for our industry is to get that second 10-15% down so that 20% of games students get jobs – that’s our aim in Bugs.”Focusing on finishingBugs, as the name makes plain, provides an interface (Hare refers to it as a “bridge” and a “filter”) between universities and the UK games industry. At launch, 10 universities had signed up to the scheme, along with games companies employing, according to Hare, 30% of the UK development workforce and including blue-chip names like Sony, Microsoft, Jagex, Codemasters, The Creative Assembly, Activision, Eutechnyx and Team 17.As a preamble to explaining Bugs’ practical aims, Hare highlights a glaring problem that afflicts the UK’s university games courses: they&apos;re not actually making enough games while studying. “Loads of games students are not making them at all,&quot; says Hare. &quot;They are studying programming and animation, doing a demo of something and modding, but not actually making games.”A key aspect of Bugs’ practical remit is to address that: “Each year, during a three-year course, they should make a game, and at the end of their degree, they’ve gone through three game cycles,&quot; says Hare. &quot;That means they’ve learned how to finish a game, how to work in a team and all the things that go wrong when making a game. The chances are that their first game would be terrible, the second would be better and the third better still.”Roy Caseley, course leader for the BA in games design at the London College of Communications – which has not yet signed up for Bugs – agrees Bugs has a point. “Creating original and interesting concepts, building assets and programming are all important,&quot; he says. &quot;However, producing a finished game which can be play-tested requires a more integrated skill-set and a level of professional practice from Games Design students. From this perspective, I think Bugs is a good idea.”BUGS in the systemSo what practical aspects will Bugs provide? The Bugs website provides a sort of development hub for students, university course-leaders and companies – mainly HR departments. &quot;We ask the students to finish a game every year, although some of the universities ask if they can make it two games in three years,&quot; says Hare. &quot;When they think their game is ready, they tell the course leader. They present the game to us and we vet it. Which involves, firstly, whether we think it is finished. It has to be publishable and actually published – so, out on the App Store or some PC downloading service. We don’t host the game at Bugs – we just provide a link to it. So that means they have to finish it, make it run, put it out there, bug-test it – all the things we normally do in real-world development. Then, it will be included on the Bugs website as something anyone can download.&quot;For each game that qualifies, we ask students to provide video, a link to the game on whatever platforms it was written for and then we give a list of all the staff on it – lead programmer, lead designer, lead artist and so on. Under each student’s name is a CV, contact details and an online portfolio.”The concept is akin to a LinkedIn for games graduates, with companies able to drill straight to, say, conspicuously good level-designers or artists. Hare adds that Bugs offers students and universities other services such as a shared list of guest speakers and the chance to share resources like motion-capture studios, plus it will put on game jam-type events.He hopes students will gravitate towards Bugs-affiliated university courses. “There are several types of people who feed into the Bugs website,&quot; says Hare. &quot;The most important from the universities’ point of view are the prospective students, who are thinking of choosing university A, B or C, but they choose B because it has signed up for Bugs.”Rekindling past gloriesBugs co-founder Prof Carsten Maple highlighted a massive motivational factor behind the organisation at its launch event: the UK games development industry, for the first time in its history, recently slipped out of the top three countries in the global league table (generated by splitting the industry’s entire revenue up on a country-by-country basis).Dr Richard Wilson, CEO of Tiga (a representative body for the UK’s games developers) adds a bit of detail to the decline: “The UK was the third largest developer of videogames in the world in 2007. We dropped to fourth in 2008. We fell to fifth place in 2009 and sixth place in 2010, overtaken by Canada, South Korea and then China. Strong sales from GTA V should push the UK back into fifth position. And now that UK games tax relief has been ratified by the EU, we have the chance to move back up the league table.”In March, the EU finally rubber-stamped tax-relief for the UK games industry after two years of deliberation, even though France has seen the benefits of it for years. British developers have been fighting for years for the tax incentive, which should make it easier to attract foreign investment from major publishers, who have found using UK studios much more expensive than opening development houses in, say, Quebec, where generous tax breaks have allowed the sector to flourish.At the Bugs launch – two weeks before the EU - much of the talk was about the reinvigorating effect it should have on British development. Indeed, the man from the government who could take credit for getting games tax-breaks through, minister for culture, communications and the creative industries, Ed Vaizey, was there and said: “I think that the tax credit is going to be a vital part of the success of the industry. You only have to see the amazing effect that the animation tax-credit has had on the animation industry in just six months. It was an industry which was literally leaving these shores, but has now regenerated.” The hatful of Baftas and Oscars picked up by Gravity, a triumph for London’s once-again-vibrant visual effects industry, illustrates his point.But if the UK games development sector is about to enter another boom phase, the need for top-notch graduates with the requisite skills will become more intense. During the Bugs launch, Maple said, “I am really committed to getting the UK back into the top three of games developers. If we’re going to do that, we need to make sure that we have a good talent pool.”Wilson has been an ardent flag-carrier for tax-breaks for several years, initially lobbying the government to put them forward to the EU, then doing the nitty-gritty of jumping through the hoops that the EU presented. He is understandably jubilant about this week&apos;s decision. “Games tax relief should lead to more investment in the industry and more sustainable start-ups, so we’re very confident,&quot; he says. &quot;But there are three things we need beyond tax-breaks. We need to enhance the professionalism and skills of the companies that are starting up. We need to improve management skills across the industry. And we need a sensible migration policy. From time to time, there will be highly skilled jobs coming that will have to be sourced from outside the EU, and that process needs to become easier.”Wilson praises Bugs as addressing the first problem. “We always want to make sure that the developers we have in the UK are the best in the world,&quot; he says. &quot;Bugs’ agenda will enhance the quality of graduates coming into the industry.”Hare, though, cautions against getting carried away – some readjustment of students’ attitudes may be necessary. “Half the time, they are not prepared to engage with the world of working in the games industry,&quot; he says. &quot;They are still in some sort of fantasy-land. While they might have some great technical skill, it’s too specific and they’re not rounded.”Beware the investorsIn theory, with the current explosion in the UK of tiny, independent games companies developing for the likes of Android, iOS and the PlayStation Network – a scene that can only proliferate when tax-breaks are on offer – games graduates should be able to employ themselves, by forming their own indie developers. This mirrors the very birth of the UK development scene in the 1980s, when cheap computers like the ZX Spectrum and BBC B became available, and a generation of developers consisting mainly of teenage boys operating out of their bedrooms, emerged.Hare highlights a crucial disparity between those days and now. “The difference is the business model,&quot; he says. &quot;In 1985, when we made Parallax, our first game at Sensible Software, we went with the demo to Ocean in Manchester as two 19-year-olds and signed a deal that day for a £5,000 advance to make that game, on a 15 percent royalty. We never saw any royalties – it wasn’t a good game – but we did get that advance. And that £5,000 advance, in those days, meant that we could live, and we retained 100% of our company – they only took a cut of the game. That was a much better model.”Nowadays, the only way for fledgling developers to raise money is via investors and, Hare is concerned: “There are a lot of investment sharks out there – before these companies know where they are, they own less than 50% of themselves.” Hare says that phase two of Bugs will involve helping graduates set themselves up as indie developers: “Not just in terms of the creative and production sides, but legal and accounting-wise”.And he would dearly love to develop some sort of ethical investment fund. “In the 80s and 90s, all of us in the UK development industry would talk to each other and share information,&quot; he says. &quot;But we’ve gone backwards now. I’d love to get investors to see themselves as seed publishers, and to have options on the future games of the companies in which they invest, but not to own those companies’ souls.”Cap in handThe trouble is that, before Bugs can start thinking about expanding its horizons, it needs to secure the funding required to fulfil its initial remit. Surely the big games companies it signed up as affiliates could foot the bill of sustaining a small office with a handful of permanent employees?But Hare is reluctant to take that route. “Bugs doesn’t charge universities or companies to become part of it,&quot; he says. &quot;What we’re doing is almost like a quango. So I hope, at some point, that one of these bodies, whether it be Nesta, Ukie, Tiga, Bafta or the government itself, will see that what we’re doing is a good thing, and that the push will come – hopefully from the government – to free some money up to support what we’re doing.”So, the thumbs-up for tax relief, coming so soon after the formation of Bugs, provides a rare opportunity for some joined-up thinking in government, since only through initiatives like this can the true effect be realised. If Vaizey can chisel the tiny amount of money required to sustain and develop Bugsout of the coffers of the Treasury, he will be in a deliciously unTory-esque position: able to help students and an industry that resides outside of the City with one stroke. The controller is in your hand, Ed. It&apos;s time to press Start.•EC approves tax breaks for video games industry•Video game tax breaks: what does it mean and what happens now?• How to get into the games industry – an insiders&apos; guide
The smartphone world&apos;s fiercest rivalry is heading back to court again this week in the heart of the Silicon Valley, as Apple and Samsung begin a new trial - accusing each other, once again, of ripping off designs and features.The trial will mark the latest round in a long-running series of lawsuits between the two tech giants that underscore a much larger concern about what is allowed to be patented.Like the previous trial, held in summer 2012, the new one will be overseen by Judge Lucy Koh in the California district court in San Jose. Samsung is appealing against that verdict, where a jury found in Apple&apos;s favour on every count, though reducing its damages claim.In the new trial Apple is seeking damages of $2bn, claiming infringement of five patents by Samsung devices sold in the US between 2010 and 2012, including Galaxy smartphones and tablets. Samsung is claiming infringement of two of its patents by the iPhone and iPad. Jury selection begins on Monday relating to data transmission and the use of video, audio and photos.&quot;There&apos;s a widespread suspicion that lots of the kinds of software patents at issue are written in ways that cover more ground than what Apple or any other tech firm actually invented,&quot; Notre Dame law professor Mark McKenna said. &quot;Overly broad patents allow companies to block competition.&quot;If Apple is successful, it could bring similar lawsuits against other Android handset makers, because the patents at issue are part of Google&apos;s Android software, rather than being particular to Samsung&apos;s TouchWiz software. Apple cannot sue Google directly because it is only when the Android code is implemented in hardware that infringement arises.However the slow pace of lawsuits has raised the question of how effective such lawsuits are. Apple began the lawsuits when Steve Jobs expressed frustration at what he saw as &quot;copying&quot; by Android of iPhone features, and vowed to go &quot;thermonuclear&quot; in his attempts to stamp them out. But Apple has had very few concrete successes in courts, despite a number of successful cases, with Google&apos;s software now powering about a billion devices worldwide.Apple filed the suit against the South Korean consumer electronics behemoth in February 2012 in what Koh called &quot;one action in a worldwide constellation of litigation between the two companies&quot;.The latest Apple-Samsung case will be tried less than two years after a federal jury found the South Korean firm was infringing on Apple patents. Samsung was ordered to pay $929m but has been allowed to continue selling products using the technology after Judge Koh denied Apple a sales injunction pending appeal. Koh ruled then that there was no clear evidence that the specific patents which Samsung had been found to infringe actually drove sales.&quot;Apple revolutionized the market in personal computing devices,&quot; Apple attorneys wrote in court filings. &quot;Samsung, in contrast, has systematically copied Apple&apos;s innovative technology and products, features and designs, and has deluged markets with infringing devices.&quot;Samsung countered that it has broken technological barriers with its own ultra-slim, lightweight phones.&quot;Samsung has been a pioneer in the mobile device business sector since the inception of the mobile device industry,&quot; Samsung attorneys wrote. &quot;Apple has copied many of Samsung&apos;s innovations in its Apple iPhone, iPod, and iPad products.&quot;In the upcoming case, Apple claims Samsung took a tap-from-search technology that allows someone searching for a telephone number or address on the web to tap on the results to call the number or put the address into a map. It also points to a Google Quick Search Box in the Android-powered Galaxy Nexus steals from patented technology used by virtual assistant Siri to answer queries in the iPhone. It also claims patents on autocorrection when words are typed. In addition, Apple says Samsung copied &quot;Slide to Unlock,&quot; which allows users to swipe the face of their smartphone to use it.Last week an Apple engineer who worked on the original iPhone told the Wall Street Journal about the intense pressure from Steve Jobs to come up with the company&apos;s first smartphone model - and how the team devised the slide-to-unlock feature. But Samsung is expected to counter that the idea had already been implemented by other companies on phones, which could render it invalid, depending on when Apple&apos;s patent was filed.Samsung countered that Apple is stealing a wireless technology system that speeds up sending and receiving data.The most attention-grabbing claim in the case is Apple&apos;s demand that Samsung pay a $40 royalty for each Samsung device running software allegedly conceived by Apple, more than five times more than the amount sought in the previous trial and well above other precedents between smartphone companies.Each side has 25 hours of court time to put their case and rebut the other side&apos;s.If Apple prevails, the costs to Samsung could reach $2 billion. Apple&apos;s costs, if it lost, are expected to be about $6 million.&quot;You rarely get from the jury what you ask for, so companies aim high,&quot; German patent analyst Florian Müller said. &quot;But in my opinion this is so far above a reasonable level the judge should not have allowed it.&quot; However the owner of a patent is under no obligation to license it at any price, unless it is part of a &quot;standards-essential patent&quot; (SEP) class - used in standards such as Wi-Fi or the video encoding system H.264 - in which case licensing at a &quot;fair and reasonable&quot; is obligatory. Neither side has any standards-essential patents at issue in the trial.The problem, Müller said, is that each smartphone has thousands of patented ideas in it; Apple is challenging just five. Equally, a high proportion of those patents are SEPs, which are typically licensed for fractions of a penny per device.Throughout the three years of litigation, Samsung&apos;s market share has grown. One of every three smartphones sold worldwide last year was a Samsung, now the market leader. Apple, with a typically higher price, was second, with about 15% of the global market. In the US, Samsung is now the provider of about a quarter of all smartphones in use, against 40% for Apple - making Samsung the second-largest smartphone maker there.Apple claims the following Samsung products now infringe on Apple patents: Admire, Galaxy Nexus, Galaxy Note, Galaxy Note II, Galaxy SII, Galaxy SII Epic 4G Touch, Galaxy SII Skyrocket, Galaxy SIII, Galaxy Tab II 10.1, and Stratosphere.Samsung claims the following Apple products infringe on Samsung patents: iPhone 4, iPhone 4S, iPhone 5, iPad 2, iPad 3, iPad 4, iPad mini, iPod touch (5th generation), iPod touch (4th generation), and MacBook Pro.With the San Jose federal courtroom just a 15-minute drive from Apple&apos;s Cupertino headquarters, even jury selection can be difficult. In the previous case, several prospective jurors were dismissed because of their ties to the company.•No, Samsung didn&apos;t pay Apple its fine in nickels
The vast scale of online surveillance revealed by Edward Snowden is changing how businesses store commercially sensitive data, with potentially dramatic consequences for the future of the internet, according to a new study.Asurvey of 1,000 business leaders from around the worldhas found that many are questioning their reliance on "cloud computing" in favour of more secure forms of data storage as the whistleblower's revelations continue to reverberate.The moves by businesses mirrorefforts by individual countries, such as Brazil and Germany, which are encouraging regional online traffic to be routed locally rather than through the US, in a move that could have a big impact on US technology companies such as Facebook and Google.Daniel Castro, a senior analyst at theInformation Technology and Innovation Foundation, said the study confirmed "anecdotal evidence that suggests US tech firms are going to be hit hard in the coming years by a global backlash against technology 'made in America'"."The Snowden revelations have led to a paradigm shift in how IT decision-makers buy technology," he said. "Now companies are not just competing on price and quality, they are also competing on geography. This might be the final nail in the coffin for the vision of a global, borderless internet."Ian Brown, from the Oxford Internet Institute, said the survey revealed a significant level of concern among business leaders: "We'll have to see over the next year how much impact this type of reaction has on the bottom line of US tech companies, but it will give them even more incentive to put pressure on the Obama administration and US Congress for significant surveillance reform."The survey of 1,000 information and communications technology decision-makers from France, Germany, Hong Kong, the UK and the US was carried out by NTT Communications. It found that, following the Snowden revelations, almost 90% had changed the way they use the cloud – a storage service that allows data to be accessed from anywhere in the world but which is more susceptible to online surveillance.The study also found that almost a third of those questioned were moving their company's data to locations where they "know it will be safe", and 16% said they had delayed or cancelled their contracts with cloud service providers.Len Padilla, from NTT Communications in Europe, said: "Our findings show that the NSA allegations have hardened ICT decision-makers' attitudes towards cloud computing, whether it is modifying procurement policies, scrutinising potential suppliers or taking a heightened interest in where their data is stored."The Guardian, and some of the world's other major media organisations, begandisclosing details of the extent and reach of mass surveillance programmes run by Britain's eavesdropping centre, GCHQ, and its US equivalent, the National Security Agency, last year.US technology firms have repeatedly raised concerns about the impact of the NSA revelations on their ability to operate around the world, and earlier this monthFacebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, met President Barack Obamato voice their concerns about the commercial impact of government surveillance programmes.But Castro warned that it was not just the global firms that are being affected in the US. "This isn't something that just the big players have to worry about, it's the start-ups and mid-size companies too – across the board this backlash is going to hurt their bottom line."And Brown said that pressure is now likely to be felt by the other governments as more businesses attempt to protect their data."As the US limits its own mass surveillance programmes, US firms will no doubt be asking pointed questions about the continuing surveillance activities of European and other governments," he said.
Price £48,670MPG 155.2Top speed 143mphMy youngest daughter used to struggle with what was "real" and what was "made up". Books and films were real, but the stories in them were made up. Cartoon characters were made up, of course, but one day we met an 8ft Percy Pig in Hyde Park. That really messed with her little blonde head.That same sense of bafflement occurs in motorists when they consider the "made-up" mile-per- gallon figures published in glossy brochures about their new car's fuel consumption and the "real" figure they achieve out on the road, you know, when they are actually driving. The literature says 45mpg and you get half that, which is not so much "made up" as flamboyant fantasy.By law, fuel economy is measured under controlled conditions using a&nbsp;standardised test. A vehicle's drive wheels are placed on a machine called a dynamometer that simulates the driving environment. It's a sort of hamster wheel for cars. Fuel burned and emissions produced are recorded under the watchful eye of the Vehicle Certification Agency. For years there have been dark tales of collusion between manufacturers and testers, of cars stripped of seats to make them lighter, of door seals taped shut for better aerodynamics. But the truth is far more mundane…  In the quest to find an affordable and repeatable tool to measure a car's thirst and provide a&nbsp;useful comparison across all models, almost every single real-world variable has been removed from the driving experience.Inside story: the lavish interior of the new Volvo V60.In reality, everything from road surface to wind resistance and even the weight of your passenger will make a difference. Then there's the optimum operating temperature of the engine and whether you are consuming extra energy by having the aircon on full blast. But the single greatest variable – and the one that is impossible to test for – is your driving style. It's estimated that this alters your car's efficiency by at least 50%.The only consistent variable seems to be that none of the manufacturers' figures are accurate. Last yearWhat Car?tested 240 different vehicles to find their "True MPG". Only three of those 240 met their official combined consumption figure – the Porsche Boxster, BMW's 320d and Suzuki's Swift. The worst was Porsche's  Cayenne GTS.Keep up if you can: the new Volvo is one of the most fuel-efficient cars you can buy.The car with the highest "claimed" figure is Volvo's V60 Plug-in Diesel Hybrid. Official testers signed off on a&nbsp;scarcely believable 155.2 miles to a single gallon of fuel. More astonishingly, it will do that while emitting just 49g of CO2per km. It's a&nbsp;proper luxury estate, too. Despite all its eco credentials it can be driven hard and fast. It'll hit 62mph in a&nbsp;shade under 7 seconds and tops out at 143mph. The V60 achieves all this by having two motors: a D5 2.4-litre diesel up front and a 69bhp electric motor mounted on the rear axle. It's much like a&nbsp;normal hybrid but this one can be plugged into the mains. When fully charged, which takes 4.5 hours on a standard plug, you can drive it as a purely electric car at up to 60mph for a range of 30 miles. There's no range anxiety as when the batteries are exhausted the diesel kicks in until you can next plug it in.All this incredible technology comes at a whopping price – almost 50 grand. For half that you could buy an identical-looking V60 diesel which would still do a claimed 74mpg.What was my mileage? I&nbsp;drove 400 miles and averaged close to 75mpg. Impressive, but hardly the promised 150. That's the real world for you.Calling all bikersOn the road: spring is here! Time to dig out the leathers. Photograph: CorbisBike Socialis a social media channel for riders from the isnurance specialistsBennetts– it brings you all things connected to riding in one central location. From news and reviews to road tests, and the UK's best biking events, maps and routes. You can useBike Socialto connect with your club, upload a video from your latest ride, and share your riding tips with the rest of the biking world. With the arrival of spring and the clocks going forward, it's that time of year when some of you will no doubt be looking to renew your motorcycle insurance and plot the route of your next ride to kick off the biking season. If you're looking for something new to add to your social calendar this year, why not dip into the world of Bike Social. All you have to do is sign up with a free profile to get connected and get riding…Putting F1 on the mapWith the F1 season underway, here's an interactive infographic that discusses 20 of the world's most tricky and treacherous race tracks – it talks about why they are so hazardous and outlines some attention-grabbing information about the tracks. It outlines tracks from all walks of racing life and features some world-famous locations, such as Daytona, Circuit de Mona and the renowned Autodromo Nazionale in Monza, Italy. To have a look, go to this link:http://www.buyagift.co.uk/content/tracks/Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
The biggest TV star in the world isn't on traditional TV.PewDiePie– aka Brighton-based Swede Felix Kjellberg – has 25.4m subscribers on YouTube, where his gaming videos have been watched more than 3.9bn times.He's the biggest star from the world of multi-channel networks (MCNs) on YouTube. These companies are part broadcasters, running networks of channels and commissioning shows, and part talent agencies, signing up and developing (often) youthful talent.PewDiePie is signed toMaker Studios, a Los Angeles MCN that Disney bought earlier this month in a deal worth up to $950m if it hits future performance targets. It's the biggest investment yet in the emerging YouTube content industry.It's an alternative TV world fuelled by viewers as young as its stars. Research firm GlobalWebIndex found in 2013 that 87% of 16-24-year-old internet users in the UK had visited YouTube in the past month: an audience of 5.22 million people. "Young people live on YouTube, learn on YouTube and share much of their content and lives through YouTube," says Kevin Curran, senior lecturer in computer science at the University of Ulster. "Video viewing and sharing has basically exploded among young people."One explanation for why even the biggest "YouTubers" (as they're known) remain under the radar within the wider media industry is their content. It's startling how many of the biggest British channels on YouTube are devoted to games, for example – a form of entertainment that large parts of the media industry still doesn't really understand or appreciate.Seven of the top 10 UK-based channels are games-focused, withMinecraftparticularly prominent – while in February, PewDiePie generated two-and-a-half times as many views as One Direction's channel. Kjellberg and channels such as Stampy, the DiamondMinecart, iBallisticSquid andYogscastare the new influencers in the games industry.Disney isn't the first big media company to buy an MCN to help it better reach this huge online audience that is turning to YouTube as an alternative to traditional TV, and watching it across its devices: computers, smartphones, tablets and even television. In May 2012, Discovery Communications bought MCN Revision3 for $30m, while in May 2013, DreamWorks Animation bought another,AwesomenessTV, for $117m depending on performance bonuses.Now Disney has made its move for Maker Studios, with its 55,000 channels, 380m subscribers and 5.5bn monthly views on YouTube – despite recent reports that Maker had been losing up to $3m a month as it struggled to make advertising revenues outweigh the costs of running its network.YouTube is paying off for Google, and individual YouTubers can make decent money, but the last year has seen persistent speculation that the middleman MCNs have struggled to turn a profit.Disney buying Maker Studios may be a happy union of old and new media, but sceptics may see it more as a heavily loss-making MCN succeeding in getting bought by a big media firm fretting about its ability to follow its young audience to digital platforms, before the MCN's money ran out.Disney fretting? "For me, they had not really grasped what's happening with the younger audience on platforms like YouTube," saysPatrick Walker, who used to run YouTube's non-US business and is now chief content officer at British MCN Base79. "Disney was never one of the companies that engaged deeply in the platform. They always saw it as more of a promotional channel to get people to watch stuff somewhere else," he says, pointing to Disney's recent layoffs of 700 staff within its existing digital entertainment division as a strategic shift, taken with its decision to buy Maker.Expect more acquisitions and partnerships between big media and MCNs in what some experts see as a shift in the relationship between viewers and stars. "In the future it will be less about manufactured formats and celebrities and more about genuine, sharable and organic relationships between real, home-grown talent," says Dom Smales, MD of social talent agency Gleam Futures.Walker agrees. "This is a complete transformation of the industry."New video starsThe UK's top 10 YouTube channels in February 20141PewDiePie250m viewsSwedish gamer now living in the UK, whose playthroughs have 25m subscribers.2Stampy159.3m viewsMore games, including daily Minecraft videos, as well as other console games.3One Direction109.2m viewsThe official YouTube channel for the world's biggest boyband.4The DiamondMinecart62.5m viewsDaily Minecraft videos, spotlighting the burgeoning community around "mods" for the game.5iBallisticSquid61.6m viewsAnother Minecraft-focused channel, which has diversified into other Xbox games.6Yogscast59.8m viewsA group of gamers who made their name with videos ofWorld of WarcraftandMinecraft.7BBC50.9m viewsThe official YouTube channel of the BBC, with clips from key shows across its output.8KidsTV12336.7m viewsA channel aimed at young children with a mixture of educational songs and videos.9KSI36.5m viewsTwenty-year-old Olajide Olatunji, with videos onFIFA,Grand Theft Autoand other games.10TheSyndicateProject33.5m viewsAnother 20-year-old, Tom Cassell, whose videos focus onMinecraftand other games.Source:Tubefilter
Don't let the name fool you,Surgeon Simulatoris no simulation. A touchscreen revamp of the twisted PC hit, players take on the role of inept sawbones Nigel Burke as he hacks at unfortunate patient Bob.Much of the joy is in its trial-and-error nature of procedures – heart, kidney, eye and teeth transplants – and the deliberately unresponsive nature of the controls. Hints are available but the game is best enjoyed from a position of ignorance. Should the ribcage be removed with a hammer or a buzzsaw? Difficult decisions abound, as Bob's heart rate and blood loss are monitored and controlled.There are only four operations, which is a shame, but corridor mode mixes it up with operations carried out on the move and equipment available fleetingly in random order. Gruesome fun.
"From the makers ofCall of Duty," blares the marketing message behindTitanfall, and it's easy to see why, with its fast-paced online gameplay, EA's shooter has all the hallmarks of classicCoD. But here we have soldiers who parkour over obstacles and leap up buildings like gun-toting ninjas. And then – once a few minutes have passed – they can pilot a Titan, hulking machines that dash around, dodging missiles and dishing out wanton destruction.It's a satisfying experience that does a wonderful job of making you feel like a mechanised superhero. And it's accessible for newcomers, too. But there's room for improvement. The game is lacking in modes, particularly compared with its rivals, and the story campaign is effectively a glorified training session. No doubt the inevitable sequel will fix these issues. But for now,Titanfallremains the most refreshing shooter the genre has seen in years.
PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Konami, cert: 18, out nowMetal Gear Solid Vis coming, of course, but it's not quite here yet.Ground Zeroesis just a taste of what renowned designer Hideo Kojima has planned for the tech-noir stealth game's full release – a foretaste of the new open-world gameplay that tears asunder the series' linear heritage. Certainly,Ground Zeroesdelivers in terms of its visual and audio muscle, but its single environment presents a somewhat fleeting experience, around two hours long. Beyond that, however, are a number of additional missions played in the same setting that unveil a variety of gameplay styles, and an experience with unceasing pace that really does hark back to the first, tremendous,Metal Gear Solid.The setting is also rich with detail and – scarcely veiled by a "pseudo-historical" narrative – explicitly inspired by Guantánamo Bay, affording Kojima the opportunity to share his musings on the morality and necessity of conflict. Its brevity may deter many, but even only as a taster forMGS&nbsp;Vthis remains an exceptional and meticulously designed interactive experience.
PS3, PS Vita, Square-Enix, cert: 12, out nowFinal Fantasy Xwas a technological masterpiece on PS2, andX-2the first true sequel in the series' history. Uniquely linked by narrative and design, they present two halves of the same equation, so having both rereleased and remastered for modern consoles is a wonderful opportunity for fans old and new.It's an inconsistent remastering, though, the prime effort having been spent on core characters and environments. Understandable, perhaps, but it makes for some jarring moments with secondary characters in both games appearing notably blockier and poorly textured. Both adventures hold up to the test of time, however. Years on,X's quest to save an entire world remains appropriately epic in tone, whileX-2delivers a more personal tale of love and redemption. Each offers a speedy twist on turn-based combat, though the latter's costume-changing "Dressphere" system is the most revolutionary. The Vita version edges out PS3 by virtue of some gentle touch-based upgrades, though both consoles deliver a superb experience.
Last week in the Hague, Barack Obama seemed to have suddenly remembered the oath he swore on his inauguration as president – that stuff about preserving, protecting and defending the constitution of the United States. At any rate, heannouncedthat the NSA would end the "bulk collection" of telephone records and instead would be required to seek a new kind of court order to search data held by telecommunications companies.This policy change is a tacit admission of what Edward Snowden (and2001 whistleblower William Binneybefore him) had been claiming, namely that the warrantless surveillance of US citizens by the NSA and other government agencies does, in fact, violate the constitution of the United States. Obama's announcement looked to some observers as the first crack to appear in the implacable facade of the national surveillance state. This looked promising because, as we know from second world war movies, the first crack is inevitably the harbinger of the eventual total collapse of the dam.Dream on. The significant thing about Obama's announcement is the two things it left out: surveillance of theinternet(as distinct from the telephonic activity of American citizens); and of the rest of the world – that's you and me. So even if Obama succeeds in getting his little policy swerve through Congress, the central capabilities of the national surveillance state will remain in place, untouched and unimpaired.At the heart of these capabilities is the "bulk collection" (that is, warrantless) collection and storage of communications metadata on an unimaginable scale. Given that metadata in this context is essentially a log ofeverycommunicative act that you make in cyberspace – where you went; who you emailed or texted; who emailed or texted you; the URL of every website you visited; a list of every web search you've ever made; and so on – metadata nowadays constitutes information of a verydetailed and intimatenature.It's the kind of data that in a civilised society would only be accessible to state authorities under very strict conditions. Yet we now know, thanks to Snowden, that all of it is freely available to the NSA and its overseas franchises.This is intolerable, for various reasons. The first and most obvious one is the intimacy of the data that is being collected. What is even more offensive is the speciousness of the rationale that is trotted out by state authorities to "justify" it. This goes back to the era of analogue telephony when the US supreme courtdecidedthat the "metadata" of a telephone subscriber consisted of a log of the numbers s/he called, and that this log was the product of the telephone company, not of the subscriber. This was perhaps a not unreasonable judgment in an analogue era, but it is entirely inapplicable in a digital one. Our metadata should belong to us and should only be accessible under judicial supervision.Equally offensive is the argument, regularly trotted out by government apologists, that "collection" does not mean what any normal person thinks it means. Sure, they say, the metadata may be hoovered up by the spooks' machines, but it isn't actually&nbsp;"collected" until it has been looked at by a human being. This is either breathtaking casuistry or evidence of startling official ignorance of current capabilities in machine learning and pattern recognition. Either way, it's bullshit.Related to that is the way in which bulk collection of metadata undermines a fundamental principle of any civilised legal system – the presumption of innocence until proved otherwise. Current NSA/GCHQ practice effectively turns every citizen into a suspect to be surveilled, just in case, at some time in the future, the state decides to take an interest in him or her.Finally, there is the legal issue. Ever since Snowden began telling it like it is, the ultimate fall-back position of the establishment has been that what the spooks are doing is "lawful". Even if we accept that proposition, there is still the problem of bad laws caused by incompetent or dishonest law-making. And what we are now discovering is how flawed the US law-making process relating towarrantless surveillancewas. In the UK, the parliamentary process that led to RIPA, theRegulation of Investigatory Powers Act, was also flawed but in a different way. In the US, it was Dick Cheney and the politicians who decided what they wanted the NSA to do and drafted the law accordingly. Over here, the spooks told the politicians what they wanted and the legislators obliged. This is no way to run a democracy.* This article was amended on 31 March. In the paragraph "This is intolerable…" the author meant to say "perhaps a not unreasonable judgement" rather than "not reasonable".
Being an internationally renowned motoring journalist, I get sent a&nbsp;lot of things, as I'm sure you can imagine. Cars, of course, but also other stuff. Fanmail (sacks of it. They hate me in the post room, but we have a laugh about it). Also invitations, presents, bribes, propositions, proposals. And now a&nbsp;novel:The Tin Snail, by Cameron McAllister. Why? I can barely read. Oh, I see, it's about a&nbsp;car, a brave little French car that helped win the war. It's charming, and based, loosely, on the true story of theCitroën 2CV.There can't be many cars around now that you could squeeze a novel out of, simply because there aren't many cars around with either the personalities or the stories behind them. Certainly I don't think you'd get much literature out of this Audi.How would it go? Once upon a&nbsp;time there was a compact executive saloon, built by a large team of people working for a&nbsp;German car manufacturer. The Audi A4 2.0 TDI SE (150PS) multitronic doesn't have a nickname, because it isn't that kind of car. Nor are the people who drive it the sort of people to give their cars nicknames.One day, the Audi A4 went to see a&nbsp;world-famous motoring journalist. He – the WFMJ, not the car (it's not a&nbsp;car that lends itself to gender either) – appreciated that it was a very able car, classy in an understated kind of way, a bit less flashy than its chief rival from another German (Bavarian) car manufacturer.He found much to commend about the car: the way it drives and handles (though it's actually not as good to drive as the Bavarian rival), the performance and efficiency of the excellent diesel engine, the comfortable and well-appointed interior. He recognised that for a&nbsp;lot of people an Audi A4 would be an achievement, a mark of success, though by no means an ostentatious one. Again, classy, not too flashy.Yet he found himself unmoved. The car's sober, conservative design didn't excite him. It looks like a lot of other cars, he thought to himself. That's probably why none of the neighbours, who usually show some interest in the cars that turn up in the street, even mentioned it. To be honest, his own family barely noticed it. "That's taking understatement a&nbsp;bit too far!" he said, out loud this time. "If you're spending £30,000 on a car, you want someone to notice it… or you would if you were a shallower kind of person, concerned by things like status."Truth be told, the Audi A4 2.0 TDI SE (150PS) multitronic bored this motoring journalist rigid. Not only was it pretty much personality-free, but it didn't come with, or lead to, any stories. Which is why this one is rubbish. The end.Audi A4 2.0 TDI SE (150PS) multitronicPrice£27,790Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption58.9mpgCO2emissions127g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating4/10
The design of Audi&apos;s celebrated TT took just four weeks to create in 1995. Now the German automotive giant has spent five years updating it for the smartphone generation.Audi’s TT sports car started life as concept developed in the mid 1990s – a sporty coupe built atop Audi’s common platform underpinning the Golf among others.An update to the TT was released in 2006, which brought the coupe into line with Audi&apos;s range at the time, with a slightly sharper look and better performance.Now, after a five-year design process that included three years of painstaking discussion and workshops agonising over every little detail, a new TT is ready.On the outside it is sharper, more taught, aggressive and masculine looking; “an intentional shift to position the TT as a legitimate sports car behind the R8 in the Audi line up,” according to Dany Garand, lead exterior designer of the TT.A sketch illustrating the hard lines of the new TT and evolution from the cicular, rounded shape of the original sports coupe. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian“We certainly didn’t get the design you see today in one shot; it was the process of many designs and refinements,” Garand told the Guardian.But while the exterior design is what most people will see of the new third-generation TT, the most radical change is on the inside.A virtual cockpit for the smartphone generationAudi has dragged the car out of the analogue world, doing away with the traditional line up of fixed needles, gauges and dials that sit in front of the driver. Instead information like the car’s speed, fuel level and revolutions per minute is beamed from a high resolution LCD screen to create a customisable virtual cockpit.Audi's virtual cockpit puts all the information traditionally placed on centre console screens directly in front of the driver. Photograph: Audi“We said, OK – you’ve got big tube mode [the traditional dials and gauges] – but now we’ve gone digital we can make smaller dials, provide more information and make the experience far better,” said Maximilian Kandlar, interior designer of the 2014 TT.The virtual cockpit puts everything in front of the driver. Two separate systems – one isolated “safety” system, which displays things like the rev counter and speedo, and the internet-connected infotainment system – are fused onto one screen.The standard view displays the familiar dials and gauges found in most cars, but the central fuel monitor can be swapped out for a list of music tracks, a list of contacts or calls from a Bluetooth phone, or a mini satellite-view map pulled live from Google Earth.Full-screen Google Earth displayed in high resolution across the new 12.3in screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian12.3in of Google Earth right in front of the driverThe speedo and rev counter can be shrunk to small dials in the bottom left and right of the screen, which all. Maps or the music player can take over the 12.3in screen putting the visual right in the driver&apos;s eyeline, including the track, artist or album illustrated with album artwork.Selecting the right music for the moment. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianBased on QNX, the Unix-like operating system used by most car manufacturers, the software is powered by two of the fastest automotive-grade Nvidia Tegra 3 processors - similar to those found in new smartphones and tablets – which enable smoother and higher quality graphics.&apos;Don&apos;t overwhelm the driver with hundreds of buttons&apos;The complex four-button “quattro logic” used by Audi for years has been replaced by a two-button, left and right click interface with compressed menus, making it faster to navigate between functions.“Our vision was to create a fast and direct interaction, but not overwhelm the driver with information or hundreds of buttons,” said Dr. Andre Ebner, head of Audi’s development of onboard systems.Universal search makes getting to the features, functions and fun faster. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAudi has also built in a universal search function, operating a bit like Google search on an Android device or Apple’s spotlight. Most features can be accessed from just three characters written out on the touch-sensitive pad with a finger or typed using the rotary virtual keyboard, including music tracks, places, contacts and radio stations.‘I have to talk to Peter, call Peter’Drivers can also control almost any function using natural language voice control, much like Apple’s personal digital assistant Siri or Google’s voice search.“You can just say ‘I have to talk to Peter, call Peter’ and then just say ‘yes’ when the system asks if you want to phone Peter,” said Ebner. “There’s no more fixed and clunky dialogues – just talk to it like you would a human.”Car settings from performance characteristics to speed warnings are all accessed directly through the screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAudi has launched the TT and its new virtual cockpit just ahead of the in-car information system evolution that is about to be unleashed on new cars, powered by the likes ofApple’s CarPlay, Google’sOpen Automotive Alliance and the Connected Car Consortium’s MirrorLink.Most cars fitted with this new kind of system will be available from 2015, with only a handfullike Volvo and Ferrarimaking it to market this year.• Battle for the car: willGoogle, Apple or Microsoft dominate the future of the car?
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewSecond Son's arch baddie is the head of the DUP, a sort of pumped-up MI5 that targets people with superpowers that it calls "bio-terrorists". You play Delsin Rowe, a man who absorbs the powers of anyone with whom he shakes hands. If you decide to be good, the action involves sprinting around Seattle engaging in repetitive combat against the DUP and drug dealers, or if you're bad, killing demonstrators and street musicians. Your moral choices regulate access to a few super-abilities but other than that make little difference, and  most missions involve either shooting or chasing people, making this a superficial piece of light entertainment.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewLike the puny vestigial arms of a velociraptor, Titanfall's story-based campaign is a withered little afterthought. It's just as well its multiplayer is so good, sweeping you up in a cavalcade of exploding machinery and heady, asymmetric gunfights. Starting rounds on foot, your athleticism and parkour skills let you run along walls and rooftops, evading enemy fire until a timer expires and you can call down a Titan: a two-storey robot with guns, grenades and missiles. Playing as a towering metal monster needs a totally different tactical approach, giving battles a refreshing duality that evolves as you unlock weapons for your pilot and killer robot.
Games currently on release includeProfessor Layton Vs Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney(3DS), an unlikely videogame crossover with a bittersweet plot, numerous interesting and eccentric characters and inoffensive levels of fantasy whimsy to go with its puzzles and courtroom antics;Luftrausers(PS3, Vita) is a manic and slightly overpriced Nazi-themed retro arcade-style shooter from the makers of the awesome Ridiculous Fishing; Yaiba: Ninja Gaiden Z(Xbox 360, PS3, PC) involves carving your way through yet more zombies while gently shaking your head at its simplistic controls, cel-shaded graphics and all-round meat-headed stupidity; andFinal Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster(PS3, Vita) is the prettied-up re-release of two of the more controversial Final Fantasies that introduced (very poor) voice acting and a new fighting system.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewNot a full game, more a truncated taster of what's to come in the forthcoming The Phantom Pain, Ground Zeroes is a collection of short missions set in the game's stand-in for Guantánamo Bay. Vastly more open-ended than past Metal Gears, objectives are approached using a mixture of sneaking, shooting and taking out guards. The plot is as nonsensical as ever, but much else has changed: Snake's now played by Kiefer Sutherland and its mechanics have been given an action makeover.
Microsoft announced an overhaul of its customer service agreement Friday in the wake of angry reactions to the news that it hadsearched a blogger’s emailaccount in an attempt to discover the identity of an employee leaking its software.“Effective immediately, if we receive information indicating that someone is using our services to traffic in stolen intellectual or physical property from Microsoft, we will not inspect a customer’s private content ourselves. Instead, we will refer the matter to law enforcement if further action is required,” general counsel Brad Smith said in ablogpost.Smith said in the coming months the company would incorporate the change in its customer terms of service, so that it’s clear to consumers and binding on Microsoft.Civil rights advocates reacted positively to the news. “Wow. An impressive change in policy re: email searches from Microsoft after criticism last week. Will Google follow?” Christopher Soghoian, American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) principal technologist,said on Twitter. Ina second tweet, he added, “Microsoft&apos;s legal team (and their privacy team who were involved in discussions) deserve serious praise for this change in policy. Bravo.”The change comes after Microsoft revealed it had searched a blogger’s email and instant messages and, allegedly, found correspondence with Alex Kibkalo, a Russian native who worked for Microsoft as a software architect. Kibkalowas arrestedin Seattle last week, and is accused of leaking Windows 8 to the unnamed tech blogger.The revelation caused outrage, and Microsoft acted to tighten up its privacy rules. But its latest move goes much further.“It’s always uncomfortable to listen to criticism. But if one can step back a bit, it’s often thought-provoking and even helpful. That was definitely the case for us over the past week. Although our terms of service, like those of others in our industry, allowed us to access lawfully the account in this case, the circumstances raised legitimate questions about the privacy interests of our customers,” Smith wrote in the blog post.“In part we have thought more about this in the context of other privacy issues that have been so topical during the past year. We’ve entered a “post-Snowden era” in which people rightly focus on the ways others use their personal information. As a company we’ve participated actively in the public discussions about the proper balance between the privacy rights of citizens and the powers of government. We’ve advocated that governments should rely on formal legal processes and the rule of law for surveillance activities.“While our own search was clearly within our legal rights, it seems apparent that we should apply a similar principle and rely on formal legal processes for our own investigations involving people who we suspect are stealing from us.”Smith said Microsoft had reached out to advocacy groups the Center for Democracy and Technology (CDT) and the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) to help identify “best practices from other industries and consider the best solutions for the future of digital services.”“We hope that other companies will join in as well. Ultimately, these types of questions affect us all, and they will benefit from even more of the thought-provoking discussions that the events from last week have encouraged,” Smith said.
Blackberry&apos;s developer community have the best overview of how its users are reacting to the ongoingfinancial dramaat the company.Hong Kong-based S4BB is the biggest Blackberry app developer, by some estimates its apps comprise one-third of all those available in the BlackBerry app store.The company&apos;s handset sales and revenues have plummeted to seven-year lows, and customers seem to be rejecting the firm&apos;s touchscreen handsets that run the BB10 operating system.Only 1.3m BB10 devices were sold in the first three months of 2014, compared to 3.4m of the older phones running BB7, with more customers still choosing the more familiar fixed-keyboard model.S4BB&apos;s chief executive Patrick Kosiol told the Guardian that when it comes to apps, at least, BB10 is working well - and there&apos;s no drop off in sales compared to six months ago.&quot;They have not moved up by much, but also not moved down even though BlackBerry&apos;s market share was sliding a bit on the consumer side,&quot; Kosiol said. The explanation is thatmarket share is about sales, not installed base.Data shared with The Guardian shows the comparative share of app downloads and sales. S4BB has a lot of free apps and paid-for apps, but what&apos;s clear is that BB10 makes up a significant amount of both.S4BB app sales by device model, March 2014. Source: S4BBS4BB app downloads by operating system for March 2014 Photograph: S4BB/PRThe popularity of apps on BB10 (which runs the Z10, Q10, Q5 and Q30 phones) is borne out by two set of data from Kosiol:Top 5 popular devices 6 months ago: Z10 (17%), 9900 (12%), 9320 (11%), Q10 (10%), 9790 (6%)Top 5 popular devices now: Z10 (42%), Q10 (18%), Q5 (8%), Z30 (8%), 9900 (5%)In other words, BB10 devices have gone from being 27% of the top five devices, to 76%. (The figures don&apos;t add up to 100% because it&apos;s only the top five devices.)Top 5 countries 6 months ago: Indonesia (43%), South Africa (9%), UK (9%), Canada (8%), US (7%)Top 5 countries now: Indonesia (24%), Canada (11%), US (9%), Saudi Arabia (8%), UK (7%)On this data, Indonesia remains a core market for the company, and this is borne out by its geographical revenue split, though Canada and Saudi Arabia are undergoing a revival of Blackberry app use. (Counterintuitively, the trends in BlackBerry&apos;s geographical revenues show that, perhaps, Europe is still its biggest source of revenue.)BlackBerry revenues by geographical area, as percentage. Photograph: BlackBerryWhat does Kosiol think of BlackBerry&apos;s new focus on corporate customers? How will that affect his business?&quot;Firstly, BlackBerry needs to return to profitability as soon as possible. Without profitability it’s hard to compete in any market. That counts for BlackBerry as well as for us as independent app creators. I believe in John Chen and his strategy, and all the dedicated folks of Team BlackBerry.&quot;In our view, the change in focus does not have a negative effect on our business - on the contrary, I believe the sharpened focus on the key strengths BlackBerry devices bring to the table will benefit the brand and its image worldwide.&quot;He adds: &quot;Obviously, we at S4BB Limited are mainly targeting consumers, and in most parts of the world consumers are very brand-sensitive. A stronger BlackBerry brand - even with a strong focus on enterprise and security - will benefit the consumer business in the long term by offering a very distinct differentiation to other platforms and devices.&quot;All in all, I believe focusing on corporate markets is good for BlackBerry’s business from a financial and branding standpoint, and it will have a positive affect on our business as app creators. We expect a lot from the upcoming BlackBerry Z3 launch and believe it will drive revenue on our (consumer) side significantly.&quot;•Millions of Android app downloads infected with cryptocoin-mining code
Facebook has bought a Somerset-based designer of solar-powered drones for $20m (£12m) as it goes head-to-head with Google in a high-altitude race to connect the world's most remote locations to the internet.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, has unveiled plans to beam broadband connections from the skies, using satellites, lasers and unmanned high-altitude aircraft designed by the 51-year old British engineer Andrew Cox.HisAscentaconsultancy will become part of Facebook's Internet.org not-for-profit venture, joining a team of scientists and engineers who formerly worked at Nasa and the US National Optical Astronomy Observatory.Facebook is building its Connectivity Lab as a direct challenge to Google'sProject Loon, which is launching high-altitude balloons over New Zealand and hopes to establish an uninterrupted internet signal around the 40th parallel of the Earth's southern hemisphere.The race to put the first man on the moon was led by the US and Russian governments, but today it is private companies – the cash-rich digital corporations of Silicon Valley – that are driving the sub-space race. The ambition is to connect the billions of people who currently have no access to the world wide web."In our effort to connect the whole world withInternet.org, we've been working on ways to beam internet to people from the sky," Zuckerberg wrote on hisblog. "Today, we're sharing some details of the work Facebook's Connectivity Lab is doing to build drones, satellites … and lasers to deliver the internet to everyone.""Our team is actively working on building our first aircraft now," Zuckerberg saidin a paper published yesterday. "Key members from Ascenta, whose founders created early versions of Zephyr, which became the world's longest flying solar-powered unmanned aircraft, will be joining our Connectivity Lab to work on these aircraft. We expect to have an initial version of this system working in the near future."With 1.3 billion users, Facebook has already reached a large number of the estimated 3 billion people who use the internet. Connecting the other 4 billion will hugely expand its potential user base.In what the Internet.org website describes as "one of the greatest challenges of our generation", engineers are trying to solve the problem of beaming fast, responsive internet signals to and from the Earth's surface from heights of 20,000 metres. Facebook is exploring the potential of two types of craft – satellites, which could be used in remote rural locations from the Highlands of Scotland to the Amazon basin, and drones, which would fly over suburban areas.Yael Maguire, an Internet.org engineer, explained: "In suburban environments we are looking at a new type of plane architecture that flies at 20,000 metres, at the point where the winds are the lowest. It's above commercial airlines, it's even above the weather. They circle around and broadcast internet down but significantly closer than a satellite."Invisible infrared laser beams, which can carry large amounts of information at high speeds across space using free-space optical communication technology (FSO), will connect the satellites to each other and to receivers on the surface of the Earth.The plans may sound like science fiction, but Jon Excell, the editor of The Engineer, said the use of sub-space drones as an alternative to satellites was already a credible technology. "A lot of people have looked at this area," he said. "Satellite launches are just phenomenally expensive. Solar-powered craft are a lot cheaper because you don't have to launch them into space. They are also much easier to maintain. Satellites stay in orbit until they stop working, but these craft can be brought back down and repaired if anything goes wrong."Just 16% of Africa's population used the internet last year, compared with 75% in Europe, but the drones and balloons being sent into space could soon bring it to areas where individuals do not yet have electricity or computers. Even in areas where there are no masts, however, the mobile phone is nearly ubiquitous. One in five people already own a smartphone.
More than four-fifths of the world&apos;s top media organisations, including the Guardian, have been the target of likely state sponsored hacking attacks, according to research from two Google security engineers.Presented at the ongoing Black Hat Asia 2014 conference in Singapore, Shane Huntley and Morgan Marquis-Boire&apos;s research shows that journalists are &quot;massively over-represented&quot; among the targets of state-sponsored hackers.While the pair didn&apos;t go into detail about their methodology,they confirmed to Reutersthat Google &quot;tracks the state actors that attack our users&quot;.Those who the company suspects have been the target of such attacks are notified by a banner across the top of their webmail login, such as this displayed to Guardian staffers since mid-March:The warning from Google to Guardian employees. Photograph: The GuardianHuntley told Reuters that &quot;if you&apos;re a journalist or a journalistic organisation we will see state-sponsored targeting and we see it happening regardless of region, we see it from all over the world both from where the targets are and where the targets are from.&quot;Google&apos;s advice to those it suspects of being a state target is simple. &quot;Be careful about where you sign in to Google… Always use up-to-date softwareand] enable 2-step verification in Gmail,&quot; the company says in [the support documentlinked in the above warning.It does not, however, share information about what specifically prompted the warning, in order &quot;to help defend the integrity of these systems&quot;. Instead, the company explains that &quot;it&apos;s likely that you received emails containing malicious attachments, links to malicious software downloads, or links to fake websites that are designed to steal your passwords or other personal information.&quot;In April 2013, the Guardian was the victim of a hacking attack by the Syrian Electronic Army, activists linked to Bashar al-Assad&apos;s regime. The Twitter accounts for Guardian Music, Guardian Film and Guardian Books, as well as a number of staffers, were taken over by the group following a &quot;spear phishing&quot; attack: targeted emails designed to trick users into revealing their passwords.•Twitter and New York Times still patchy as registrar admits SEA hack
My wife is using a long-in-the-tooth Windows XP machine. With the upcoming demise of XP, she needs a new PC. She does mostly genealogy, web browsing, email and general office-type tasks. I am trying to decide whether to buy her a new Windows 8 all-in-one or an iMac. I would like to make the learning curve and transition as easy as possible for her, and give her a machine with a fairly long life expectancy.JohnIf your wife uses her PC mostly for genealogy and office tasks, then you need to find out which programs she uses, and whether there are versions for Apple&apos;s Mac OS X. The simplest and easiest transition would come from using exactly the same software and data. She will already be forced to move to new hardware and a new operating system (even if it&apos;s still called Windows), so the applications programs and data will be the only things that provide familiarity and continuity.Start by making a list of the programs she uses, then go to Microsoft&apos;s website and download theWindows 8 Upgrade Assistant(not the Windows 8.1 Upgrade Assistant) or download it fromthis link. Running it will tell you if any of the programs on her XP machine are incompatible with Windows 8 and will need updating.You may find that your wife&apos;s XP machine will run Windows 8. The most common stumbling block is the need for a graphics card that supports DirectX 9 with a WDDM driver. This is not a very big obstacle because there are plenty of cheap graphics cards that you can easily fit yourself, albeit that does mean opening the PC&apos;s case. Of course, if you keep the same PC, you could always decide to upgrade to Windows 7 instead of Windows 8. This would reduce the learning curve and make the transition easier, because Windows 7 is more like XP than Windows 8.Whichever approach you choose, you will not be able to do an &quot;in place&quot; upgrade. Everything will have to be moved off the old XP machine and reinstalled on the new system. To make this easier, Microsoft has done a deal with Laplink to offer free copies of Laplink&apos;sPC Mover Express for Windows XP. This will transfer settings and data from XP to a new PC running Windows 7 or 8. If you want to move programs as well, then you will needPC Mover Professional. This is currently available at a 60% discount for XP users only, ie £15.95 instead of £41.95. In general, however, it&apos;s better to reinstall programs rather than move them.You can transfer your wife&apos;s data by saving it to DVD, a USB thumb drive or external hard drive, or by connecting the two PCs together with a Laplink cable. If there&apos;s a lot of data, this will take some time. Ideally, the bulk of the data will already be backed up on an external hard drive or NAS (network attached storage) box, so you can use that.Choosing hardwareAll-in-one PCs running Windows 8 start at about £300, depending on the size of the screen, and whether or not it&apos;s a touch screen. Large touch screens are relatively expensive, but they&apos;re useful if you run programs in Windows 8&apos;s &quot;modern&quot; mode, originally called Metro.All-in-one screens designed for Windows 8 can usually be tilted back, and can often be used with the screen horizontal. This feature is used by a new class of MU/MT (multi-user/multi-touch) programs, of which there are currently about 175. Air hockey and board game simulators are in this group, but most are aimed at families with young children. Recent offerings include Wheel of Fortune, Chubby Kings Penguins, and Crayola Color, Draw &amp; Sing. However, this mode is also good for reading things.The Asus ET2221 is a good entry-level touch-screen system with prices that start at about £500. It has a 21.5in Full HD screen with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels. It can be tilted from 15° to 45° or wall-mounted, and has an HDMI port so you can use it as the screen for a Blu-ray player or whatever. It has 4GB of memory, a 1TB hard drive, a DVD-RW optical drive, memory card slot, and built-in 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi.The cheapest (£499.99) version has a 2.9GHz AMD A6-5350M processor, which provides a level of performance somewhere between an Intel Celeron B830 and B840. However, a version with a faster 2.9GHz Intel Core i3-4130 processor pushes the price up to£699.95 at John Lewis,with a Core i5-4430S model at£909 on Amazon.co.uk. At these levels, Dell offers better value.The Dell Inspiron 2350 is a good mainstream all-in-one with a 23in Full HD screen, 2.5GHz Intel Core i5-4200M processor, 8GB of memory, 1TB hard drive, Wi-Fi etc. It also includes an AMD Radeon HD 8690A graphics chip with 2GB of memory, but no optical drive. The screen is on a hinged mount so that you can set it at any angle from vertical to horizontal. The current price, including VAT and shipping, is£749. There&apos;s also a version with a much faster Core i7-4700MQ processor for£899.The clever thing about the Dell Inspiron 2350 is that the computer is hidden in the base of the stand, which allows for a super-thin screen. It&apos;s much thinner than a traditional all-in-one design, which is basically a laptop with a screen where the keyboard would be. That is to say, a giant tablet.HP&apos;s rival is the HP Envy Recline 23-m120ea, which has a 2.9GHz Core i5-4570T processor and Nvidia GeForce GT 730A graphics but only 4GB of memory at a higher price:£999.99 at Currys/PC World. Going up to 8GB pushes the price over the £1,000 barrier to£1,049.99,where few Windows PC buyers venture…Apple iMacsWith theApple iMac, you have a choice of two models, one with a 21.5in Full HD (1920 x 1080 pixel) screen and one with a 27in 2560 x 1440-pixel screen. The 21.5in version offers a choice of two models. The basic version has a 2.7GHz Core i5 with 8GB of memory and a 1TB hard drive, but no optical drive, for £1,149. The advanced version has a 2.9GHz Core i5 and an Nvidia GeForce GT 750M graphics chip with 1GB of memory for £1,299. The two 27in iMacs cost £1,599 and £1,749. Obviously these systems don&apos;t have touch screens.Mac OS X and its applications tend to use a lot of memory, so with Mavericks, 8GB is enough but not too much. If your wife&apos;s genealogy programs are memory hogs, then it might be worth buying an iMac with 16GB, which costs an extra £160. Windows 8.1 will run in 2GB, so 4GB is enough, though 8GB is better if you can afford it.If your wife uses Microsoft Office, that would be an extra cost on the Mac, and the Mac version of Office isn&apos;t as good as the Windows version.Either way, you shouldn&apos;t buy your wife an iMac without giving her the chance to try one first. In particular, she should try to multitask several programs. There may well be an Apple Store or other dealer where she can get hands-on experience.Windows 8.1 Update 1Microsoft designed Windows 8 with a &quot;touch first&quot; user interface and a new WinRT programming environment that enables developers to produce a new type of application suitable for tablets. In fact, it also works well on systems that don&apos;t have a touch screen, for those who can be bothered to learn how it works. However, Microsoft did get plenty of &quot;push back&quot; from people who weren&apos;t, or simply didn&apos;t like it for other reasons. It responded with Windows 8.1, which enabled users to boot straight to the desktop -- an improved version of Windows 7 -- by-passing the new Start screen.Another new version, known as Windows 8.1 Update 1, will appear as Windows XP disappears. One of the main reasons is that Microsoft is continuing to drive down the amount of memory it uses, and Update 1 will run on tablets with only 1GB of memory. However, it is also making further concessions to non-touch users. For example, &quot;modern&quot; apps appear on the old Task Bar, and the Task Bar can be used on the Start screen. Still, for an easier transition, it&apos;s probably worth installing one of the utilities that makes Windows 8 work more like Windows 7.Classic Shellis a free example, but I think it&apos;s worth paying $4.99 for the extra polish ofStardock&apos;s Start8.
For years, the well-connected world leader would use nothing but a BlackBerry to get their email on the move – and it is still Barack Obama's phone of choice. He uses a model specially enhanced by the US National Security Agency. But the news earlier this month that the White House Communications Agency is testing other phones, including models by Samsung and LG, sent shivers through fans of the struggling Canadian smartphone company, which hasjust announced an annual loss of $5.8bn.For a world leader, security is much more than just having a passcode on your phone; it also means protecting it against attempted incursions from all the amateur and professional hackers, and more importantly spy agencies, who want to know to whom, when, what and where you have been speaking and reading. For a country's leader to have their phone eavesdropped is the ultimate failure of their national spy agency, and a huge loss of face. With enhancements, BlackBerry has been the spy agencies' phone of choice to guard against that so far. Now, though, Apple and Samsung – the two largest makers of smartphones – are starting to knock on the security services' doors.And what if BlackBerry goes away? Though it may have pulled out of a death spiral, BlackBerry's position as the phone of choice for top executives is less clear – and Apple has beentouting(pdf) ever-improving security on its iPhone, which has been edging out BlackBerrys even in financial institutions such as Goldman Sachs, once a redoubt for the keyboard-reliant phones. Yahoo, Pfizer and Halliburton have all said sayonara too.As rival devices improve their security, it could only be a matter of time before Apple or Samsung becomes the US leader's phone – perhaps not during Obama's presidency, but in his successor's. Though the White House press secretary has insisted that "the executive office of the president is not participating in a pilot programme" to replace Obama's BlackBerry, it might only be a matter of time – though if Hillary Clinton succeeds him, herwell-known affinity for itcould extend its survival just a little longer.GermanyAngela Merkel uses a Nokia Slide. Photograph: Fabrizio Bensch/ReutersAngela Merkel's mobile became the most famous phone in world politics when it emerged in October last year that the NSA had beenmonitoring the chancellor's calls. But she has at least two phones she uses on a regular basis: the one that was allegedly monitored by US intelligence services, a Nokia 6260 Slide, was reportedly used for party matters only. For state affairs, Merkel uses a BlackBerry Z10, fitted with an encryption chip by Secusmart. The Düsseldorf company insists its software remains hack-proof and continues to market its device as the "Kanzler-Handy", the chancellor mobile.Philip Oltermannin BerlinUSOne of Barack Obama's first battles when he arrived in the White House in 2009 was to keep his beloved BlackBerry, despite objections from administration lawyers and the secret service. "I'm still clinging to my BlackBerry," he said at the time. "They're going to pry it out of my hands." Ever since, the US president has been permitted a modified BlackBerry handset, with enhanced encryption. Only a handful of senior White House officials and family have his personal email address. Three months ago he told a group of young people: "I am not allowed, for security reasons, to have an iPhone."Paul Lewisin WashingtonPakistanNawaz Sharif has been spotted using iPhones and Samsungs. Photograph: Petr Josek Sr/ReutersIn a country where unusual phone numbers are traded as prestige items it's not surprising to see well-heeled Pakistanis carrying around at least two high-end smartphones wherever they go. Nawaz Sharif, the three-time prime minister of one of the world's most populous countries, has been spotted using iPhones and Samsungs. But these belong to members of his entourage who act as gatekeepers to their boss. The only phone he carries is a far-from-fashionable BlackBerry Bold. A fan of the ailing phone maker's messenger service, Sharif uses it to stay in touch with his family and close political allies who are privileged to have his number.Jon Boonein IslamabadRussiaVladimir Putin looks at a phone. He claims not to use one himself. Photograph: Ria Novosti/Reuters/CorbisThe Russian president, Vladimir Putin, is famous for claiming to not have a mobile, unlike the prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, who is known for his love of Apple products and became one of the first owners of an iPhone 4 when Steve Jobs gave him the still-unreleased phone in Silicon Valley. In 2006, Putin reportedly said he had many mobile phones but did not use any of them because he did not have time and preferred to use other methods of communication. But in 2010, the president said he did not have a phone at all: "If I had a cellphone, it would ring all the time."But Putin's aversion could also be tied to security concerns ingrained in him from his time as a KGB spy. The president is also known to avoid the internet, instead preferring to get his information from regular reports by his intelligence agencies. A television documentary from Putin's office in 2012 showed red folders on his desk – probably intelligence reports – and a bank of old-fashioned beige telephones.Alec Luhnin MoscowFranceFrançois Hollande on his phone. Photograph: Ruet Stephane/Story Box Photo/RexThe French president, François Hollande, is inseparable from his iPhone 5. He is reported to be in constant contact via text messages with his girlfriend Julie Gayet. But the presidential iPhone is supposed to be for personal use only.Even before the Edward Snowden revelations about the US National Security Agency spying on French citizens, which forced government ministers to abandon smartphones and tablets for official use from last August, the French head of state was given an ultra-secure Teorem phone with encryption capabilities. But Hollande's predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, found the Teorem phone cumbersome, and refused to use it because it took 30 seconds to dial a connection, which "took too long for him", according to an aide. Sarkozy, who had a BlackBerry addiction, did not seem too worried about cybersecurity in his early days as president: he was photographed handing his mobile to Vladimir Putin at the 2007 G8 summit in Heiligendamm as they shared a phone call.These days, the former president has become more circumspect. In order to (unsuccessfully) avoid phone taps, he bought a new mobile under the borrowed name of Paul Bismuth. The real Paul Bismuth is threatening legal action against the former president and his lawyer, a school friend of the French businessman who says his identity was stolen. Meanwhile, a French government memo advises ministerial phone users to adopt long passwords, which should be changed every six months, never to leave their phone unattended, particularly when travelling abroad, and never, ever, to use a smartphone for transmitting sensitive information, including in a text message.Anne Penkethin ParisNorth KoreaKim Jong-un pictured with what could be an HTC phone. Photograph: KNS/AFPSpeculation about Kim Jong-un's mobile phone use grew after he was photographed at a national security meeting in January 2013 with a smartphone that appeared to be made by the Taiwanese company HTC.South Korean media said the North Korean leader probably used his handset to call members of his family and senior officials in the Workers' party of Korea. Kim is one of an estimated 2 million mobile phone users among North Korea's 25 million people. The country markets handsets as its own, but they are all made in China and rebadged with local brand names, according to Martyn Williams, who runs theNorth Korea Techblog. Foreign models are also popular, but expensive. Use of mobiles in the North is confined to officials and their families, wealthy residents of the capital, Pyongyang, and, increasingly, businesspeople and traders with ties to China. Most phones run on the domestic 3G cellular service Koryolink, a joint venture between Egypt's Orascom Telecom and North Korea's Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, although users near China can pick up a signal from carriers across the border.North Korean subscribers are not permitted to access the internet via mobile phone – only to make calls and send texts inside the country. There is no international access. Foreign residents can use mobiles to communicate among themselves and make overseas calls, but not to contact local North Koreans, Williams said.Justin McCurryin TokyoItalyItaly's prime minister, Matteo Renzi, is more than just an iPhone user – he is an Apple devotee who once had himself photographed beside the sign at the entrance to the company's headquarters. When Steve Jobs died, Renzi wrote a tribute to him on his Facebook page, calling him "the Leonardo da Vinci of our time".Renzi has used his iPhone to send text messages of more than one sort. In 2012, when he first campaigned for the leadership of the centre-left Democratic party, promising torottamare(demolish) the old leadership, he had acover made for his smartphonethat bore the slogan "Keep calm and rottama".John Hooperin Rome
We&apos;ve all done it. Last night was just a bit too good and your head is sinking ever closer to your desk – you need a nap, but where’s the nearest bed, bench or comfy patch of grass?EnterGoogle Naps, a parody of the venerable Google Maps, that lets users share the best places in towns and cities around the globe to grab a quick bit of shuteye. Think of it as Foursquare for beds.The site, built on top of Google maps, started as a joke by a group of Dutch users, but data points already cover London and many other cities across the world including the US, China, Indonesia and Brazil.A statement on the site, which parodies Google’s logos and iconography as well as using Google’s map data, tries to appeal to the search engine company’s playful side.Dear Sergey &amp; Larry (and other Googlers)Hello, please don&apos;t be mad this is just a joke, a parody. We don&apos;t mean to damage your brand or anything, we just want to bring a smile on the faces of Google fans. So please don&apos;t take this to court, we only have a few hundred Euros in the bank. And we also don&apos;t want to go to jail because we&apos;re too busy with other things at the moment. But whenever you are in the Netherlands you can have a nap on our couch if you want, just email us. We can also make coffee and bake eggs if you like that (for a small price).Hopefully Google takes it in good humour and proves that the “don’t be evil” mantra still exists.• US government requests forGoogle user data increase by 120%since 2009
Struggling smartphone maker BlackBerry saw its quarterly revenues fall below $1bn (£601m) for the first time in seven years in the three months to March, recording its ninth successive quarter of operating losses and ending its fiscal year with net losses of $5.8bn.The company recorded revenue on sales of just 1.3m of its new BB10 phones, though it sold 3.4m of its older BB7 phones as customers stuck to the older model that drove it to success. Operating losses were $537m, and net losses $423m.The company's shares moved up 4% in pre-market trading as the losses were smaller than had been expected, and revenue in the US slightly higher than analysts forecast.John Chen, recruited in November as chief executive to try to turn the company around, said he was "very pleased" with progress and that "we have significantly streamlined operations, allowing us to reach our expense reduction target one quarter ahead of schedule."He alsotold Reutersthat the company was working on high-end keyboard-based smartphones to appeal to "keyboard aficionados" in the next 18 months.He is also considering ways to generate more value from the BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) software, presently available for free on BlackBerry, Apple and Android devices. The purchase by Facebook of messaging app WhatsApp for $19bn has piqued interest in the potential of BBM – though the chief of that division left BlackBerry recently, and its software chief is heading to Apple.Despite a cash outflow of $553m during the quarter, Chen said that the company was on a "sound financial footing", with $2.7bn of cash and equivalents.Chen has laid off staff, sold offices and land, and outsourced the manufacture of handset as part of a retrenchment from the consumer market to focus on its strongest markets among government and business users. Operating expenses were halved from the start of the fiscal year, and the number of phones sitting unsold with retailers – known as "channel inventory" – reduced by a third.BlackBerry has fallen far from its peak at the end of 2010, when its revenues hit $5.5bn in a single quarter and it claimed 80m users for its platform. Its total revenue for the past four quarters were just $6.8bn. Though it was one of the first companies to offer a smartphone, and leant on its powerful email encryption as a selling point, the rise of Apple's iPhone and phones running Google's Android software has seen its unique selling points eroded.The company now faces a problem in interesting buyers in its BB10 platform, launched in January 2013 by former chief executive Thorsten Heins but given a frosty reception by mobile networks and customers. Many have preferred to stick with the older BB7, which has outsold the BB10 models in every quarter since its release. Most of BlackBerry's losses for 2014 are due to massive writedowns on unsold BB10 handsets.Despite a $1bn debt financing ahead of Chen's appointment, the company is still losing key customers among corporations. However BlackBerry was able to tout the US Department of Defence having cleared BB10 for use on the Pentagon's networks.BlackBerry's headline revenues are still highly dependent on its handset sales, but those have now fallen to a level not seen since summer 2006, while the quarterly revenues were the same as in the three-month period before the launch of Apple's iPhone. For the past two quarters the majority of its revenues have come from services, where it provides its BlackBerry Enterprise Server software to corporate customers to handle BlackBerry handsets.Meanwhile the company's former consumer strongholds in the US, UK and Asia all showed signs of erosion.•Blackberry sues own software chief to stop him leaving for Apple
Taiwanese manufacturer HTC is making a big noise about the One M8, its latest premium smartphone, but is the well-built,design-led device– but is it enough to dig HTC out of itshole?Following the precedent it set with the original HTC One from 2013, which recently won the GSMA Global Mobile award for best smartphone, the new One M8 sets metal as its primary material. The 90% metal body is HTC’s way to combat the plastic fantastic of Samsung’s dominant Galaxy S Android smartphone range, while holding a candle up to Apple’s high-end industrial design.In its pursuit of design over almost everything else, certain things have had to be left out of its flagship smartphone package. The One M8 has no fingerprint sensor like the Samsung Galaxy S5 or Apple’s iPhone 5S, no heart rate monitor and no wireless charging, though whether that really matters is debatable.&apos;It&apos;s taken us 13 years to get to this point&apos;HTC has made the entire body of the new One M8 out of a single, curved metal case that bends around the edges to the glass front of the screen. The One from 2013 had to have plastic edges, but HTC has removed the need for them by integrating all the needed radio antennas into the metal casing for things like the cellular radio, Wi-Fi, bluetooth and the GPS.&quot;It has taken us 13 years to get the point where we can create an all-metal phone. Metal is great for designers but for phone engineers that need to worry about the function of the phone it is a nightmare,&quot; said Graham Wheeler, HTC&apos;s director of product for Europe, middle east and Africa, talking to the Guardian about the design process of the M8. &quot;At HTC the designers come first, however, and the engineers have to fit around the designers.&quot;The result is an incredibly smooth and rounded back, side and corners, which feel beautiful in the hand. The curvature of the back and corners makes the phone ergonomic, sitting comfortably in the palm, while the metal body feels warm and inviting to touch. Throughout my testing of the phone I found myself touching it, almost stroking its silky smooth exterior for no real reason other than it felt nice.HTC's all-metal back curves all round the edge to the glass screen.While it certainly is smooth, the M8 is not slippery to hold unlike some glass-backed smartphones. The metal has an inherent tack against skin, while being slippery against clothing making the M8 easy to slip into and out of pockets despite its size.The phone is also incredibly well built, with no give or flex anywhere in the body making it feel quality and like it could take a knock or two without much bother.The M8 has a bigger, 5in screen over last year’s 4.7in One. The screen itself it bold, bright and vibrant, while being pixel perfect and sharp – it is one the best displays I have ever seen on a smartphone. It also has very wide viewing angles, which makes sharing videos and photos with others easy, but also means almost anyone on the train with you can see what’s happening on your phone.The larger screen also means that the M8 is bigger than its older brother. In fact the M8 is one of the biggest 5in smartphones currently available, with large top and bottom borders to the screen making the phone long.Those top and bottom bezels contain HTC’s improved BoomSound speakers, which bracket the screen as well as the impressive 5 megapixel front facing “selfie” camera – more on those later.Neither top nor bottom part is wasted space, but the bulk makes the M8 a little unwieldy and difficult to manage. I cannot comfortably reach the top corners of the screen, let alone the power button on the top edge.The M8 is also comparatively heavy, weighing 160g compared to the 145g Samsung Galaxy S5, 130gGoogle Nexus 5and the smaller 112giPhone 5S, but the weight is well balanced along the phone and feels more reassuring than hefty.HTC One M8 review - all-metal back curves all the way around the edge of the device to the screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSpecificationsScreen:5in full HD LCDProcessor:2.3 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/32GBOperating system:Android 4.4.2 “KitKat”Camera:4 UltraPixel rear camera with depth sensor, 5MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi (n/ac), NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPSDimensions:146.36 x 70.6 x 9.35mmWeight:160gA lightning quick experienceHTC’s become the first manufacturer to ship a smartphone with Qualcomm’s latest and fastest 2.3GHz Snapdragon 801, which is both quicker and more frugal with electricity than last year’s top of the line Snapdragon 800.The result is a lightning-quick experience where apps launch instantaneously, with no lag or any sign of slowness anywhere. I didn&apos;t think it was possible for Android to feel any faster than the Nexus 5, but the One M8 is just that, oozing power and grace.Similar to the kind of technology Apple fitted to its current flagship smartphone, the iPhone 5S, the One M8 has a motion co-processor bundled alongside the main quad-core unit. The low power co-processor handles the information collected by the smartphone’s sensors, including the accelerometer, screen, GPS and light sensor without having to wake the main power-hungry central processor. The technology enables a whole host of new functions, including gestures and the ability to function as a fitness tracker.HTC One M8 review Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC’s hard work with antenna and materials engineering to make a 90% metal case has paid off. The M8 locks onto a 4G signal faster than most other smartphones and maintains that lock in challenging network conditions that invariably see other smartphones drop down to 3G or below.Wi-Fi and Bluetooth signal strength are equally good, as is the GPS signal lock.The One M8 packs a microSD card slot this time around, which makes adding up to 128GB to the built-in 16GB storage easy, although that space cannot be used to store apps.One of the points HTC went to pains to push at the launch of the One M8 was the smartphone’s impressive battery life. In my testing the battery stood up very well to a full day’s hard use including three hours of browsing, all day listening to music over Bluetooth, a bit of gaming and video watching, with hundreds of messages and emails being pushed to and checked on the phone over 4G all day and the built-in Fitbit fitness tracker running. That was without activating either of the two power saving modes, one of which will give you around 36 hours of standby time from just 20% battery – a killer feature if you must have your phone last on extended trips away from a power source.The One M8 has one of the longest useful battery lives out of any modern, powerful smartphone currently available and should last around two days of average use and much longer with the aggressive power saving modes active.Useful additionsHTC’s version of Android called “Sense” overlays a customise experience on top of the core Android software. For the most part the changes are minor cosmetic differences, which will still be familiar to anyone who has used Android in the past.One of more useful additions is a whole collection of quick settings buttons available under the notification draw – many more than is available on standard Android and covering almost any most used setting.HTC has also tweaked the multitasking interface, changing it from a list of running apps into a card-based interface that lets users see more of what&apos;s happening in nine currently running apps.The most obvious addition to the Android experience, however, is HTC’s social news aggregator app, BlinkFeed, which is stored on the very left pane of the homescreen. It pulls posts from your social media accounts, information from your calendar and some of the built-in apps, as well as news and entertainment from a plethora of sources of your choosing.While slick, BlinkFeed is very much like Flipboard except it isn’t available across multiple devices as yet, but that is due to change by the end of 2014, according to HTC. It is one of those features users will either take to and find useful, or instantly find a burden. Thankfully, unlike the 2013 HTC One, users can remove BlinkFeed from their homescreens entirely.HTC's BlinkFeed app has been given a makeover with expanded support for more media services.Gestures and motionThe M8’s motion co-processor enables some useful optional gestures without draining the battery. When picked up, double tapping the screen will wake the phone, as will swipes from the screens’ edge, which will automatically launch BlinkFeed.Using the light sensor, the M8 can work out whether it is still in a pocket or a bag and deactivate the touchscreen preventing the phone from being woken erroneously.The sightseeing gesture also lets users quickly activate the camera, even when the phone is locked, but turning it on its side and pressing and holding the volume down button.HTC One M8 review - the pre-loaded Fitbit app uses the M8's sensors to measure steps. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe motion co-processor can also be used for more advanced functions like fitness tracking. HTC’s partnered with Fitbit to pre-install the app and let it use the M8’s accelerometer to count steps, although in my testing it was wildly inaccurate compared to a dedicated fitness tracker.Professional-looking picturesWith the 2013 One HTC introduced a new camera concept called “UltraPixel”. It opted out of the megapixel race to concentrate on low light performance creating a 4 megapixel camera with physically bigger pixels on the image sensor, each one capable of accepting more light than the densely packed higher megapixel-rated cameras of competitors.HTC One M8 review - the new Duo Camera places a depth sensor immediately above the main UltraPixel camera. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianWith the new One M8 HTC’s bolted a second, depth sensing camera to the UltraPixel sensor that is capable of seamlessly recording spatial information and binding it to a photo. In general use the depth sensor part of the “duo camera” setup is used to moderate the flash power to avoid blowing out the subject of the photo while imperceptibly to the user capturing the spatial information.Once a photo has been captured a user can then re-focus that image on a point of their choosing using an advanced u-focus editing function to create a professional-looking narrow field of focus image. The results are impressive and appear akin to those created the Lytro light field camera.HTC's Duo Camera allows photos to be refocused after the fact to create great-looking images.Users can also separate their subject from the background to create visual effects such as decolourisation of the backdrop or even shift the perspective of the camera.HTC’s combined video and still photo feature called &quot;Zoe&quot; been revamped to make sharing on the web easier too, with HTC promising to make it available for other Android smartphones in the future for collaborative Zoes.The camera takes photos very quickly and the low-light performance of the UltraPixel camera is excellent when coupled with a powerful two-tone flash, but photos captured in good lighting conditions can often lack the detail afforded by competitor’s cameras with higher megapixel counts when viewed at full size, including the iPhone 5S’s excellent 8 megapixel camera.5-megapixel selfie cameraHTC has seized upon the modern obsession for taking pictures of oneself and fitted the M8 with a very impressive 5-megapixel front-facing camera. It has a wide aperture lens, is captures significantly better photos than quite a lot of main cameras on smartphones, and is even capable ofhigh dynamic rangephotography.HTC One M8 review - a selfie before modification. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe M8’s camera software is also capable of making anyone look vaguely beautiful in seconds, with automatic “make up” modes and the ability to enlarge and enhance a subject’s eyes, narrow their chin and smooth their skin – functions that would take the average user quite a bit of time in front of an image editor like Photoshop to achieve.HTC One M8 review - an extreme 'enhancement' of the eyes and shaping of the chin. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe impressive front-facing camera also makes Android’s built-in Face Unlock feature work very well indeed, unlocking the smartphone by recognising the user’s face and handling the difficult lighting conditions generally found while trying to use the phone on the move or outdoors.Booming BoomSoundHTC introduced the concept of front-facing speakers mounted above and below the screen called “BoomSound” speakers with the 2013 One. They were impressively loud and clear, and miles better than any other smartphone mounted speaker that had come before it.For the One M8’s BoomSound speakers HTC has made them 25% louder by using specialised amplifiers which work with software algorithms to boost but not distort sound across the entire range, avoiding one frequency from destroying the others. The result is clear music that is almost too loud to listen to directly in front of the phone, and is essentially room filling. It lacks base, of course, but is far from tinny and very impressive coming from a smartphone.IR SensorThe One M8 features an infra-red emitter embedded behind the panel in its top edge that lets users control their TV or other remote-controlled appliances using the HTC Watch app, turning the smartphone into a universal remote.PriceThe HTC One M8 is available in three colours arctic silver, amber gold and metal grey with the 16GB storage model costing from £530 without a phone contract, or free on contracts starting at £42 a month.HTC One M8 review - three colours available: arctic silver, amber gold and metal grey. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianVerdictAs with last year’s One, HTC has done an outstanding job at creating a powerful, premium smartphone with great build quality and functions most people will actually use without gimmicks.The HTC One M8 is one of the best Android smartphones out at the moment. It is fast, slick and powerful, but still has great battery life. Its screen is one of the best ever fitted to a smartphone, while its all-metal build is unrivalled in the industry as are the BoomSound speakers.The Duo Camera works well, but doesn&apos;t get in the way of regular shooting, with the only detractor being a lack of detail at full size. That negative is balanced by very good performance in the typically average to poor lighting conditions most photos are shot in.The tall body of the One M8 could be difficult for some to wield, especially compared to 5in smartphones like the Nexus 5 with a much smaller overall footprint. The lack of a fingerprint sensor is not a big issue right now, but biometric identification mechanisms are likely to become a mainstay of flagship smartphones going forward as more sites and services like PayPal adopt them as a way to securely login and authorise payments.HTC One M8 review - the One M8 is both longer and heavier than the Google Nexus 5. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC’s Achilles heal with the One M8 has nothing to do with the phone itself and more to do with the fact that Google has managed to undercut the competition with a flagship smartphone priced at a mid-range £300. It is quite a big ask for anyone to choose the One M8 without a contract at over £500 when they could purchase the equally great Nexus 5 for £200 less.HTC’s problem has never been that their flagship phone hasn’t been anything less than great, as is the case here, but it just has not sold in the volume needed to effective compete with Samsung and Apple.It will be interesting to see what happens in the next year. The 2013 One was the best selling HTC smartphone ever, butstill only sold 6.4m units in 2013compared to Apple’s 62.9m iPhone 5s and Samsung’s 43.3m Galaxy S4s, according to data from research firm IDC.HTC has given itself first-mover advantage against the new 2014 crop of Android smartphones, beating Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S5 and Sony&apos;s Xperia Z2 to market by at least a couple of weeks, which could move buyers in its favour. But the majority of high-end smartphones are bought when individual user contracts are up for renewal throughout the year so it is unknown how much impact that two-week head start will help HTC.Star rating: 5/5Pros:Fantastic screen, beautiful design, all-metal body, great battery life, impressive speakers, Duo CameraCons:Heavier than the competition, slightly too long, photos lack detail at full size, no fingerprint sensor• The HTC One M8 has an uphill battle against some stiff competition from theGoogle Nexus 5,Samsung Galaxy S5andSony Xperia Z2, not to mentionthe Apple iPhone 5S
Stripe, the payment company which is the darling of Silicon Valley startups,is to start accepting bitcoin payments.The company is known for aggressively targeting the sort of small businesses which may have previously signed up with PayPal. Stripe’s co-founder John Collison described the company as “a programming language for payments”. Businesses can begin using it with as little as one line of code.Stripe’s new bitcoin support is being rolled out slowly, and currently companies can only apply to join a closed beta test. But one service is already using the bitcoin functionality:Tarsnap, an encrypted backup service, was selected as the very first tester.“Stripe’s support is crucial here,”says Colin Percival, the founder of Tarsnap. “I tell them I want to get paid X dollars in bitcoins, and they tell me how many bitcoins I should ask for and what address they should be sent to. Stripe then gives me the dollars I asked for (minus a small processing fee, of course).”“This is the natural next step in the company’s plans to open up new markets for its users by allowing them to accept any currency or payment instrument their customers want to pay with,” said a Stripe spokeswoman.“Bitcoin fits in nicely with Stripe’s product plan,” Collison told the Guardian before the announcement, “in that we want to help people accept payments from customers however those customers want to pay. And so credit cards are a good first thing to roll out because they have such widespread penetration, but we don’t bill ourselves as a credit card processing company, we’re a payments company.“So whether it’s bitcoin, or whether it’s the various direct debit payment systems which are popular throughout Europe, or whether it’s M-pesa in Kenya, it totally makes sense, as more and more of our merchants are these borderless businesses selling to a global audience, to support what customers want to pay with.”•Bitcoin to be treated as property instead of currency by IRS
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnnouncing the Office you love, now on the iPad &gt;&gt; Office BlogsOver a billion people on the planet use Microsoft Office to get more done at work and at home. Every day we hear from you how important it is to have a great productivity experience on all the devices you use. We take that very seriously – we know that means you want the authentic experience of Office, made right for the device you're using.  Whether you're creating an Excel spreadsheet on your tablet, authoring a Word document in the browser or making edits to a PowerPoint on your phone, you want the great Office experience you love, everywhere you are. Today, we unveiled Office for iPad® – specifically Word, PowerPoint and Excel. But this isn't simply Office on another device.Mobile Office for Android phones (and in effect tablets?) is now free too, but much more feature-limited. Going to be fascinating to watch how Microsoft plays its hand over (full touch) Office for Android tablets: should it push, or wait for the enterprise pull?Microsoft Excel for iPad on the App Store on iTunesSo does this mean people can do "real work" on iPads?What happens when finance companies dump BlackBerry &gt;&gt; CITEworldRyan Faas:Although BlackBerry may tout its relationship with financial services companies, easily one of the most regulated and risk-averse verticals out there, the story on the ground seems to be very different. A new study of financial services firms, commissioned by EMM vendor MobileIron and undertaken by the Ponemon Institute, found that one of BlackBerry's traditional strongholds is crumbling. The study was released [on Thursday] morning.The survey, which was conducted across a range of financial services organizations and was more expansive than a simple query of MobileIron's existing customer base, found that one-third of financial services companies were completely BlackBerry-free, 41% are in the process of planning or implementing a migration to other mobile platforms, and that slightly more than half (52%) have a team dedicated to migrating from BlackBerry to other platforms. Those numbers show that even the most conservative of organizations are heeding Gartner's call from last fall to plan and start a migration within six months.Privacy and security settings in Chrome &gt;&gt; noncombatantChris Palmer:Chrome has a lot of handy privacy and security options, but it isn't always obvious how to use them. In this post I'll demonstrate my favorites, and try to explain a bit about what they do.My goal with these configuration changes is to get Chrome to expose less attack surface to potentially malicious web pages, and to be less chatty on the network.Palmer works at Google on Chrome security.Facebook, ego, and Oculus Rift &gt;&gt; Mobile OpportunityMichael Mace:Isn't it interesting how companies impose their own mental paradigms on technologies? Google looks at glasses and sees a way to search and consume web services on the go. Facebook looks at goggles and sees a new means for social communication.That's exactly what scares the fans of Oculus. They wanted the next great gaming experience, not a communication tool.That brings us to the dangers in the Oculus deal. Let's start with the thing not to worry about: the money. Facebook has more cash than it can possibly spend. An acquisition like this is just a way of recycling some of it. It's kind of like Japan Inc. buying golf courses in the US in the 1980s. They had to do something with the money.What I'm worried about are the odds that the deal won't live up to Facebook's lofty expectations. Let's start with the risks to Oculus.Very definitely worth the time reading in full.Mobile malware mines dogecoins and litecoins – for bitcoin payout? &gt;&gt; Trend Micro blogThe coin-mining apps discussed above were found outside of the Google Play store, but we have found the same behavior in apps inside the Google Play store. These apps have been downloaded by millions of users, which means that there may be many Android devices out there being used to mine cryptocurrency for cybercriminals. We detect this new malware family as  ANDROIDOS_KAGECOIN.HBTB. (As of this writing, these apps are still available.)Millions of downloads in two apps alone: Songs and Prized. Where might it - or something similar turn up next? Meanwhile,this commenton the article seems to sum up its readers' reaction.Taking action to stop leaks &gt;&gt; Inside BlackBerryJohn Chen, chief executive of BlackBerry:Leaks are, at their best, distracting, and at their worst downright misleading to our stakeholders. The business implications of a leak are seldom advantageous.This is why I want to make you aware that, right now, we are pursuing legal action against a party who stole confidential information about a future BlackBerry product and made that information public. This person falsely posed as an employee of one of our carrier partners to obtain access to secured networks.I recognize that, in some cases, the leaks reflect people's genuine interest in BlackBerry. There are a lot of people whose enthusiasm for our company and our products makes them want to know what we will do next — and that can be a tremendous asset for us as a brand.But, when curiosity turns to criminality, we must take strong action.Microsoft and Dell sign patent licensing agreement &gt;&gt; MicrosoftThrough this arrangement, Microsoft and Dell have agreed to license each company's applicable intellectual property related to Android and Chrome OS devices and Xbox gaming consoles. Under the terms of the agreement, they agreed on royalties for Dell's products running the Android or Chrome platforms and on consideration to Dell for a license for Xbox gaming consoles.The first part is standard - dozens of Android OEMs pay Microsoft patent fees - but does the second mean Dell is going to make Xboxes?Korea's top carrier starts selling Samsung's Galaxy S5 early &gt;&gt; The Next WebSK Telecom's move is almost certainly because the Korean government has imposed 45-day business suspensions on the country's mobile carriers on a rotational basis for giving illegal subsidies to new users who switch their service providers. This means that SK Telecom, which is suspended from April 5 to May 19, is unable to sign on new subscribers and upgrade existing customers during the time period when the Galaxy S5 officially launches.The other two operators, which also face government bans on sales during the launch period, are doing the same thing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's sooooooo Friday.
The video game industry has won a seven-year battle to claim government tax breaks. The European commission has agreed to extend the credits, which are already available to film and theatre productions, allowing games makers to claim back 25% of their qualifying production costs.Tax breaks have already boosted domestic film production, increasing the number of Hollywood features and telivision shows made in Britain. Without  the same support, the commission said on Thursday, the number of new "culturally British" games being produced was likely to decline considerably.Studios such as Rockstar North, the American-owned – but Edinburgh-based – designer of Grand Theft Auto, will need to meet a number of tests before qualifying for the scheme.About a quarter of the games made in Britain today would qualify, with marks awarded for British locations, characters, and dialogue as well as the use of British developers, composers, designers and studios.Industry association Tiga initially secured the tax breaks in the Labour government's final budget in March 2010, but they were dropped later that year by the coalition.In April 2013, the commission launched its investigation, saying there was no obvious market failure in this "growing and dynamic sector". An announcement had been expected in time for this week's budget, but the news was delayed. The competition commissioner, Joaquin Almunia, said on Thursday: "Our initial doubts have been dispelled. The proposed aid for video games will indeed focus on a small number of distinctive, culturally British games which have experienced difficulties in finding private finance."According to Tiga, employment in the sector fell by more than 10% between 2008 and 2011 and investment by £48m as tax breaks available in other countries began to affect work in the UK.Tax director Rachel Austin at accountants Deloitte said: "The relief will provide a huge boost to an industry that has faced fierce competition in recent years from developers in countries such as Canada and France, where tax incentives are already offered."
Microsoft's new chief executive Satya Nadella used his first public appearance on Thursday to stamp his direction on the company, unveiling a version of its dominant Office software specially tailored for Apple's iPad that analysts say could generate billions of dollars in new sales.Nadella,who was appointed only in January,moved to put clear water between himself and his predecessor, Steve Ballmer, unveiling a "mobile first, cloud first" strategy and signalling that he would increase sales by putting Microsoft software on every device, whether running Windows or not.Ballmer, who ran the company for 14 years, had focussed on incremental sales based around the venerable brand but stepped down amid mounting criticism of the company's dependence on Windows, Office and workplace software that generated massive profits for decades but have been increasingly challenged by online alternatives.The release of Office for iPad had been widely rumoured ahead of the event, pushing Microsoft's share price above $40 (£24) this week for the first time since April 2000, when the dotcom boom had accelerated to the brink of collapse.Though the touch-optimised software for the top-selling tablet had clearly been ready for some time, Ballmer had apparently blocked its introduction, preferring to try to drive Microsoft's Office sales on products which ran its own Windows software. Nadella swept that away in a 15-minute presentation in San Francisco, where, dressed in a black polo shirt, he enthused about the company's strategy and future."What motivates us is the realities of our customers," said Nadella, in a tacit admission of the failure of Ballmer's strategy to keep Office for tablets restricted to Microsoft's own Surface device which has sold poorly.Apple has sold nearly 200m iPads since its launch in 2010 and says that "virtually all" of the Fortune 500 and Global 500 companies are deploying or testing iPads.Dwindling sales of standard PCs have contrasted sharply with fast-growing sales of the iPad and Android tablets. Though the Office suite – comprising Word, its word processing software, the Excel spreadsheet program and PowerPoint presentation software –generated $25bn in sales last year, analysts reckon that an iPad version could have generated an extra $2.5bn."Office on iPad will generate more revenues for Microsoft than all the Surface sales combined for at least the next two years," said Neil Shah of Counterpoint Research.Jan Dawson of Jackdaw Research was less sure: "editing documents in Office on the iPad will cost at least $70 a year," he said. "The big question is whether people will want to pay that kind of premium for the ability to use a 'full' version of Office. So many people whose work lives are iPad-centric have moved away from Office entirely and Microsoft will now have to win them back. The overlap between the 3.5m consumer Office365 subscribers and the 150m or so iPad users is likely vanishingly small and Microsoft will have to change that."Some businesses have held back from adopting tablets because their staff need to be able to edit Office documents or spreadsheets on them. Thursday's release could prove beneficial for both Apple and Microsoft – formerly bitter rivals in the PC space.Office for iPad will be free to use for reading and presenting; creating and editing documents will require a subscription to Microsoft's cloud-based Office365 service, which synchronises documents between multiple devices.The move is also a direct challenge to Google, which has been eroding Microsoft's customer base for Office through its cheaper Google Docs collaborative software. While Office365 is still more expensive, the availability on the iPad of Office – which is seen by many businesses as crucial – could bolster its position.Apple, too, could benefit from a sales boost. Tablet sales have slowed down in the US, with respondents saying that they do not see the use of them but the power of the Office brand could drive sales among some consumers, while also helping business adoption.Nadella, whose key experience in his career at the Redmond-based company has been working on its "cloud" services, greeted the audience of journalists by commenting of his tenure that "It's day 52 - but who's counting?"He outlined a long-term vision in which "every interaction will be digitised" and "people will be connected to the internet through phones, tablets, bigger screens, sensors in rooms – it's going to be everywhere." He said that Microsoft would create "a cloud for everyone on every device".Apple said in a statement that it was "excited" that Office was coming and that "Office for iPad joins an incredible lineup of productivity apps like iWork, Evernote and Paper by FiftyThree, that users can choose from to inspire them to do more with this powerful device."There will in future be a version of Office to run on Google's Android, Nadella indicated. "Our commitment going forward is to drive Office 365 everywhere, across the web, phones, devices, everywhere," he said.
The Swedish digital music service Spotify could be preparing for a stock market flotation in the autumn.The Stockholm-based streaming service, which was launched in 2008 and is partly owned by the major record labels, is reportedly talking to investment banks about an initial public offering in the US.The company did not comment but a deal for the Palo Alto-based investor Technology Crossover Ventures to take a stake in Spotify last year valued the company at $4bn (£2.5bn), according to reports.The company, which claims to have more than 24 million users, a quarter of whom pay for its premium ad-free service, has a $200m credit line from lenders including Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs, any of which could take the lead role in a flotation and earn millions in fees. Twitter, Facebook and Zynga all received similar financing deals ahead of their initial public offerings.Of Spotify's claimed six million paying subscribers, more than a million are in the US. The company charges up to $10, €10 or £10 a month for unlimited ad-free access to its library of more than 20m songs.About 85% of Spotify's revenues come from subscriptions, and 15% from advertising – almost exactly the opposite of its publicly listed rival, the US-based Pandora, set up in 2000, which gets just 12% of its revenue from subscriptions.
PageFair, an Irish startup which helps websites deal with adblocking, has secured $400,000 in new financing.Founded in August 2012, the company allows websites to access detailed analytics about precisely how many of their visitors are blocking adverts – and attempt to convince them to turn off ad blocking software.PageFair&apos;s analytics show that around one in five visitors to client websites are blocking adverts, and the company warns that that blocking &quot;prevents websites from making money, and can cause them to go out of business&quot;.The company is used by more than 1,000 publishers, and the newly secured seed funding will be used to establish it in the US clusters where its publisher partners are based, according to co-founder Sean Blanchfield.Sites which sign up for PageFair are given an analytics system precisely aimed at determining how many visitors are blocking ads, as well as a supplemental advertising system that displays adverts to adblockers only. The idea is that websites use those supplemental ads to ask visitors to turn off ad blocking software, appealing to their better nature and laying out the economic difficulty with operating in an environment where ad blocking is commonplace.The investment in PageFair highlights how ad blockers are becoming a major problem for many ad-funded websites. A large site, serving around 10m page views per day with three ads per page, could lose about $20,000 each day to blocking software, according to Blanchard.But with the rise of the mobile web, publishers have a temporary lifeline. The proportion of users blocking adverts on mobile devices is an order of magnitude lower:a May 2012 study from ClarityRayputs it at just 2% of Android users and 1% of iOS users.•Adblock Plus: the tiny plugin threatening the internet&apos;s business model
Requests from the US government for information about Google customers have increased by about 120% since the company first began publishing the numbers in 2009, the tech company said Thursday.Google’s latest transparency report looks at requests by government agencies worldwide in criminal cases in the last six months of 2013.Google published a separate report in Februaryabout orders made during US national security investigations.From July to December last year, US authorities made 10,574 requests for information about 18,254 accounts, the most of any country. France made the second most requests, with 2,750 requests for information about 3,378 accounts.The report revealed that:• Germany made 2,660 requests for information about 3,255 accounts• India made 2,513 requests or information about 4,401 accounts• United Kingdom made 1,397 requests for information about 3,142 accounts• Brazil made 1,085 requests for information about 1,471 accounts“While we’ve always known how important transparency is when it comes to government requests, the events of the past year have underscored just how urgent the issue is,” Richard Salgado, the legal director of law enforcement and information security wrote in a blogpost.“Though our number of users has grown throughout the time period, we’re also seeing more and more governments start to exercise their authority to make requests,” he wrote.“We consistently push back against overly broad requests for your personal information, but it’s also important for laws to explicitly protect you from government overreach. That’s why we’re working alongside eight other companies to push forsurveillance reform, including more transparency.”Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Yahoo and others have been pressing the US for greater transparency in the wake of whistleblower Edward Snowden’s revelations about the National Security Agency’s operations.The US recently allowed tech giants to disclose the broad number of national security letters (NSLs) they receive. NSLs are used to obtain information about a subscriber from telephone and internet companies and the companies had previously been barred from disclosing any details about them.However, the tech firms want further reformsand met president Barack Obama last weekto push for clearer limits on the information the US authorities can collect, more oversight and accountability.
Do you agree with everything your boss believes? Is this a requirement for working under them? The challenge issued this week to Mozilla – creators of the Firefox web browser and advocates of the &quot;open web&quot; – is whether their new CEO&apos;salleged supportfor anti-gay marriage campaigns is at odds with their inclusive, community-driven stance.The boss in question is programming guru Brendan Eich, creator of the hugely popular JavaScript language and general web evangelist. Mozilla have been operating under an acting CEO, Jay Sullivan, for over a year and announced on Monday their decision to appoint Eich to the role after his 15 years there, most recently as CTO. The controversy stems from a $1,000 donation Eich made in 2008 in his own name – albeit with Mozilla&apos;s name listed alongside it, as US law stipulates – to the Proposition 8 campaign, an amendment to California law which outlawed same-sex marriage.Mozilla is well known for its commitment to open and inclusive technology, pitching itself as a grassroots competitor to commercial companies such as Google. It didn&apos;t comment, though, when the controversy originally surfaced back in 2012, and Eich himself only acknowledged the apparent discrepancy ina blogpostwhich skirted around the issue.Mozilla: &quot;a global community who believe in openness and opportunity&quot;Today, things are more complex. The web is in a state of flux: on the one side, shadowy government agencies and enormous tech companies clamour to collect our personal data, with or without our approval. On the other side, Mozilla positions itself as &quot;a global community of people who believe that openness, innovation and opportunity are key to the continued health of the internet&quot;. This ethos is clearly impacted by Eich&apos;s position, whether or not it is a personally held belief.A CEO&apos;s political views and opinions shape that organisation&apos;s future: Mark Zuckerberg&apos;sburgeoning interest in US immigration lawcomes from a desire to widen the net Facebook casts in hiring talented people from around the globe. While it’s unlikely that Eich would suddenly introduce anti-gay attitudes to Mozilla&apos;s company manifesto, likewise it feels counterintuitive to the organisation&apos;s aims to let such things go unchecked.The film studio Lionsgate found themselves in a similar position last year as their adaptation of Orson Scott Card&apos;s &quot;Ender&apos;s Game&quot; novel was met with controversy due to his homophobic statements. The studio eventually issued a statement in support of same-sex marriage andpublicly distanced themselvesfrom Scott Card&apos;s beliefs.Such beliefs are, of course, the right of the individual, no matter how distasteful they may appear to others. This particular issue feels different, though, because of the nature of the belief. To actively oppose the union of two people who love each other – and to pitch in a significant amount of money to prevent that union being legally recognised – is a strong step in the direction of anti-equality. At least one prominent developer has already announced – with his husband – apersonal boycottof Mozilla&apos;s products and tools.The web is for everyoneAn organisation should not be treated as a single homogeneous hivemind, with all employees sharing the same viewpoints. Diversity of belief and opinion is an important asset to a modern, innovative company. But issues of equality are more than just matters of conscience. These are the things that define us, our attitudes and our actions.Eich&apos;s stance is unlikely to change. But by placing him in this leadership role, Mozilla ignores the unspoken message its silence implies: that it will turn a blind eye to a leader&apos;s presumed desire to shut down, invalidate and remove a whole subgroup&apos;s rights.Nobody should have to to police their thoughts and tow the company line in their personal life. But to pretend that the opinions and actions of the CEO of a global organisation are independent of the way that company is perceived and the way its values are lived is to ignore an ugly truth. How can a company striving for openness appoint someone paying to oppose it?The web community could live with Brendan Eich&apos;s opinion that same-sex marriage is wrong – that is his right to believe. But it can&apos;t live with his funding of this campaign which runs counter to what the web aims to address: that the internet affords us the opportunity to redress inequalities and barriers. AsTim Berners-Lee put it: &quot;This is for everyone&quot;.•Brendan Eich&apos;s appointment as Mozilla CEO causes ripples across company
Spotify is making plans which could see it float on the stock market this autumn, it is reported.The international music streaming company, based in Sweden, launched in October 2008 and partly owned by the major record labels. But following its expansion into the US it is now believed to be eyeing the potential to raise substantially more cash with which it could solidify its position.Quartz reportsthat the company has been talking to investment banks, a standard prelude to an IPO. Spotify already has a $200m credit line from lenders including Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs, any of which could take the lead role in floating it on the stock market - and earn millions in fees.An FT reportearlier this month said that Spotify had secured a new $200m line of credit from Morgan Stanley, amongst others, a move that usually indicates an imminent IPO.Spotify says it has about six million paying subscribers, including more than one million in the US, among more than 24 million users worldwide.About 85% of Spotify&apos;s revenues come from subscriptions, and 15% from advertising - almost exactly the opposite of its other publicly listed rival, the US-based Pandora, set up in 2000, which gets just 12% of its revenue from subscriptions.•Seven ways a streaming iTunes could compete with Spotify and its rivals
Countless schemes have attempted to stop people texting while driving, but none have gone quite as far as public shaming, until now.Facebook’s manager of communication design has had enough of drivers endangering lives so has taken to plastering their photos on large advertising billboards around San Francisco.&quot;I&apos;ve been blown away by the number of people texting while in traffic, on the freeway,&quot; Brian Singertold gadget site Gizmodo. &quot;For every nose picker, there&apos;s 20 texters. Unofficial estimation by me.&quot;100m blindAt any one moment, approximately 660,000 drivers in the US are using their mobile phones or another electronic device while driving, a figure that has remained unchanged since 2010, according to data from National Occupant Protection Use Survey.Twit Spotting an iPhone user. Photograph:Brian Singer/Twit SpottingTexting and driving is dangerous as it removes a driver’s attention from the road, and is as illegal California as it is in the UK, carrying a maximum fine of $190 in the state.The average driving texter has their eyes off the road for 4.6 seconds, which at speeds of 55mph equates to traveling the length of football pitch (100m) without looking at the road, according to research by Virginia Tech Transportation Institute.Californian police have initiated a crackdown on distracted drivers, but not to the extent of those in New York who have deployed unmarked SUVs to catch drivers in the act. It is also now common practice for insurance investigators to request mobile phone logs for accidents, with around 80% of vehicular accidents in the US involve driver distraction, of which mobile phone use in the number one cause.Texting while in trafficSinger first started an anonymous site for distributing photos of texting drivers along his commuting route through San Francisco called “Texting while in traffic” (Twit), but decided to increase public awareness through the use of 11 large billboards dotted about the city.He initially set out to partner with a driving awareness organisation for the billboards, but ended up personally funding the adverts, which will remain on display through early April and Distracted Driver Awareness Month.Eyes down and not on the road. Photograph: Brian Singer/Twit Spotting&quot;My hope is that it will freak some people out and make them think twice before picking up the phone while driving,&quot; said Singer. &quot;My greater hope is that it inspires others to start taking photos, too. If enough people started doing this, it could have a dramatic affect on people&apos;s behaviour.&quot;Singer encourages others to get involved by snapping pictures and posting them publicly on social media or by sending them into the Twit Spotting website in an effort to change offenders’ behaviour.• A courtdismissed a ticket issued to a San Diego driveroriginally given for driving while using Google Glass
TheMillion Dollar Homepagewas a phenomenon in 2005, but almost a decade on, it stands as a monument to the fragility of the internet: over one-fifth of the links on the site are dead.The site was started by Alex Tew, then a 21-year-old student from Wiltshire. Tew&apos;s idea was to try and make $1m by selling 1 million pixels for $1 each. Sold in groups of 100, each pixel could link to another webpage, and so they were used as advertisements by the companies that bought them. As word spread, and more and more users visited the page to see what the fuss was about, the value of an ad there rose, until, 138 days after it launched, the final pixel was sold.Since the homepage took off, Tew, has moved to San Francisco where he is head ofcalm.com, which offers online relaxation sessions.But the internet has changed a lot in nine years, and the homepage is a good illustration of just how true that is.According to David Yanofsky of Quartz, 675 of the 3,066 links go nowhere.The website &quot;provides an interesting window into the phenomenon of &apos;link rot,&apos; or hyperlinks that used to work but now point to dead pages,&quot; writes Yanofsky. &quot;Our analysis found that 22% of the Million Dollar Homepage’s pixels now fail to load a webpage when clicked.&quot;In fact, the number of pages which have fallen prey to link rot is likely to be far higher. Yanofsky used an automated testing process to find the dead links, marking any page which did not load or took longer than 10 seconds to load as dead.But manual inspection of the site reveals a huge quantity of links which do load, but to a site very different to the one which it was in 2005. For instance, &quot;homebasedbusinessfreedom.com&quot;, &quot;club-millionaire.com&quot; and &quot;petesstore.com&quot; all redirect to domain squatters, companies which buy up dead domains and paste adverts over them. All three sites are marked as &quot;alive&quot; on Yanofsky&apos;s chart, suggesting that the actual proportion of URLs which have succumbed to link rot is far higher than 22%.While few will be shedding tears for the loss of a few vaguely spammy websites, the statistic underscores the difficulty of archiving the internet. Way back in 1998, Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the web, wrote an essay titled &quot;Cool URIs don&apos;t change&quot; in which he bemoaned the problem. Even earlier,the Internet Archivewas created to combat the problem by storing copies of old webpages.•Can we stop talking about Million Dollar Homepage yet?
Twitter is adding support for posting up to four photos in a tweet and tagging up to 10 people in photos.The multiple photo upload feature is currently rolling out to Twitter’s official iPhone app, with Android and Twitter.com users gaining the feature soon.Tagging works like the existing username mentions system tweets, using full names or Twitter usernamesduring the image attachment process. Those tagged in a photo are sent a notification, but are given the option to opt out of tagging notifications.Hiding the &apos;scaffolding&apos;Tagging users in photos does not affect the character count of the 140-character limited tweets, and could indicate a further move tohide the “scaffolding” of Twitterthat includes @replies and #hashtags.The move shows the importance of photos and photo sharing to Twitter, which rolled out photo filters similar to Facebook’s Instagram in December 2012.Twitter is also testing a replacement of the familiar “retweet”with “Share with followers”, further evidence of Twitter’s move to simplify and remove jargon from the service, which is seen as a barrier to entry for new users.The &quot;Share&quot; move prompted a backlash from Twitter users and comparisons to Facebook, which also uses the Share terminology for posting updates and content on user timelines.Wtf@twitteryou&#39;re starting to look a lot like@facebook😒pic.twitter.com/2UA3A63VdP&mdash; Brooke (@daeHekoorB)March 26, 2014Twitter’s music appis scheduled to cease operation on 18 April, after failing to gain traction. A report by the Wall Street Journal suggests thatTwitter is trading its own service for a partnership solution“centred on music conversations and content” with Beats Music, SoundCloud and Vevo. Existing Twitter partners like Spotify, iTunes and Rdio may also play a role.• Twitter’s experiments show the company ismoving to simplify the social network
Fresh from its success sending Jamaica&apos;s bobsled team to the Winter Olympics, Reddit&apos;s Dogecoin community has raised 67m Doge, worth £33,000, to send a car to the iconic Talladega Superspeedway Nascar race.Dogecoin is a cryptocurrency which was born out of a combination of the original digital money, bitcoin, and the Doge meme, which features photos of a baffled yet placid Shiba Inu with broken English written in multicoloured Comic Sans over the top.The sponsorship fundraiser began when members of Reddit&apos;s Nascar community identified up-and-coming driver Josh Wise as an underdog in need of financial support.The group appealed to the Dogecoin community for help, and after an eight-day fundraising drive, 1,200 donations averaging $41 were enough to sponsor his car, covering it in images of dogecoin and the Reddit alien. Moolah,a cryptocurrency payment platform, offered to convert the donations to US dollars at a favourable exchange rate, ensuring that the whole $55,000 raised could be spent.&quot;I can&apos;t thank the dogecoin and Reddit community enough for the support,&quot; said Wise, before quoting what has become an unofficial slogan of the Dogecoin community: &quot;To the moon!&quot;Named the &quot;#98 Moonrocket&quot;, the car will make its debut on May 4th at the Aarons 499 Sprint Series Cup Race.Dogecoin hit headlines in January when the same community raised $25,000 to send the Jamaican bobsled team to the winter olympics. Since then, it has also has raised $20,000 to train service dogs for children with disabilities, and collected $30,000 to build clean water wells in Kenya.•This article and the headline were amended on 28 March 2014 to correct the exchange rate used to convert the dogecoins to dollars.•It&apos;s bobsleigh time: Jamaican team raises $25,000 in Dogecoin
Science researchers have discovered a problem with Google&apos;s Flu Trends system: it&apos;s no longer any good at predicting trends in flu cases.According to research carried out by a team at Northeastern University and Harvard University, Google&apos;s Flu Trends (GFT) prediction system has overestimated the number of influenza cases in the US for 100 of the past 108 weeks - and in February 2013 forecast twice as many cases as actually occurred.A better prediction model of the number of cases for the forthcoming week could be more accurately generated from the number of cases recorded by the US Center for Disease Control (CDC) in the preceding week, the team found.The discovery has led them to warn of &quot;big data hubris&quot; in which organisations or companies give too much weight to analyses which are inherently flawed – but whose flaws are not easily revealed except through experience.The apparent reason for GFT&apos;s failure, the scientists suggest, is tweaks made by Google itself to its search algorithm, together with its &quot;autosuggest&quot; featureintroduced in November 2009.Wrong weighting&quot;GFT was like the bathroom scale where the spring slowly loosens up and no one ever recalibrated,&quot; David Lazer, an associate professor of computer and information science at Northeastern University, who led the research, told the Guardian.&quot;You know scales are going to need to be recalibrated, yet when GFT started missing by a lot (which started years ago, before it got any media attention) no one tweaked the mechanism.&quot;Lazer notes that GFT was built on correlation with the CDC&apos;s reported figures, and so is intended to forecast the CDC data, rather than any &quot;absolute&quot; number of flu cases. &quot;We are not assuming that the CDC data are &apos;right&apos;,&quot; henoted. &quot;[But technically] GFT is a predictive model of future CDC reports about the present.&quot; That makes its deviation from the forecast more notable.Big data headacheGoogle's own autosuggest feature may have driven more people to make flu-related searches - and misled its Flu Trends forecasting system. Photograph: /GuardianIn the paper,published in the journal Science, the team led by Lazer notes that even from its inception in 2009 &quot;the initial version of GFT was a particularly problematic marriage of big and small data.&quot; They note that &quot;essentially, the methodology was to find the best matches among 50m search terms to fit 1,152 data points.&quot; The chances of finding search terms that seemed to match the incidence of flu - but in fact were unrelated - &quot;were quite high&quot;, the team commented.Google constantly makes tweaks to its general search algorithm, averaging more than one a day, and the introduction of its &quot;autosuggest&quot; feature may make people more likely to search on terms related to influenza.One problem in finding out why GFT has run amok is that Google has never disclosed which 45 search terms it uses, nor how it weights them, to generate its forecast.&quot;We do find evidence that Google changed how it serves up health-related information that likely resulted in more searches for terms related to flu cures, and that these terms tend to be more correlated with GFT than the CDC data,&quot; Lazer commented in an email.&quot;This suggests that part of the answer is that those (unknown) GFT search terms are related to flu cures, and that the change of the search algorithm drove counts of those search terms up. But we don&apos;t know that for sure. And even if the algorithm did not change at all, how people use tools changes over time – maybe people didn&apos;t think of using Google for health-related information a decade ago (where the training data for GFT came from) and now they are more likely to.&quot;Correlation - but not causation?Google&apos;sFAQ page about GFTsays that &quot;certain search terms are good indicators of flu activity&quot; and that &quot;We have found a close relationship between how many people search for flu-related topics and how many people actually have flu symptoms&quot;.It published its work in apaper in the science journal Nature in November 2008(PDF) which it said had a correlation of 90% with CDC flu data. Correlations range between zero and one, with one being indicating perfect matching.But correlation does not demonstrate causation - which the Flu Trends&apos; failure to maintain its predictive power seems now to be demonstrating. &quot;The initial version of GFT was part flu detector, part winter detector&quot; the researchers note - because flu cases are highly seasonal, tending to rise in winter.A Google spokesperson said: &quot;We review the Flu Trends model each year to determine how we can improve — our last update was made in October 2013 in advance of the 2013-2014 flu season. We welcome feedback on how we can continue to refine Flu Trends to help estimate flu levels.&quot;The scientists say there are broader lessons about the use of &quot;big data&quot; in GFT&apos;s failure to do its expected job of forecasting flu trends. Google&apos;s failure to explain its algorithms or to release its data in effect blocks scientific research on that work; &quot;making money &apos;without doing evil&apos; (paraphrasing Google&apos;s motto) is not enough when it is feasible to do so much good,&quot; they write.Lazer added: &quot;I do think a general lesson here is that you have to build and maintain a model like this based on the assumption that these types of relationships are elastic - there is no natural constant here like pi - and constantly, or at least regularly, recalibrate.&quot;•Big data: four predictions for 2014
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski,Hamish Pateldiscusses theWello health monitorwith reporterSamuel Gibbs.Aleks is joined byKevin Rawlinsonto discuss the Turkish government's attempt to ban Twitter in Turkey.Charles ArthurandAlex Herndiscuss Facebook's purchase of the Occulus Rift virtual-games headset and the latest twist in digital currencies: the Auroracoin.
It's Thursday.
It is a decades-old promise that looked most likely to be realised in fiction rather than fact. Now, though, virtual reality might finally reach the mainstream after Facebook spent $2bn&nbsp;(£1.2bn) to buy a manufacturer of futuristic headsets that take control of a person's field of vision.Late on Tuesday night, Facebook founder – and chief executive – Mark Zuckerberg said it was time for the social network to "start focusing on what platforms will come next to enable even more useful, entertaining and personal experiences".The answer, for the billionaire entrepreneur, is contained in the purchase of Oculus, the maker of the distinctive $350 Rift headset – which looks like a massive pair of opaque diving goggles.Once strapped on to a person's face – and supplemented by a set of headphones, and they are capable of transporting the bearer into a new field of experience .Inside, there is a screen for each eye, displaying high-resolution video generated by a computer.They render a 3D&nbsp;image taking up your entire field of view, while advanced motion tracking technology allows the eye-screens to track the movements of the head."We're going to make Oculus a platform for many other experiences," said Zuckerberg, offering a window into his thinking."Imagine enjoying a courtside seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face – just by putting on goggles in your home."However, anyone who has heard about virtual reality will know this sort of excitement is familiar. The technology has proved tough to develop.Previous efforts have fallen prey to bad screens, worse graphics and nonexistent motion tracking.But worst of all is the nausea. Bad VR can play havoc with your body's sense of location, and lead to acute motion sickness.The Rift attempts to beat those problems with a high-resolution display, super-accurate head-tracking sensors and a range of technologies designed to minimise the sickness. And, with Facebook's money behind it, improvements will come ever quicker.Facebook is not alone in betting on the new wave of virtual reality. "Oculus was founded on the contrarian belief that the right people at the right time could finally deliver on the science fiction promise," said Chris Dixon, a partner at Andreessen Horowitz, the venture capital firm which pumped early investments into both Facebook and Oculus (as well asanother company bought by Facebook, the photo-sharing website Instagram)."Hardware components had become sufficiently powerful and inexpensive, and the pioneering engineers who invented 3D gaming were eager to explore a new frontier," Dixon said. "Last year, my partner Gil Shafir and I spent time studying Oculus and virtual reality technology more generally."The more we learned, the more we became convinced that virtual reality would become central to the next great wave of computing."Nor is Oculus the first surprising acquisition for Zuckerberg. Earlier this month,Facebook reportedly began talks to acquire Titan Aerospace, a manufacturer of solar-powered drones.But that was easily linked to one of Facebook's existing business: Titan's drones can stay airborne for five years, making them a cost-effective replacement for orbital satellites and crucial for Facebook's Internet.org project to connect the developing world to the internet. In the end,it acquired a different company, Ascenta, instead.The Oculus purchase is the first time the company has looked so far ahead, although it remains a considerable risk in the era where 3D television has struggled to win over consumers because few people want to wear glasses at home for a technology that is not obviously better than high definition.There are also likely to be challenges of taste too. Already, the first adult-only software for Oculus has arrived, with companies such as Wicked Paradise preparing fully motion-captured "episodic erotic games".That might not be the sort of "personal experience" that Mark Zuckerberg is looking for either. But he will need some sort of compelling application if the technology – and his $2bn bet – is to succeed.Bought by FacebookInstagram, bought in April 2012, $1bnIn 2012, Facebook astonished the tech industry with its purchase of the mobile photo app. Two years on, it is regarded as a smart move for a firm trying to redefine itself as mobile first. There has been intense competition with rival Twitter since the deal, with Instagram removing Twitter integration and Twitter blocking  "find my Twitter friends" from Instagram.Face.com, June 2012, $21mThe acquisition of the Israeli facial recognition company Face.com made a statement about Facebook's plan to dominate the photo-sharing market. Face.com's technology was soon incorporated into the "tag suggest" feature, allowing users to automatically tag themselves in friends' pictures, but it also led to problems. Just months later, the company had to turn off the feature in the EU after Irish regulators ruled that infringed the privacy of users.Branch, January 2014, $15mBranch media was started by Twitter co-founders Ev Williams and Biz Stone, and attempted to encourage more in-depth discussion from social media.  Facebook was interested in the core technology, and acquired the team to improve its own comment features.WhatsApp, February 2014, $19bnThe biggest acquisition to date. Facebook wanted WhatsApp's 450 million monthly users, all attracted by the simplicity of the free, mobile-focused messaging service. Some have viewed the deal as a defensive move by Facebook, which has gained control of a competitor that may have undermined it in years to come…and the ones that got awaySnapchatSnapchat, the ephemeral photo messaging service, seemed mad to reject Facebook's offer of $3bn for a buyout. The company, which was two years old and still "pre-profitable" in Silicon Valley parlance, decided it was worth more, and turned it down. Snapchat hopes to become a competitor to Facebook, rather than just a subsidiary of it. But in the months since, it's been beset by security flaws, and already some are fearing that its young users may move on to something else. Should it have taken the money when it could?Titan AerospaceA firm that specialises in solar-powered drones that fly at high altitude seems an odd thing for Facebook to try to buy. They are capable of staying airborne for five years at a time, which makes them a suitable replacement for orbital satellites. Facebook's plan was reportedly to use them for its Internet.org project, which aims to connect five billion people in developing nations to the web, but the company eventually acquired a different firm in the same space.• This article was amended on 28 March 2014. An earlier version said Facebook had acquired Titan Aerospace. It did not buy Titan, but was said to be in talks to do so. The article was further amended on 4 April 2014 to edit and move a paragraph about Titan Aerospace, which had appeared under the subheading "Bought by Facebook".
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNakamoto's neighbour: my hunt for Bitcoin's creator led ro a paralyzed crypto genius &gt;&gt; ForbesAndy Greenberg:A week earlier, I was following clues that seemed to point to either Finney's involvement in the creation of Bitcoin or one of the most improbable coincidences I'd ever encountered. Today, I believe those connections were in fact random, that Finney is telling the truth when he denies helping to invent Bitcoin, and that I am only the most recent of a long string of journalists to succumb to the mirage of a Satoshi Nakamoto-shaped pattern in a collection of meaningless facts.But in following the clues that led me to Finney, I found something equally significant: a dying man who had been something like a far-more-brilliant Forrest Gump of cryptographic history: a witness to and participant in practically every important moment in the recent history of secret-keeping technologies. From the development of the first widely used strong encryption software known as PGP, to early anonymity systems, to the first Bitcoin transaction, Finney was there.Must-read.Facebook announces that it acquired Oculus. Shill gets caught defending Facebook by forgetting to switch his accounts and posting identical messages with other accounts (WITH EVIDENCE) : HailCorporate &gt; RedditSearch on "Facebook" or "Google" or "Samsung" yields odd results.Tablets' value proposition still unclear to mainstream users &gt;&gt; Kantar WorldpanelIn 4Q13, tablet penetration in the US reached 37%, a growth of 54% compared to the same period in 2012, according to data released today by Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. Growth, however is slowing down year over year and the task of convincing consumers who have not yet invested in a tablet to take the plunge will become increasingly more difficult. 53% of US consumers interviewed in 4Q13 said they will not buy a tablet in the next 12 months while 34% were unsure.In many cases they fretted about the absence of a keyboard - though about two-thirds of Americans use a touchscreen phone.Apple to push for more diversity in emoji characters &gt;&gt; SiliconBeatThere are more than 400 characters in Apple's emoji library, but good luck finding a face that's non-Caucasian (I counted two). That may soon change. Responding to an MTV query regarding that lack of diversity, Apple says it hopes to expand the emoji universe to be more racially inclusive.The electronic holy war &gt;&gt; The New YorkerIn May, 1997, IBM's Deep Blue supercomputer prevailed overGarry Kasparovin a series of six chess games, becoming the first computer to defeat a world-champion chess player. Two months later, theNew York Timesoffered machines another challengeon behalf of a wounded humanity: the two-thousand-year-old Chinese board gamewei qi, known in the West as Go. The article said that computers had little chance of success: "It may be a hundred years before a computer beats humans at Go – maybe even longer."Last March, 16 years later, a computer program named Crazy Stone defeated Yoshio Ishida, a professional Go player and a five-time Japanese champion. The match took place during the first annualDensei-sen,or "electronic holy war" tournament, in Tokyo, where the best Go programs in the world play against one of the best humans. Ishida, who earned the nickname "the Computer" in the 1970s because of his exact and calculated playing style, described Crazy Stone as "genius".The victory was not quite a Deep Blue moment; Crazy Stone was given a small handicap, and Ishida is no longer in his prime. But it was an impressive feat.Terrific piece by Patrick House.40-pound calculators, the birth of Ethernet, and a $100bn mistake: a conversation with Bill Krause &gt;&gt; Andreessen HorowitzKrause explains the birth of the Ethernet jack:When we did demos we also explained the technology this way: Ethernet worked the same way as human beings having a conversation. We are using the same medium, we are sharing the air. You talk, then I talk. If we start talking at the same time, we both stop, and someone re-initiates one side of the conversation. The reporters got it right away, and understood the advantage over other technologies, but it was Steve Jobs that added a critical piece that led to Ethernet's success.We had put Ethernet on a card, and instead of having to screw a tap we had a connector that looked a lot like the one you screw into your cable box and TV. And were all excited about it. We set up four PCs, and we called Steve Jobs who was a good friend and told him, "You have to come over and see this demo." Steve comes over and we hook it up and show it to him.It was a classic Steve response: "Who's the brain-dead asshole that came up with this shit? This is dreck, this is crap. You want to make it easy to install, just plug it into the telephone jack for cryin' out loud."Why didn't we think of that? No one knows to this day that Steve Jobs deserves the credit for creating Ethernet the way it is today, and it is a part of why it beat out other competing technologies. It was another one of his brilliant insights around user interface.Whole interview is great.Toshiba unveils 'industry's smallest' white LED chip &gt;&gt; Tech-On!Toshiba Corp developed what it claims is the industry's smallest (0.65 x 0.65mm) white LED for lighting applications.With the company's wafer-level CSP (chip scale package) technology, the footprint of the LED, "CSP-LED," is 50% or more smaller than those of its competitors' LEDs. Because the new LED allows to drastically reduce the size of light source, it enables to design lighting equipment more freely as well as to make use of space in which a conventional light source cannot be installed.Toshiba will start shipping samples of the LED in late April 2014.Way better than CFL.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The number of glassy-eyed, finger-swiping Candy Crush Saga users who live among us is staggering:93m people play this sweet little app more than 1bn times per day.To be an addict, by definition, is to habituate to something compulsively or obsessively. Candy Crushers can be found riding trains and buses around the world, missing their stops, tripping onto platforms and wandering into crowds of people. They&apos;re sitting at the desk next to you, heads down, twitchy fingers trailing set of jelly-looking fruits. They search for quiet places to play, away from kids and spouses, and find themselves locked in the bathroom, trying not to drop the phone into the bathwater. Perhaps you are reading this with a blush of recognition.But this goes beyond Candy Crush. The field of addictive apps is crowded with theTinders, assortedFlappysand2048sof the world. (I am hooked on something called Tiny Tower, an older app whichis actually horrible.) A couple of years ago, it was Angry Birds. It&apos;s is now time for some tales from the edge, collected from different corners of the internet.Secrets, toilets and liesSecret-sharing apps were made for people who are unable to voice their problems in a productive way. This is a perfect congregation spot for Candy Crush addicts. Here are a few of the best culled from Whisper – view morehere:On Reddit, you can find a subreddit calledDeadBedrooms, which is dedicated to people in relationships with no physical intimacy. Apps are a hot topic. This thread is not for the faint of heart, but here is one excerpt:&quot;Good God. My husband plays Sudoku on his phone almost immediately upon getting in bed and then first thing in the morning. I hate that game so much ...&quot;Tips for copingGuardian commenters addressed their battles earlier this year. Here are a few choice comments left underStuart Heritage&apos;s harrowing February essay about deleting Candy Crush.RevGH03 February 2014 10:47amYou are not alone. I deleted this after two months as noticed I was becoming obsessed with it and that my language had negotiated - I had started swearing at the mobile! I missed it for a day.Otherpleasespecify03 February 2014 7:19pmI too am free. I started to realise that spending countless hours on this hateful game would be something I would actively regret on my death bed. With my heart in my mouth I pressed delete. I've never looked back.pointythings03 February 2014 8:53amIt's like any other addiction - you control it, or it controls you. I play it - am on level 406 - but I have strict rules: I don't spend any money on it, and I don't ask my friends for lives (though I do give them if they ask me). That limits the number of lives I have, so limits the time I can play it, and then I pick up a book. Books - now there's a tricky addiction...Meanwhile, onQuora, there is a discussionentitled&apos;How do I get over my Candy Crush Saga addiction? How on earth is swiping candies and bombs to clear an arbitrary (and often frustrating) goal so addictive?&apos;Candy addictSamson Yeerecommends that we all take up internet coding instead:My sister is at level 410 and is calling it &quot;pretty normal in Hong Kong&quot;. Somebody needs to call the WHO. Thanks to you asking this question, I&apos;ve just quit, just before reaching level 100. Thank you for helping me, please let me help you in return. Delete the app. Press and hold the icon, little &quot;x&quot; top left corner. It&apos;s going to threaten you, saying that it will delete all your data, it&apos;s okay. It&apos;s just &quot;data&quot;. You can do it.I just did, thanks to you. Yes your friends ( the ones you want to keep ) have quit too. You are right.Life really is too short for sliding candies around. DELETE, MOVE ON, spend your time on something else.Try Code Academy, get a book. &quot;The lowland&quot; by Jhumpa Lahiri was really good. Paul Auster&apos;s &quot;Invisible&quot;. &quot;What the dog saw&quot; by Malcolm Gladwell is a shorter, easier read.The tip offering the quickest results comes from aQuora userwho made the wise decision to post as Anonymous:Tell your parents you spent $700 of their money on the game like I did. I was never allowed to play after thatAnd then there&apos;s Twitter, where users don&apos;t really seem to be coping at all, and in fact appear to be heading in the wrong direction:i finally kicked my candy crush obsession...with clash of clans&mdash; Jenny Little (@little_jl)March 24, 2014You guys, I kicked my#CandyCrushhabit, only to become addicted to mofo#TinySheepNew life goal: run a real life sheep farm#OCD#AppAnon&mdash; Julia Fierro (@JuliaFierro)September 26, 2013Twitter cured my Candy Crush addiction&mdash; Miss Unstable (@CrazyGrlDiaries)March 25, 2014Your turn. Share your stories of app shame and redemption in the comments below or by telling us on Twitter (@GuardianUS) and we&apos;ll add your thoughts below.
As the force behind Firefox, the internet’s leading open-source browser, the Mozilla Foundation tends to be associated with progressive values. So its appointment this week of a CEO who donated to a campaign that opposed gay marriage has caused ripples among Firefox developers and the browser’s fans.Some Mozilla developers said they would boycott the foundation after the promotion of Brendan Eich to the top position. Eich donated $1,000 to the Proposition 8 campaign in California, which succeeded in banning same-sex marriage in the state for almost five years.“As a gay couple who were unable to get married in California until recently, we morally cannot support a Foundation that would not only leave someone with hateful views in power, but will give them a promotion and put them in charge of the entire organization,” said developerHampton Catlin, who founded the tech firm Rarebit with his husband Michael Lintorn Catlin.In ablog post on Rarebit’s site, Catlin said he understood that not everyone at Mozilla has displayed opposition to same-sex marriage, but that he believes the choice for a CEO sent an important symbolic message.“Their ideas, beliefs, philosophies, and personalities drive organizations,” Catlin said. “And, when it’s an organization that I’m personally investing in, it’s even more important.”Eich&apos;s $1,000 donation to support Prop 8 was first disclosed in 2012 and he responded to the renewed criticism inhis personal blog on Wednesday. He said he wanted to reassert his commitment &quot;to fostering equality and welcome for LGBT individuals at Mozilla&quot; and outlined how he hopes to do that.&quot;I know some will be skeptical about this, and that words alone will not change anything,&quot;Eich said. &quot;I can only ask for your support to have the time to &apos;show, not tell&apos;; and in the meantime express my sorrow at having caused pain.&quot;As part of the post, Eich announced the launch ofa new Mozilla initiative, Project Ascend. Created by Mozilla employee Lukas Blakk, the initiative seeks to create an Open Source hacking course targeted at underrepresented populations.Christie Koehler, an employee of Mozilla who identifies herself as queer and is also working on Project Ascend, said she was disappointed when she learned about the campaign donation, but accepted that sometimes people have to work with people who have contradictory beliefs to their own.“The key is to figure out when it’s important to walk away from interacting with a person or community because of a misalignment in beliefs, and when you need to set aside the disagreement and commit to working together in service of the shared goal,” Koehlerwrote in a blog post.She also said Mozilla employees tend to have progressive leanings, and that she has not personally experienced discriminatory behavior from Eich in the Mozilla workplace. “To be clear, I’m personally disappointed about Brendan’s donation,” Koehler said. “However, aside from how it affected me emotionally, I have nothing to indicate that it’s materially hurt my work within the Mozilla community or as a Mozilla employee.”Following the renewed criticism, Mozilla posteda statement on the company’s website.“Mozilla has always been deeply committed to honoring diversity in sexual orientation and beliefs within our staff and community, across all the project’s activities,” Mozilla said.Mozilla cited its health benefit policies as an example of how it honors sexual diversity, because it offers the same benefits to domestic partnerships as it does to married couples and its life insurance policy covers domestic partnerships as well.“With thousands of people spanning many countries and cultures, diversity is core to who we are, and we’re united in our mission to keep the Web open and accessible for everyone,” Mozilla said.Mozilla began as an open source project at Netscape in 1998 and is a non-profit foundation to create open source products including the hugely popular Firefox browser. Firefox is thought to be thethird most popular browserin the world, and is used by half a billion people,according to the organization.Google has been Mozilla&apos;s primary funder since 2006 and was responsible for more than 90% of the organization&apos;s revenue in 2012. The search giantnow pays Mozilla$300m per year to be the default search engine option for Firefox.
