Given the number of stories that have been written about embarrassing or illegal Wikipedia entries, there's plenty the pioneering site gets wrong. But not too many people would say it needed a bit more Christianity injected into the mix.That is, apart from the folks who frequentConservapedia, "a much-needed alternative to Wikipedia, which is increasingly anti-Christian and anti-American".It's an attempt to bring some US Christian perspective to the idea of an open encyclopedia (though why they don't just persevere with Wikipedia edits is beyond me). Over on theGuardian's Newsblog the other day, Matt Weaver characterised reactions thusly:Despite suspicions that it is a parody, the site is apparently deadly serious. It has become the laughing stock of the internet, as bloggers compete to find the most ludicrous entries.In fact, it seemed that the glare of the world's intermensch has become just too much - the site's now offline. But it wasn't just a case of being crushed by traffic, or being taken down swiftly: Conservapediaisn't even cached on Google any more(the cache now seems to be working).Oh, the mystery!Update:Founder Andy Schlafly - son of ultra-famous US conservative campaigner Phyllis - has got in touch to say "Due to the enormous demand, we're converting to a bigger computer system. I think that's why it is down right now."Mystery solved, kind of.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Jeff Atwood's Coding Horror blog is covering a real horror:Why Can't Programmers.. Program?It seems that, at least in the US,"199 out of 200 applicants for every programming job can't write code at all. I repeat: they can't write any code whatsoever."One solution suggested by Imran at Imranontech is to ask them to program something simple, such as FizzBuzz, a counting game played in some British schools. (Using FizzBuzz to Find Developers who Grok Coding)You know: 1, 2, Fizz, 4, Buzz, Fizz, 7, 8, Fizz, Buzz, 11, Fizz, 13, 14, FizzBuzz....Aside from global astonishment at the quality of American computer science education, the really amusing thing about the debate has been the number of FizzBuzz programs in all sorts of languages that have been posted in comments -- amusing both because of the variety of approaches from x86 assembler to Python, and the number of errors they contain.This has now turned into theGreat FizzBuzz Shootout. People have coded the program in 27 different languages, and it turns out that Perl is the most efficient, while Fortran is the worst. Some languages have more than two dozen entries.Hm, does this make asking the FizzBuzz question more useful to interviewers, or less?
Now, I'm a fan ofDigg, the social news site, and last week met up with co-founderKevin Rose.Digg's done very interesting things, and it's style is beingcopiedby plenty of other groups at the moment.But the site isn't without its problems. One of the major ones is the ability of a small number of users to "bury" stories without accountability. Burying news is meant to help separate spam and inaccurate stories from the general morass of ordinary, viable stuff. But there's long been the suspicion that plenty of users use it to get rid of stories about things they don't like (eg political parties or corporates) - since burying a story is much more powerful than simply voting against it.On the plus side, Digg does offer up data which enables people to fish around in the data and do interesting stuff (some of the in-house projects are showcased in thelabs). Interesting, then to seethis post at ProNet Advertisingwhich explains a way to watch who is burying stories. Just useDigg Spyto tap into what's going on inside the site:You can see which user did the burying, on what story, and on what basis. By looking at just some of the data, you can get quite conclusive hard evidence that not only does the bury brigade exist, but it is hard at work burying any content that doesn't suit its ideology.The question is whether calling these individuals out will produce any kind of effect. But it's a start.
"For a few days before Chinese New Year, I've actually been quite busy developing my very own iPhone interface for the PocketPC. After looking at the functions and interface on the iPhone, I was keen on bringing it over to my Eten M600 PPC. The iPhone interface was pratical, looked neat and it was way cooler than any wm5 theme. And it was unique as well," writesyoumolo"Everything is written using PPL1.20. PPL can be downloaded for free from http://arianesoft.ca Although this looks like an iPhone, it will never be an iPhone. But until it is released in July this year, all we can do is to try and imitate. I posted the video on youtube."One difference is that PocketPC devices only have single-touch screens, though there are other phones that showed multi-touch screens before El Jobso showed the iPhone.
By accident, Dr Macenstein noticed thatUsing Safari can slow your system down as much as 76% vs Firefox, so he did some tests. And graphed them. He says:The interesting thing about these results (to me at least) is that both Firefox and Safari were simply open during their tests. I was not actively "surfing", ie. clicking on things, moving windows, etc. It seems to me that a background application, especially one that should not really be doing anything all that processor-intensive even when in the foreground, should not hog system resources the way Safari apparently does. If Firefox can play nice, why not Safari?Charles Arthur adds:Dave Hyatt, who leads the Safari team,responds on the Surfin' Safari blog:One might expect that a background browser window would do nothing. However, that is a fairly naive assumption once you take a look at the kind of Web content that exists today. There are many ways in which a browser can still be doing required work even while in the background.He mentions animated GIFs, plugins, Javascript timeouts and intervals, and so on. (I'd add adverts that auto-refresh, which chew up a lot of CPU.)
While most - ok, 90% - of the PlayStation 3 online functionality is basic compared to Xbox Live - having to quit out of games to receive friend messages, most games lacking basic online multiplayer etc - the PlayStation Store totally outclasses the Live equivalent. I spent some time yesterday playing around with the Store and was hugely impressed. Where Live Marketplace leaves you stranded in menu hell, struggling to discover what's new and why it matters, the PlayStation Store has a date driven release list as well as a far more appealing interface (reminiscent of traditional online stores). It was easy to search between movie trailers, casual games and the rest and you get the impression that, unlike a lot of the online stuff, Sony really had a clear vision for what they wanted with the Store. Ironically, considering thePS3 backwards compatibility farce, the most appealing products on sale were the PSOne games which were cheap (around a fiver) and easy to transfer onto PSP for playback.Elsewhere I had another quick go on the browser. While hardly a deal breaker when it comes to potential purchase - unless browsing on your telly really matters to you - it does the job and could become one of those unsung features that becomes more useful than initially anticipated.Overall yesterday's online testing confirms the difficulty in pining the PS3 down. The gaming side is relatively lacklustre and lacks most of Live's features - though Motorstorm is a glitzy demonstration of future intent - but all the other functions - Blu-ray, browser, build-quality, photo display, store etc - are well designed and easy to use. Hopefully things will become clearer when the final retail machines arrive in the next few weeks.
Shiny Entertainment founder Dave Perry has returned to high profile game development with an intriguing new project forAcclaim, the rejuventated US publisher. Top Secret is an MMORPG which will be designed in a collaborative venture with its own fanbase. It's not clear yet how this will work, but Acclaim has announced that one winner will be selected from the community to go on and produce the entire game with Perry acting as an Executive Producer:"This is the only chance I know of to jumpstart a directorship career in the video game industry," says Perry. "Everyone wins. They get to learn how to make professional games, and if they get anything in, they get a real professional credit on their resume. But, if they win, well then they get their life changed."A press release quote from Acclaim CEO Howard Marks (no relation to the ex-drug dealer) is more telling:"Top Secret is like 'The Apprentice' meets 'American Idol' meets The Video Game Industry. We're giving our players a chance to work on an online game that we will actually develop and publish. Our community really loves these games and knows what it takes to make a hit. And it will be a dream come true for one lucky star that shines the most throughout the project."Cynics, of course, could point out that this is just a cheap way to get game ideas - the same way as public beta testing is essentially free QA. But the idea is innovative and interesting - two words you wouldn't have associated with Acclaim a few years ago when it went down the pan churning out the likes of BMX XXX.More infohere
Bedroom-coding hothouseIntroversionhas announced its latest project - a multiplayer version of the award-winning indie strategy title,Darwinia. The game will allow players to engage in co-op and competitive battles with enormous armies.There will be subtle tweaks to the minimalistic, fractal-based visuals, but don't expect anything approaching naturalism, thank goodness. The key changes are in gameplay, of course, as lead designer, John Knottenbelt, points out:"We've created a new formation mode which will let you organise your Darwinians into ranks to create massive armies. In formation they'll have greater firepower in the direction they're facing, but virtually none from either sides or behind. It's going to get pretty messy, requiring a whole new set of tactical skillsfrom the gamer."Meanwhile, Introversion's Chris Delay, who usually heads up the team's game design projects will be working on new titles. Among these are expected to be the studio's first Xbox Live Arcade and/or PlayStation Network downloadable titles...
Dear Lord no.MCVreports that Crazy Frog, possibly the most irritating viral audio file to spread its ooze across the internet, will hound all good citizens of the Earth for at least the next 5 years.From the article:Time to invest in some new earplugs - Myriad Interactive has signed a five-year contract with Eric Wernquist and Kaktus Film for their The Annoying Thing property, ensuring that it will appear in kid's games in Europe until at least 2012.The UK may have done well at the Oscars, but with properties like this and the appalling Little Britain license, brought to our consoles by London-basedBlast! Entertainment, it's unlikely we'll win awards at interactive competitions. Have we sold our souls to stay in the global gaming marketplace?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Should we be teaching children how to format tables of numbers in Excel, or Google hacks, or "life-long computer skills"? Rhetorical question, obviously, but Jakob Nielsen has a go at answering it in his latestAlertbox column. He says:There is some value in teaching kids skills they can apply immediately, while they're still in school, but there's more value in teaching them deeper concepts that will benefit them forever, regardless of changes in specific applications.Of course, finding teachers who understand the "deeper concepts" is another matter.....
It's always amusing when shareholders want the boss's head on a spike, and Yahoo Finance has publishedYahoo!: Time for Plan B, where Eric Jackson calls for (among other things) the replacement of Yahoo!'s chairman and CEO, Terry Semel.Jackson owns 45 shares in Yahoo, and has put himself up for a directorship.According to theAP story:Jackson announced the finalized plan online beside a picture of Martin Luther King Jr. delivering the "I Have a Dream" speech. In a YouTube video, he promised to "campaign" for the plan by using the Web, since he doesn't have the funds to wage a traditional proxy fight, which he said would cost $200,000."I'll be kissing some babies. I'll be kissing some gray-haired money managers," Jackson said.For all the stories and more, much more, seeJackson's blog.
You may have noticed that comments are sometimes closed off when you still want to comment. I'm trying to keep them open, but being overridden by the routines from Comment Is Free. As a workaround, you can post any comments to this message, but please try to include the title of the original post, or a link back!Otherwise, if you have a query for Ask Jack, email it to Jack.Schofield@guardian.co.ukSorry, I can't guarantee to answer or even acknowledge every query, but I do the best I can in the time available.
A quick note on business economics (yes, they intrude even here) about Sony's decision to de-Emotify the PS3. Why would they do it? Some suggestions are that it means that Sony can cut prices more quickly in the future. One commenter atIt's the Emotion that's gonesuggested:It doesn't have to make a large difference to the overall cost of producing the PS3 to make a significant difference to Sony's profit/loss on each console.As a hypothetical example, say you're in a small profit margin market and sell for $40 a device that costs $35 to make - reducing production costs by only $1 increases your profits by 20% ($5 to $6).This is true as far as it goes, but falls into the classic "I've never worked in a small business" error. In business, as they say, "turnover is vanity, profit is sanity, but cash is king."If your change in production means that instead of selling 10 you only sell 9 (because people say "It doesn't have feature X"), then your *actual* profit moves from $5 x 10 before, to $6 x 9: $50 before, $4554afterwards. Your cash flow has *fallen* from $400 to $360. That's a10% *fall*8% risein profit and 10% *fall* in available cash. But, you say, our margins are up! [Thanks AlexGB for pointing out the error. Sigh. Is this why I've never run a business? As he points out, you'd need to lose two customers to make profits drop.]In any business a fall in profit *and* in cash is a Bad Thing, and is the reason why companies like to sell you things that cost a lot and have lots of things inside on which they can squeeze margins later: because the one thing that matters most to a business is capturing the cash from buyers - lots of them. A fall in available cash is a bad thing - and offsets a rise in profit significantly, especially if you're trying to push lots of new product out of the door (and have just had an expensive battery recall) and need lots of cash to pay suppliers.And it's why you like to appeal to lots of potential buyers with that single thing. It explains Microsoft Office having a million twiddly capabilities that only a few people use (but use all the time), the PS3 having - until recently - PS2 compatibility as well as a Blu-ray drive, and so on. (It's also why Apple didn't, until recently, offer low-end machines; it couldn't generate sufficient cash and profit from them.)But this has to be balanced with marketing savvy: you have to get people buying it. On the logic above, if you filled the box with air and sold it for $40 - production cost $0 - you'd make infinite profit. Bring it on!This, by the way, is the flaw inDatamonitor's argument(site link only; look at its press releases for the right one) that removing the Emotion engine will boost (Sony) console sales - not now, but eventually. Datamonitor argues that not having the Emotion engine chip will make PS3 manufacture cheaper. It might, but price is not the only determinant of whether people - especially Sony gamers - buy a console. Backwards compatibility and not having to fuggle around with swapping cables behind the TV matters too. That's what that chip offers. And it's what Sony seems to have left out.Though if someone from Sony wants to comment below on how it's actually a brilliant profit-making idea...
Just a quick one - and the title says it all. Sony announced today that its five in-house PS3 launch titles will each retail for GBP39.99 in the UK - a tenner lower than some predictions. Downloadable content prices have been given in euros - between EURO2.99 and 9.99 for full games and from 0.99 for in-game content such as weapons, vehicles and, oh go on then, horse armour.
Media analystScreen Digesthas produced a report on the next-gen videogame industry named'Next Generation Consoles: Games publishing, hardware analysis and forecasts to 2010'and the contents are no prettier than the title. There are some obvious conclusions - for example, the high cost of developing for next-gen machines coupled with the comparatively meagre user-base is going to mean a very low return on investment for publishers over the next few years:"Screen Digest modelled the sales required for single and multi-platform releases to cover development costs in the key US market. The results indicate that only a tiny proportion of next generation titles are likely to achieve profitability in the near future."This will doubtless prompt third-party publishers to adopt the accepted industry brace position - or in other words, "outsourcing, releasing games on as many platforms as possible (including handheld and last generation consoles), making sequels to popular titles and producing games based on popular movies." It's difficult to work out which part of this grim assessment is the most disturbing - movie tie-ins are uniformly cack, while massively multi-platform release schedules mean that none of the machines are fully exploited. But yeah, we could all see this coming a mile off.What the report suggests is that the console manufacturers aren't taking it lying down.Of course, Nintendo hasalwaysproduced its own mega hits and third-party stuff rarely figures highly in its gameplan. Microsoft, meanwhile, has responded to expected publisher limp-wristedness by buying up studios - Epic, Rare and Bizarre Creations springing immediately to mind. This approach isn't fool-proof (*cough* Viva Pinata *cough*), but it's a quick way of building up your exclusive release portfolio and can pay handsome dividends. I.e., Gears of War.Sony, though, seems to have taken the most pro-active approach:"Sony's strategy has been to increase its own capacity to make games: it has doubled the size of its internal development resource since the launch of PS2. Sony Worldwide Studios now employ around 2,200 development staff across 14 studios, all but one of which are devoted to making games for PlayStation 3. Only Ubisoft and Electronic Arts can boast more staff devoted to making games. Given that gamers choose consoles largely because of the games available for it, Sony's investment in its studios has given it a powerful weapon in driving PlayStation3 sales momentum."Screen Digest asserts that it's this investment in games development, together with Sony's strategy to place its console at the centre of the high definition networked living room entertainment revolution, that will allow PS3 to become the dominant platform by 2010.Where does this leave third-party publishers? Unless they can develop and maintain IP that works brilliantly across multiple platforms, they're going to be fighting over movie tie-ins like emaciated hyenas tearing at rancid carrion. Business as usual then.
In a former school turned art gallery in Israel two images are projected onto the wall. Both show scenes from the Palestinian intifada, the uprisings against the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. Both are from computer games: not the profit-driven, entertainment that fill the homes of teenagers across the world, but a little-noticed, alternative breed of game more concerned with politics, ideology and overturning notions of right and wrong.On the left is a game called The Stone Throwers, written by a Syrian programmer. A player takes the part of a young Palestinian man standing before the al-Aqsa mosque in the old city of Jerusalem. The Palestinian is armed with stones; to win the game he must throw them at the Israeli soldiers advancing towards him on the screen.Once the game ends, a message appears on the screen in English: "Well maybe you have killed some of the Israeli soldiers in the computer world, but this is the real world." A screen appears showing a photograph of a crowd carrying the open coffin of a boy draped in what appears to be the Palestinian flag. "Stop the killing of the innocents in Palestine before the game is really over," it says.On the right side of the wall is a second game called intifada, created in Israel in 1989, not long after the start of the first Palestinian uprising. This time the player takes the part of a lone Israeli soldier facing a violent Palestinian demonstration. The soldier is armed with a selection of weapons, ranging from a wooden club through to tear gas, rubber bullets and live ammunition. To win, the player must stay alive and disperse the crowd while injuring or killing as few Palestinians as possible. The player is given orders forbidding the use of the live ammunition at his disposal and to win he must play within the rules. If he uses too much violence, he is given more restrictive rules; if he uses too little, the rules are relaxed. If too many Palestinians are killed, the game is lost.The two games were among dozens gathered together recently at the Israeli Centre for Digital Art in Holon, near Tel Aviv. Some were professionally produced, others adapted and subverted from mainstream games or written entirely by independent programmers. The exhibition, called Forbidden Games, uncovered a sophisticated sub-culture that is re-interpreting the conflicts that have shaped the Middle East.For an Israeli audience in particular, the exhibition is the first time many of the games from the Arab world had been shown in public. "Some of the games are very provocative. You can't find them in Israel," said Galit Eilat, 41, the centre's director. "We are living here like an island with no connection with our neighbours.""We are trying to deal with different kinds of issues: terrorism, the war against terror and the image of the Arabs in western culture, which I think we adopt in Israel. We don't identify ourselves with Mediterranean countries or Middle Eastern countries but with America and European countries and with the west. "Israel's war against Hizbullah in Lebanon last summer produced a rash of quick, pro-Israeli computer games that ridiculed the Islamic guerrilla force and its leader Hassan Nasrallah. In one of the games on show a photo of his face was put on top of a cartoon character's body that squawked like a chicken. The player had to drop objects on his head, including a toilet and a rocket with the Star of David on its side.But also on show was a much more sophisticated combat game called Special Force created in 2003 by a Hizbullah sympathiser. The game begins with a computer image of an Israeli tank being destroyed, and a picture of the Israeli flag being covered in boot prints and then going up in flames. "May Allah's blessings and peace be upon you," says a message on one of the first screens. An early part of the player's mission in a shooting range requires him to fire at targets showing faces of Israeli politicians, including Ariel Sharon, the former prime minister, and Shaul Mofaz, the former defence minister. Hizbullah flags appear, and one of the group's anthems plays in the background.
A few weeks ago, the highly publicised Alternate Reality GamePerplex Cityreached a gripping conclusion. The lucky winner, 38-year old Andy Darley, walked away with dirty paws (from digging up the evasive winning Cube in the forests of Northamptonshire) and £100,000. As someone reaping the rewards of this new cultural escapade, we posed some pressing questions to Andy about his experiences with ARGs, how he used his super-sleuth powers to discover the treasure, what he's going to do with the cash and exactly what relation ARGs have to games.UPDATE:Andy's pointed us to his website (here) which has loads of pics from the big day.What interested you in Perplex City initially?I bought a starter pack as a gift for a friend. It was pretty much my first exposure to the idea of an ARG and when I was choosing the present I found the premise of a game that didn't admit it was a game very appealing. Perplex City has lots of easy ways into it - shiny, collectible cards, puzzles just easy enough to make you think you're cleverer than you are, a strong storyline. And if you watch TV and wish the characters in your favourite shows were real, what could be better than a game where the characters will actually reply to emails?Have you played around with this kind of this kind of thing before?Nope, never. Have played / GM'd some RPGs in years gone by - Shadowrun particularly, and done some live action roleplaying, but not for a decade. Masquerade as a kid of course, but not as fanatically as some did.What was your favourite puzzle?I liked the final riddle with clues to the Cube's location in the woods, for obvious reasons. On the cards, the best ones were those where you looked at them and had to be impressed by the originality of concept.Headrushfor example - beautiful, baffling, and a lovely nod to the legacy of Masquerade. Favourite of all probably wasRead Between the Lines. So simple and so impressive.How did you narrow down the location of the Cube?The community working together tracked it to either Fineshade or Wakerley woods - I can claim no credit for that. Once there, finding it required a single-minded and literal interpretation of the card with the final directions. Whoever did that best and quickest would get first shot at digging it up.What elements of your amateur archaeology do you think helped in your search for the Cube?The ability to recognise where a hole had previously been dug and then refilled. Archaeology in Britain (unlike, say, the Mediterranean) relies on the ability to spot traces left by 3000-year-old holes. A three-year-old one can, under the right circumstances, stick out like a sore thumb.How much time did you spend on the Perplex City clues every week?It varied. You couldn't go full throttle for the length of a game like that without going mad. Sometimes I walked away from it for long periods. Sometimes I was spending every waking moment for days, for example while we were all trying to crack the final wave three card, Mother Tongue.What do you think is the relationship between traditional computer games and ARGs like Perplex City?Tangential. The whole thing about a computer game is that it uses a machine to impersonate reality. An ARG *is* reality. In how many computer games does your friend sitting next to you turn out to have been planted by the game-maker as a mole and get whisked away in a helicopter in front of you, for real?Why is something like Perplex City compelling?It comes at you from so many angles, from your RSS feed to your coffee table. Strong writers give it a 'just one more look' feel.What will you do with the money?We're house buying at the moment anyway, and expected to have to borrow up to £100k. Not any more! Apart from the housebuying, I've also offered a sizeable donation towards the running ofunFiction, where so much of the work on puzzle solving was done.Finally, how do you think ARGs help to re-defining play?Remember the Ferris Bueller line? Life moves pretty fast - if you don't stop and look around some time, you might find you missed it. ARGs are gaming's way of catching up with a fractured, rapid, paranoid world where you get no peace and where the lines between reality and fiction are blurred. Also, ARGs have a much higher proportion of women players than most types of game, which is transforming player communities and gaming companies alike.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
"There was some cheap ATM machine touch screen thing at Cinema 9, but it was blank cept for a gray line at the bottom. Touch. Taskbar. Start menu. Programs. Accessories. Paint. Holy shit.. The PWNED one was then set as background," writesMelissa.ViaDigg.
Neal Gablerhas a great Op-Ed piece in the LA Times calledThe movie magic is gone.Gabler argues that movies have become less important than movie stars:In this culture, the intrinsic value of a movie, or of most conventional entertainments, has diminished. Their job now is essentially to provide stars for People, Us, "Entertainment Tonight" and the supermarket tabloids, which exhibit the new "movies" -- the stars' life sagas.Traditional movies have a very difficult time competing against these real-life stories, whether it is the shenanigans of TomKat or Brangelina, Anna Nicole Smith's death or Britney Spears' latest breakdown. These are the features that now dominate water-cooler chat. There may have been a time when these stories generated publicity for the movies. Now, however, the movies are more likely to generate publicity for the stories, which have a life, and an entertainment value, of their own.Then he argues that the Internet's "social media" sites are providing a substitute:But these sites are arguably not only diverting viewers who might be attending the movies, they are replacing one of the movies' functions: If stars' lives are superseding movie narratives, audiences are superseding the stars. Who needs Brad Pitt if you can be your own hero on a video game, make your own video on YouTube or feature yourself on Facebook?The promise of an alternative life -- the vicarious thrill of escape -- has always been one of the movies' greatest blandishments. In the theater we could all imagine ourselves to be Cary Grant or Bette Davis. Now with avatars -- essentially masks that one can use to represent oneself on the Internet -- anyone can be Cary Grant or Bette Davis without having to imagine it. In effect, we have become our own movies.That's just a 250-word summation of a 1,500-word essay, but you can follow the link to read the whole thing.Hat-tip to GigaOM.
You might think this is far too cruel to Sony's Phil Harrison, but it has its amusing moments. The material is well known, and includes pictures from theAustralian retailer who mocked up a PS3 "demo" using an Xbox 360.heavyarms117 is clearly an Xbox 360 fan (and might even work for Microsoft) but says thatall he did was add picturesto a song, How to Kill a Brand by Doc Adams, which he found athttp://www.gamercastnetwork.com/vgs/songs/HowToKillABrand-FULL.mp3Update: I didn't recognise the song, so I'm indepted to a post byOwen Thomasfor this comment:But what's really got to hurt is that one critic has taken the tune from "How to Save a Life," a Sony Music hit by The Fray that's the theme song to "Grey's Anatomy," and used it as a mocking tutorial for Sony on "How to Kill Your Brand." The ultimate downside of corporate synergy: When one division's products are used to assail another's.
*Update* Nintendo UK have been in touch and said that, "Nintendo are still continuing to produce GameCube hardware and software." It seems there was some confusion in the US and rumours of the Cube's demise were unfounded. But while the console apparently lives on, primarily in less developed markets, use the blog below to remember the days when the Gamecube really delivered the goods.Even though the news that Nintendo had apparentlyceased production of the Gamecubewas denied, the relevance, if not the physical production, of the console has ended.I was in Tokyo in 2000 when Nintendo unveiled the Cube and can remember gawping at the diminutive console behind glass - it looked great then and it still does now. And when you look over the lifetime of the Cube you can't ignore genuine classics like Resident Evil 4, Metroid Prime and Pikmin. Of course, nostalgia makes it easy to forget the barren release schedule, disappointing Mario and Zelda games and the slew of lazy film tie-ins. But there were more hits than misses which makes the relatively disappointing sales, especially in Europe, harder to fathom. Yes, it sold relatively well in Japan and the US, and yes, Nintendo always make profitable consoles, but the Gamecube couldn't get near the cultural dominance of the PS2. And when you look at something like Resi 4 you have to wonder what other graphical delights could have been achieved on the console if the platform had been more successful.Anyway, it's Monday morning - what better way to start the week then a bit of indulgent reminiscence. Most underrated console ever or a failure that caused Nintendo to change strategy? How will you remember the Gamecube?
Every week we receive far more letters and blog mentions that we have room for in print. So here's the full text of those we chose from. (We do tidy up the spelling.) Click through, read on...DVD.. FLOP?I see in your front page article in today's Technology Guardian that you are repeating the industry's misleading claim that AACS (and before it DeCSS) are technologies intended to prevent illicit copying of DVDs. In fact they are no such thing: in order to copy a DVD there is no necessity to decrypt the contents as a bit for bit copy will be identical to the original and therefore playable on the same equipment and producing the same output. While some manufacturers and software writers will have made bitwise copying difficult this will only affect ordinary users - professional pirates will have no difficulty. The real intention of these technologies is to restrict the equipment on which DVDs can be played so as to allow the publishers to maximise revenues by preventing free trading of DVD between countries and to enhance the position of those equipment manufacturers and software producers who are willing to co-operate. Jeff Taylor, Hassocks&gt;&gt; I personally feel something needs to fundamentally change with piracy and copyright laws to deter those involved in the black market industry...http://www.10yetis.co.uk/yetiblog/index.php?/archives/284-Blu-Ray-Cracked-Hollywood-Frustration.html&gt;&gt; Hollywood should use this episode to understand that it's pointless to keep throwing resources at DRM and copy-protection technology, because it simply doesn't work. It will be interesting to see how AACS and the movie studios respond: breaking current players' compatibility with new movies would certainly undermine the claim that DRM makes things better for consumers.http://www.kizo.com/?p=20684&gt;&gt; It might even be that we get something analogous to Moore's law for breaking encryption: the ongoing expansion of computing into our daily lives can only mean that the cracking of new encryption formats gets quicker and quicker.http://www.inmyhumbleetc.co.uk/?p=33SNIP SNAPHaha, awesome! Thanks for telling me how to get rid of those hateful popups! Anatoly Vorobey, Jerusalem, IsraelFirefox also has the Cooliris plugin, which is much better. When you hover over a link, it will show a tiny blue box next to the link. If you click on the blue box, it pops a window of size you choose. This is the web site and allows you to scroll, enter forms, link forward/backward, and open into a new tab; if you move the mouse out of the window, it goes away. It works with everything except Flash. The point is that you control when you want it. I much prefer this to opening into a new tab, since many changes you just read something or look at something, and move on. I hate Snap since it makes you have to move the mouse around links and boxes. Paul Kimelman, Walnut Creek, CaliforniaI just read your recent article "Is Snap Preview the most hated Web 2.0 function ever?" and I wanted to take the opportunity to respond to some of the points in your article and clear up some of the inaccuracies and misconceptions about the Snap Preview Anywhere service. Currently, hundreds of thousands of sites use the Snap Preview Anywhere service totally voluntarily. Anyone – site or user – can easily turn this service off, however hundreds of thousands have chosen to install and keep SPA on and have found the feature to be quite useful. There has indeed been a few dozen blog posts criticising the service – some vehemently. However you neglected to mention the hundreds of posts that praise the service for its usefulness and the benefits it provides. Here are just a few comments you might want to reviewhttp://wordpress.com/blog/2007/01/13/snap-live,http://wordpress.com/blog/2006/12/29/snap-to-it/,http://www.xanga.com/john/572020583/graphical-preview-panes---premium-beta.html,http://blog.compete.com/2007/02/15/snap-searchFor a more in-depth discussion of SPA – both its strengths and weaknesses – you might also visit our blog posthttp://blog.snap.com/2007/02/09/spa-use-case. I believe you made reference to a portion of this post in your article, but if you dig deeper, the point is made that the perceived usefulness of previews is highly dependent on the user and we empower then to adjust or remove the previews. Snap Preview Anywhere has never claimed to provide *all* the information needed, but rather to provide richer-than-what-is-currently-available cues to what lies ahead. The blogosphere tech pundits who critique SPA on the basis of usefulness, either fail to think outside of their personal frame of reference or they are essentially expressing a lack of interest in the less tech savvy. Erik Wingren, who you quote in your article, recently had a conversation on this specific topic with your fellow countryman Adriana Cronin-Lukas on the Media Influencer blog:http://www.mediainfluencer.net/media_influencer/2007/02/snapping_at_pop.htmlAs an example, your post today "How can you watch TV underground" included the provocative link text "refused to do a deal" which led to a slow to load dead page at moneyweb.co.za. With Snap Preview Anywhere, your readers would have instantly been able to see that the corresponding link is to an unavailable article, thereby avoiding a wasted trip and a half a minute waiting for the page to load even at broadband speeds. Moreover, your article doesn't mention the constant stream of revisions/improvements/additions we've made to SPA since its initial launch less than three months ago. Many of these revisions are aimed at making it easier to customise how SPA operates, when SPA is enabled, and how to disable the feature. Snap, as a company, prides itself on engaging in two-way conversations with our users and we've been listening to them to make the product even more beneficial. In the coming days we'll also be launching a contest to encourage people to submit their feedback and ideas on how to best evolve the service and make it even more valuable. Finally, to your last point about Snap's principal ambition as a new search engine being fatally wounded, I'd beg to differ. To the contrary, Snap.com is the fastest growing and largest Web 2.0 search engine, as measured by the major trackers, and serves millions each month. Our technology and approach has been lauded throughout the industry, including being named among TIME magazine's 50 coolest web sites. Thank you for taking the time to read this and we welcome any additional feedback you may have. We'd love the opportunity to discuss Snap with you in greater detail and to bring you up to speed on some of the new enhancements we have planned. If that's of interest to you, let me know. Tom McGovern, chief executive, Snap&gt;&gt; Snap Preview ... obscures what I am reading, is too small to be of any real use and is highly irritating.http://www.longrider.co.uk/blog/2007/02/24/snap-preview/&gt;&gt; My number one reason for "turning this thing off" is because of Snap Preview's liberal use on many websites. These webmasters (for a reason unknown to me) allow way too many links on the page to use the Preview. It becomes redundant and has a negative effect when a visitor is just scroll-wheeling down the page and inadvertently, as the mouse hits a link, has a Snap Preview open, even if only for a split second. If there is an abundance of link "previews" (read: pop-ups) on the page, you are literally barraged and distracted by them. We don't like pop-ups!http://adrianherritt.com/internet/snap-preview-why-how-to-disable/&gt;&gt; Is Snap Preview the most hated Web 2.0 function ever? Short answer: absofuckinglutely.http://moi.st/ure/297/&gt; Is Snap Preview the most hated Web 2.0 function ever? Totally, dude.http://vare2yang.spaces.live.com/Blog/cns!F04D26B4FF120373!177.entry&gt;&gt; I'm having second thoughts about Snap now…http://sensitivitytothings.com/2007/02/23/snapped/DIG THE SITES, NOT THE USABILITY&gt;&gt; I just wish this wisdom of the crowds/user democracy notion would dry up and blow away, you digg? I can't help but think it will only lead to bland, whitewashed sameness-of-thought. All you can really get from a crowd, especially an unpaid crowd, is group-think and mob rule, not innovation, banality not originality.http://www.lagtime.com/cib/?linkid=3200&amp;CFID=798299&amp;CFTOKEN=62405244&amp;jsessionid=9c30800237ce$3F$3F$3SWITCH ON, SWITCH OFFI was surprised to read in Guy Clapperton's article that "Toshiba doesn't allow users to switch off its televisions". I may be out-of-date, but in my house all appliances are connected to the mains via plugs and sockets, and all the sockets are switched. How are they going to prevent me carrying out an action which has positive effects on both safety and the environment? Andy Taylor, StokesleyMaybe I'm missing something, but is Sky seriously saying that the technology of hard disk PVRs is such that it isn't possible to set the thing to record in the future, activate the timer and then leave the unit dormant, drawing the same amount of power that it does when off and only displaying the time, until the timer setting kicks in and it comes fully to life? This has of course been the practice with VCRs for 30 years, and I can't believe that PVRs are so different. Chris Rogers, EdgwareUFOsIn every article about UFOs there are never any theories as to how these machines are/were powered. Pictures show them hovering stationary over different sites, but no explanation how they are powered. We've all seen film of NASA rockets blasting off for a journey of a few hundred miles and most of these rockets are made up of fuel supplies, so how can a UFO, the size of a No. 24 bus (or dinner plate) travel all over the skies without refuelling? Mike Mitchell, Hove&gt;&gt; for me, as an anthropologist, one of the most fascinating topics for me that is an excellent example of the Spooky Paradigm is the relationship between these topics and government officials.http://spookyparadigm.blogspot.com/2007/02/secret-discussion-of-ufos-in-uk.html&gt;&gt; That is so cool! And such a waste of the taxpayers money! And so cool! The group was called DI55 and it states its paranoid, fantastic, ridiculous, intensely cool and outrageous credo in a note in the report: "The national security implications are considerable. We have many reports of strange objects in the skies and we have never investigated them."http://lastvisibledog.org/blog/2007/02/22/torchwood-is-go/INTERNET PHONESVictor Keegan, in his article (Telecoms nirvana put on hold - 15 February) says that the arrival of a time of universally free calls over the Internet "won't take off ... until everyone is on the same system" and goes on to point out the limitations of Skype, which can only be used to contact other Skype users. While it may not be nirvana, I have, as a private user, been usingVoipBuster, a software based system, for a couple of years now and can communicate at little or no cost with others who don't even have a computer, still less have access to broadband. I need a PC at my end and can either use a headset plus microphone, in which case there's no charge for many destinations, or, since it's more convenient, can set the call up so that my end is routed to my conventional landline. It then costs me 0.05 Euro connection fee, plus 0.01 Euro per minute for the duration of the call. The call can then be routed to the recipient's landline and we can then conduct a normal handset to handset conversation. I use it regularly to talk to my brother in Spain. He lives in an outlying place where the telephone is connected by radio and broadband unavailable. A typical call to him lasting about 8½ minutes cost me 0.14 Euro. The quality of the communication is as good as a local call and there have been very few glitches indeed. The only "snag": I have to deposit about €10 with the company, which deducts the costs of my calls from this, and I then need to top it up periodically. For some reason this system is never mentioned in reviews of Internet phoning. I can't think why except that it may not suit big business users - though there is a new version intended for them. Harold Stern, LondonTV ON YOUR MOBILEWell watching TV on your phone would be ok if the sound quality ie the volume was reasonable on your headphones as I have tried to watch TV on the go on a bus for example and you can't hear anything so I'm cancelling my one month trial of mobile TV on 3 after the month is out of the way. Think they should put the phones in a proper test enviroment for different senarios before they launch ideas such as this. Otherwise I would be happy to watch it on the go to work but resort back to my MP3 player. Not directly a comment on the article but just my view! Good article otherwise! Fraser Robertson, LondonI just read this rather appalling and ill-informed article. I could not believe that the Guardian is publishing such shoddy journalism. Does Charles Arthur honestly believe that 'Huh? What's the difference?' is appropriate phrasing for a publication which supposedly prides itself on supplying high quality content. This is to say nothing of the clear paucity of grasp that the writer exercises over his subject matter, which is surely obvious to even the most casually informed teenager. Dan Smith (no post town given)
BitTorrent will launch a download service offering movies, music, TV programmes and games tomorrow (Monday), according to theNew York Times.The programming comes from studios, including Twentieth Century Fox, Paramount and Warner Brothers, that previously announced their intention to work with BitTorrent. There is also a new partner: the 83-year-old Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, which will take part by making 100 films available on the site from its 4,000-movie library.The story says:The BitTorrent store will work slightly differently than rival digital media offerings like the iTunes Store of Apple and the Xbox Live service of Microsoft. BitTorrent will commingle free downloads of users' own video uploads with sales of professional fare. And while it will sell digital copies of shows like "24" and "Bones" for $1.99 an episode, it will only rent movies. Once the films are on the PC, they expire within 30 days of their purchase or 24 hours after the buyer begins to watch them.New releases like "Superman Returns" cost $3.99, while classics like "Reservoir Dogs" cost $2.99. The studio's content plays in Microsoft's Windows Media Player 11. It is secured by Microsoft's antipiracy software, which blocks users from watching rented movies on more than one PC or sending them to others over the Internet.So now you'll be able to use the same system to download a movie for free and keep it forever, or download it for $3.99 and have it expire a day later. Yeah, that'll fly....Update: There's apress release.
Video games are expensive - the most popular ones will set you back around &pound;30. Shop around online for the best prices - along with Amazon, specific game sites such aswww.game.co.uk,www.gameseek.co.ukandwww.nintendo-ds.allack.co.ukusually offer good deals. The History Boys used a Nintendo DS Lite, which cost &pound;99.99 from Amazon.co.uk. The other popular hand-held console on the market is the Sony PSP, which costs between &pound;135 and &pound;149 online. Both the DS Lite and PSP come in a choice of colours.You can buy pre-owned games for a fraction of their original cost at places like Blockbusters and Game. Or, if you've grown bored of a game, you can trade it in for extra cash. For example, at Blockbusters you can either exchange your games for cash or for in-store credit, provided you have membership.
Like many of the best ideas, it began with a simple question. 'How many people are kissing at this moment?' Thomas Whitfield, a 25-year-old student, wanted to know. Talking over a drink in a hotel lobby, he and a friend dreamed up DesignTheTime, a website with the limitless ambition of charting 'the history of mankind' moment by moment.Last week the site announced it had won &pound;50m to develop its idea - a historical 'timeline' split into minutes, each of which can be bought by users to post memorable moments in their lives, for example by uploading video footage of a child's birthday or favourite pop concert. Its backers, Bright Station Ventures, were 'blown away' by the concept. Microsoft said: 'We believe DesignTheTime has the potential to be the next YouTube or Skype.' Such grand claims are commonplace in America's Silicon Valley. What makes Whitfield's venture remarkable is that it was born in Britain.The UK's reputation as something of a backwater in the world of the web is out of date. Today The Observer reveals some of the brightest stars of this new generation, from the teenager who made a million dollars from his bedroom to the businesswoman revolutionising mobile text messaging, from the brother-and-sister team creating online social networks linked to real places to the Leeds man who started his first website at 14 and is now pioneering software to protect children. None is older than 30, all are shaping the future.This generation of entrepreneurs is taking on, and sometimes beating, the Americans at their own game. The UK software economy is worth around &pound;20bn, with Microsoft a huge investor. Millions are being poured into internet start-ups with a flamboyance once seen only in California, and some US venture capitalists have opened offices here for the purpose of making money. Experts say that economic and cultural changes - including TV programmes such as Dragons' Den and The Apprentice - have made entrepreneurship a fashionable career choice for young people, promising to slow the brain drain and revive Britain's pride in innovation.But, unlike the first UK internet boom a decade ago led by Martha Lane Fox's online travel firm Lastminute.com, large-scale financial backing is not essential to get started: the spread of broadband access and the diminishing price of hardware make it possible to set up and run a virtual company from a bedroom or coffee shop. The next wave of would-be dotcom millionaires includes teenagers, university dropouts and a former Butlins redcoat. All they need is a big idea.Whitfield, studying for a PhD in biochemistry at Oxford, spends his days researching vaccines for HIV and hepatitis C. Late at night, over eight months, he was hunched over a computer screen programming software for DesignTheTime. Eventually it wowed the judges at the university's own version of Dragons' Den. Whitfield and his two co-founders are from Germany, but will move to Britain permanently. 'Britain is very friendly for building up ventures like this,' he said. 'In Germany it's much more bureaucratic.'Dan Wagner, a partner at Bright Station Ventures, said: 'Momentum is now gathering in this country. The fact we watch Dragons' Den on TV is illustrative of a change, and now if you ask young students what they want to do, it's start a business. They need the right funding to make their dream a reality, but the infrastructure is not there - yet.'The poster boy of internet dreamers is Alex Tew, 22, who hit the jackpot in 2005 with his website Million Dollar Homepage. With a debt of &pound;4,000 and more to come at university, one night Tew wrote, 'How can I become a millionaire?' on a piece of paper and began brainstorming. 'It needed to be ambitious, have a good name, grab attention, be directly about money and so simple I could build it in a couple of days,' he recalled. 'I needed a million of something to sell and I didn't have a million of anything, then pixels [the simplest graphical unit on a computer screen] came to mind. It was a lightbulb moment.'Tew set up a website to sell advertising space in the form of a million pixels at $1 each. He borrowed &pound;500 from family and friends to put out publicity which gained coverage from the BBC and snowballed: 'It became a self-fulfilling prophecy. People were in disbelief because I was making money for effectively nothing, and the very fact they talked about it was the reason it did well.' He made &pound;500,000.Tew, from Swindon, Wiltshire, said there are now opportunities that were unthinkable in the Nineties. 'It's so cheap these days for an internet start-up. Everyone has broadband, so the internet is a lot more appealing. Sites like MySpace and YouTube could not have existed five years ago in their current form.'The self-confident can-do enthusiasm of Silicon Valley is now audible in the buzz of Second Chance Tuesday, a networking event in central London where hi-tech entrepreneurs, investors and visitors from the likes of eBay and Google swap ideas and business cards. The first, a year ago, was organised in 10 days with little publicity yet attracted 400 applicants; it is now invariably over-subscribed several times.Co-organiser Judith Clegg said: 'We have businesses such as Bebo [a social networking site] and Skype [internet telephony] getting international recognition, and people all over the world are looking to London as a creative hub.'A winning website can take just one person, a laptop and a killer concept that harnesses content generated by its users, a characteristic of so-called 'Web 2.0'. But fully fledged businesses, particularly those involving complex technology, still require initial support from venture capitalists or 'angel investors', individuals who back schemes without an aggressive profit-at-all-costs motivation. When Christina Domecq, a member of the Allied Domecq wine and spirits family, wanted to set up a hi-tech company she did not choose Spain, where she was born, or America, where she grew up. She came to Britain.Domecq co-founded SpinVox - which turns mobile voicemails into text messages, and voice calls into internet blogs - and raised &pound;25m from angel investors. Her staff has grown from 30 to 165 in the past year and SpinVox expects its six millionth user in 2007. 'I've found the UK amazingly welcoming,' said Domecq, 30. 'There's great opportunity for innovation and real breadth of experience here.'Just as Stanford University is a powerhouse at the heart of Silicon Valley UK, so Oxford, Cambridge and London universities such as Imperial College are fuelling the UK surge. Venture capital investment in London, the east and south-east was &pound;923m in 2005. But Bob Goodson, co-founder and chairman of the student society Oxford Entrepreneurs, warned that Britain still has some way to go - Silicon Valley investments for 2005 totalled &pound;4.2bn.'In the US, angel investors invest in people and markets at an early stage,' said the 26-year-old, now working for a social networking start-up in California. 'That concept does not seem to be prevalent in the UK, where it's more "Show me the business plan and exactly how I'm going to get my money back, times 10." That's all very well in a solid established industry, but when you're doing something for the first time you can't know everything in advance. You have to be nimble.'Nevertheless, there is a sense of growing confidence and energy in digital Britain. Time and again, the most important ingredient has been a winning idea - and Britain's twentysomethings appear to be rich in those.The young webmasters:Oli Barrett29, ReadingSite:www.connectedcapital.co.ukBackground:Dropped out of university and did a summer job as a Butlins redcoat. Went to Leeds University and started Amazingyou, a student headhunting site.Big idea:Introduced a business version of speed-dating in which people meet for three minutes at a time.He says:'I'm 29 and still hungry.'Adam Hildreth21, LeedsSite:www.crispthinking.comBackground:Came up with Dubit, a website for teenagers, when he was 14 and left school at 16 to run it full time. Turnover this year will be &pound;1.5m.Big idea:Technology to protect children from paedophiles online.He says:'The money isn't just handed over, there is a lot of testing to make sure it will work.'Harjeet Johal27, NottinghamSite:underfivepounds.comBackground:Started his internet business in 2006. Turnover is now more than &pound;5m.Big idea:Online retailer selling items for less than &pound;5.He says:'You don't have to be technically minded, just have an idea and drive it to its conclusion.'Lindsay and RussellMiddletonSister and brother, 24 and 25, PlymouthSite:www.wehanghere.comBackground:She read economics at University College London; he studied engineering at Cambridge.They created the site in their spare time and now have nearly 500 members .Big idea:free website enabling users to look, via Google Maps, at their favourite venues and see who 'hangs out' there.Lindsay says:'We've no intention of going to Silicon Valley. We're proud to be British.'
In The History Boys, Alan Bennett's award-winning play about a bunch of sixth-form rogues in pursuit of a place at Oxbridge, eight lads spend lots of time slouched in their seats quoting Keats and Auden to their teachers while mouthing off at each other and learning lessons in life and love.So it's not that surprising that this insolent but intelligent bunch have developed literary references for something as unliterary as a Nintendo DS-Lite game.'I could never remember what that game's called, the one with all the driving,' says Russell Tovey (who plays Rudge). 'I once said to the boys in rehearsals, "Oh, I've been playing this game, A Streetcar Named Desire, it's brilliant." But what I meant to say was Grand Theft Auto. I don't know how I got the two mixed up.'Indeed - who knows how one could mix up a Tennessee Williams classic play with a Nintendo video game? But Russell and fellow History Boys from the original cast James Corden (who plays Timms) and Samuel Barnett (Posner) were more than willing to redeem their schoolboy error by testing five Nintendo sports games for us.'I am the very best at computer games,' announces James, the cheeky class joker with an infectiously loud giggle. 'We played our wireless Sony PSPs all the time on tour - we lived on Pro-Evolution Soccer. We used to play it on every flight.''Even though it wasn't technically allowed,' adds Sam, 'we came close to crashing at least four times. All entirely our PSPs' fault.'The History Boys opened in London in 2004 and enjoyed sell-out success before being made into a film. The production then embarked on a nine-month tour of Hong Kong, New Zealand and Australia, culminating in New York.'The tour was amazing,' says Sam. 'We all lived in the same apartment building in New York, and by that stage, we'd been working together for about two years. We're really like brothers now. The minute I walk in, they all start insulting me.'&#183;The History Boys is released on DVD by Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment on 5 March. A new cast can be seen in The History Boys at Wyndham's Theatre, London,Wyndhams-theatre.com5 on test1. Fifa 07 - John Lewis, &pound;29.95They sayFrom the first whistle, Fifa 07 throws you into the rollercoaster ride of a football season and the intense stadium atmosphere of every home and away match. Relish every satisfying victory over bitter rivals, live through every gut-wrenching poor performance at home. Savour the spine-tingling stadium atmosphere, home and away, as your team battles their way up the league table. Listen as your supporters chant your players' names.Sam saysI really don't understand what the bottom screen graphics are for [there are two screens on the DS Lite] - the split screen is quite confusing and, to be honest, I think it's a bit of a waste of time. I do quite like the music, though, and the graphics are good, but everything is just so small. I scored twice.Rating7/102. Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam, Amazon,Amazon.co.uk, &pound;19.98They sayGrab your deck and drop into the extreme speed of downhill racing in Tony Hawk's Downhill Jam. On the handheld versions, you can compete with Tony in locations like Kilimanjaro and the Hoover Dam.Sam saysLiking the music! I have no idea what you're meant to do with this. There's lots to set up before you can start playing. You can even choose your skin tone. Now that is something! I named my character Fred. The graphics are not so good, but I do like the touch screen. I can't imagine playing this for hours on end but if you like Tony Hawk you could get a lot out of it.Rating6/103. Pro Evolution Soccer (PES) 6 - Amazon,Amazon.co.uk, &pound;24.99They sayA massively upgraded version. The players run intelligently into space when they are not in possession of the ball. The physical side of play has been refined, with the players working to turn a defender as they receive the ball. The shooting system has also been improved and the referees are more balanced. New and exciting game modes.James saysThis is the finest football game ever invented - it's the History Boy game of choice. This is quite simply the most realistic simulated football game in the world - but playing it on a DS Lite loses some of the effect. The screen is so small that you can't appreciate how good the game is. Top marks for the game, which is still my favourite, but the whole experience is sadly ruined by the tiny DS Lite console.Rating10/104. Rafa Nadal Tennis, Amazon,Amazon.co.uk, &pound;19.98They sayRafa Tennis will give players the chance to develop an illustrious tennis career, enabling them to rise through the ranks of professional tennis, competing in 20 tournaments at no fewer than 17 international locations. Players begin by choosing to play as Nadal himself or they can create a new character, selecting their player's looks and picking certain attributes, such as whether a player is left- or right-handed.Russell saysIt took me ages to figure out how to work this. You are supposed to use the pen and tap the screen to play, which is a bit too fiddly. I used to be obsessed with tennis games when I was younger, so I was hoping that this one would be good and I am not too disappointed. The Rafa Nadal game is quite fun to play and you can pick which courts to play on.Rating7/105. Fifa Street 2 - Amazon,Amazon.co.uk, &pound;12.98They sayProve you have what it takes in four-on-four gameplay action which captures the passion and flair of street football in this fresh arcade experience. Humiliate your opponents with the new trick stick beat system, over-the-top juggling moves and all-new gamebreakers that allow you to win a game like never before. Fifa Street 2 provides new gameplay experiences by making over-the-top moves and skills even bigger in this fast-paced sequel. Take to the streets, unleash your tricks, and humble your rivals with or without the ball.Russell saysThis is more urban football - pretty cool. I played England vs Germany, and you play on a street with the Berlin Wall in the background. It's a very small pitch, but then it's only four-a-side football. Good tricks - I could play this for a long time.Rating8/10
Final Fantasy XIIPS2There's a baseline expectation from Final Fantasy releases, which includes visual grandeur, real character development, peerless complexity and constant mildly annoying interruptions as you randomly bump into monsters in the game's sprawling environments. XII surprises on at least one of those counts in that its time-honoured fighting system has been given an inspired overhaul, making it less intrusive and vastly more fun.Customising your adventurers is ludicrously flexible, letting you build your ideal raiding party as you explore the beautifully rendered and populous landscapes. Spectacular vistas, a giant of a storyline and the usual catalogue of special weapons and magic items: Final Fantasy XII is the best in the series - no mean feat given its virtually unerring success and 20 year history.&#183;Squaresoft, &pound;39.99Final Fantasy XIIGuide BookThere are guides to videogames and then there are Piggyback guides, justly renowned as immaculately researched and illustrated labours of love that dwarf the efforts of rival publishers in the genre. At 180,000 words, their take on Final Fantasy XII is appropriately tome-like, with a limited edition hardback cover that wouldn't look out of place in the game itself.Exposing characters' backstories to nuances of the License system for gaining experience, to detailed lists of each item, this is a way of milking every last drop from what might be the most complex game for PS2. It also manages to be thoroughly readable along the way. A non-violent, cerebral videogame with a very long book attached? It's a kind of parental waking dream.&#183;Piggyback, &pound;17.99OkamiPS2You play the mighty Amaterasu, a god appearing in the form of a white wolf, starring in a game that looks like a gracefully animated, living painting and plays a bit like the masterful Zelda series. Replete with light touches of humour from your comedy sidekick, Issun, the usual array of side-quests and distractions build the praise you receive from villagers and animals, therefore expanding your range of abilities. The Celestial Brush is the game's other major departure, which allows you to paint out obstacles, slice up enemies and refoliate the game's desolate landscapes into a lush, flower-strewn paradise.Inventive boss battles and an astoundingly epic scope that never seems to stop opening fresh tracts to explore add to a game that is a constant joy to play. Okami is spectacularly wonderful and a game that no PS2 adventurer should be without.&#183;Capcom, &pound;29.99
I'm breaking up with my DVD rental service. We've had good times, we've had sad times, even a stressful week where I had to sign two forms detailing the location of the post box used to return Seinfeld, but it's over. I've found Alluc.org.Here, in pleasing slate tones, are the links to every television programme you could ever hope to see (Lost, Ugly Betty, Dragon's Den), many you'll go out of your way to avoid (Red Dwarf US, Coupling, Joey) and entire seasons of shows yet to air in this country - many featuring characters from Friends. Enjoy Chandler as Matt Albie in Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip - could he be more stressed about writing a sketch comedy show?Watch Monica as Lucy Spiller, the "hard-assed" editor-in-chief of a gossip rag in Dirt, and thrill as she tongues Rachel before reflecting on the hollow agony of her lonely life. Relish season two of Prison Break, season three of Arrested Development (previously, shamefully screened in the graveyard slot on BBC2) and season four of The L Word, whose fantasticness is only realised by boys when the sound's turned off.The magic of this site is that, instead of offering downloads, it links to places where the shows are streamed for free. Unlike file-sharing programs such as BitTorrent and Kazaa, you don't have to install software or spend hours waiting for episodes which will jam your hard drive - here, you're directed to YouTube-like sites where shows are there, waiting for your very click. Teetering on the edge of illegality (you pass through a "disclaimer" site before arriving at the show),Alluc.orgwas launched late last year by three German students as a collection of links to Family Guy episodes they'd found ondailymotion.com.Viewers started posting their own links, and now the site welcomes around 470,000 users a day. Founder Sebastian Fink says: "I've experienced that the visitors use the site to test certain TV shows to check whether they want to download them or buy them on DVD. By using Alluc.org the people are getting to know shows that don't even exist in their countries." They've recently expanded to include full-length films, and are about to launch a page of sport and documentaries. This, friends, is the future of telly.Nine per cent of us are already regularly watching TV online, spreading our square-eyes across the sites which offer freebies. A British company, Blinkx, is currently working on an internet search engine that lets users find any TV programme ever broadcast. Ever. Suranga Chandratillake, co-founder and CTO of Blinkx, reckons: "The infrastructure is now in place to make online video a viable alternative to TV. The bandwidth and processing power are available, video cameras are cheap and editing software is virtually free, and user generated content has become extremely popular."Worried that web-savvy watchers will stop tuning in to normal telly, Channel 4 beat the BBC to the first UK-based "on-demand" video service when they launched 4oD last month. Here, provided you don't have a Mac, limited internet connection or issues with patience, are hundreds of programmes for you to download at 99p a pop. The BBC's iPlayer service launches later this year, offering catch-up content for free, and ITV has announced plans to unveil a media player streaming programmes, only charging for football matches. HBO, home of The Sopranos, Six Feet Under and Curb Your Enthusiasm, will be launching a video on demand service via Virgin Media which launched a new on-demand cable channel this week, Virgin Central, screening glossy US hits like West Wing and The OC.Of course, some will yearn for the old-fashioned muscle of an actual television. Which is where Apple TV comes in, a sleek little box which connects your computer to the TV, allowing users to watch stuff they've downloaded from iTunes and pull streaming content off sites straight on to the screen.While the prospect of programmes "on demand" is quite thrilling, it requires education and choice - you have to decide what to watch. Gone is the thrill of stumbling upon a Five gem (a documentary on sex dolls, say). Gone is the bliss of randomly catching Bette Davis in an old episode of Poirot. Let's hope these tiny pockets of pleasure don't become lost in the swirling static of internet promise?Free viewwww.bringpopcorn.comLog on to watch films still showing at the cinema, and browse category "Old" for black and whites.www.peekvid.comGlossier than Alluc, but less satisfying on a Sunday afternoon. Unless you love anime.www.alluc.orgGems here include unscreened episodes of Ugly Betty with French subtitles and Ricky Gervais Meets... Garry Shandling, the uneasiest interview ever.www.tv-links.co.ukAlongside British comedies, tv-links hosts mobile phone games, including the seminal time-waster, Snake.blog.throwawayyourtv.comThe most high-brow of the links sites, featuring documentaries and "cultural video clips", with plenty of Daily Show excerpts.
Getting from A to B is becoming an increasingly expensive business. This month alone has seen a rise in air passenger duty as well as an extension of the London congestion zone. The financial threat these increases pose will be sinking into the psyches of business owners across the UK. One of the questions they might be asking is: is it time to think about videoconferencing instead of travel?There are many videoconferencing applications, some of which offer extra functions such as whiteboarding and file sharing, allowing you to work on a document with a colleague. For the purposes of this article, we'll assume that someone is new to the idea and wants to start by adding a video dimension to internet calls. Most of the common applications will handle this happily; whether someone uses Skype, MSN Messenger, the AOL equivalent or another comparable service, the addition of a basic webcam should be simple enough and will work pretty much out of the box.On the subject of working immediately, it's worth noting that, in spite of their being avowedly PC compatible, most of the cameras on trial worked perfectly well when attached to a Mac, albeit with reduced functions in terms of face tracking and software.Basic introductionLindy USB Webcam ProIf you're not sure whether you want to get into videoconferencing and don't want to spend too much money finding out, the Lindy webcam is a good place to start; apart from anything, after claiming your VAT back you'll get change from 20 quid. There aren't many bells and whistles; it's small, plugs straight into your computer's USB point, and takes stills as well as video images.However, anyone paying this sort of money should expect some compromises; in this case it's the light that shines directly at the subject, which I found offputtingly bright while working. Had I bought it I'd have been thinking about upgrading within a few months - but at least I'd have tried the technology for a very inexpensive price.Price:&pound;21.99URL:lindy.co.ukPros:Inexpensive and works wellCons:Flimsy feel is understandable for the price; the lights can be uncomfortableStar rating:3/5On a budgetGenius Slim 322If you opt for a budget web camera you're going to have to compromise somewhere. In the case of the Genius, it's the fact that there's no internal microphone. On the plus side, they've thought to include an earpiece and a carrying case - it's not terribly robust, but it's somewhere to put the thing while you're out.Like the Lindy, it takes both still and moving pictures; glossy and unnecessary extras are mercifully thin on the ground, and its stand is robust and has a springy pull-out bit to clip on to laptops when you're travelling. Intelligently, Genius has allowed the camera to pivot, so you can have it either on the side or the top of your laptop while you're chatting.Price:&pound;20.50 including VATURL:geniusnet.co.ukPros:An inexpensive way in to the world of videoconferencingCons:No internal microphoneStar rating:4/5Mid-rangeCreative Live! Cam OptiaCreative's offering is an excellent-looking, solid camera, which was recognised both by PC and Mac on installation without the need for any software. As all the manufacturers of anything claim, it just works.Less exhilarating was the fact that it needed an external headset attached before it could hear anything. This isn't likely to be a problem for people in busy offices who'd want to use a headset or compatible handset anyway; others may regret the need to install another microphone.So think about where you'll be using this camera, but once you've decided be prepared to enjoy using it.For a similar-sized model with less functionality, consider the SpeedLink Cyclon Webcam, which offers most of the basics.Price:&pound;47URL:creative.comPros:Good, solid feelCons:The need for an external earpieceStar rating:4/5Laptop-friendlyMicrosoft LifeCam NX-6000All five stars for this small camera that does exactly what it says on the tin. High definition photos (7.6 megapixels at best) from a camera that handles video at 2.0 megapixels - you'll see the difference and will need to tidy your office and apply moisturiser to your face accordingly. The camera itself retracts like a biro for protection in transit, which is a nice touch. The attention to detail and built-in microphone made this camera a pleasure to use with a laptop.But there's the drawback: "with a laptop". The clip that attaches it to the screen is rigid and designed only to grip a laptop chassis (unless you happen to have a very flat monitor). It would have been good to have used this webcam with the desktop computer, too - without resorting to Blu-Tack.Price:About &pound;50URL:microsoft.comPros:Does everything it should, but the 2.0 megapixel video camera nudges it above the competitionCons:Too tailored for a laptop's casing - is there a reason why we shouldn't be allowed to use this in the office?Star rating:5/5Top-end Logitech Quickcam Sphere MPThis Logitech camera has two things that set it above many of the competition. First, it looks good; there's an optional extension so you can have it looking tall or squat, although even when it's being compact it's a little large for laptop use. The deskbound Windows user will enjoy two features in particular: first, the RightLight technology, which adjusts the picture according to how well-lit you are in real life, and second, the face detection technology, which lets it track your face while you're moving.A small drawback is that these excellent features are in the Windows software that comes with the webcam and, although there's a Mac driver for the model below this one, Logitech's site didn't have one for this particular camera as we went to press (and no, the driver for the one below it didn't work for this one). So for Mac users, because this will work only as a static video camera with no extras, something cheaper might represent better value for money.Price:&pound;75 plus VATURL:logitech.comPros:Slick design and clever technologyCons:Mac users won't be able to use the extra technologyStar rating:5/5
BooksSolid advice, but lacks fizzThis month I've been reading Bottled for Business by Karan Bilimoria with Steve Coomber (Capstone, &pound;14.99). The subtitle is "The Less Gassy Guide to Entrepreneurship" - and Bilimoria knows of what he speaks since he is the founder of London-based Cobra Beer. He set this up as a reaction to what he saw as the over-gassy beers on offer in Indian restaurants when he came to the UK as a student.The success of the brand and the lessons learned from it are the main thrust of an informative book that takes as its format an extended interview with Bilimoria. He offers a lot of common sense: always do a little more than people ask so they will use you again; always draw up tight contracts because the trustworthy person you're negotiating with might be replaced for any number of reasons; and always hire people with motivation over and above people with skill, as skills can be learned.The problem in the book - which I'd recommend as a business read to anyone who wants to sharpen their attitudes a little - is not with what's in it but with what's left out. Bilimoria goes into some depth on how he started the business in London without a penny behind him. This left me almost shouting, "Where's the biography? Why did he decide to settle in London away from his original home and family about whom he is so passionate?" Because Bilimoria is such a charismatic individual who's led such an interesting life, it's slightly disappointing that the book focuses solely on his organisation and the things he's learned from it.But until he decides to publish his autobiography, Bottled for Business is certainly worth reading and contains many valuable insights.CommunicationsBring conversations to lifeVoIP users will have been bewildered by the range of announcements over the last few weeks to make their lives "easier". First, anyone using Skype on a Mac may have noticed that the latest release is now out of beta so they can now join people in the PC arena and use a webcam as well as their voice.In addition, BT has started advertising its Fusion phones in earnest; you can order these along with a broadband contract from BT immediately - they'll be available from Carphone Warehouse over the next few weeks.Homeworkers might be interested in new adapters from Tesco that, providing your connection can handle broadband, convert your existing phone into an internet phone.Meanwhile, software supplier Truphone (www.truphone.com), whose software allows people with wireless-capable Nokia phones to make Wi-Fi calls whenever a connection is available, announced a link-up with Googletalk - allowing mobile users to talk for free. Presumably, someone with a spreadsheet has looked at this deal and worked out that it's worth doing; equally presumably, if everyone starts making free calls the whole system will have to be rethought pretty quickly.GrowthWhy do start-ups stall?Panasonic has joined forces with YouGov to find out why 3% of start-up businesses don't actually grow beyond employing 100 employees. The survey quizzed 800 small companies on what was holding them back and found that 41% of business owners considered growth more difficult than starting up (compared to 10% who found starting up in the first place to be the bigger challenge); bigger inhibitors included a lack of money for investment, cited by 51%, and 47% considered excessive legislation a turn-off for people who would otherwise grow. Reassuringly, 39% of people said they were looking for a better work/life balance rather than burnout - this being reassuring because it means they deliberately didn't want to grow.This ties in with the finding that 89% of respondents found the ability to make their own decisions a more important motivator for starting up than financial gain. With most people citing the ability to feed their family as a sign that they succeeded, only 8% said they would regard becoming a millionaire as the mark of success.FraudCall for vigilance over CVsThe Forum of Private Business (FPB) is warning against fraud again. This time it isn't fraud in a directly financial sense, but it believes a lot of job candidates are making false claims on their CVs in order to get a desirable job.Senior representative Phil Moody suggests motives for misrepresentation on a CV range beyond the simple wish to better one's self; there are criminals out there who lie their way into a position from which they can steal from their employer. This is only the beginning of the problem, suggests Moody; companies providing substandard or dangerous services can be open to prosecution and, at best, an incompetent employee is likely to lean on the rest of the team for a lot of support.The FPB suggests employers scrutinise a job candidate's CV for unusual career moves and gaps, take a competency-based approach when interviewing to get an idea of how the person will perform, and use work-based ability tests. Make it clear that any appointment is subject to the right references checking out. A probationary period when someone starts will be useful in screening out people who aren't up to it, the organisation adds.It also suggests checking qualification certificates, which, in principle would be a good idea, but an educated guess suggests that many 30-plus job candidates would be hard-pressed to remember exactly where they filed their O-level certificates 14 years ago, let alone where they've ended up by now.TravelMobile warning for driversBusiness travellers who use their cars extensively should note that the laws around using handsets in vehicles are changing. As of Tuesday next week the fine increases to &pound;60 if you're caught using your phone with your hands while your engine is switched on; more serious to many will be the prospect of an automatic three points to your license, non-negotiable, for every such transgression.People who prefer to take the train might be interested in a new laptop bag from TechAir. Aimed at the business traveller, "the weekender" looks like an ordinary trolley bag while providing protective padding for your computer. It also has a pull-out slipcase so that if you're at a hotel conference you have something more portable for meetings on-site.
Pharming, phishing, ransomware, image spam, and click marketing fraud; a new generation of online crook has spawned a whole new language. And, along with the strange terminology, it seems their illicit business could be booming; research from Garlik, a personal data management service, claims ID fraud alone could cost the UK &pound;4bn a year by 2011.This hasn't stopped consumers spending online. Figures released by APACS, the UK payments association, showed spending on plastic over the last Christmas period reached a record &pound;31bn. There were 669m plastic card transactions in December 2006, equating to a record 250 transactions per second. Spending on plastic cards accounted for 63% of total retail sales.Overall card fraud has fallen, but internet, phone and card-not-present (CNP) fraud now accounts for 46% of all losses - a proportion that is increasing. Online fraudsters, it seems, have a few new tricks up their sleeve that they are now using against businesses with an online presence. If you've got business online, you've got business making sure you know what the new threats are.The growth of e-commerce has created a number of new avenues for fraudsters to explore: click fraud is a deliberate attempt to abuse the pay per click (PPC) system. PPC adverts appear on search engines like Google and Yahoo!, at the side or on the top of a list of websites the search engine has found.The advertiser pays a one-off cost for the privilege of being listed, then a small additional cost every time someone clicks on the advert. The problem is the adverts can also appear on a fraudster's site that then takes a share of the advertising revenue that every click generates. More than 10% of hits in the average PPC marketing campaign are now being reported as fraudulent.One business that has first-hand experience of this new form of online fraud is a health technology company that uses PPC for marketing. Its managing director says: "I didn't know that click fraud existed. We found that we were getting rather a lot of hits from Romania. We couldn't understand why we would be getting so many hits from this part of the world until the people who set up our PPC campaign said we were suffering from click fraud."Once the fraud had been identified, Google was able to put a stop to the problem. But the indications are that this kind of fraud will become a problem for more businesses as click marketing becomes more widespread.Pay per click fraud is the latest type of fraud to appear on the web, but other forms of online fraud are still rife. "Phishing" attacks, for example, continue to plague individuals and businesses alike.Phishing is what is happening when you receive a convincing-looking email from, say, your bank, urging you to log on and check your details. And with the rise in popularity of online banking, it's all too easy to fall victim.The only real safeguard is the obvious one: if in doubt, check with your bank before you type in any sensitive details. And if your business uses eBay, be aware that over 75% of all phishing emails target PayPal and eBay users, so check every communication from these companies before you respond.In addition to phishing attacks, pharming attacks - sometimes known as page hijacking - are also become more widespread. Pharming involves redirecting a website URL to a bogus site by either hacking the website's computers, or hacking the computers that route information around the internet. Type in the address of your bank, for example, and you could be redirected to a new site set up by a criminal gang. They will capture your personal details and use these to remove money from your bank account.The solution? If you spot any changes to a website you use regularly and it asks you to enter personal or financial details, call the site's owners before you proceed. Changes to look out for include alterations to the login process; if you're asked for more information than usual, or if the padlock icon doesn't appear on the bottom of your browser, check the site's authenticity before you proceed.New type of spamA new type of spam is sweeping the web. Dubbed image spam, the email contains images rather than words, which means the message isn't trapped by traditional anti-spam software. Software suppliers have started releasing updates to protect against this problem, which means it's more important than ever to make sure your anti-spam software is up to date.Criminals are also using the web to perpetrate what has been called "ransomware". Helen Barrow, a Manchester nurse, was one of the first victims of online blackmail after her computer files were encrypted by cybercriminals.The criminals placed her files in a special folder on her computer and then used a 30-digit password to protect it, before sending a ransom note telling her not to contact the police. Barrow was told that she would receive the password to unlock the folder once she bought drugs from an online pharmacy. Barrow contacted the police, who were able to unlock the protected folder. She told the BBC: "When I realised what had happened, I just felt sick to the core. I was in shock. It was a horrible feeling and I thought I was going to lose all of my work."Greater Manchester Police stated that there is no on-going investigation into the event. Due to the international nature of the crime, it would be almost impossible to trace the person or gang behind the blackmail threat.Although ransomware is usually aimed at individuals, it's only a matter of time before business is targeted as well.Disturbingly, employees or former employees commit over 85% of fraud. One small business owner, who suffered fraudulent activity at the hands of her accountant, attempted to report the incident at her local police station. She found they not only lacked any enthusiasm to pursue her case, but were also unaware of key pieces of legislation that relate to e-crime. "If you walk up to the desk sergeant at a typical police station, he won't understand the problem," says IT expert Alan Cox, who recently gave evidence to the House of Lords science and technology committee. "We need a better understanding of e-crime in police stations."Reporting cybercrimeUp until last year, any business suffering from e-crime could report directly to the National High-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU). This specialised division of the police has now been absorbed into the new Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA). The practical upshot of this is that businesses must now report any e-crimes to their local police. This has been criticised by some business leaders as leaving business - particular small business - to the mercy of cybercriminals.Less than a year after the closure of the NHCTU, chief constables are calling for the establishment of a new national e-crime squad after a report by the Metropolitan police identified serious policing problems of cybercrime. The report stated: "It is widely recognised that e-crime is the most rapidly expanding form of criminality, encompassing both new criminal offences in relation to computers (viruses and hacking etc) and 'old' crimes (fraud, harassment etc), committed using digital or computer technology. The Met assessment is that specialist e-crime units can no longer cope with all e-crime." The Association of Chief Police Officers is now looking at the feasibility of setting up a new national e-crime unit.Transaction security in time-poor small companies is often overlooked until the business falls victim to a fraud. It's now more important than ever to be vigilant. Card not present sales can provide the vast majority of your revenue, but they also account for nearly half of all online fraud against small businesses. With the rise in ID theft - and the new forms of marketing fraud that are appearing - it's more critical than ever that your business puts in place security procedures to combat increasingly imaginative cybercriminals.Jargon buster:What's what in online fraudPhishingContact is usually made via an email designed to look like it's from a bank, building society or credit card company. Sensitive financial information is requested that is subsequently used to remove funds from the victim's account.PharmingA close cousin of phishing, pharming takes place when a victim enters a web address and is redirected to a bogus site that attempts to extract financial information from the visitor.Click fraudThis is a deliberate attempt to abuse the pay per click (PPC) online marketing system. A legitimate advert can appear on a site set up by a criminal gang. The gang then click on the advert themselves to generate a royalty payment that is sent to them. The business placing the original ad also loses out as they still have to pay Google, for instance, each time the advert is clicked.RansomwareCriminal gangs are exploiting the security vulnerability of computers connected to the internet by locking users out of their files and folders with an unbreakable code. Once the ransom has been paid, the unlock code is given to the victim.Image spamBecause all spam filters look for keywords and phrases in emails to identify those messages as spam and block them, image spam uses images in the body text area of the email to fool the spam filter into letting the message through as a legitimate email.Turn on, log in, watch out:Top tips How to stop card-not-present fraudstersExtra vigilance can help prevent card-not-present (CNP) fraud. If sales staff can answer "yes" to one or more of the questions below for a CNP sale, it does not mean it is fraudulent - but it does mean they should consider further checks before proceeding with the transaction.1.Is the sale too easy? Is the customer disinterested in the price or details of the goods? Are they a new customer?2.Are the goods high-value or easily resalable?3.Is the sale excessively high in comparison with your usual orders? Is the customer ordering many different items? Do they seem unlike your usual customer?4.Is the customer providing details of someone else's card - that of a client or family member, for example?5.Is the customer reluctant to give a landline contact phone number - are they only prepared to give a mobile number?6.Does the address provided seem suspicious? Has the delivery address been used before with different customer details?7.Is the customer being prompted by a third party while on the phone?8.Is the customer attempting to use more than one card in order to split the value of the sale?9.Does the customer seem to lack knowledge of their account?10.Does the customer seem to have a problem remembering their home address or phone number? Does the customer sound as if they are referring to notes?Source: APACS
Bike sheds: not the most exciting items, in spite of their association with apprentice smokers and adolescent playground fumbling. They're generally pretty ugly too - functional, usually rusty, and more often than not plonked out of sight.All that may be about to change. Cycling is taking off in the UK. In London, trips by bicycle increased by 50% in the five years to 2006, with other towns and cities reporting rising numbers on two wheels. In these times of global warming, congestion charging and obesity, cycling ticks all the right boxes, being a green, cheap and healthy way to get about. It's an activity whose time has come again.More cyclists means more storage space for bikes is needed. But the architects building cutting-edge office buildings and regenerating Britain's urban centres into groovy spaces fit for the 21st century aren't keen on cluttering their vision with rows of unsightly steel bike stands. So what to do?Enter James Steward and Natalie Connell, two young entrepreneurs who just happen to have invented a sleek, funky cycle storage unit. Resembling a cross between an alien spacecraft from a 50s B-movie and an upturned orange squeezer, it's called the Cyclepod, is fashioned from recycled aluminium, can store eight upright bicycles securely in a two-metre diameter and will probably make them millionaires."We've been lucky," admits Steward, 24. "We didn't mean to time it like this - it's just the way it's happened, with congestion charging, the government spending more money on green initiatives, promoting healthy lifestyles and so on. It's worked well for us."So well, in fact, that Steward and Connell's company, Built From Scratch Design, has in the last two months more than doubled the &pound;80,000 turnover it made over the whole of 2006. So far, they've sold 70 units, at a price of around &pound;3,000 each. Their target markets cover everyone from corporate clients who want to provide swanky cycle accommodation for staff who bike to work, to councils, educational establishments and health and fitness centres.With investment and manufacturing secured and a growing network of distributors, the outlook is good. But before the reward comes the graft. Steward and Connell, who are a couple as well as business partners, have had just one week off in the last two-and-half years and, until recently, were putting in 16-hour days in their spare room to get the project up and running. Having both given up well-paid jobs, they have been living on a shoestring.Sitting in their tiny, overflowing office in a business centre in Beckenham, Kent, mulling over their journey so far, they come across as excited, mildly stunned and a bit knackered. Months of slog followed by rapid expansion have burnished their infectious enthusiasm with a veneer of battle-hardened realism."It is a lot harder than a normal day job," says Connell, who has just turned 23. "We work twice as hard and earn half of what we used to, but we live for this. Because things are coming in quicker now we don't get a chance to celebrate. When we got our first order we were like, 'Wow, a 10 grand order!' Now we're getting 60 grand orders and it just gets noted down in the log book. We just get on with it."The Cyclepod is the result of Steward's final year project for his product design degree at Nottingham Trent University, where he graduated with first-class honours. Noting that nobody had applied a modern design ethos to cycle storage - and having had his bike nicked - he worked for a year on the prototype Cyclepod with Nottingham City Council. Their brief was to come up with something secure, space-efficient and reasonably inexpensive.Going it aloneAfter graduating, Steward got a job at a design consultancy in London, while Connell worked in advertising. Steward devoted one day a week to the Cyclepod, while Connell looked into markets for the product. The plan was to develop the business with the help of Steward's employer, but it didn't work out. That would have been that, but friends and family suggested that the couple strike out on their own.Built From Scratch Design was started in August 2005 with a &pound;17,500 government loan that paid for a full-scale prototype to be made. However, the new design required months of tweaking. Once this was overcome, the Cyclepod was exhibited at trade shows and orders came in from Nottingham council and Pepsico. Word spread.A few months in, the company suffered a cash crisis. The pods were being manufactured in India, but the cut taken by the middleman and the manufacturer threatened to strangle the business almost at birth. The couple came to a fork in the road: either attract investment in order to expand so that bigger orders can be fulfilled, thus bringing in more revenue; or walk away. They decided to go looking for money. As all this was happening, Steward and Connell were being filmed for Channel 4's Tricky Business reality TV series on entrepreneurs."We didn't want to get another loan - and we turned down Dragons' Den, thank God," says Steward, grimacing. "So, for about two months we totally shut down and did nothing other than look for investment. It was a huge risk."The search proved fruitless, with potential backers asking for too big a stake in the company. Fortunately, the brilliance of the Cyclepod concept shone through and, in May 2006, Steward and Connell scooped the Shell Livewire Young Entrepreneur of the Year award, a prestigious accolade that gave them invaluable media exposure, not to mention credibility."People didn't take the Cyclepod seriously," says Steward. "When we won the Livewire award it certified the product."As luck would have it, the solution to their money problems was literally on their doorstep. A marketing firm two doors down from the office had a client who was looking to invest in a business.The marketeers and their client put up &pound;140,000 cash for a small stake in the company (Steward and Connell still retain 70%). The cash injection kept the books ticking over while manufacture of the Cyclepods was switched from India to a Chinese-speaking factory in China, meaning they could order in bulk and fulfil big orders while significantly reducing their production costs. The couple admit that without the spectacular cost advantage offered by Chinese manufacture, the company would not be where it is now.The money also allowed Steward and Connell to concentrate on finding distributors who could sell their product and open up new markets, and paid for essentials such as a van and a server to host the customer database ("For a year and half we were working off an Excel spreadsheet," says Connell, with a haunted look). The money wasn't the be all and end all, though."We're quite young," says Steward. "I'm confident with the design side and Connell's confident with the sales and marketing, but in terms of business acumen we're learning as we go. Our investor has given us great advice. He said to us, 'even if you get the margin, you don't have to be greedy, just make what you need to make and pass the rest on to your distributors, because nothing sells your product like giving your distributors money'. That's invaluable."Free publicityNow, the focus is on expanding the markets. Cyclepods are currently being sold across the UK and in Scandinavia and Australia. Growth across Europe, where civic authorities seem to cherish their public spaces rather more than in the UK, seems likely. Tricky Business, currently being shown across the continent on satellite TV, is garnering acres of free publicity. Steward is also in talks with US distributors."If we can do what we do in the UK in two or three countries in Europe and a few states in America, then suddenly we go from a business that turns over &pound;80,000 in first year to a business that turns over millions in its third year," he says. Not bad for a company formed almost by accident.New products are also in the pipeline. There are multi-coloured Minipods for kids' bikes and a wall-mounted pod. There is talk of a range of complementary street furniture and selling advertising space on individual units.Steward and Connell's next move is a physical one, to new, bigger offices with a showroom. So, having come such a long way in such a short time, what have they learned?"We used to have massive panic attacks when problems arose," says Connell. "Now we just shrug and think, 'we're only human'. We just do what we can and resolve problems when we can. It doesn't make any difference if you lose your rag.""I learnt more in the first three months in business than I did the whole time at university," adds Steward. "It's just nothing like the real world.""Our goals have really changed," Connell adds, laughing with some bemusement. "When we started out I thought it would be amazing just to set up a company and see a real, finished Cyclepod. Then I thought it would be brilliant to see a Cyclepod being used in public. Now I think, 'Wouldn't it be great to see a million Cyclepods, all over America!'""World domination!" exclaims Steward, and the small, stuffy office is filled with laughter. Bike sheds just got interesting.A day in the life'We'd be checking emails in bed!'Connell: "I get in early and check our emails. We tend to get a few sales enquiries each day through Google. Then the phone starts going. I'll have a list of people I need to chase about sales. After that I get to organising the accounts and looking at the cashflow. And there's always stuff to sort out with the exhibitions we show at. There's always a problem somewhere, usually with manufacturing."On a Friday we do a weekly report to our investors. It helps us to focus on the next week. We'll look at any problems, new sales and enquiries. I put together a sales forecast."It's difficult being a couple - at home we're still talking about the business. It never really ends. We don't stay all night any more; when we were working at home we'd be checking our emails in bed! We don't come in on weekends if we can help it."Steward: "I tend to check for emails from China or Malaysia [where the Cyclepod canopies are made] early in morning. Then there's a brief window to talk though problems with the manufacturers at around 8.30am. Then I might have to go and install a unit. Hopefully we'll soon have contractors who can do that. We've tried to cut down our days but it hasn't worked like that."Natalie might pass the odd enquiry to me or I'll be on the internet looking for new distributors. Then there'll be something to tackle about shipping - either the container will be late or I'll have to book one for an order."
Organising ourselves should be relatively simple these days given the amount of technology we own. Our PCs have a calendar function, and smartphones and hand-held computers offer the same kind of thing - as do some "ordinary" phones.Some people, however, expect more, and some of us are happier dealing with a person than with a gadget whose batteries are liable to run out at the least helpful time. For many of these people the answer is straightforward: get some sort of personal assistant service.The thing is, what sort? Software-only services abound. MobilePA is pretty good (mobilepa.com) it will collect emails and sort them according to priority, keep your diary and contacts - even pick up a selection of newspapers and send them to your mobile phone.What MobilePA won't do is take a phone message or act as a virtual receptionist; but it's accessible remotely and keeps you pointed in the right direction. An alternative might come from your mobile phone company; if it offers an online diary service that synchronises with your phone and allows you to pick up emails remotely then you could find you've all but wiped out any advantage in using MobilePA.But all that is only one part of a non-virtual PA's job. Another part of the job is copy typing, for which there are specialist agencies that will work through your computer.Rob Morfield, of Morfield Everest Chartered Surveyors, opted to use Outsec (www.outsec.co.uk) instead of a local typing service two years ago. It wasn't a problem with the typist, he stresses, it was a matter of convenience. He visits a site, dictates his report into a digital voice recorder, uploads the file, and it comes back typed in Word."I was a bit unsure of how to use a digital dictaphone at first, but it's quite straightforward," he says. "It's a very efficient service and very quick, and I know I couldn't do it by post - there were a couple of occasions on which I lost the tape in the post and I know that can't happen doing this." He also saves the time that would otherwise have been spent visiting the post office and queuing. "Ninety-nine times out of 100 I am not in a position where I'm waiting for a report to be typed up, which is better for the client."If you want a lower level of virtual support, you can go for a pick-and-mix strategy, choosing a selection of online and "real world" services that suits your needs. But many want a full service approach, and would like someone to handle all their organisational needs. Tony Waldron is managing director of Executive Communication Centres, as well as chair of the Business Centre Association, which covers 600 service centres across the country."There are huge benefits to working from home and also to working from a large office," he says. "What the serviced office industry offers is a sort of half-way house."Although there is a growing requirement for people to work remotely, it can be isolating and it's difficult to offer a professional approach if people want to come and see you." Hence you can have not only a virtual PA but also a hub, hiring office space as and when you need it rather than spending when you don't need it.Many people have most of this sorted out, however, and want a pure-play PA service. The Surrey Enterprise Hub is one such organisation; a not-for-profit company funded by the regional development agency and local partners to help start-up businesses.Director Marilyn Huckerby explains that their limited budget made a virtual PA service very appealing. "We didn't have enough administration work to be able to justify a fill time person," she says. "Also, the workload doesn't readily fit into a part time role with a person working fixed hours during the week. With a virtual PA we get he tasks done when we need them."The selection process is important. "Before taking on e-nough (e-nough.biz) we checked that the tasks we needed to be covered off were within the services offered," says Huckerby. "We needed to know that they understood our business and would be able to operate as part of our team, albeit that this would be mainly through phone, email and intranet."E-nough managing director, Haley Dwyer, finds that the people who come to her are mostly a little beyond the start-up stage. "Start-ups seem to have little revenue so they seem to do everything themselves," she says. "Once they're over that they start looking around for help." It's a good idea to take the virtual option into account when considering the help that's needed, she suggests, thanks to a number of factors."[We offer] a wider skill set, we tend to be able to help not just in a general PA capacity but in a sales support area as well. We have knowledge of a broad base of industries that will transfer quite well and, of course, there's the cost; smaller businesses don't necessarily know whether they want someone from Monday to Wednesday, or they don't want someone working from their home." The service works either on project bases or long-term: "We do have people who could probably employ but they're used to us and we know their business very well," says Dwyer.So far, so professional; everybody knows, though, that the classic image of the boss asking the PA to arrange flowers for his or her spouse has to come from somewhere. This is why services such as start-up Asktez.co.uk take a more generic approach; priced on a task-by-task basis, the idea is that you can ask for any service as long as the fee reflects the complexity of the task and the time taken."The service is directed at professionals who are very busy and who just don't have the time to do some things," says director Terry Chiu. "Things like if they want to find a piece of information, maybe a local plumber or something - we'll handle it. We haven't had anyone asking to pick up their laundry yet!"
Welcome to February's Business Sense. We're excited this month to be naming the five business ideas that have won the first stage of the eBay Business Sense challenge.The competition, now in its second year and launched here last month, seeks to find some great small business ideas and then see how they flourish on eBay, the world's largest online auction site. In support, each contestant gets seed money, practical advice and the oxygen of publicity.Our shortlist of five has beaten off fierce competition from a lot of great ideas, and makes an intriguing read. There's the business student who wants to help people with big feet find stylish shoes. There's the mum who worked out how to stop her young daughter from getting scared at night, and now wants to spread the idea. There's the former backpacker who's discovered the perfect hammock to sell (they're Mexican, apparently), and the dad who's sourced great (and cheap) cotton school clothes he can sell on to other parents keen to avoid the sea of polyester that is school uniforms. Finally, an IT expert has found a cunning way to make money from dead computers.It's an interesting mix, we hope you'll agree, and now we'll set the five ideas against one another. Each finalist has already won &pound;1,500 seed money to help get things going.As well as having to get their businesses off the ground, sourcing their products and marketing them successfully on eBay, we'll throw in some business challenges to test our five finalists' business prowess. The person who does best will scoop another &pound;2,500 after three months of work - and hopefully will have a thriving eBay business as a reward for their efforts too.We'll be giving you updates on the last Friday of every month right through the competition. We hope you'll enjoy following their exploits.
Since moving to Ibiza, I keep coming across the collateral damage from reality TV; people who have watched a few living-in-the-sun programmes and decided life can't be worse than it is in Britain. Oh yes it can.Some people are just not cut out socially, professionally or economically for existence abroad. Here are 10 questions any would-be expatriate should ask themselves before burning their British bridges in pursuit of a life in the sun.1.Have you got the real skills and experience to make a living overseas?It may seem like an obvious question, but it never ceases to amaze me how many expats attempt work they would never dream of doing in Britain on the basis, perhaps, that nobody will notice because they're abroad. If you're struggling in the UK, is there any reason why things will be different overseas?2.Do you really hate your present job?There's no guarantee it'll be any more enjoyable abroad, although sunshine can make misery more bearable. At the same time, as a foreigner, you're likely to find you'll lose a great deal of the professional respect you've gained and become used to.3.Is there a real demand for your skills and type of business in your intended location?Market research from a distance - and in a foreign language - is difficult, but it is far better than finding out after a few months that you can't make a decent living in your new home.4.What's your attitude to credit cards and borrowing in general?It stands to reason that you can't legally leave behind a mountain of debt in the UK, but neither is it easy to take British attitudes to credit with you. Levels of personal borrowing are much lower in almost every other country in the world. Moving abroad also probably means losing the credit score you've gained from being in regular employment, owning a house and being on the electoral roll. So when you're planning to start a new life, which is just when you most need a financial safety net, you could find it gone.5.If you moved abroad what sort of friends would you hope to make?Readers of this newspaper might say something about avoiding the expat scene and mixing with locals, but it's often easier said than done - especially if the move is to a rural area. Locals who have lived in an area for generations are usually unadventurous and family oriented. You, on the other hand, are likely to be looking for adventure, leaving your family life behind.6.Do you often go to social events in Britain with people who would be classed as coming from an "ethnic minority"?If you move abroad it's you who will be a member of an ethnic minority. In places where there's not much of an expat community you can feel a bit left out. Equally, if there are large numbers of Brits, you'll be lumped in with them. Either way, it can be uncomfortable.7.How do you and your partner get on?Singletons face their own challenges, but for couples moving abroad it's second only to having a baby as the worst way of trying to save a relationship. The combination of sun, stress and temptation can be totally destructive. For one partner at least, the effect can be devastating.8.When was the last time you gave somebody your mobile phone number?It's easy to take the network of family, friends and work colleagues that you've built up over many years. Heading overseas probably means you'll be starting from scratch, both from a social and business point of view. Shrinking violets can find life abroad is lonely and impoverished. Work doesn't often come to those who wait.9.What's your idea of a good night out?Strangely enough, being an unadventurous expat can be an advantage. A night in with a pizza and a movie is now an option almost anywhere in the world. Rent a DVD and the chances are it'll have an English language version. Lovers of theatre, for instance, may be less well served as are aficionados of cosmopolitan food. Most countries are more patriotic in their tastes than Britain when it comes to cuisine and art.10.How do you feel at the end of a summer holiday?If you wish it would never end, you're probably one of the Brits primed for disappointment if you move abroad. It's hard work.&#183;Nick Clayton is a freelance writer and web content consultant. If you'd be willing to share your experiences - good and bad - of living and working abroad, you can email him atnick@adeskinthesun.com
This year's appeal for eBay Business Sense challengers triggered a huge response - with plenty of entries containing excellent ideas. Many had an environmental theme, while several focused on children: both are reflected in the choice of finalists. Others, such as gift cards for the discerning cannabis smoker, may be a little ahead of their time.After a long afternoon's discussion, the judges short-listed around 20 strong ideas, from which five contestants were eventually chosen. Each of the five will receive &pound;1,500 to establish his or her business on eBay, as well as training.Over the next three months, Business Sense will follow their progress, which will include tackling specific challenges. The one who achieves the most overall - most importantly, in the return they make on their seed money - will win a further &pound;2,500.Karl AndersonThe idea: Large shoes are hard to find in sports shops. "They may have the odd size 14, which has come in by accident," says Karl Anderson, a first-year business student at the University of Kent in Canterbury. "If you're looking at training shoes, the majority are plain white. There is no style to them."Those such as Anderson with feet above size 12 have few choices in the UK - and most of what is available, he says, seems to be designed for older men. So he plans to import large shoes from the United States: "I've found places in America that have a huge range of shoes," he says, and in large sizes. However, the online shop he would most like to use does not sell internationally to individuals.He hopes to buy shoes only when he sells them, rather than holding large amounts of stock, although says he needs to consider exactly how this will work. The business could be expanded to large clothes sizes, which are also much easier to find in the US.Anderson already has a reasonable level of experience of both buying and selling goods on eBay.The verdict: "We thought this was an excellent idea," says John Goodhead, a business adviser and one of the judges. "It's a good niche market business that could develop."Phyllis AveryThe idea: Nina, Phyllis Avery's seven-year-old daughter, used to get scared at night. "I knew about worry dolls," says Avery. "I got her a little doll of her own, and told her if she told the doll what she was worried about, the doll would take care of it. It worked."Avery plans to take this a step further with Doodle Dolls, a set of half-a-dozen Guatemalan dolls each with a different card, for negative thoughts including worries but also positive ones such as wishes. Children will put them in a bag under their pillows: parents and carers can then see what is on their minds.She thinks this could be particularly useful for parents such as herself who work full-time: "You may not see them when they are prepared to talk," she says. She plans to buy dolls from a wholesaler, and design the cards herself - something she is well-qualified to do, as a production director in children's publishing.Avery, who lives in St Albans, plans to donate 10% of profits to a children's charity, and run a side-line re-selling "previously loved" dolls. She has no experience of using eBay.The verdict: "It was rather different, and we were looking for differences," says John Goodhead. "You look for whether there's a business, and what will make it stand out."Diane DavidsonThe idea: In the mid-1990s, Diane Davidson was on a three-month trip around central America. "As you meet travellers on the road, there is snobbery value in who's got the best hammocks," she says. Her favourites were Mayan hammocks from the Yucatan peninsula of Mexico. "They are triple-woven and made from sisal," she says, making them more flexible than single pieces of fabric, but without holes you can put your elbow through.When returning in the late 1990s, she bought several hammocks, for friends and to replace her own. But when she needed a new one recently, Davidson ended up buying from to an eBay user in Texas. Her plan is to import directly from a businesswoman in the Yucatan peninsula, whom she has already contacted, with the option of expanding the business to other fabric goods, both Mayan and otherwise.Davidson, who works from home in Twickenham as a public relations freelancer, has been using eBay for a couple of years to sell items. She sees an eBay shop as useful in helping customers to find the specific items she wants to sell.The verdict: "With the summer coming, it's an impulse buy, if the pricing is right," says Matt Priddle, eBay's UK education manager and another judge. "It's an example of someone thinking about the customer, as the customer is themselves."David HallworthThe idea: When buying school clothes for his children, David Hallworth found these were only available in polyester. He wanted cotton items: "I found it was almost impossible to find, and when they were, it was expensive."Hallworth, a freelance writer and editor, did not give up. A year ago, despite being "a complete virgin to the world of garment retail", he ordered 100 pure cotton summer dress uniforms from a factory in India, used some and sold the rest to other parents at Corpus Christi primary school in Brixton, London. He plans to expand this business through eBay.The Delhi factory producing the clothes is run by an exile from Tibet who studied fashion design, and employs other Tibetan refugees. Hallworth, who has visited the factory, says it is a well-run place producing good quality garments, including work for French fashion houses."If you Google school uniforms, you get lots of hits on eBay, but you don't get nice-quality cotton," says Hallworth, so he thinks he can fill that gap in the market. He has bought a few items on eBay, but not sold anything.The verdict: "There's an ongoing debate over sourcing school uniforms," says Matt Priddle. "If he can deliver a quality product at a cheap price, eBay should let him scale to demand."Joe WilliamsThe idea: A broken laptop on eBay sells for about &pound;35, but the individual price of its components is often &pound;100 to &pound;200, reckons Joe Williams, client services manager of EBS Computers, his own IT advice company. He plans to buy around 50 bust laptops, mostly on eBay but also from local newspaper adverts, take them to pieces and sell working components including keyboards, screens and motherboards.Williams thinks he will sell mostly to enthusiasts and company IT departments. "If you tried to buy a part from a manufacturer, it would charge &pound;100-200," he says. "It's hugely expensive and not worth the money. If you can find it on eBay for 5% of the cost of a new laptop, it's worth doing."New European rules on disposal of electronics should work in his favour: "It obliges companies to dispose of laptops responsibly," he says. "If they can put them on eBay, they don't have to pay someone to take them away."Williams, who is based in Warwick, has been self-employed for four years since leaving university. His describes his eBay experience as "casual use".The verdict: "It's a classic eBay business," says Matt Priddle. "It turns something that in one person's eyes isn't working into something people need, but don't know where to get it, for a reasonable price."
MondayUS Presidential hopeful gets Second LifeTuesdayMeet the FFXII teamWednesdayGame sales so high they surprise industryThursdaySony's marketing campaign: what'll get you to buy a PS3?FridayGame Paused looking for creatives
The end of the week draws nigh, and the call of the wild hits as people are let loose from offices and workplaces around the country. We like to mark this moment with a little competition I call theFriday Afternoon Question.This week, being seven days long, is no different. This week I thought I'd plug in to your envy centres and find out the following.What one thing do you wish you invented?It could be a technology, it could be a scientific advance, it could be a language. It could have made you rich, or made you famous - or neither. But what's the one thing you think it would have been great to be known as the inventor of?Answers in the comments, and the best one wins a groovy prize.Sidenote: As I was away for a couple of days this week I didn't really have a chance to catch up on the answers from last week's FAQ so I'm going to delay announcing a winner until next time.
Secunia, a well-known security company, has launched an online checker (athttp://secunia.com/software_inspector/) that will "inspect your operating system and software for insecure versions and missing security updates."I've just tried it and it reckons it has found 10 programs that have security problems. These include Adobe Reader 7.x, RealPlayer 6, Sun Java JRE 1.5.x / 5.x, Macromedia Flash Player 6.x, Macromedia Flash Player 8.x, and WinZip 9.x.I've going to have to take a deeper look, because I already have Macromedia Flash Player 9 installed. Also, Secunia reckons I have ZoneAlarm 6, which is news to me.....The main interest in the Secunia software is to double-check whether you have all the Windows Updates correctly installed, and it tells me: "You do not have the following Microsoft security updates installed: KB928090" for IE7.Anyway, have a go, and let me know if you think it's useful.....Update: Aha, my son has Zone Alarm installed, and it's found it in his back-up on my USB drive... That probably explains some other entries, too.
Self-described "lifelong Apple fan boy" (but defecting to Linux) Cory Doctorow ofBoing Boing(and also a novelist and anElectronic Frontier FoundationFellow) has now appeared in the almost-forgotten Salon with a piece onSteve Jobs' iTunes dance. He says:I doubt Jobs' sincerity. I suspect he likes DRM because it creates an anti-competitive lock-in to Apple. I think he's trying to shift blame for the much-criticized DRM to the music industryLike many if not most people who are not Apple apologists, Doctorow suspectsJobs is just a hypocrite. He writes:Actions speak louder than words. Artists have asked -- begged -- Apple to sell their music without DRM for years. From individual bestselling acts like Barenaked Ladies to entire labels of copy-friendly music like Magnatune, innumerable copyright holders have asked Apple to sell their work as open MP3s instead of DRM-locked AACs. Apple has always maintained that it's DRM or nothing. These artists believe that the answer to selling more music is cooperating with fans, not treating them as presumptive pirates and locking down their music.And, he adds, "Apple even applies the no-copying measure to audio released under a Creative Commons license (for example, my own podcasts), which prohibits adding DRM."Then there's the matter of the movies and TV shows sold through the iTunes Store. The first adopter of this marketplace was Disney/Pixar. Jobs is the single largest shareholder in Disney/Pixar. Apparently, he forced himself to add DRM to his Pixar movies, turning a deaf ear to his own impassioned arguments to leave the DRM off.The argument that iPod owners don't have quite enough brainpower to cope with the iTunes Music Store selling both DRM and non-DRM content is also disposed of:But if this is so, how is it that Apple currently offers DRM-free podcasts alongside DRM'ed, pay-for-use podcasts in the selfsame store?Jobs's arguments against licensing his DRM-- which DRM-cracker"DVD Jon" Johansen described as "bogus"-- also fall, becauseit only takes three minutesfor any iTMS release to appear on a peer-to-peer network.I've already written about this inWhy Steve isn't going to upset the DRM Apple cart, but the debate is going to run and run....
Just to expand on Greg's post below, Sony has removed the Emotion Engine from the European and Australasian spec machines - this is how the costs are being cut. It should be pointed out that this has always been the plan - the PS2 chipset was placed in original shipments to help with the smooth provision of backwards compatibility in the first few months on market. Presumably Sony engineers are now confident they can emulate PS2 in software - or at least they're confident they will be able to soon. Or they don't care and want to reduce costs...Interestingly, independent analyst,Datamonitor, has a more positive spin on this whole situation: "By launching the PS3 in Europe with the new chassis, Sony has at a stroke removed one of the barriers to future price reductions..."Datamonitor's ratherdidactic press releasecontinues:"While it's easy to be overcome by a wave of nostalgia for older titles, Sony's new console - and the games that have been specifically developed to take advantage of the increased processing power - will be hard to resist for even the most misty-eyed gamer. Sony has sensibly taken the approach to manage the expectations of purchasers from Day 1, and this issue should not detract from the advance in gaming that the PS3 represents."Know what? I can't help but agree. Sticking an Emotion Engine in PS3 was always an extravagance and it will come out of US and Japanese machines eventually. If costs have to be cut (and they do) better that it comes from backwards compatibility rather than, say, losing a USB or memory card port.Really, for many gamers, this is just another stick to beat Sony with. As long as we can all admit that, it's okay.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
A business making tens of thousands of pounds from T-shirts is likely to involve manufacturing, a warehouse and people stuffing envelopes. Adam O'Connor, however, runs such a business from his home in Felixstowe, does none of the above, yet earns more than &pound;30,000 a year. He avoids the manufacturing and distribution of his T-shirts by using produce-on-demand services, primarily US firm CafePress, to do such work for him."I first started using CafePress as a hobby, to make T-shirts for myself," says O'Connor. That was in November 2001, while working as an apprentice programmer for BT. In June 2003, he resigned, and his former hobby became a full-time business.The attraction of CafePress, which has three million users, and other produce-on-demand services is that those providing designs do not risk paying for initial stock that may not sell. Instead, they upload their designs to a production company's website, which then provides the online shop for the resulting products. Only when someone orders and pays for that design does it get turned into a product: such companies specialise in producing and sending items in a few days.O'Connor has numerous designs, but focuses on personalisation, where buyers can choose what name follows "I" and a heart symbol, or "Team": the former is more popular in Britain, but the latter are his best-sellers, as they sell well in the US, where CafePress is most popular (cafepress.com).He also produces finished designs, using data from users' personalisation choices for ideas. Political T-shirts are big sellers in the US - CafePress says that it expects them to outsell humorous ones, its other major category, until the presidential election at the end of 2008 - and O'Connor produced "Vote for" designs for around 300 candidates standing in America's recent mid-term elections. His standard mark-up for T-shirts is $8 (&pound;4.10).O'Connor describes himself as a web developer and marketer rather than a designer. He doesn't pay to advertise within CafePress (although he pays for extra features within his online shops), but focuses on search engine optimisation. When someone types a word or phrase into a search engine for which he has a design, he wants to appear at the top of the resulting list: "Google is the place to be," he says. "If you're at the top, you will get the sales." This means taking care over page titles, headings and weblinks for those who link to your online shop, he says. He uses Google AdWords, the firm's sponsored search service, as well as T-shirt websites such ast-shirtcountdown.comandbuy-tees.com, which provide free and paid-for listings.Specific searchO'Connor says he promotes designs, not himself, as potential customers set out to look for very specific things. The page first reached from a targeted advert or link should be relevant, he says. "If you're going to sell a labrador T-shirt, you're not going to have alsation T-shirts as well," he says. Although he uses similar services including Zazzle.com and PrintFection.com, the vast majority of his business is through CafePress.CafePress also produces books printed on demand, but Samuel Blankson, a prolific London-based author, believes that US firm Lulu.com, which handles more than 90,000 titles at present, provides the best service. He started using Lulu after feeling his book on debt was not being promoted properly by the firm that published it in 2001. "Conventional publishers have heavy drawbacks," says Blankson. "Getting into one is very difficult as a first time writer, and it's not guaranteed that you will be treated with the attention given to an established writer."So Blankson rewrote and republished his book on Lulu as How to Destroy Your Debts. "The thing that attracted me to Lulu was, starting off as a small-time writer, you are taking a big risk. You don't know if it will be successful," he says. Printing on demand removes much of the financial risk: "You don't want to have 10,000 books in your garage - it would be very motivating, printing 10,000 books, but I don't like that kind of motivation."Blankson has since published more than 30 books - on finance, gambling, self-help and fiction - as well as his wife's music, which is available either as downloads or CDs (practicalbooks.org). The two of them run the business. Lulu says that books on IT, programming, children's books and poetry are other popular categories.The physical standard of Lulu's books - which for British readers are printed in either the UK or Spain - has improved, Blankson adds. "When I started with Lulu, the quality was slightly less than from a publisher; now they are as good or better than conventionally-printed titles."Blankson pays Lulu to act as the publisher of several of his books, providing an ISBN code and allowing sales by online booksellers. He says it pays to edit listings on Amazon rather than rely on the information provided by Lulu, and that a separate website to promote titles is also useful.Lulu can offer both physical and electronic versions of books, the latter being cheaper as there are no production or postage costs, although the author gets the same amount. "About half of the sales on Lulu are electronic," says Blankson. "I notice my non-fiction informational books sell more downloads, while my inspirational books are printed."Blankson acts as his own publisher for new titles, although he continues to use publish-on-demand printers. He says these are more suitable for experienced publishers, as unlike Lulu they charge fees for setting up and changing manuscripts.He currently makes slightly less than a third of his sales through Lulu, but says he will leave his existing titles on its system: "It's all to do with search engine optimisation - Lulu rates pretty highly. I get some free advertising and it costs me nothing."FactfileWhat does produce-on-demand cost?Unlike vanity book publishers, produce-on-demand services typically do not charge users to upload material and put it on sale, although they often have paid-for extra services. CafePress charges $4.99 a month for an enhanced online shop which can sell more than one design of a given product, while Lulu charges $99.95 to act as publisher, providing an ISBN and allowing online booksellers to stock it.CafePress charges a base price of $8.99 for its cheapest "value' T-shirt, with mugs and mouse mats starting at $10.99, plus international postage of $7 (all items are produced in the US). The designer sets the profit margin, and CafePress sends a US dollar cheque when profits reach a minimum of $25. UK banks will normally charge several pounds to cash each foreign cheque.Lulu charges $4.53 for a basic paperback plus two cents a page, so a 200-page book costs $8.53. Unlike CafePress, Lulu deals in sterling and euros: it will charge &pound;5.10 for this size of book, although it can be worth paying in dollars, as its exchange rate may well be worse than that of a credit card. A single book of this size will cost $6.80 to post to the UK (&pound;3.76 at Lulu's exchange rate).As with CafePress, the writer adds a profit margin, except Lulu keeps 20% or 19c, whichever is greater. The firm also sells downloadable versions of books, with no production or postage cost, to which the same commission applies. Lulu can make payments through the electronic PayPal system, with a minimum $5, which is likely to be a better option than US dollar cheques.Both firms offer a wide range of products: CafePress sells sweatshirts, caps, calendars, badges, bags, CDs and books, while Lulu offers brochures, calendars, photo-books, CDs, DVDs and downloads.
Fancy playing your PS2 games on your PS3? Good luck. Sony have announced the final European hardware spec for the PS3, complete with, "a new combination of hardware and software emulation". This will allow the PS3 to be compatible with a "broad range" of original PS1 games but only a "limited range" of PS2 titles. Looks like gamers waiting to play Okami and Final Fantasy XII on their PS3's may be out of luck, although we won't know for definite until Sony'sbackward compatibility siteis pushed live on launch day. Personally I've never been that bothered by backwards compatibility - look to the future and all that - but considering the general negativity surrounding the Euro launch - higher price, delay etc - the lack of full PS2 compatibility is another huge blunder that sums up the chaotic PS3 launch.The rest of the spec is as we expected with 60GB hard drive, built in wi-fi, Blu-ray etc. Read on for the full console spec.Product Name PLAYSTATION®3 Computer Entertainment System Product Codes Europe, Middle East and Africa: CECHC04 UK and Ireland: CECHC03 Australia/New Zealand: CECHC02 Russia/India: CECHC08CPU Cell Broadband Engine™ GPU RSX™ Audio Dolby Digital 5.1 ch, DTS 5.1 ch, LPCM 7.1 ch, AAC, others1,2 AAC Dolby 5.1ch, DTS, LPCM, etc. (Cell-base processing) Memory 256 MB XDR Main RAM, 256 MB GDDR3 VRAM Hard Disk HDD 2.5" Serial ATA - 60GB Inputs/Outputs3 USB 4 x Hi-speed USB2.0 Memory Stick™ slot Supports standard/Duo size, MagicGate™, Memory Stick PRO™ and high speed data transmission SD Memory Card slot Copyright-protection function is not supported CF slot (Type I, II), Microdrive Networking Ethernet (10BASE-T, 100BASE-TX, 1000BASE-T) x 1Wi-Fi IEEE 802.11 b/g Bluetooth Bluetooth 2.0 (EDR) Wireless Controller (Bluetooth) SIXAXIS™ Wireless Controller Built-in rechargeable Lithium-Ion battery Voltage - DC 3.7V Battery capacity - 610 m/Ah Weight - Approx 136g AV Output Resolution 576i, 576p, 720p, 1080i, 1080p HDMI HDMI (supports Deeep Color / Ver 1.3a) x1 Analog AV MULTI Out connector x 1 Digital audio Digital out (optical) connector x 1 Disc media * read only CD PlayStation® CD-ROM PlayStation®2 CD-ROM4 CD-DA (audio CD) CD-DA (ROM), CD-R, CD-RW Super Audio CD DVD PlayStation®2 DVD-ROM4DVD-Video DVD-ROM, DVD-R, DVD-RW, DVD+R, DVD+RW, AVCHD Blu-ray Disc PLAYSTATION®3 BD-ROM BD-Video BD-ROM, BD-R, BD-RE* *BD-RE version 1.0 is not supportedBD/DVD/CD drive maximum read rates BD x 2 (BD-ROM), DVD x 8 (DVD-ROM), CD x 24 (CD-ROM) Dimensions (excluding maximum projecting part) Approximately 325mm (W) x 98mm (H) x 274mm (D) Weight Approximately 5Kg
Experts predict that the iPhone will help break the smartphone market out into the mainstream - but despite Steve Jobs' claim that Apple's handset is five years ahead of its competitors, there are already plenty of interesting options available. Last week we looked at theBlackberry Pearland this week it's the turn of Palm's flagship.£££From freeThe blurbPalm is one of the companies with a lot to lose as the smartphone market starts to expand rapidly. In the past it was one of the biggest players in the PDA market, but it's already faced a pretty tough time over the last few years as Nokia, Blackberry and others take it outside.The Treo 750 is an attempt to bring the Treo brand - beloved of many hardcore biz-tech nerds - into a wider circulation and get some cash in the door. The company is attempting to appeal to more new users through its interface, using Windows Mobile instead of Palm OS to get things done.The statsThis candybar model runs Windows Mobile 5.0, and has wide-ranging network support - GPRS and 3G as well as EDGE for US customers. 128MB on board memory, with Mini SD slot for memory upgrades. Two inch 240 x 240 pixel screen, Bluetooth, 1.3 megapixel camera and full Qwerty keyboard. Weighs in at 154 grams.The testUsing the Treo was a doddle; setting up email accounts and using documents was easy and relatively intuitive. Browsing over 3G was a speedy and relatively enjoyable experience, and the touchscreen (although small) was responsive and well-defined. The software didn't crash once in the weeks I used it, and most applications worked smoothly.However, there were weaknesses. I found the reception quality patchy (I was using Vodafone, normally no problem) and sometimes when it lost connectivity completely I had to manually bring it back into the world rather than just let it get back on the network. Windows on board means that Mac support - traditionally terrible on Palm anyway - is now almost non-existent. And such a powerful device was let down a little by the lack of Wi-Fi connectivity.The most irritating thing, however, was the keyboard. I much prefer the Qwerty layout to the Blackberry's "two letters per key" system, but the Treo's keys were just too small and too close together, which lost it points and meant I had to use the touchscreen keypad. What it gains from being in candybar format it loses from trying to squeeze too much into the small body.Thumbs upSmooth, quick, generally well-designed and with the benefit of running Windows - Palm fans should be able to move on easily.Thumbs downKeyboard too tight for big hands, and a few behavioural tics mean it's not for everyone. Not as weighty as other comparable smartphones, however.
Guardian photographer extraordinaire Dan Chung took a look atCanon's new cameras yesterday- andhe was mightily impressed.I'm not saying it will do the job of the great photographer - you still need to compose and get yourself in the right place at the right time - however for many many jobs that I used to go on where you were stood amongst ranks of other photographers to get essentially the same shot, this camera would be a great leveler.The photographer has no reason to fail, especially with ten frames per second at your disposal.The OESD1Mk3, which comes in at $4,000, might not be cheap but it is probably going to become the weapon of choice for photojournalists - not least because its Wi-Fi pack essentially turns the camera into a server, which allows editors to log on to the camera and edit photos on it while the photographer is actually shooting.
With the mighty hulk's launch only a month away, Sony has revealed that the PlayStation 3 that is sold in Europe won't be the one that has been launched in the US and Japan. The company has reduced its costs by producing a new version with much worse compatibility with PlayStation 2 games.This is a bit of a pity considering the general lack of appeal of the PS3 launch titles.According to Sony Computer Entertainment Europe's president David Reeves (or so apress releaseclaims): "Rather than concentrate on PS2 backwards compatibility, in the future, company resources will be increasingly focused on developing new games and entertainment features exclusively for PS3, truly taking advantage of this exciting technology." Yeah, right.Perhaps he's worried by direct comparisonslike the one done by Gamespot, which found that "The Xbox 360 had better graphics in almost all the games we examined" and "generally offered better framerates too. "According to another press release from Datamonitor, the European version of the PS3 "removes the Emotion Engine chip and replaces it with software". (Update: The press release isquoted extensively in a Reuters story.)You have to wonder if, given the horrendous financial losses Sony is making on every box, removing one chip really makes all that much difference. Which makes it sound like desperation....Either way, bear in mind that whatever you know about the PS3's appearance and performance based on the US and Japanese launches may no longer be true.More details could appear today from UK journalists who went to a press launch yesterday evening. So far, I've only seena hostile blog post at PC Advisor, headed Sony's PlayStation 3 is an eyesore. It says:I've seen Sony's PlayStation 3 games console. It's too big and blocky, and it looks like a cheap and ancient VHS video recorder. Now, looks aren't everything, as my old mum always tells me, but if I'm to shell out the GDP of a small country on the last word in gaming chic, I don't want it to bring down property prices and stink out my living room with its tacky, fat visage.No doubt more PlayStation 3-oriented publications will have a different view.
