InternetNapster's backNapster unveiled its new service for the UK last week - and it is likely to tempt a few music fans to give digital music a go. While the old Napster helped kick-start net music piracy back in 1999, the new version is legal, offering more than 500,000 tracks for live streaming or download. Unlike rival services, the new Napster doesn't just sell you tracks for a one-off price. It also offers a subscription option; for &#163;9.95 a month you can get unlimited streams, or "tethered downloads", of the service's catalogue, which means if you stop your subscription, the tracks stop playing. To burn tracks to CD, or transfer to portable music devices, you have to pay extra. Despite that, Online's first go with the new service suggests it is the new front-runner in music services - and even the expected arrival of the iTunes Music Store later this year will struggle to shake that. The killer feature is that subscription encourages you to browse around the more esoteric corners of the catalogue - just as the old Napster did. If you have a PC and broadband, this could be a very good pick indeed.www.napster.co.ukSamsung's playerMeanwhile, Samsung has confirmed that its YH-920GS digital music player, right, which is designed to work seamlessly with the Napster music download service, will go on sale in early summer. The 20 gigabyte hard disk-based player integrates with the Napster 2.0 client, enabling users to transfer its Windows Media format tracks to the YH-920GS via a USB 2.0 connection. The YH-920GS, which is a similar size to Apple's iPod and weighs slightly less, plays MP3 files as well as WMA ones. Other features include an FM radio tuner and direct MP3 recording from CD players/hi-fi systems. Battery life is rated at 10 hours. It is expected to retail for around &#163;300.www.samsung.co.ukwww.napster.co.ukAll connectedAs of last week, 90% of Britons were connected to an ADSL broadband- enabled telephone exchange. To encourage use, AOL announced an unlimited usage 256 kilobits per   second (kbps) service for &#163;19.99, with no connection charge, starting next month. BT is waiving its &#163;80 connection charge to its capped usage 512 kbps service, costing &#163;19.99 a month, until July 20: subscribers also get one return flight, paying only taxes, to their choice of 11 US and European cities. And Nildram launched two 512kbps services, with either a time or data limit, for &#163;19.49 a month, although users must pay for a modem and a &#163;58.75 connection fee."&gt;www.aol.co.ukwww.bt.com/btbroadbandwww.nildram.net/dslsurf500.htmYou've blocked mailMicrosoft is combining its plans for authenticating email with what was previously a rival scheme. The plans aim to tackle spam and forgery by looking for mail that fakes the address it is from.   Domain owners will electronically publish information about their outgoing email servers, such as internet protocol addresses, allowing email apparently from them to be authenticated. Such techniques could allow ISPs to block "phishing" emails that claim to be from banks, tricking customers into giving away their security codes. But they can also block legitimate email from those operating their own domain name through a redirection service.Video recorderPrivate viewBritish company Fusion is to debut a personal video recorder that connects not only to PCs but can also record programmes directly from a TV. Users can transfer video in MPeg2 or MPeg4 formats to the Fusion PPVR in the traditional way via a PC or by hooking the device up to one of the company's digital TV decoders. The device, which sports a backlit LCD screen, features a 20GB hard disk, which Fusion claims can store up to 40 hours of video. The company has also recently unveiled a digital terrestrial hard disk-based video recorder, digital TV decoders and a range of LCD TVs.www.fusiondigitec.comTelevisionVisionary qualityWhile Europe continues to wait for the arrival of high definition broadcast TV services, Intel is propos ing that an alternative could be to deliver high quality video and audio signals direct to home via broadband internet connections. At a press conference in Cannes last week, it used an ultra quick WiMax (802.16) 70Mbps connection to distribute pictures and sound from the movie Russian Ark to a range of screens. The company claimed the images had 720 lines of resolution, compared with the current British PAL digital standard of 576 lines. It also hinted that WiMax technology could be incorporated into PCs from 2006/2007.A step on from Wi-Fi, WiMax has the potential to offer ultra fast wireless broadband over a radius of 30 miles from a transmitter.www.intel.co.ukDigital camerasUnder a tonA newcomer to the digital camera market, Goodmans is set to become the first maker to offer a three megapixel camera for under &#163;100.   Due in the stores next week, the G-Shot 3021Z boasts a 3x optical and 2x digital zoom, features a 1.6in TFT LCD screen and has 32MB of memory. Later in the summer, Goodmans will also debut a competitively priced five megapixel camera and two and three megapixel snappers with integrated MP3 players. Also due in a few months is the GPDR1, a handheld personal video recorder with 288MB of storage (enough for two hours of MPeg4 video) and a range of entertainment-centric PCs.www.goodmans.co.ukSmartphoneSmart SagemSagem is the latest company to offer a mobile that uses Microsoft's Windows Mobile software for smartphones. Due in the UK in the summer on an as yet unspecified network (it is available via Orange in parts of Europe), the Sagem MY-S7 is slightly smaller than Orange's SPV smartphone, and includes a very similar 64K colour display. It features a VGA (video graphics array) still camera with a digital zoom, MPeg 4 video capture and playback and Java as well as Microsoft applications such as Outlook, Pocket Explorer and Windows Media Player. The phone has 32MB storage built in, which can be expanded via its SD/MMC card slot.www.sagem.comStat of the week:Virgin Mobile tops the tableThe happiest mobile phone customers in the country belong to Virgin Mobile, according to a new survey by JD Power and Associates. Their research quizzed mobile users on everything from call quality and coverage to customer service, handsets and image.
Success comes at a price for any business, as increasing workloads cause overheads to spiral. Controlling costs is particularly important for Forest YMCA, in Walthamstow, because its primary aim is to funnel as much of its hard-won funds into good works and not into administration costs. As a volunteer IT director for Forest, James Nicola was facing a crisis: the charity's success was being compromised by the aging hardware and software under his control. The only answer was to rip out the old system."I can't emphasise enough how outdated our systems were. We were still running our accounts on a DOS-based system, even though the manufacturer went bust three or four years ago. The rest of the organisation was being run on spreadsheets and &#91;Microsoft&#93; Access databases. Our annual budget for maintenance was &#163;200,000 and my challenge was to upgrade the system while reducing these costs," Nicola explained.His first move was to bring in strategic IT adviser Joseph Thompson, from JNA Consulting, to help plan the new architecture and migrate the legacy data across. His main brief was to find a software   base that was easy to use, did not require a substantial networking infrastructure and offered predictable annual costs. "I looked at software packages from SAP, Siebel and Great Plains," he said. "Although licensing was predictable, they all needed upgrading and patching from time to time - and that made the annual costs less predictable. Then I discovered a US company called NetSuite."NetSuite is an independent company launched by Evan Goldberg and Oracle's chief executive, Larry Ellison. Its main directive is to develop Oracle Small Business Suite, and it has created its own NetSuite financials and enterprise resource planning (ERP) packages to target medium-sized businesses. Its main income is derived from its role as an application service provider (ASP), offering all these packages as an online service over the internet. The service is hosted in California, but the software has been localised for the British market, including local taxation such as automated generation of VAT returns."NetSuite seemed like a perfect solution," said Nicola. "I could set up a much smaller network based on Windows 2003 Server System. This runs Microsoft Office and provides a broadband link to access NetSuite.   Apart from managing the finances, this also allows Forest YMCA to control costs and target fundraising efforts more accurately."There are 148 YMCAs in the UK, providing community services aimed at promoting personal growth for young people. They are non-profit-making charities, and much of their funding comes from government   grant schemes. Services include providing support and housing for homeless young people, childcare facilities and fitness centres.Forest has also gained a sleeker management system for its special projects. Nicola illustrates this by explaining the complexities of setting up a youth trip to the New Forest. "Lists of the attendees had to be cre ated on a spreadsheet, mailed to the centre in the New Forest to show who had paid and who had yet to pay. The spreadsheet was then returned with details of no-shows and payments received at the centre. The process was slow and inefficient. Now we can reduce the time taken ... because the centre can access our NetSuite account directly just using a browser."Nicola and Thompson agreed to test the system in January using eight seats in the finance department. "After six weeks, we were so impressed we expanded it to 250 users. The work was completed overnight."Teresa Jones, senior research analyst at the Butler Group research company, says: "Forest YMCA is tackling the kind of problems a lot of SMEs have. If James Nicola's estimate that his IT overheads will be reduced from &#163;220,000 to &#163;90,000 prove true, it's a compelling argument for ASPs. The ASP model used to cost an arm and a leg, but the new models are more moderately priced."Although quite impressed with the new-style ASP, Jones has reservations about online services. Access may not always be possible if the ASP or the link to the internet service provider breaks down. "Any service level agreement has to account for bad response times or the unavailability of the service. NetSuite offers a month's refund if it falls below its 99.5% uptime promise, but how much would such a failure cost the company?"Nicola feels it is worth the risk because an internally networked solution is liable to fail at some point and could take longer to fix than an external service. He reckons the advantages outweigh the dangers."Because we had to migrate data, we had a spreadsheet amnesty that uncovered information we didn't know we had," he adds. "One had 2,500 lines of data from a gym recording weight, blood pressure and vital statistics of clients. Such information was easy to bring into NetSuite - even though it wasn't designed for the purpose. We now have single records for all our clients and that makes management easier as well as improving our services to them."
In the opening chapter of The Cluetrain Manifesto, co-author Christopher Locke laid bare the consequences for big business (and big media) of the arrival of the internet. He described the typical pre-internet American household, one of millions sat in front of a TV set every night, passively watching pictures and isolated from every other household.The internet changed things by connecting all those households together. Locke wrote: "Then, during a touching love scene, some joker lobs an off-color aside - and everybody hears it... The audience is suddenly connected to itself."The Manifesto set sparks flying among the internet community when it first appeared online in April 1999. Its 95 theses were a direct challenge to the business world. "Markets are conversations," the first stated. Wise up, corporations. Your customers are talking to each other, and laughing. At you.Thanks to the internet, people were now able to communicate with one another - comparing products, prices and services - faster than corporations could churn out press releases. The interconnected market was fast becoming smarter and more adaptable. In a business environment dominated by marketing campaigns and press releases, there were real people connecting to one another, holding conversations inside and outside the accepted edges of their organisations. The implication was that the wise company chairman or chief executive had to take swift action to free up these human voices. A clued-up company would engage in the online discussion, not ignore it.Five years on from the publication of the Manifesto as a website (and following its successful metamorphosis into a book, which, cleverly, the authors made available free online), what has changed? Is the business world showing any more signs of having a clue?Fundamental to the Manifesto was the idea that online communication is between real people - individuals with humour, sarcasm and an ability to spot insincerity a mile away. A person with a human voice speaking from within a company would have far more impact on that company's reputation than a multimillion dollar public relations campaign, the Manifesto said.And the newly interconnected consumer millions would flock to speak to those solitary individuals, deliberately steering away from the PR and the advertising. Companies had to relinquish some, if not all, control of their carefully fostered   image, and let their employees talk directly to the public.Doc Searls, one of the four co-authors (the others were Rick Levine, Chris Locke and David Weinberger), says he thinks Cluetrain has been an ongoing success since it launched, at least in terms of spreading the idea of "cluefulness".It started out as a conversation between Searls and Locke. "I remember one conversation with Chris Locke in which we were doing our usual complaining about how little the mainstream press understood what was really happening with the net," Searls says. Too many companies saw internet users as "eyeballs" to be "captured", just like TV viewers, a concept both Searls and Locke knew to be short-sighted at best.Searls continues: "At some point, I shared with Chris my informal theory   of marketing, which went like this: 1) Markets are conversations; and 2) Conversations are fire. Therefore, 3) Marketing is arson."Chris said, 'Why don't we test the theory?' What we did with Cluetrain, basically, was set some fires. In terms of that objective, it was a success, and it continues to succeed."So five years on, where are the clueful companies? Searls admits that examples of large businesses with a clue are few and far between. That said, Apple's direct retail outlets where   customers can bring in a broken computer to have it looked at by an expert are one "highly clueful" move.Microsoft, too, has adopted some clueful strategies. Searls points out the 500 or so Microsoft employees who maintain public weblogs, especially the Channel 9 sitewww.channel9.msdn.com, where the developers of Longhorn, the next version of Windows, engage outsiders in their conversations.Searls cites a small list of companies-with-clue: Southwest Airlines and MeetUp.com. Politicians, he says, have listened more than business leaders. "The Howard Dean presidential campaign, for example, was directly influenced by Cluetrain. So was the Wesley Clark campaign. Now, some of the same people involved in those campaigns are with John Kerry. I'm told by insiders that, in spite of   the highly top-down nature of the Bush campaign, many Cluetrain principles are also applied there, too."Google is perhaps the most obvious clue-holder, with its corporate maxim "Don't be evil", its brand new corporate weblog and its all-round fluffy, friendly image.Weinberger agrees. Google, he says, has done many things right, including "talking to users as though they are actual people". But clueful thinking has seeped into popular culture without our realising it, he says. Many businesses on the internet have a clue, even if they don't know it.He says: "It has now become commonplace for large and small companies to have customer forums, to allow customers to support customers, or to allow customers to rate and review products. This was not usual five years ago."He also cites the influence of the Cluetrain on American politics. "One thing that helped Howard Dean at the start was that he hired a weblogger for the campaign. You've never had that kind of voice in a political campaign before."We have had the candidate's voice and the press officer's voice, but now we had a blogger, and the appeal was that the blogger spoke off-message. Here was someone who spoke 'for' the campaign, not 'as' the campaign."Weblogs, says Weinberger, are the unexpected proof of the Cluetrain's central idea that people are drawn to the internet because it gives everyone a voice. The only thing that prevents more companies setting up more employee-controlled weblogs is the fear of litigation. "There are genuine issues of legal accountability that need to be sorted out," Weinberger says.Could The Cluetrain Manifesto do with updating now?Weinberger candidly admits that he can't even remember all of it (honesty is a clueful trait), then adds: "One thing I knew was wrong when we posted it was the thesis 'forget about advertising'. Advertising is not dead. But the thing the internet adds is the ability to undo some of the damage being done to the lower levels of our brains by advertising. We can find out in an instant if the ads are untrue."
The government has picked the  UK boss of the management consultancy Accenture, Ian Watmore, as its first head of e-government.Mr  Watmore will replace the current e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, and take responsibility for continuing the government's drive to deliver public services online more efficiently, a task started by Mr Pinder four years ago.Tony Blair said he was "delighted" that Mr Watmore would be taking up "a pivotal role ensuring IT supports the ... transformation of government itself so we can provide better, more efficient public services". Mr Watmore  will be accountable to Douglas Alexander, minister for the Cabinet Office, and report to the cabinet secretary Sir Andrew Turnbull.The government claims that 71% of its services are now available online as a result of the work of the office of the e-envoy. The new e-government unit will replace the four-year-old office of the e-envoy, Mr Alexander said.Mr Watmore said he was looking forward to starting his new job in September."The head of e-government is one of the biggest and most challenging IT   positions in the UK today. Douglas Alexander and Sir Andrew Turnbull have set a   formidable challenge in not only driving up use of government services online   but also driving change, reform and efficiencies throughout the public sector by   using IT."Mr Watmore will have 16 months to achieve the government's stated target of getting all public services online by the end of next year. Among the tasks the new e-government head will face are implementing the technology behind the government's proposed  identity card scheme, pushing forward the £5bn NHS national programme for IT and finding a contractor to handle the IT for the multibillion pound defence information infrastructure, which will bring together the computer systems of the three armed services and the Ministry of Defence.A recent e-government survey - carried out by Accenture, Ian Watmore's current employer - ranked the UK joint ninth among  22 nations. The report concluded the UK had "made limited progress in its e-government programme last year", slipping one place, from eighth to ninth, in the rankings. However, it goes on to note: "Upcoming changes in leadership and  organisation, the expected enhancements of a  customer-focused citizen portal, and additional  planned initiatives focused on driving internet  awareness and usage among the population  should make the United Kingdom one of the most  interesting e-government programs to watch over  the next 12 months."
Welcome to Onlineblog, from the team that brings you the Guardian's Online section every week.Onlineblog was started in November 2001, although we'd been writing about weblogs since 1999 in the newspaper, and this is version three, for those who are counting. The latest revision means that the site, once stuck on its own little server, isolated from the rest of the Guardian on the web, is now part of the Guardian Unlimited network. We're running on aMovable Typeplatform now, although we usedBloggerfor the first two and a half years.Who's who? There's Jack Schofield, the Guardian's computer editor for many a year, who posts lots here. There's also Bobbie Johnson, Online's deputy editor - and before that Neil McIntosh, who is now assistant editor of Guardian Unlimited. And we're also joined by Victor Keegan, Online's editor and the Guardian's assistant editor.We are all interested in your comments, and tips. If you want to contact any of us - to give us a tip, complain about something, vent your spleen or anything else - then the email's pretty simple: firstname dot lastname at Guardian dot co dot uk (sorry, but we get quite enough spam... I'm sure you can work out the addresses).On that subject, please send press releases to online at guardian dot co dot uk. Thanks.Want to create your own weblog? Check out ourweblogs special report, which has reviews of all the best blogging tools, and features on the trend. We also link to some of Britain's best weblogs, if you're looking for inspiration.
A "survey released Tuesday by San Mateo, Calif.-based market research firm Vividence found that Google's results vary little from those found on other search sites. In addition, despite the search king's continued success in attracting customers, its users are less likely to click on advertisements listed on its site," reportsCNet."To gather their results, researchers at Vividence surveyed and monitored 2,000 individuals as they interacted with search engine sites, including Google, Ask Jeeves, Lycos, Microsoft's MSN and Yahoo. The company found that Google clearly remains consumers' favorite, largely because of the search engine's less-cluttered interface. In fact, Vividence said almost 90 percent of Google users reported having a 'strongly positive experience,' while only 68 percent of users said the same of Yahoo, 50 percent for Ask Jeeves, 48 percent for Lycos and 41 percent for MSN."
"Ever greater weight loss - rather than a chance to battle bigger monsters - is one goal for players of Yourself!Fitness, a video game under development for Microsoft's Xbox. The new title, aimed at women, features a computer-generated personal trainer who guides users through a customized set of exercises and diets," reportsThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."Players must reach certain goals to advance to the next level. The program creates a fitness plan for each person based on height, weight and other characteristics. The game's virtual coach, Maya, then guides users through a subset of 600 possible exercises, congratulating and encouraging them when they achieve their goals."Later in the piece, it says: "After the game's release this fall, the company expects to make a Sony Playstation version available at the end of the year, and to sell an Xbox Live version in 2005 that will let participants use a wireless headset to talk to each other during the game.'Users will be able to create an online community to discuss each other's accomplishments and chat while working out,' Mr. Spooner said. 'This will be a virtual gym.'"
"Officials at Carnegie Mellon University are excited about a graduate student who has developed a robot capable of doing origami — the traditional Japanese art of folding paper to make figures or sculptures," reportsAP."Matthew Mason, a professor of computer science and robotics, thought building such a robot would be so daunting that he didn't encourage Devin Balkcom's plans to do so in January 2003. But today, Balkcom has a robot that can make paper airplanes and hats and is scheduled to earn his doctorate with the project in August."
The government has a new front door on the internet. The portalwww.direct.gov.uklast month formally replaced its predecessor, ukonline, as the official first port of call for information on public services across all parts of government. Douglas Alexander, minister for the Cabinet Office, says that, over time, the site "aims to become the first destination for people accessing government electronically".Yet plans for adding the single most important source of e-services, local government, remain unclear. According to an online poll byUKauthorITy.com, nine out of 10 respondents did not believe Directgov's development had taken account of local services. "Seventy per cent of public-to-government contact is at the local level," says one respondent. "Why start centrally?"Another respondent, Nigel Hannam, head of e-services at Surrey county council, welcomes the introduction of Directgov as an improvement in citizen access to government services. But he is "disappointed in the lack of local authority involvement with Directgov, particularly as a number of local authorities offered the Office of the e-Envoy (OEE) their active involvement early on in the project."Given the number of citizen transactions that are processed by local authorities compared with central government, it's crucial that local authority information is fully integrated," Hannam says.His sentiments are echoed by the e-government officer of a district council, who feels the development has "followed the same route as ukonline. Create the site and then work out how to get local authorities to contribute... the last time I asked, they had no idea how local content could be presented on Directgov."The OEE's plan for putting local content on Directgov is for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, one of several central government departments holding "franchises" on the portal, to provide information under the category "local environment".Yet alternative models, such as syndicating central government sites to the local authority site, appear not to have been considered even though most services to citizens are provided through local government.Lack of local information on the site has even raised questions about the value of a national web portal at all. "A nationally managed portal cannot hope to engage the public with items of interest to them week in, week out," says Alan Huff, principal consultant at Socitm Consulting. "Directgov is therefore only of secondary interest to the public for the very few times a year, if any, when they wish to contact government at any level unprompted."Nowadays, most web users looking for a government service would go first to a search engine. A Google search for "tax credit", for example, puts the Inland Revenue's website at the top of the list.TheUKauthorITy.comsurvey also showed concern at local government level over the potential waste of money and effort through lack of coordination and direction with central e-government initiatives."Having had funding from Local Government OnLine to develop several portal websites with partnership working across local government, it seems a huge overhead to repeat that information centrally," says one survey respondent. "Why not just link to the various existing portals, and then mop up directly those authorities that are not part of a portal?"Another comments: "If a central site is to be used, I feel a lot of the work I have been doing recently may be wasted. There are too many initiatives launched without enough preparatory work and local governments don't know which route to go down. We either all use Directgov or we continue developing local websites which reflect local news and knowledge, not just government issues."The OEE, shortly to become the Office of the Head of e-Government, says Directgov is based on what citizens want. "Citizens' involvement has driven the development, design and content of Directgov," it says.A poll this March of 100 internet users found that "four in five users think Directgov gives convenient access to public services and information, and nine out of 10 users said they are likely to use Directgov in the future", according to a spokeswoman.More services are to be added to Directgov over the coming months, she says. "We are working very closely with a number of local authorities and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to ensure there is more local content. Those who live in Somerset, Merseyside, South Yorkshire, West Yorkshire and Kent are now able to obtain further information about local services through Directgov on digital TV." Despite these assurances, no schedule has been set for the addition of local content on Directgov.Local government, in all its many and varied incarnations, is not the same as a government agency; the sector's complexity needs to be reflected in any development model for a central portal. An opportunity has been missed in not including people from local government on the steering group for Directgov.But as the chief customer services officer in a London borough puts it: "When has 'government' as said by a civil servant ever meant to include local authorities?"WeblinksGovernment portal giving details of public services:www.direct.gov.ukCabinet Office:www.cabinet-office.gov.ukNews and information for local e-government:www.UKauthorITy.com
Andrew Snellgrove opens his laptop and logs on to the City of Westminster's wireless network. On the screen appears a video image of a group of suspicious-looking men loitering in Soho Square.The camera zooms in: it turns out to be us. Snellgrove, Westminster's network manager, is controlling a street CCTV camera through a wireless network covering Soho.Police have already used the wireless cameras, which produce evidence-quality footage, to catch street drug dealers. "Before wireless, we were constrained by telecom carriers," says Snellgrove. "Installing a new optical fibre took between three and six months. Now if the police say a camera is in the wrong place, we can redeploy it within 24 hours."But law enforcement is only one part of Westminster's business case for creating a "wireless city", a borough-wide network of hotspots.Although the system allows CCTV images to be called up anywhere on the council's network, it was originally conceived to keep tabs on noisy clubs. Wireless technology allows the council to set up noise monitors wherever they're needed to act on nuisances as they happen.The network also enables the council's 1,400 mobile workers, from city guardians to environmental health officers, to call up information and file reports from their personal digital assistants as they go about their tasks.The council's leader, Simon Milton, describes a wireless Westminster as "potentially one of the most exciting developments in Westminster's history". Apart from improving the effectiveness of community education and social services, it will "help us maintain low taxes through the savings that the scheme can offer".While Westminster may be unique in setting up its own Wi-Fi network, it is not alone in its enthusiasm for mobile technology. Dozens of other councils are piloting the use of laptop computers and other devices, communicating with head office through a variety of radio technologies. Staff using mobile technology range from home care workers to street wardens to housing managers.Many, if not most, of these pilots have received a kick- start with money from central government. IT suppliers are also keen to get on board: Westminster was able to do deals with Cisco, Intel and Telindus and other firms keen to demonstrate their latest kit.The big question now is whether mobile technology pilots can be turned into full-scale deployments, funded from a council's own resources. To do this, councils need to prove that investing in mobile terminals, wireless communications and training people to use them is a better use of taxpayers' money than spending the same money directly on services.Up to now, most pilots have been about proving that mobile technology is usable in frontline public services. "A lot of pilot projects are really around establishing that the technology can work," says David Olney of Fujitsu Services."They also tend to be testing a new front end on an existing solution." In other words, the pilots are testing new ways of inputting data, rather than changing a service in a way that might save money."We have half a dozen pilots in local authorities. Only one has been through a business case calculation." The real sav ings, he says, will come when mobile technology allows staff to do more than one job. Finding ways to make this possible is one of the goals of Project Nomad, one of 24 national projects set up by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to develop the tools and techniques necessary for local e-government.Nomad has five core streams of work being carried out by half a dozen councils. But the first "deliverable" will be a set of rules for creating a robust business case for mobile technology. It will be released as a beta version for testing by local authorities, who will feed back their expe riences for a final version to be published this autumn, says Ian Laughton, of Cambridgeshire county council, one of the authorities leading Nomad.The business case provides a systematic methodology for tracking the costs (the easy bit), identifying the benefits (harder) and ensuring that they are turned into cash savings (the hardest bit).Laughton says that the business case for mobile computing should be easy to prove compared with, say, customer-relationship management (CRM) systems."I've yet to see a business case for CRM that actually had real tangible benefits in reasonable time frames. Mobile tends to have that slightly chunkier edge of real cash savings," he says.Benefits from mobile technology should include direct savings such as reduced mileage costs - staff don't   need to travel back to the office to fill in their forms. There are also indirect costs, such as reducing the need for office space. Equipping benefits officers with mobile terminals can also reduce the level of opportunistic fraud: claimants are less likely to falsify information if they believe the officer can check "the system".Improving the quality of service can in itself save money, for example, in dealing quickly with abandoned cars.But nearly everyone agrees the real savings and justification for mobile technology will come only when councils change how they do business.One of the Nomad workstreams will test how mobile terminals can help councils cross traditional job boundaries. Laughton says there are many opportunities for such cross-overs without treading on professional toes."During a housing benefit assessment, for example, an issue on housing repairs may come up. You don't have to be an expert in housing repairs to see that the toilet isn't working and kick off the business process for getting it repaired."However, packing a user-friendly system for multi-tasking into a hand-held terminal is not a trivial matter. Among the technical problems being tackled by Nomad are those of integrating with "back office" systems and for switching a single device screen between its main role and a secondary role.Yet while multi-tasking will improve the quality of public services, it may not in itself save hard money. That is, unless it is used for e-government's great unmentionable - cutting staff."It can only be turned into big savings if your salary costs   are cut. That's the real crunch," says Olney.So far, few authorities have bitten this bullet. When rolling out mobile technology, local authorities need the cooperation of frontline staff. That is unlikely to happen if the new gadgets are seen as a way of removing them from a job.One solution would be to base business cases more holistically across the whole public service. For example, a hospital A&amp;E department may benefit from a local authority giving hand-held terminals to care workers and thereby cutting the number of emergencies.Should the hospital also contribute to the cost? At the moment, that is difficult to envisage, even though it is the sort of measure supposedly called for in Sir Peter Gershon's review of Whitehall. In the long run, says Olney, "joined-up government needs joined-up business cases".In the meantime, he says pilots continue to have a role. "People still need to try it out, to test user adaptation as well as the technology." Many questions have to be answered about the most suitable devices for each application, about how often they must be replaced, about the reliability of radio communications and integrating mobile terminals with back-office systems.But, increasingly, local authorities will have to get interested in the economics. "There's been money around, which means councils have been able to take a flier," says Laughton. That can't go on."We're very concerned that you don't set up anything that is not sustainable after 2005 or 2006. Hopefully, Nomad will show that local authorities are serious about getting into mobile computing."WeblinksProject Nomad:www.projectnomad.org.ukWestminster city council:www.westminster.gov.uk
In theory, government websites are supposed to identify themselves with the domain name "gov.uk". Yet several more creative government sites, generally aimed at young people, go to some lengths to disguise who runs and funds them.The official drugs advisory site,www.talktofrank.com, celebrates its first anniversary this week. It has received 1.5m visits over the year, with traffic now running at 40,000 visits a week.The site is a key part of the "Frank" campaign, a rebranding of the national drugs helpline. The site's core message is: "Drugs are illegal. Talking about them isn't." It attempts to provide facts about drugs in young people's language. "Too much sniffing speed and you're sneezing lumps out of your nose into a hanky," for example.The site disguises its origins by adopting the ".com" domain rather than ".gov.uk". In the small print it calls itself "an independent government-funded website", but nowhere does it mention the Home Office, which runs the project.Frank works in parallel with a helpline (0800 776600) and handles more than 3,000 emails a month. A link also appears on the drugs page of the government portalwww.direct.gov.uk."Frank has gained a credible reputation as the no-nonsense, non-judgmental source of help for young people (and their parents) to talk to about drugs," the Home Office says. This year, Frank's big challenge was to get over the message that cannabis is still illegal following its downgrading. The Home Office claims success: "Ninety-three per cent of 14- to 17-year-olds surveyed are clear that cannabis is illegal."Frank's coy approach to its origins is similar to that ofwww.playingsafely.co.uk, funded by the Department of Health to provide information on sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). The site invites people to "play the sex lottery" by picking from a gallery of pictures with captions such as "Who's got an iffy stiffy?" and "Scratch my box". Winners receive a virtual dose of one of 25 STDs. A "hide this site now" panic button is available if colleagues or parents appear.The teenage sex website,www.ruthinking.co.uk, run by the Stationery Office, is part of the Sexwise campaign, run by the Department of Health.By contrast, the Department for Transport's road safety website, Hedgehogs, proudly sports its ".gov.uk" domain (www.hedgehogs.gov.uk). However, it does not identify the civil servant who came up with its new lyrics to Stayin' Alive: "Well you can tell by the way I cross the road/That I've learnt all my green cross code."
Central government has softened the tone of e-government "outcomes" expected from local authorities after strong opposition from councils. Authorities have to show progress towards these outcomes to qualify for the final round of funding for e-government. They include requirements for councils to procure goods electronically, to answer emails within one working day, and to make transport timetables available on the internet.Proposed measures, which are known as "priority outcomes", were drawn up by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to define what e-enabled councils should look like. Yet council IT chiefs said the draft outcomes, published last December, amounted to a new set of government targets. Launching the final outcomes last month, Phil Hope, the e-government minister, denied setting new targets. Rather, the measures are "a useful framework for knowing where you want to go". He also denied changing the outcomes as a result of pressure. "We got it right the first time, and negotiated around the margins."The final document spells out which electronic services should be available in seven areas of public service, including schools, transport and education. However, now only the first tier of "required" outcomes has to be met by all councils. To qualify for the higher tier labels of "good" or "excellent", authorities have to meet a more stringent set of outcomes. In the priority area "democratic renewal", for example, the "required" outcome is for all councils to put council meeting minutes online and update them daily, and to provide every councillor with    "easy-to-manage ... public web pages".To qualify as "good", councils must consult citizens electronically, including alerting them by email and/or text on matters of interest. To qualify as "excellent", councils have to prove that citizens are taking part electronically and are satisfied with the process. The local government IT managers' association, Socitm, which was highly critical of the draft measures, welcomed the change. Glyn Evans, head of the information-age government group, described the new outcomes as "more achievable" and more flexible in taking account of local needs.www.odpm.gov.uk
A web portal enabling people to plan journeys by public transport is running a year behind schedule, the government admits.Transport Direct is due to go live this summer, transport minister Kim Howells told Parliament last week, rather than the target date of 2003.The project has a high political profile because it is one of a handful of e-services promised when Tony Blair set out Britain's most recent e-targets in November 2002.Blair said: "Direct will provide travel information linking trains, buses and taxi connections to improve public transport as an integrated system."Development of the site finished on schedule last November, said Howells. The delays are caused by the need to integrate with "12 remote journey planners, three retailers and several real-time travel information providers" and to test the results. Operating information from the whole network and 40% of the bus network has been put in place.Howells said that the portal will allow people to plan journeys using different modes of transport.
News.comclaims Microsoft is behind a $12m payment to Opera, rival makers of web browsing software, after the Norwegian company alleged Microsoft deliberately broke its MSN web portal so it didn't display correctly on Opera browsers (a storypreviously covered on Onlineblog). Neither company will comment, on the record, with Opera's Hakon Lie saying only: "We forwarded a few facts to a big international corporation and settled before we took legal action. This resolves an issue very close to my heart."The interesting thing, as noted by the News.com story, is that Internet Explorer delivers the web to more than nine in ten internet users. Yet, in development terms, it is going nowhere (a subject taken up in this Thursday's letters column in Online, btw)."While the Opera payment is relatively tiny, it underscores ongoing ripple effects in the browser market that stem from the overwhelming dominance of Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Having used its desktop operating system monopoly to help trounce its primary rival Netscape, Microsoft has effectively abandoned significant browser development efforts. That's left companies with negligible market share such as Opera and Netscape's Mozilla open-source project to lead innovation in the field.[...] Microsoft has remained largely silent about its long-range browser development plans. "
When Onlineblog first launched, back inNovember 2001, it was all a bit experimental.We saw blogging as a great way to write about the things we were thinking about, but couldn't express in the limited, formal space of the print section. We hoped we might get a little feedback, start something of a conversation. Little did we know what it would kick off...But back then, we couldn't do Onlineblog on Guardian Unlimited for a host of perfectly sensible technical reasons. So we did as we suggested our readers do: we opened a Blogger.com account, hired some server space, hacked something together, and launched.The site has not changed much since. We had a revamp in late 2002, which tied us a little more closely with the new Online channel on Guardian Unlimited. But we were still using Blogger on that rented server, and this page is still something cobbled together by me using borrowed code and some bits of string. It's been hugely rewarding for us to do, but it has been ready to move to the next level for a long time now.So it's with some excitement that I can say, finally, this week (and don't make me promise exactly when), we're becoming a proper part of the Guardian Unlimited network. It means we're going to do some uncool things – like asking you to redirect bookmarks to new URL, and re-point RSS readers to a new home – but we think the benefits will outweigh the temporary inconvenience.The site's going to look a lot better, for a start – like a regular GU site. It'll be more visible to more readers, and a more integrated part of what we do in print and online. It'll be running on a properly maintained network, with backup and lots of bandwidth, using Movable Type (finally!). We'll have categories, and a good archive search.And, best of all, it'll herald the start of a new experiment with blogging at Guardian Unlimited, as we begin to explore the forms of journalism this technology makes possible. There's much more to come on this front, I promise.But that's for later. In the meantime, we're really excited by the move, and hope you'll join us in our new home later this week. Things will continue as normal here until the move – but bear with us if the packing boxes get in the way. And if we're still here at the weekend… well, you know how troublesome these things can be...
"Linus Torvalds and Linux 2.6 kernel maintainer Andrew Morton have announced a new way of tracking contributions to Linux: the Developer's Certificate of Origin," reportseWeek.In a statement, Torvalds said: "This process improvement makes Linux even stronger. We've always had transparency, peer review, pride and personal responsibility behind our open source development method. With the DCO, we're trying to document the process. We want to make it simpler to link submitted code to its contributors. It's like signing your own work."
"When I turned on my computer today and opened Mail, all of the email had disappeared from 1 of the mailboxes," says Nathan on theApple Discussions (Panther)andSpymacboards. It's probably nothing significant but you can't have too many back-ups of your e-mail. This is good advice for Windows users, too....
"The Department of Homeland Security is on the verge of awarding the biggest contract in its young history for an elaborate system that could cost as much as $15 billion and employ a network of databases to track visitors to the United States long before they arrive," reportsThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."The contract, which will probably be awarded in coming days to one of three final bidders, is already generating considerable interest as federal officials try to improve significantly their ability to monitor those who enter at more than 300 border-crossing checkpoints by land, sea and air, where they are going and whether they pose a terrorist threat."
It may be better known as the purveyor of grunge style and ethnic throws to Britain's student population. But Oxfam is about to reach the cutting edge of digital technology by becoming the first charity to launch its own music download site with backing from Coldplay and George Michael.The charity, which is already strongly linked to music through the patronage of musicians such as Coldplay's Chris Martin, has teamed up with download company OD2 to launch BigNoiseMusic.com.OD2, the white-label download service co-founded by former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel, will provide the technology and licensing for the service.Tracks will cost from 75p each, with 10p from every pound spent on the site going to Oxfam. If the service is a success it is likely to lead to other charities launching their own download services.OD2, which provides the technology that lies behind sites such as MyCokeMusic.com and those from Tiscali and MSN, has licensed a library of 300,000 tracks.It recently announced that over 1 million legal downloads were sold in Europe in the first quarter of this year. That number is expected to rise sharply throughout 2004 with the launch of more new services.BigNoiseMusic.com will also feature exclusive tracks from the likes of Coldplay and George Michael, who said recently that in future he would release all of his music over the internet, in an effort to stand out from dozens of other download site."Paying to download from BigNoiseMusic.com seems like a good idea when you know your money is going to help some of the world's poorest people," said Martin, who has publicly supported the charity's Make Trade Fair campaign throughout his band's rise to fame.Damon Gough, also known as Badly Drawn Boy, also gave the new site his backing."I know that even small amounts of money can make big changes where Oxfam works - so buying your music on BigNoiseMusic.com means that you are making a difference to people all around the world. This is great ideal," he said.The launch of the Oxfam site will add further momentum to the trend towards digital sales, following hard on the heels of Napster's official relaunch in the UK last week.The record industry hopes the launch of legal sites will help reverse falling sales and discourage customers from using illegal file sharing sites.Paul Curran, the managing director of BMG Publishing, the licensing arm of the Bertelsmann-owned record giant, said the cause was "irresistible"."It has been a privilege to have been involved in helping to broaden the reach of the campaign harnessing the power of music to spread this simple message," he said."In doing so Oxfam are in the unique position of also assisting the music industry in these challenging times to show the music fan that legitimate downloads with the added value of exclusive content can be found online and in so doing also raise money in support of the charity," added Mr Curran.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The hikes in petrol prices have been focusing motorists' minds on the cost of driving. But the biggest cost of all is one that often gets overlooked - and that's depreciation.It might sound like something that only car bores worry about - but this invisible enemy, which describes a vehicle's fall in value, is where drivers lose the most cash. "People tend to focus on fuel costs, because they see what they're shelling out each week. But the single highest cost of motoring is depreciation," says AA Motoring Trust spokesman, Chris Patience.Like a financial version of rust, depreciation eats away at the value of your car from the moment you buy it. But the most extreme loss of value comes with new cars.The AA says that simply driving a new car off the forecourt can mean writing off 20 per cent off its value. "You're turning a new car into a second-hand car," says Chris Patience. "Nothing else will   have changed. It's no less reliable, no less attractive, but for an upmarket vehicle, that few seconds drive off the forecourt could cost &#163;4,000."Research published by Used Car Buyer magazine has shown just how much this costs motorists - with the claim that after six months the collective loss in value of new cars is worth   &#163;9.6bn. This survey also shows how depreciation continues to bite hardest in the first stretch of ownership.After six months, a small family car will have lost 36 per cent of its value and a medium range car will have lost 32 per cent.In cash terms, this means that the small family car is costing &#163;22 per day in depreciation and the medium range car is losing &#163;24 in value. More upmarket cars lose a lower proportion, but in cash terms a luxury car can be leaking over &#163;100 per day in value.So should we be buying nearly-new cars instead? "If you take away the irrational, emotional, part of wanting to have a new car, there is no doubt that you're better off financially with a year-old car," says the AA's Chris Patience.And if you get a year-old car, he says the next big decision about buying is usually around the three-year mark, when the car could still have retained half its initial value.At this point, drivers have to think about trading up to another nearly-new car or staying for the long-haul. B ut there are big differences in the rates of depreciation. And the hardest hit are usually the mass-market, fleet cars, such as Mondeos and Vectras. "Cars that flood the market are likely to depreciate more quickly," says Chris Patience. And the opposite is true of cars where demand is greater or even where there are waiting lists. The most quoted example of a depreciation- proof car is the Mini - and the Mazda MX5, Nissan 350Z, Audi A3 and Volvo XC90 are also mentioned in dispatches.But despite the threat of depreciation we're showing no signs of losing our fascination for that heady new-car aroma. Sales are booming as never before - in a pessimism-defying performance that has many parallels with the housing market.For three years in succession, new car sales have set records - and 2004 shows every sign of being another record year. A spring surge has already caused an upward revision of this year's forecast, with sales now expected to reach 2.4m.The fuel price rises have so far not shown any signs of hitting sales, says Nigel Wonnacott of the Society of Motor Manufacturers. And again parallelling the housing market, he says that the key factor is interest rates rather than running costs. People are not paying for new cars with cash in their pocket - and a glance at the level of personal loans and the huge amount of money being released from re-mortgages suggests what's funding these purchases.Buying a new car is about consumer confidence, says Nigel Wonnacott, and with relatively low interest rates and "underlying economic strength", he says the car industry is staying optimistic. If rates carrying on drifting upwards, he says it could start to make an impact.But why should these new cars lose their value so quickly? Cars are more reliable, and there are more people than ever wanting to drive them.If house prices fell off the cliff in that way we'd be declaring a national emergency. "The brutal truth about depreciation is that it's market forces," says Nigel Wonnacott. People are willing to pay a premium to put the very first miles on the clock. But for the second-hand market, when there are so many mass-market vehicles in circulation, the sharply-reduced prices reflect what people are willing to pay.Even though there has been grumbling over petrol prices, there is one price difference at the pumps that never really seems to get explained to the consumer. This week, the UK average price per litre for ordinary unleaded has been 82p while super unleaded has cost 87p - a difference that converts to over 22p per gallon, which can add up to hundreds of pounds per year.But what do you get for the extra money for super unleaded? And how many drivers think that by paying more, they're getting better fuel? For most motorists, paying more for super unleaded is "simply throwing away money", says Chris Patience. Apart from some older cars, or very high-performance models, he says "there is no improvement in consumption, no better performance".But even if confusion persists at the pumps, there was good news for drivers last week from the Office of Fair Trading, which announced most major car manufacturers were lifting warranty restrictions over where cars could be serviced.This means that owners will be able to use independent garages, rather than higher-charging dealer networks. The OFT says warranty restrictions had meant drivers were paying dealers more than 70 per cent extra.
If there is a PC bandwagon rolling you can be sure that one of the first to hitch a ride on it will be Intel. The company obviously has a vested interest in selling more chips, so any re-invention of the computer delivers a real chance to expand its business.Thus, not surprisingly, Intel has suddenly become very evangelical about the role of the PC in the digital home.Earlier this week it flew a group of technology journalists to the Cannes Film Festival to share its vision for the role of the computer as an entertainment device.According to Intel within a couple of years the space under our TV sets will feature not video recorders and DVD players but jack of all trades entertainment PCs delivering video, image and audio content to our screens.Intel is also banking on the rise of a home server, a computer with a huge hard disk that harnesses wireless systems, especially the faster 802.11g, to stream video, audio and web content to devices and screens throughout the home. Users will be able to clear the CD and DVD clutter from their living room, instead downloading the movies and music they want from the web.It isn't just Intel who sees the re-invention of the PC as a home entertainment workhorse. Sony also has grand plans for developing home networks. Last week in Brussels it unveiled the RA401, a highly specified desktop PC designed to act as a server distributing video and audio throughout the home.All of this begs the question: are consumers ready to embrace these kinds of computers? In the short term the answer, in the UK at least, is probably no. Microsoft's Media Center PCs, which major on CE style content and can be controlled via  a remote control, have hardly captured the imagination of buyers. PC peripherals like Philips Streamium (a hi-fi system that offers access to MP3 stored on a PC and internet radio) have sold in hundreds rather than thousands.There are still many hurdles to overcome before the digital home becomes a reality. Here are five that are currently concentrating the minds of the more AV focussed PC hardware makers.1: Not enough fast broadband connectionsA key issue for many Britons is likely be their Internet connections. While numbers of broadband users are rising the greater percentage have speeds of either 512kbps or even less, which is clearly not fast enough if you own a network of PCs accessing bandwidth hungry content like high definition video via the web. The cable providers and companies like Bulldog are pioneering faster services - but these are so far the preserve of a small minority of home users.2 Lack of sexy legitimate contentWhile Americans have a choice of audio download systems from iTunes to Sony's Connect, as well as movie download sites like CinemaNow, Britons are still waiting for these services to arrive in the UK. Sure - iTunes is certain to drive the digital home market with users seeking ways to listen to the files they have paid for in other rooms of their home. But we are however a long way from seeing any compelling video content.In Cannes Intel painted a vision of the future whereby films would be launched simultaneously at cinemas and for private viewing over the internet. Somehow we can't see the movie studios ditching their existing, and very successful business models, to adopt this just yet, if at all.There's also the issue of piracy. Legitimate US and European sites already have their hands full with Russian music download service All of MP3 which offers a significantly cheaper and superior music service to its kosher rivals, and whose status is unclear in terms of Russian law. What is to stop a video based download site based in another country with less developed copyright laws than our own delivering a similar service in the near future?3: Dodgy hard drivesIt is probably a generational thing, but I can't see anyone over the age of 25 completely forgoing buying discs like CDs and DVDs in favour of a file sitting on a PC. There really is no substitute for actually having a copy of the software item complete with the artwork.Chances are too that anyone over the age of 25 has experienced the trauma of a hard disk crashing on them. Given our rather lax attitude to backing files up, users run the risk of a hard disk error deleting not just work files, but also treasured and irreplaceable images taken on their digital camera as well as expensive music files. An obvious solution would be for each file to be backed up automatically by an online server.The trouble is that with broadband uploads speeds in the UK of just 128Kbps it would take an age for a large file like a film to be stored.4: Too many formatsThere are now four (MP3, AAC, WMA and ATRAC 3) competing compressed audio formats being offered as music downloads. This is likely to be repeated with video downloads too, with Microsoft pushing Windows Media while other manufacturers favour various flavours of MPEG and DivX. Confusion over formats has seriously undermined the growth of the DVD recorder market and once again it is sure to have a detrimental effect here.5: Reluctant British consumersFrom the consumer's perspective the major reason for investing in the digital home is that offers even more software choice. But maybe we already have enough to choose from already. Although Sky has shipped millions of digital boxes, a huge percentage of the UK population seems perfectly satisfied with the more limited Freeview digital terrestrial offering. They simply won't be interested in more choice.
A surrogate mother who strung three desperate couples along with a fraudulent internet sale of her baby was jailed yesterday for two years.Moira Greenslade, 33, was described by a judge as a cynical and callous racketeer who had undermined the role of adoption services. She was also condemned for preying on vulnerable would-be parents prepared to go to almost any lengths to have a child.At Leeds crown court, Mr Justice Henriques told   Greenslade, a mother-of-two from Keighley in West Yorkshire, that she was a "striking example of a confidence trickster". It was essential that she received a punishment which would deter others."Right-thinking members of the public will feel outrage at your cynical and callous fraud," he said. "It is the duty of the court to protect vulnerable sectors of the community from dishonest predators."Those couples who desperately seek a child are frequently prepared to go to extraordinary ends to meet their   ambitions. Their hopes and prayers render them vulnerable to opportunists and fraudsters such as yourself."Greenslade had been on bail since she admitted deception and breach of adoption law at Bingley magistrates court in March. The bench referred the case to crown court for sentence on the grounds that it had inadequate powers.She made &#163;2,500 before her attempt at successive sales of her baby, whose natural father remains unknown, was unmasked. One of her victims, who paid &#163;1,500 deposit on a   &#163;9,000 contract for the child, had suffered 13 miscarriages and eight failed attempts at IVF treatment.Greenslade took a second deposit of &#163;1,000 from another couple and started negotiations with a third. She spent the money on her six-year-old son and family holidays after cancelling successive agreements with an abrupt email.She was arrested in December at the Princess Anne hospital in Southampton after giving birth to a daughter. The child, who has no blood connection with any of the would-be new parents although one couple sent a sperm sample, is in the care of social services.Det Chief Insp Mick Hopwood of West Yorkshire police said: "This is a sad case. People who were desperate for children were taken advantage of and an innocent baby, who had no choice in the matter, was treated as little more than a commodity, purely for financial gain. It is right that a jail sentence has been imposed."Stephen Uttley, prosecuting, told the court before sentencing that Greenslade had ad vertised on a website for surrogate mothers and targeted up to five respondents. She encouraged the first couple, Mark and Michelle Johnson from Scotland, to go shopping for baby clothes while covertly starting her second deal.This was with a couple from Wrexham, Peter and Sharon Robinson-Hudson, whose eventual suspicions led to the police inquiry. But meanwhile Greenslade had launched her third contract with would-be parents Janet and Andy Rashley from Southampton.She told police after her ar rest that she had genuinely intended to give her daughter to the Rashleys, but officers believe that she had contacted two other couples who have not been traced.In mitigation, Michelle Colborne said that Greenslade had previously entered a successful surrogacy agreement and had given 12 eggs to a Sheffield clinic as part of an egg donation programme.Ms Colborne said: "She was motivated by the best motives, the best features of her character. That was the desire to help other people."Sharon Robinson-Hudson said after Greenslade's conviction: "We feel devastated. We have been the victim of a cruel deception. To miss out on a child in this way is like a bereavement. We feel we have lost a child."It is not illegal to offer genuine surrogate mother services and every year hundreds of childless couples search for potential partners over the internet. But Greenslade's baby had no blood connection with the prospective parents and so her planned sale directly contravened adoption law.
BT's push for growth from new areas such as broadband internet access to offset competition in its core telephony market finally seemed to be bearing fruit yesterday as the company reported a 10% jump in annual profits.Sir Christopher Bland, BT's chairman, said the company's drive for new revenues from broadband, large IT projects and mobile services was paying off. "We were comfortable   before, we are even more comfortable now," he said. "But not complacent."Analysts had feared that increasing competition from companies such as Carphone Warehouse, Tesco Telecom and Centrica's One.Tel would eat into BT's traditional revenues faster than the company could gain new sources.BT is hurting in its core residential market. It is losing a net 100,000 customers a month and its share of the market is now 69%. The company hopes new price tariffs on July 1 will help arrest that decline.But "new wave" revenues are the big hope. In the three months to end March, the company's fourth quarter, revenues from areas such as broadband increased 38% to just over &#163;1bn, offsetting a 6% drop in core income to &#163;3.7bn. Total turnover for the quarter, at more than &#163;4.7bn, was slightly higher than the previous year.For the year as a whole BT saw revenues from its new businesses increase 30% to &#163;3.4bn, helping to keep total sales flat at &#163;18.5bn. An extensive cost-cutting regime helped annual pre-tax profits increase 10% to just over &#163;2bn and the group boosted its dividend by almost a third to 8.5p. The company, which was struggling with debts of almost &#163;30bn three years ago, reduced its borrowings by 12% in the year to under &#163;8.5bn.The results were warmly welcomed by the market and BT's shares were the second-biggest riser in the FTSE 100, up 5.25p at 178.75p.The management refused to give any guidance about whether performance in the fourth quarter would continue into the current year. Just over a year ago, chief executive Ben Verwaayen was forced to admit that the company had missed revenue targets and since then he has been reticent about setting new goals.Since Mr Verwaayen took over he has made broadband internet access a central plank of the company's transformation. Broadband revenues increased 112% to &#163;165m in the three months to end March and by 107% to &#163;491m in the year as a whole.The company has close to 2.5 million customers using its lines to get fast, always-on access to the internet and is adding 35,000 a week. Its own internet service provider business has about a million customers with half of those on the top-of-the-range BT Yahoo Broadband offering.Later this year BT will launch a phone service aimed at tying broadband customers even closer to the company.Known as Bluephone, the service is aimed at the mobile phone market but when a user is at home it will switch to the BT fixed-line network and calls will be considerably cheaper.Brandishing one of the new Motorola handsets which BT will be selling when it launches the service, Mr Verwaayen proclaimed: "It's everything you want in a mobile phone and the price of a BT line, with the quality of a BT product. The best of both worlds in one."&#183;Separately, Hong Kong based conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa yesterday said its 3 mobile phone service has 1.73 million customers across its seven regions.The company refused to say how many are in each country, but 3 UK, which launched over a year ago, is believed to have about 500,000 customers.
Audible is continuing its effort to distributefree recordingsof the 9/11 Commission Hearings. The latest batch "feature former and current New York City Mayors Rudolph Giuliani and Michael Bloomberg, among others, answering questions on emergency preparedness and responsiveness before, during, and after the tragedy," according to an email from the company.
The "who really wrote Linux?" story is nonsense but at least it has generatedan amusing and informative pieceby Andy Tanenbaum, the author of Minix. From this account of their meeting, Tanenbaum reckons Brown knew nothing about the history of Unix, and wasn't interested in learning about the history of Unix: he just wanted to find out if Torvalds had knicked things from Minix and/or Unix.Although Brown seems to think it's almost impossible for one person to write something like Unix, Tanenbaum points out that "by the time Linus started, five people had independently implemented the UNIX kernel or something approximating it, namely, Thompson, Swartz, Holt, Comer, and me. All of this was perfectly legal and nobody stole anything. Given this history, it is pretty hard to make a case that one person can't implement a system of the complexity of Linux, whose original size was about the same as V1.0 of MINIX."It sounds to me as though Brown simply doesn't understand the difference between an operating system kernel (small) and the whole Unix operating system and associated utilities (vast), the writing of which is certainly beyond one man. Only someone with the massive coding skills and ego of Richard Stallman would attempt it, and even he was banking on other people helping out with GNU (Gnu's Not Unix). Of course, what Stallman didn't anticipate was that the whole "Not Unix" operating system would come to be known by the name of the kernel, which is the bit Linus Torvalds contibuted rather later. Brown has just been misled by the fact that (to paraphrase Bruce Perens) Torvalds gets 90% of the credit for doing 10% of the work.People who know the history will be amused to see Tanenbaum put in a position to defend Torvalds because of theirUsenet spat, where Tanenbaum said that if Torvalds had been his student, he would have got an F for Linux. This is actually an architectural dispute: Tanenbaum believes in microkernels and Torvalds doesn't. (Torvalds view of the Mach microkernel in Mac OS X is: "Frankly, it's a piece of crap. It contains all the design mistakes you can make, and managed to even make up a few of its own.")This difference of opinion is continued in Tanenbaum's little essay, where he writes: "Of course, Linus didn't sit down in a vacuum and suddenly type in the Linux source code. He had my book, was running MINIX, and undoubtedly knew the history (since it is in my book). But the code was his. The proof of this is that he messed the design up. MINIX is a nice, modular microkernel system, with the memory manager and file system running as user-space processes. This makes the system cleaner and more reliable than a big monolithic kernel and easier to debug and maintain, at a small price in performance, although even on a 4.77 MHz 8088 it booted in maybe 5 seconds. . . ."
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!&gt;connecting to server...Current host:Jason28Current topic:The Home Office has launched a drive to promote British pride and reclaim the union flag from racists and extremists. Should we be proud to be British?Pashmina:it coud of been anthraxLadeezMan:but it wernt it was flourHost_Jason28:anybody here been to thailand?Pashmina:but it coud of beencapitalistpiglet:pride isn't something you can instilBronco has entered the NewsRoomLadeezMan:it could of been cocaineHost_Jason28:It's a very cool placeBronco:hi roomPashmina:except that woud be a waste of drugs! hi broncBronco:is Chris2 backLadeezMan:no its still that tw@t Jason28Pashmina:come back Chris2!!Host_Jason28:what have I done?capitalistpiglet:why celebrate one nationality over another? It's dehumanisingPashmina:your the host but u dont HOST. u just talk abt travlJason28:travel is interestingLadeezMan:no it aintcapitalistpiglet:what do any of us actually do that makes us British?Pashmina:drink teaLadeezMan:I was gonna say thatBronco:drinking teacapitalistpiglet:is that something to be proud of?Host_Jason28:what do you expect a host to do?Bronco:depends how much u drinkPashmina:u have to say "lets return to the topic" every 2 minitesHost_Jason28:let's return to the topicPashmina:too lateLadeezMan:and kick out anyone who is actin upLadeezMan has been kicked out of the NewsRoomHost_Jason28:like that?Pashmina:YOU CANT DO THATcapitalistpiglet:I suppose the drive toward integration is well intentionedHost_Jason28:it's easy - highlight the name, then Ctrl + F6capitalistpiglet has been kicked out of the NewsRoomBronco:coolBronco has been kicked out of the NewsRoomPashmina:save us Chris2!!!!!Pashmina has been kicked out of the NewsRoomHost_Jason28:So, who wants to hear about my trip to Chieng Mai?nudeguy:I am nude&gt;connection to server has been terminated ...
According to John Markoff of The New York Times (published by CNethere), the Google software that will index users' hard drives "is expected to be introduced soon, according to several people with knowledge of the company's plans"."The Google software project, which is code-named Puffin and which will be available as a free download from Google's Web site, has been running internally at the company for about a year."Comment: Google already sells a Search Appliance in the US, and if Puffin has similar capabilities, this would be a very welcome extension of that idea. Of course, as Markoff points out, many companies have already tried to create "information search tools" for PCs and the results have generally been pretty dire -- or, perhaps more accurately, of limited practical use. I'd love to see Google do a better job of it ... without me having to upload my whole hard drive to Google. Which would be the obvious thing to do if Google really did give everyone a terabyte of email storage ;-)
Napster, the online music service that brought the music industry to its knees, was today relaunched in the UK as a legitimate service in a move that record labels hope will revitalise sales.The move by Roxio, the company that bought the Napster brand and employed dotcom whizzkid founder Shawn Fanning as a consultant, took the music industry by surprise.The relaunch was welcomed by major record labels, which blame piracy and online file sharing for a disastrous drop in global sales.This has led to an unprecedented round of blood-letting at  companies including EMI, Warner Music and Bertelsmann-owned BMG, with hundreds of redundancies and scores of artists dropped.But the new online service could face a backlash from consumers, after Napster revealed that tracks downloaded over the service in the UK would be almost twice as expensive as in the US.The Napster chief executive, Chris Gorog, said the launch of the service would spell the end of high street record stores within 10 years, playing heavily on Napster's illegitimate heritage as in illegal music download supplier to sell the new, music industry-approved, offering to consumers."A few years ago a young visionary by the name of Shawn Fanning spent hour after hour in his uncle's garage typing code," Mr Gorog said."When Napster went live, the world changed as we knew it. Music would never be the same and nor would the music industry. 2004 is set to be a very momentous year in the evolution of the music industry."The surprise early relaunch of Napster is an attempt to establish the service before Apple brings its successful iTunes service to Europe later this summerApple's planned iTunes launch comes on the back of the success of its iPod personal audio device, hailed as the Walkman of the 21st century.Napster has signed deals with all five major record companies, as well as hundreds of independent labels, to offer 700,000 tracks representing a huge range of artists from Beyonce to U2, bar some notable exceptions such as the Beatles.It has also teamed up with computer giants Microsoft, Intel and Samsung and signed a nationwide UK distribution deal with Dixons Group.A summer marketing blitz and seven-day free trial is designed to ram home the fact that, whereas iPod owners can only download songs from iTunes, its service is compatible with over 60 portable players and can also run on Microsoft's new Media Centre home entertainment system.In the UK Napster will offer a £9.95 a month subscription service, allowing users to download as many songs as they like to their PC hard drive from the catalogue of more than 700,000 songs.Consumers will then pay an extra 99p a track, or £9.95 per album, to transfer the songs to CD or a portable player.Casual users can also access the service, listening to 30-second clips and downloading songs for £1.09p each and full albums for £9.95.In an effort to replicate the community atmosphere of the original Napster, which at its peak attracted 60 million users, subscribers will also have access to online music magazine Fuzz, 10 interactive radio stations and email and chat options allowing them to share their favourite songs with others.Despite the hype surrounding the launch, the UK version of Napster, which has been reconfigured to appeal to domestic music tastes, could face a backlash from consumer groups over its pricing.In the US, the monthly subscription costs $9.95 while individual tracks cost 99 cents each.With the weakness of the dollar, the UK service is almost twice as expensive - a decision likely to provoke a furious response from those who have campaigned against the high price of CDs.Mr Gorog claimed the higher price was down to the wholesale prices charged by record companies and the addition of VAT, pointing out that for £9.95 a month subscribers had access to the entire Napster catalogue of 700,000 tracks.Record company bosses are banking on the European launches of Napster and iTunes, together with a series of new legal download services from the likes of Sony and Coca-Cola, to help reverse falling single sales and discourage the use of illegal filesharing sites.Buoyed by the success of the iPod, Apple is expected to launch its popular iTunes download service, which has sold 70 million tracks in the US in the past year, in the UK this summer.But not everyone was convinced by Napster's rhetoric predicting the death of the record store.A Virgin Megastores spokesman said that it was "certainly not a threat"."Customers still love to get their hands on an actual product and are using downloads to try out artists before they commit to buying a whole album. It's actually raising more interest in music so it's good news for everyone," he added.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"Mr. Garson was carrying his music in digital form, scanned into his MusicPad Pro Plus, a five-pound tablet computer made by a company calledFreehand Systems. The $1,200 device, with a 12-inch liquid-crystal-display touchscreen, is the first of a class of computers that enable musicians to store music and edit it onscreen. Soon it will also allow them to communicate with one another over wireless networks," saysThe New York Times[free reg req'd]."In much the way that portable digital audio players have changed the way people consume tunes, tablets like the MusicPad are changing the way musicians use sheet music, which is so compact that it can be digitally stockpiled far more cost-effectively than MP3 audio files."There is also a rival system: "David Sitrick, a patent attorney and engineer in Chicago, has developed a system called theeStand, which involves proprietary software installed on pairs of Wi-Fi-enabled touchscreen tablet computers. Mr. Sitrick received patents for the concepts behind the eStand in 1998 and 2000, two years before Freehand Systems patented the 'music annotation system for performance and composition of musical scores' that led to the MusicPad."
AsReutersreports: "Apple Computer Inc. has created a new division within the maker of the Macintosh computer to sell its popular iPod, the market leading digital music player, the company said on Wednesday. Jon Rubinstein, who has led the Cupertino, California-based company's hardware engineering efforts, will run the new division, an Apple spokesman said."Comment: Rubinstein worked for Jobs at NeXT and was part of the "reverse takeover" after NeXT was bought by Apple.
"Symantec, seeking to broaden its software technology to battle the growing flood of junk e-mail, announced Wednesday that it is paying $370 million in cash for anti-spam company Brightmail. The deal gives Symantec a foothold in one of the hottest areas of computer security -- helping customers filter out billions of unwanted e-mail messages," reports theMercury News."Symantec and Brightmail already have deep ties. Brightmail's president and chief executive, Enrique Salem, is a former Symantec executive. Symantec also holds a seat on Brightmail's board and already shares anti-virus software with the start-up."
When the &#163;4.1m national smart card project was launched last April, it promised to improve access to services for citizens, promote social inclusion, and put forward business cases and a standards framework. How has it fared?"The money the government has spent will save local authorities 10 or 30 times that collectively because of the work they will not have to do if they are implementing smart cards," says Vincent Paliczka, chair of the national smart card project. He explains that the starter packs created by the national project and toolkits for purchasing smart card technologies will be invaluable for councils who want to introduce smart cards.Paliczka, the director of leisure services for Bracknell Forest, believes the strengths of smart cards are their ability to collect data efficiently for concessionary transport schemes, for example, so councils can understand who is using their services and make them more effective. Bracknell has issued about 18,000 Edge cards. They have an e-purse facility that enables users to load cash on to the card and use it for hiring CDs, DVDs and videos in libraries. The e-purse facility is alsoused for cashless catering in a secondary school. Paliczka says it is popular with parents as the money can only be spent on school meals.However, despite the benefits, the cost of implementing smart card schemes is frequently a deterrent. Richard Powell, a consultant who has been working on a number of transport initiatives for Southampton City Council, believes the national project's work on business cases will encourage more authorities to take the plunge. "It tries to be realistic about cost. The business case says there are various entry levels. But it has to be politically acceptable to councils and fit in with their social priorities. Value for money is always a complicated issue. Councils tend to focus on the money side and not the values."To share costs and spread risks, the national project has encouraged councils to work together to manage smart cards. More than 60,000 people in Cornwall, representing about 10% of Cornwall's population, now have a Cornish key card and   can use it for library services, school meals and car park tickets. Significantly, the card was launched by the county council in partnership with six district councils. Gavin Grace, programme manager for the national smart card project in Cornwall, says the partnership is helping with the roll-out and take-up of the card.As part of the national project, Cornwall County Council has developed smart card management software, which it is offering free to councils. It has developed a generic database that will enable councils to add and implement new services. Other features include enrolment software, which works over the web or at service points such as libraries.And Grace points out that data can be exported to an XML file and then sent to a bureau so a council can effectively outsource card production. While in principle the offer of free smart card management software sounds attractive, there are no funds to maintain and enhance the software and Grace is concerned about who will support it. He hopes more funding will come from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.Before the national smart card project got underway, local authorities were developing their own smart card schemes. Mick Davies, strategic consultant for London Connects, says the national project has helped develop common standards. "The fact that we are developing within a framework means suppliers can deliver to it." Davies hopes that more London councils will now try to integrate Oyster transport cards with smart cards. In the wake of the national project, Davies believes many more councils will commit to using smart cards. "The potential for improving services and personalising services is huge."For many councils, the complexity of smart cards and the risks involved are just too high. Multi-functional smart cards are the most cost-effective in the long-term but that scale of commitment requires considerable planning and resources.However, Davies believes that the research, starter kits and business cases the national project has produced now need to be disseminated vigorously if smart cards are to become a more prevalent way for citizens to access services.The long-term success of the national smart card project as a step towards the modernisation of the public sector will be judged on the extent to which it successfully translates local council interest in smart cards into action. And without additional government funds, that is going to be an uphill task.Linkswww.scnf.org.ukwww.londonconnects.org.uk
Telecommunications giant BT today reported better-than-expected profits, boosted by a surge in revenues from new services, such as internet broadband.Profit before tax for the year to March 31 2004 came to £2bn, up from £1.8bn for the previous 12 months. The former monopoly, losing ground in its traditional fixed-line business, said revenue rose to £4.7bn in its fourth quarter, up 1% from a year earlier and up 4.5% on the preceding quarter.BT's share of the consumer market declined by 2.9% during the year to 69% as rivals such as Carphone Warehouse launched fixed-line services. Although its share of the business market fell by 3.6% over the past 12 months, BT said revenues were improving as corporate customers switched to the latest technology.A contract with the NHS to provide information and communications technology (ICT) - an area in which BT is making a big push - added £77m to turnover in the first three months of 2004."These are good numbers. This is the first time I can say that in about 15 months for BT," Francois Pierre-Arth, an analyst with Exane-BNP Paribas, told Reuters.BT's performance was boosted by a 38% rise in so-called "new wave" services, including internet broadband and business computing, areas that BT is counting on to offset the decline in its core fixed-line business.Ben Verwaayen, the chief executive, said the results were achieved in a challenging environment which was expected to continue in the current financial year."The results from our new-wave businesses show our strategy is working," he said.Mr Verwaayen said BT aimed to have more than 99% of the UK connected for broadband within a year, putting the UK towards the top of the broadband league. There were now close to 2.5 million customers with access to broadband provided by BT and quarterly turnover from high-speed internet access had more than doubled to £165m.The roll-out of broadband is one of the arguments put forward against the potential breakup of BT, an issue at the heart of a strategic review of the telecoms sector by regulator Ofcom. The separation of BT's network infrastructure from its retail arm is among five "fundamental questions" to be considered by Ofcom - the new watchdog for the sector - by the autumn.The results come a week after BT announced it was cutting its prices to wholesalers in an effort to head off possible regulatory intervention. It means rival telecoms groups can now access local telephone exchanges more cheaply and could spark a price war in sales of broadband services.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Monday May 24 2004Our report of the Stockholm Challenge for IT projects below should say that seven British projects were finalists, not two. The two mentioned are the city of Sheffield's e-democracy programme, and the Leonard Cheshire employment programme. The five we fail to mention are: ABCtales.com; Adilisha: human rights capacity building in southern Africa; Real: creative learning; Shalom from Israel; and talk2learn. Apologies to all concerned.Just a year ago, Detective Chief Inspector Alan Chan was facing the apocalypse. A terrifying new disease, Sars, was raging through his manor, Hong Kong's crowded tower blocks. With hundreds of cases, each potentially infecting 10 others, "it looked like Hong Kong was going to sink," he says. The police joined the all-out effort to identify and isolate cases. "We still investigated murders, but set aside street gambling."Chan's team had a powerful new weapon in the fight. A computer system called MIIDSS (major incident investigation and disaster support system), designed for criminal investigations, collected admissions data from 14 hospitals. It helped police identify and track down every person who had been in contact with a victim. It traced more than 26,000 potential carriers of the disease, mostly in the peak month of March 2003.MIIDSS, similar to the Holmes major inquiry system used in Britain, had only been installed the previous year. These tactics helped contain Sars in one of the world's most densely populated cities. "At the peak, there were 110 cases a day, but we pulled it down to single digits in six weeks," says Chan.Last week, Chan and his colleagues were in Sweden to collect a Stockholm Challenge prize. The award, organised by the City of Stockholm, is a kind of Nobel prize for IT work that benefits society. This year, the competition attracted around 900 entries; the 100 finalists exhibited in Stockholm last week. Entries came from more than 100 countries, including projects in e-government, e-business, culture, education and health.The challenge was set up in 1994 by Martin Bangemann, then European   commissioner responsible for IT, to encourage Europe's e-services to catch up with those in the US.One of the first winners was Manchester, for providing public access to IT in the early days of the world wide web. The award survived Bangemann's fall in 1999, when he left the disgraced commission to join a telecoms firm. The City of Stockholm, which always hosted the event, diplomatically renamed it.This year's winners weren't all about the bad things in life. The Archaeological Map of Egypt offers virtual tours of Egypt's most important ancient monuments, including translations of hieroglyphics. Singapore's national archives also won a prize. Its online attractions include an exhibition on the Indian National Army, recruited during the Japanese occupation to fight the British in India.In a project called Swing, Sniff and Swipe 2, New Zealand school students help Auckland zoo design ways of enriching the environment of animals in captivity, encouraging "species-typical" behaviour. Ideas include refreshing lions with blocks of frozen blood and a device for luring giant tortoises on to weighing scales.Prizes for projects in e-government went to Mexico and the US. Mexico's award was for a government web portal that gives citizens access to sources of help and transactions from more than 100 institutions. Oregon Helps anonymously tells unemployed and the needy whether they are eligible for state benefits. Since the service went live, demand for food assistance has increased by one-fifth. However, because people are more likely to apply for the right benefits, the cost of processing claims has fallen.Two African projects won prizes. Basket weavers in Botswana have    found a way to get higher prices for their work by marketing directly on the internet. A gallery accepts orders by email. Tele-Health, a solar-powered wireless intranet connecting health, education and police services in South Africa's Eastern Cape, is improving healthcare and education.Solar-powered telemedicine also figures in the Hispano-American Health Link, which connects health workers in south and central America with experts in Spain.To complete the remarkable geographical spread of the competition, the Pacific Environmental Information Network in Samoa won a prize for promoting awareness of environmental issues across the Pacific.Alfonso Molina, chairman of the Stockholm challenge jury, says that the spread and high quality of the entries point to the emergence of an information "utility" which organisations around the world are plugging into to solve local problems.Runners-up ranged from Maison de Quartier, a French language school on the web, to the community nurses of Funabashi, near Tokyo, who file reports on mobile terminals connected to the DoCoMo mobile phone network. On the waterways of Bangladesh, another finalist has equipped river boats to carry mobile internet services and multimedia presentations on protecting the environment to remote villages where roads and telecommunications don't normally reach.Two British projects made the finals: the city of Sheffield's massive e-democracy effort, which last year allowed citizens to vote by internet, phone, SMS, public kiosk or polling station, and the Leonard Cheshire employment programme, which provides IT and personalised training to people with disabilities.Stockholm Challengewww.challenge.stockholm.seThe Archaeological Map of Egyptwww.cultnat.orgSingapore's national archiveswww.a2o.com.sgSwing, Sniff and Swipe 2http://education.otago.ac.nz/nzlnet/sss/home.htmlMexico new government web portalwww.gob.mxA Botswana art gallerywww.botswanacraft.bw/galleryMaison de Quartierwww.maisondequartier.com
BT chief executive Ben Verwaayen said today the broadband revolution was gathering pace, with the company already halfway to achieving its target of 5 million high-speed internet users over its phone lines by 2006.Mr Verwaayen, who today announced encouraging fourth quarter results, said that as of May 14, the company had almost 2.5 million broadband subscribers through its own internet service providers and those provided by competitors but using its phone lines, such as AOL and Tiscali.The former monopoly telecoms operator, which has struggled with declining turnover amid severe price competition, said revenue rose to £4.8bn in the fourth quarter to March 31, up 1% on the previous year.BT's performance was boosted by a 38% rise in so-called "new wave revenues" from broadband internet, mobile access and business computing, areas the firm is increasingly relying upon to offset the decline in its core fixed-line business.Mr Verwaayen has bet the farm on transforming BT into the backbone of broadband Britain since joining the company in 2001 and said today's results showed the strategy was working."We are enabling broadband Britain. We now have approaching 2.5 million connections, a 162% increase in a year. We aim to have over 99% of the UK broadband enabled within a year, putting the UK towards the top of the broadband league," he said."Our transformation of the business will continue to accelerate. We expect the environment to remain challenging but we will also increase our investment to build on the significant progress already achieved."The telecoms giant has unveiled numerous initiatives and price cuts over the past 18 months in an effort to make broadband a mass market product and stimulate the provision of new services from ISPs and content from broadcasters and Hollywood studios.According to the latest available figures, there are now almost 4 million broadband subscribers in Britain, including those connected via cable groups NTL and Telewest.Last week, under pressure from regulator Ofcom, BT announced it would slash the amount it charges rival telcoms operators to access its local exchanges by up to 70%.Rivals hope this will open up the market and speed the introduction of new services such as video-on-demand and voice over IP (VoIP) telephony, allowing subscribers to make cheap calls over the internet.Meanwhile, France Telecom ISP Wanadoo today announced it had signed a distribution deal with retailer Maplin Electronics to push its new broadband services to customers.The ISP, formerly known as Freeserve, recently ended its in-store promotional deal with former owner Dixons, after AOL said it would pay more to distribute its discs in Dixons, Curry's and PC World.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Will giving customers a little inside information keep them loyal or let them take advantage of you? The immediacy and interaction of blogs have caught the imagination of employees who want to talk about their work with peers, customers and anyonewho's interested.Some companies have embraced the idea: research directors and analysts at Jupiter and Gartner publish their thoughts in official blogs. Others are more suspicious, and last week Borland blogger Danny Thorpe ruffled feathers internally by talking about future features and pinning a version number on the product they might be in. So who is saying what?Ask Microsoft about the specifics of future versions of Office or Windows and you tend to get the reply that the company doesn't discuss unannounced products - or that until a product is finished, it's not possible to say what's in it. But you can get a good idea of what's happening with the technical underpinnings of Longhorn, the next version of Windows, and developer tools such as Visual C++, by reading developers' weblogs.There are around 400 Microsoft employees blogging. Some are informal, personal journals where you might read about conference speeches and interesting web pages, just like any other blog. Most are full of technical information about how to work with the latest developer tools, discussions about the architecture of Longhorn, or explanations of how the features in Word and OneNote are developed. The Channel 9 website combines blogs from five Microsoft employees who want to give developers "a way to listen in to the cockpit at Microsoft".Several senior developers at Macromedia, including the chief software architect, Kevin Lynch, have blogs covering the products they work on. Ray Ozzie, chief executive of Groove Networks and the man behind Lotus Notes, debates his software products and general technology developments with customers and critics alike. Software pioneers Dan Bricklin (VisiCalc) and Mitch Kapor (Lotus 1-2-3) have blogs that cover their current projects.Read the right blogs and you can get the unofficial or semi-official inside track. For example, a post from prolific Microsoft blogger Robert Scoble mentioned Windows XP Tablet PC Edition 2005 (and complained that the real name was far   less interesting than the codename Lone Star). That version of Tablet PC is tied to Service Pack 2 and the 2005 means it will come out in Microsoft's 2005 financial year, which starts in July. A few days later came the official announcement that the service pack wouldn't be out for June as planned but "some time in the third quarter" - July at the earliest.In general, Microsoft's attitude is relaxed and employees police their own blogs. As recent convert Chris Pratley, a group program manager, puts it in his blog: "We have small teams of dedicated people who don't need rules ... to make them perform." Scoble proposed a "corporate weblog manifesto" last year, with 21 tips for making a blog worthwhile (three are   about being open with information, and most are common sense). He's working with the PR, legal and corporate teams at Microsoft to rewrite it as Blogging Best Practices, to help other employees.But the Channel 9 team points out that some things won't be discussed. "This has nothing to do with censorship, but with working within the reality of the system that exists in our world today. You will not change anything by taking on legal or financial issues, you will only shock the system, spook the passengers and create a negative situation."Similarly, Sun Microsystems' "policy on public discourse" asks employees to use their judgment. "You are encouraged to tell the world about your work, without asking permission first," says technology director Tim Bray, before referring to Sun's policy on protecting proprietary and confidential information and mentioning that revenue, ship dates, roadmaps and share prices are often covered by financial disclosure rules.There are many advantages if companies treat blogging as a useful tool. Employee blogs are a chance for companies and customers to have informal dialogues and build relationships. Danny Thorpe didn't just give a glimpse of what his team is working on: he started a conversation about how Borland talks to its developers. Blogs are also a great place for damage limitation, brand building and marketing. The experts on a product are usually the people who develop it, and blogs are one way they can share their expertise.Corporate bloggers don't have to be star employees: reading hints and tips and everyday comments puts a friendly face on remote corporations. Many company bloggers put a disclaimer reminding readers they don't speak officially: rather than being off-putting, this can help break downbarriers. Thorpe's disclaimer includes the line: "If you actually think that my opinions are a reflection of Borland, then I have a bridge I can sell you."It's the human touch that slicker official communications can't match.Links  Inside trackScobleizer: Microsoft Geek Bloggerhttp://scoble.weblogs.comMicrosoft Blogshttp://blogs.msdn.comJupiter Research Analyst Blogshttp://weblogs.jupiterresearch.comhttp://homepages.borland.com/dthorpe/blog/delphi/Channel 9http://channel9.msdn.comMacromedia blogshttp://www.macromedia.com/devnet/logged_in/ekrimen_blogs.html
IT Doesn't Matter, or so claimed a headline in the Harvard Business Review last May. The author of the article, Nicholas Carr, was surprised by the volume of response, and perhaps by the hostility it provoked. He has now returned to the fray with a book, Does IT Matter? Information Technology and the Corrosion of Competitive Advantage. In this, he writes: "I offer a broader and deeper analysis of the role of IT in business and commerce."It could hardly be shallower. In a Stupid-Journal Alert in Fortune magazine, the short article was attacked by David Kirkpatrick as "a sloppy mix of ersatz history, conventional wisdom, moderate insight, and unsupportable assertion. And it is dangerously wrong."Carr's basic thesis was that IT has become a commodity, and   delivers no sustainable competitive advantage because, like electricity, it is equally available to everyone.The obvious problem with this idea is that there are dozens of well-known companies who have gained enormous competitive advantage from their use of IT. These include Google, Amazon, eBay, Dell and Apple.Clearly, just buying whatever commodity IT products Amazon uses would not turn Barnes &amp; Noble into Amazon.Of course, this point runs contrary to western civilisation's most important sales pitch, which is that you can buy success. Buy a new typewriter and you can become a famous author; buy a new set of golf clubs and you will play better than Tiger Woods; buy new computers and your business   will immediately be transformed. Surely we don't need the Harvard Business Review to point out the foolishness of this idea.But Carr makes some good points. In the preface to the book, for example, he cedes that IT "has delivered great benefits to a handful of firms, even propelling a few into positions of industry leadership, but for most businesses it has been a source more of frustration and disappointment than of glory. It has allowed many companies to substantially cut their labour costs and working capital, but it has also led managers to plough cash into risky and misguided initiatives, sometimes with catastrophic results."Indeed, you could fill several large books with accounts of disastrous IT projects. Even worse, you could fill whole libraries with accounts of small IT disasters -   the inept, user-hostile designs and appalling code produced by so many IT departments - which are far too trivial to attract attention.Even if we are sure that IT does matter, we can still agree that not all of IT matters equally to all companies. Some applications, such as payroll, have been commoditised for decades, and can easily be done using packaged software, or outsourced to a bureau, or whatever. More and more applications are commoditised every year. The problem is trying to get companies to stop messing about with the parts of IT that really don't matter - because they are or should be viewed as part of the common infrastructure - and focus on the parts that do.Unfortunately, that will need more than a book. It will need a miracle.Does IT Matter? - the bookhttp://homepages.borland.com/dthorpe/blog/delphi
Time's not upWhen will computers and/or the internet become consumer products and Inside IT and Online become relegated to trade magazines? I am sending this query so that, just this once, there will be something I understand!John GilderJack Schofield replies:For the past 50 years, computers have kept getting both cheaper and more powerful. This has had three dramatic effects. First, computers have been used to do more and more things. The computer field is no longer restricted to stock control, payroll etc, but now takes in games, graphics, photography, music, movies and many other things. Multi-function tools that can take thousands of peripherals and run tens of thousands of programs are always going to be much more complicated than dedicated appliances such as washing machines or even word processors.Second, the arrival of entertainment PCs and internet connectivity in amazingly cheap PCs has led to a huge expansion in the number of users. Computing is no longer restricted to a few people in large companies and universities: it is open to everybody. That means there are a lot more inexperienced users who need a helping hand. Third, expensive mechanical devices such as VCRs, cassette players and turntables (and tills, cash machines, and one-armed bandits) are being replaced by cheap digital ones. Your TiVo or other set-top box, for example, is just a dedicated computer. All these changes, and the consequences, need explaining, and this is still a growing, not a diminishing, problem.Bjarne Stroustrup, inventor of the C++ computer language, said: "There's an old story about the person who wished his computer were as easy to use as his telephone. That wish has come true, since I no longer know how to use my telephone."Under attack?My firewall (Sygate) registers incidents of port scanning on a daily basis. My ISP, Blueyonder, is not interested if the abuse does not stem from another source using Blueyonder. Is there anything the normal user can do about port scanning? And, crucially, does it really matter?Alan CornellJS:A computer on the internet has 65,536 (ie 64K) "ports" that are used for communications, some of them "listening" for inputs, and the internet would not work at all if computers could not find and talk to other computers. Therefore, there is always going to be a sort of "background noise" that can be ignored. More persistent probing is more worrying, but is more likely to be the result of a worm or other virus than a person; if it is a person, it may well be a teenager playing with a port scanner. They all do it. Of course, real hackers may be trying to break into your computer, but don't take it personally. They like to have PCs they can use as intermediaries to hide their own machines, to mount denial of service (DoS) attacks and so on, but they are looking for easy targets - especially PCs that have already been compromised by a Trojan. They are like petty thieves trying doors: if yours is locked, they will just move on to the next one. Persistent port scanning is impolite and probably against the ISP's terms of service, so if you can find a culprit inept or na&#239;ve enough not to cover his tracks properly, you may get his internet account closed. However, no one is likely to take much action unless a serious    crime is committed. For a great but brain-sapping account of what firewall logs can tell you, seewww.robertgraham.com/pubs/firewall-seen.html.Way outI saved a message to the Drafts folder in Outlook Express 6.0: now there seems to be no way to send it! The "Move to folder" command does not permit sending it to the Outbox. Can this be correct?Dave NullJS:If you have drafted an email, then presumably it isn't finished. You must therefore double-click it to open it, then hit Send to save it in the Outbox, and it will be sent. If you have to open the email to send it, there is less chance of you sending something unfinished or that you will regret.Backchat&#183;Last week, Thomas Haworth complained about being automatically diverted to the wrong national version of the Google search engine. Philip Endean points out that if he installed the Google Toolbar, "the Options button would enable him to specify whichever national Google site he wanted". I've been using the Google Toolbar since it came out, and it's the first item in Options, so I can't explain how I've managed to miss this.&#183;An anonymous reader was hit by a dialler that was downloaded in the background, dropped the internet connection and dialled an expensive number. Mike McCracken from MMTel, in "a blatant attempt to promote our product", says Modem Blocker "fits between your modem and the telephone line, watches the numbers your modem dials and stops any to premium or International High rate calls (there are a lot of scams that dial these)". Seewww.callprotector.co.uk
The film world has Cannes, Toronto and Sundance, but for the ever-growing world of videogames there is no bigger, louder and more ostentatious celebration of the virtual world than the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3).Yet there's no mobbing by paparazzi here. The creators of the latest games can walk through the halls of the LA Convention Centre, where E3 is held, in relative anonymity. Instead, it's the games that are the real stars and E3 is the place where some of the brightest tantalise their audiences with behind-closed-doors screenings and movie-style trailers.There were no prizes for guessing which would be the big-hitters at the 10th anniversary of E3. The chance to glimpse the latest footage from the sci-fi shooters Halo 2 and Half-Life 2 was undoubtedly one reason why tickets sold out this year.Both games have been besieged by release problems; in Half-Life 2's case, it included code being leaked, an FBI raid on the suspected hacker worthy of the X-Files and pirated copies of the game appearing in Russian shops.E3 audiences were rewarded with a concrete release date of November 9 for Halo 2, and there was even some sobbing in the aisles when the multiplayer side of the game was shown. However, all that could be prised out of Valve about Half-Life 2 (originally scheduled for release last September) was that a date was pencilled in for the summer. In anticipation, the Half-Life 2 booth was constantly packed, as the developers showed off the great looking in-game action.One game that was conspicuous by its absence was Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, though a few details did slip out during the show. The game is set in the early 90s. Players will take on the part of a young black guy named Carl Johnson, who is forced to return to his dangerous home city of Los Santos after the murder of his mother. The game contains features that require your character to eat and work out.There were plenty of top-notch fighting games shown, including Dead or Alive Ultimate, Death by Degrees and God of War. One of the most impressive fighting-cum-role-playing games was Jade Empire, from Bioware, the award-winning developer of Neverwinter Nights and Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Due out next March, Jade Empire transports you to ancient China, where players must master martial arts and magic to battle evil.Despite the dwindling number of role-playing games designed solely for the PC, Bioware was keen to   prove that, as far as it is concerned, the company is going to keep things kicking for as long as possible. Two brand new PC role-playing titles were shown to a select few: Dragon Age, which is still a way off from release, and The Witcher, a title based on Bioware's Aurora engine and set in the fantasy world of best-selling Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski.Sapkowski wasn't the only sci-fi author to have a stake in this year's E3. Orson Scott Card, the writer behind Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead, collaborated on the storyline for the Xbox/PS2 title Advent Rising. The game is the first in a trilogy set in an epic fantasy universe, based on the graphically stunning Unreal Warfare engine, and deals with   exactly what it means to be human.The proliferation of great games wasn't just offline. Online games were more prominent than ever, including many new games for Xbox Live and the announcement that EA would be Live-enabling its titles.EverQuest II looks set to grip the western world in the same way its predecessor did (and will no doubt generate a few headlines in the process), while Lineage II is soon to do the same in the east. The pedigree of World of Warcraft and the inter- active and story-driven environment of The Saga of Ryzom also look like capturing many online hearts.With the British games industry trying to ride out the turbulent times that have seen the closure of many studios, it was good to see many British titles on display at the UK State of Play pavilion. Some of the most innovative games at the show, such as The Movies, which allows you to run your own movie studio and make your own films, plus the sequel to the artificial intelligence masterpiece Black &amp; White, were also home-grown. Let's hope titles such as these spearhead a resurgence, not only in the UK videogames industry, but in gaming innovation as a whole.Also worth a look:The Legend of Zelda - GC,Destroy all Humans - PS2/XboxThief: Deadly Shadows - PC/Xbox,Fable - Xbox,Pariah - PC/Xbox,Vampire the Masquerade: Bloodline - PC,Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater - PS2Silent Hill 4: The Room PC/PS2/XboxDoom III PC/XboxThe Sims 2 - PCBurnout 3 - PS2/XboxGran Turismo 4 - PS2
Brad Pitt vied for space with Half Life 2's Gordon Freeman in Los Angeles last week, as the giant E3 gaming expo hit town. But the huge crowds that attended were focused - not on celebs - but one big question: what is the future of videogaming?This year's show was dominated by the launch of two new handheld devices, Sony's sexy PSP and Nintendo's DS. The DS, with its innovative dual screen setup, is obviously a games machine, but it is in the PSP (Portable PlayStation) that trends may be discerned. Its ability to play movies and music has thrown the c-word back into the mix - convergence.And by using a new proprietary format - 1.8GB UMD discs - Sony is confident the PSP will be more than a pure games machine. "We are aiming to bring in people who haven't considered gaming in the past," says David Reeves, president of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe.Mobile gaming looks set to explode. "In the next five years, portable gaming generally will become mainstream," says Pasi Polonen, games publishing director for Nokia's N-Gage. "Convergence is key as none of the devices announced at the show is a pure games machine. They all have other functions."Roger Bennett, director general of Elspa (the UK Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association) also feels mobile gaming is the next big thing. "Mobile and portable gaming is the easiest way for many people to experience games, and that will grow as more and more sophisticated devices appear."If handheld gaming is one trend, increasing accessibility and widening the market is another. Sony is making progress in this area, mindful that the core gaming audience has already been won over to PlayStation. With products such as the innovative EyeToy - a web-cam that shows players on screen and lets them interact in simple games - and Singstar, the forthcoming karaoke title, Sony's aim to widen gaming's appeal is obvious. "We have a responsibility as a format holder to bring in non-gamers and, in particular, the female audience," said Reeves.Then there is Sims 2. The original is a phenomenon and the biggest-selling PC game of all time. Like Championship Manager for men, Sims tapped into a female audience that simply wasn't, and still isn't, being catered for. The recent Singles game Sims, where characters would have sex, lacked the style, humour and toy-box design of previous efforts. But in the four years since the original, it seems surprising that no other publisher has emulated the series' success. Jon Rissik, Electronic Arts' director of marketing, LA Studios, says: "Unlike most videogames, The Sims isn't about winning or losing. It's non-competitive nature and realistic setting make it appealing to a female audience."The other trend running through the show is the internet. According to Jupiter Research, about 58m people play online games, with that number set to reach 113m by 2007. Before the show, one of the biggest announcements was EA finally signing up to appear on Xbox Live, the online service for Xbox owners. Since Live launched in March 2003, EA has been conspicuous by its absence, preferring instead to run online games   on the PS2, where they retained control over the customer relationship and marketing data. But Xbox Live is a walled-garden service fully run and controlled by Microsoft. Generally, the gaming experience is better on Live than on PS2, with a better headset and choice of titles. EA's inclusion on the service can only help, especially by bolstering the sports game line-up.Live is considered crucial to the next generation of Xbox games. Peter Moore, Xbox worldwide head of sales and marketing, threw down a warning to those developers yet to embrace the online vision. "There is no excuse for not having at least some Live-enabled elements in games. In 18 months, almost all Xbox titles will be Live-enabled."Microsoft's competitors are less convinced. "Online is important to us and it will become increasingly important, but it is not our unique selling point," says Reeves. Nintendo is more cautious. "There are too   many barriers to entry in online games," says David Gosen, managing director of Nintendo Europe.But how will these trends affect the next generation of videogaming? Most industry analysts predict the new machines will launch in 2006, or late 2005 at the earliest. And while it is unlikely that Sony's dominance will be ended, it should be a closer run thing next time around.Sony is the undoubted winner of the current generation. In the UK alone, 5m PlayStation 2 consoles have been sold and worldwide, Sony has 75% of the console gaming market. Microsoft and Nintendo have been fighting a distant second place. Xbox has done well in Europe but less well in Japan, while GameCube has done the opposite.There will be a number of influences on the next generation of console. By 2006, broadband penetration will have grown, increasing the market for online gaming. Technologies such as Wi-Fi will become increas ingly commonplace and are already included in forthcoming handhelds such as the PSP and Nintendo DS. Peter Moore sees this as crucial. "We see a connected future with games at the epicentre of online communities and lifestyle."It is almost certain that the new consoles will have online capabilities, as well as improved graphical and audio capabilities. But, crucially, they should also be easier to setup for online gaming, too. "Time makes technology more friendly and we are sure that online gaming will get increasingly easier to use and more user-friendly," says Moore.But what about the next generation of games? After all, this is why people buy consoles. "Games will become increasingly realistic with unprecedented realism and emotion," suggests Rissik.Nintendo's DS showed a unique vision of games involving touch screens, but it is clear that online and connected games will be   prominent in the next generation of console. These will range from massively multiplayer role playing games (MMORPG) to online sports games to short-range wireless gaming on handhelds. Multiplayer gaming will move away from a group of friends crowding around the TV playing split-screen. "Geography will not be an issue when it comes to gaming with friends," says Moore.The aging and widening demographic of those who play games means that simpler and more in-depth games will be needed. The simpler games will tap into the huge numbers of people who play online cards, crosswords and trivia quizzes. "We recognise that there is a vast market of people who like to play games but are not interested in owning a console or high-spec PC, so sites likepogo.comcater to many of these," says Rissik.But games with deeper storylines and more complex characterisation will be needed to satisfy an increasingly sophisticated audience. And it's here that real innovation should be found. "Depth, storyline and characterisation will be the key to the new games," says Moore. Rissik agrees: "Emotional depth and attachment will play a very important role."Recent titles such as Deus Ex: Invisible War and Knights of the Old Republic highlight some of these trends. The latter, in particular, was excellently written and created a set of videogame characters unsurpassed in recent times. Deus Ex emphasised player choice, with decisions made affecting the path through the game and the style of ending.Narrative is only one element, though, as the graphical capabilities   of the new machines will edge ever closer to photorealism. Already, games such as Far Cry and Half Life 2 offer visuals that are leagues in advance of anything around five years ago. And while this "eye-candy" is no guarantee of quality, it is likely to make games more accessible. As Moore puts it: "It doesn't matter how good the game is, if it looks ugly, then most people are unlikely to try it."And then there are demographics. As the original generation of gamers reach their 30s and 40s, the market will need to shift to support them. New gaming experiences, strong narrative and great graphics will all help. But equally important will be these consumers accepting consoles into their homes as the norm. Don Mattrick, EA's president of Worldwide Studios, recently told the MCV games trade magazine that by 2010, the games industry was looking at 90% global penetration, where currently it stands at around 40%.So what does the next generation of consoles promise? E3 2004 has helped answer some of the questions. The new consoles will have connectivity for online and offline multiplayer, and games that appeal to a wider and more sophisticated audience. Portable and mobile machines that combine gaming and other entertainment functions will become increasingly popular. But predicting the winner of the next generation is harder. Sony is unlikely to relinquish its grip, but the growth in online and new forms of games means Microsoft and Nintendo have a chance to narrow the gap.In the week that Troy hit US cinemas, it appears that the videogames industry has no achilles heel.
Space Taxi PinballMr Goodliving,&#42;&#42;&#42;www.mrgoodliving.comThe rather curiously monikered Finnish developer Mr Goodliving is a master of simple, yet slickly produced, diversions - the sort of Java games that expertly plug those five-minute gaps in your schedule. Space Taxi Pinball is the perfect example, a stylish little pinball sim in which you direct the ball through special channels to pick up passengers and score points. All the usual ramps, pins and multipliers figure. There's even a tilt function so you can give the table a sneaky nudge when the ball is heading out of play. The sharp 50s design is spot-on but, sadly, you only get one table to play on and the limitations of Java mean there are no in-game sound effects - you really miss the pings and ricochets of the real thing.Fatal ForceMacrospace,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;www.macrospace.comOn the face of it, Fatal Force is merely another sideways scrolling shooter harking back to mid-80s arcade classics such as Green Beret - a commonly revisited genre in the burgeoning Java gaming scene. But Macrospace's wonderfully smooth and speedy effort - which pitches you against an alien force crash-landed in Siberia - is much more advanced than that. For Nokia 6600 and 6230 owners, this revolutionary title offers Bluetooth Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and Domination modes for two players. Each competitor can also be accom-panied by an AI bot for a four- player version. It's a hugely enjoyable experience and one that has fascinating ramifications for the mobile gaming market. But even if your phone does not support Bluetooth, this is still a marvellous shoot-'em-up with neat back-grounds, fast scrolling graphics and compellingly persistent foe.
Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games (MMORPGs) sit in uneasy limbo during the circus of E3. They are not cool enough to garner mainstream attention and are derided by traditionalists as "gaming lite", yet they are more accessible to wider audiences than their offline cohorts.MMORPGs are now the fastest-growing segment of the bullish entertainment software market, due in part to the growing number of publishers such as Electronic Arts, Sony, Microsoft and Sega, who are eyeballing monthly MMORPG subscriptions as a source of long-term revenue.The dominant leader of the 350-plus MMORPGs on release is EverQuest, a game with a global population of 500,000. Colloquially referred to as EverCrack, many long-term players are rescinding their 40-plus hour per week relationship with characters in favour of real life. Publisher Sony Online responded by showcasing EverQuest II.EQII should attract the casual gamer by offering short challenges early on, negating the need to waste precious real-time hours for in-game abilities. The development team has   also enhanced the opportunity for social interaction between players by creating a playable "Tradesman", who is rewarded for developing items and selling them on to battle-hungry players, without leaving the comfort of the virtual manor.Regardless of its pedigree, EverQuest II may have problems on release later in the year. Veteran EQ gamers can't transport their accounts to the new game and, unless they wish to pay double for the pleasure of playing in two EverQuest universes, it is unlikely they will commit virtual euthanasia to start over again. Similarly, demographics across fantasy-based MMORPG titles are consistently 20% female, mirroring the populations of the offline paper-based role playing games they are based on.Cinema spin-offs, on the other hand, can be MMORPG winners. Last year's Star Wars Galaxies was the fastest-growing game in the genre. This year, The Matrix Online hopes it holds the magic pill.Set immediately after the film series ends, players take roles in a cold war between man and machine as either flesh and blood or nuts and bolts. The combat alone, a groundbreaking mainstay throughout the film series, translates superbly to the   digital domain, and the story's progression, littered with conspiracy and red herrings, should inspire team play and higher levels of thought. Sega will release the game later in the year.Also causing a stir at the Expo, Tabula Rasa is completely new intellectual property that nicely blends elements of sci-fi and fantasy. The title is under development by the origina tor of the contemporary MMORPG, Richard "Lord British" Garriott, whose Ultima series continues to set the pace for online games.Tabula Rasa aims to give as much back as the gamer puts in, offering a unique experience to each person who takes part, within an environment that encourages team-based play. It borrows heavily from count less offline genres including action adventures, beat-'em-ups and puzzlers, making participation more of a diversion than an occupation. The best feature thus far is the ability to teleport from one section of the world to another, eliminating the need to run across virtual landscapes for real hours. It feels like the kind of game that should appeal to everyone, but breaking into a market dominated by The Sims Online will be its first real challenge. Unfortunately, it doesn't have a UK release date.In among the traditional MMORPGs were some unusual titles. NCSoft's game Lineage, populated by 4m people, is getting a sequel, but it is unlikely the European market will get whiff of it for a long time. It also announced City of Villains, an add-on to its caped crusader game City of Heroes, which allows players to don the mask of notorious do-badders. Others in its line-up included Alterlife, billed as "a social activity game for trendy female gamers" and Auto Assault, a massively multiplayer online "caRPG". The former sets alarm bells ringing with threats of so-called pink products produced by ignorant middle-aged men for under-12s, but there was little to suggest it wouldn't succeed. The latter, lacking in chin-stroking sincerity, looks like a nail-biting destruction derby closer to online first person shooter CounterStrike, albeit in upgradeable sport utility vehicles.Finally, Disney showcased the first MMORPG for kids. Toontown Online features all of the security one would expect in an online environment encouraging the development of social relationships among seven-year-olds. The game has met with rave reviews in the US for its non-violent, family friendly Mickey Mouse silliness and is set to launch in the UK next week for &#163;6.99 per month.The great MMORPG variety at this year's E3 is a trend expected to continue as publishers strive towards the holy online grail. The genre is forecast to be the future of games entertainment, and developers are only limited by their imaginations.Expect some unusual titles to come before filthy lucre stifles the market.
Sony has unveiled an astonishing array of products over the past two weeks, including a postage stamp-sized TV and FM radio tuner "for cellphones and other mobile devices", a Vaio Pocket portable music player, and a music download service.At E3, it showed the PSP handheld games console and an advanced cell-based development system. On the PC front, its new     offerings ranged from the world's smallest Windows XP machine, a pen-operated system weighing just 550g, to an XP Media     Center PC that can handle 1.6 terabytes of storage. And this is far from being a complete list.      Sony is trying to innovate its way out of trouble. In its annual financial results, announced on April 27, it said sales grew only 0.3%     to Y7.5 trillion (£37bn) while operating profits fell by 47% to Y99bn (£0.5bn) "mainly due to an increase in restructuring expenses".Sony is also suffering from declining sales in its profitable PlayStation business. Despite price cuts, it sold almost 6m fewer     consoles in the financial year.      But while you have to admire Nobuyuki Idei, Sony's chairman and chief executive, for his strategy of getting into new businesses,     he's taking on some powerful rivals.Enemy number one is Apple, which has invaded Sony's home ground in the portable music market. Enemy number two is probably     Microsoft, which has invaded the games console business with the Xbox. Enemies three and four are Nintendo and Nokia.     Having smashed Nintendo's console business, Sony is now attacking its portable Game Boy franchise, and this is where Nokia is     aiming its N-Gage phones. Sony has also allied with Ericsson, Nokia's traditional rival, in the mobile phone business.Just how many platform wars can Sony handle?      Sony's Music Connect download service has been criticised because Sony is using its own Atrac music compression format, and     copy-protected tracks will only play on Atrac-compatible handhelds. This is much like Apple's approach with iTunes, where     licensed downloads will only play on iPods. However, Sony's portable music devices include Net MD MiniDisc players, Memory     Stick Walkmans, CD Walkmans, Clie handhelds and Sony Ericsson phones. The iPod will outsell Sony's Vaio Pocket, but it is not     going to outpace all of these worldwide.Also, while Apple still won't let anyone else use its technology, Sony has learned from the VHS v Betamax battle, and is trying to     get the rest of Japan Inc to support Atrac downloads. Today, eight manufacturers are launching the Any Music service in Japan,     using Atrac and Sony's proprietary OpenMGX (MagicGate) digital rights management system.The brands in the consortium     include Sony, Kenwood, Pioneer, Sharp, Onkyo, Marantz, Denon, JVC and Yamaha.      But in some respects, Sony may be its own worst enemy. For example, its PC business might do better if Sony's top executives     did not spend so much time attacking PCs.And while there is some synergy to owning content (movie and music studios), the     delivery system and the players, I am sure Sony would sell far more devices if it allowed the degree of copying that users actually     want.
If you shop at Sainsbury's in the London borough of Islington, check your till receipt. Not for the price of a half ciabatta, but for the message on the back. It announces: "You can now pay your council tax, business rates and parking fines online", atwww.islington.gov.uk. If your next stop is the chemists, look out for a leaflet promoting the NHS's site,www.nhs.uk.Yes, after spending hundreds of millions of pounds on e-government, Britain's public authorities have realised it is time to start shouting about it.How much you hear about e-government depends very much on where you live. Some councils, such as Medway in Kent, have made a point of splashing their web URLs over municipal buildings and local media. Others prefer   to let citizens find out on their own.But is not just local authorities: the national police portalwww.police.ukremains a fairly well hidden secret. Perhaps someone's worried about what will happen to the crime figures when we find out that it is possible to report non-urgent crimes online.This may be about to change. Last month, a long-awaited national effort to develop "take-up and marketing strategies" got the go-ahead from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, which is responsible for local authorities meeting the e-govenrment targets.The scheme, named e-citizen, is being led by Norwich City council. It is number 23 out of 24 national projects set up to develop components of e-government for use by local authorities, mainly to stop   them inventing 468 versions of everything.Officials at the office say it was logical to leave the marketing of e-government until last, when there would be something to promote. But the project is going to have to work quickly to make much difference by the big e-government deadline of the end of 2005.Officials told the spring conference of SocITM, a feisty organisation of local authority IT managers, that the project would look at new ways of selling e-services to citizens. But first, apparently, it has to find standard ways of measuring take-up. The project will be "delivering through the next 12 months", we were told.By then, however, some councils may be pondering different questions. For example, what happens if e-government takes off   on its own? If large numbers of citizens start to order public services online, councils may need to find ways of rationing demand. They may also have to take unpopular decisions about shutting down conventional channels, such as one-stop shops. While business cases for e-government tacitly assume the new e-channels will be paid for by shutting down the old, there are few cases of this happening.Other hard decisions may include shutting down e-services that turn out to be unsustainable; digital TV, perhaps. It would be strange if the long-term task of e-government marketing was to persuade people back on to conventional services.In the meantime, however, telling shoppers how to find their council on the web sounds well worth the cost of a few till rolls.
Sharp has teamed up with T-Mobile to offer the TM100. A top-end camera phone free to many pay-monthly customers, the phone is not unlike the Sony Ericsson T610/630. The key differences are that the TM100 is slightly larger and features a pull-down number keypad.Arguably, the TM100's best feature is its large screen, with a resolution of 240x320 pixels and 256K colours. Although its camera isn't megapixel, it takes top-quality VGA standard images. Users can shoot in landscape or portrait modes.Also on board is a POP3 compatible email client, a basic organiser and one-touch access to T-Mobile's Wap portal T-Zones. Notable omissions include Bluetooth, an MP3 player and a storage expansion card slot. Users are limited to just 2.5MB.It is not worth swapping networks to buy a TM100, but if you are a T-Mobile customer and fancy a top-end camera phone, it ought to be high on your shortlist.www.tmobile.co.uk
Savings for whom?SA Mathieson's heroic effort to cover the ID card debate in one article (Here's looking at you, May 13) missed out some important elements. To take just three points, on the technical side, both iris scanners and fingerprint scanners have been fooled into thinking they were in the presence of a recognised user.Second, the ID card is likely to increase racist harassment by the police (and the emphasis on "preventing illegal immigration" strengthens this tendency) - a point put to the select committee on home affairs by the Local Government Association.Third, contrary to the caption, the Passport Service trial is not running for six months - it has been cut to three because of technical problems. So it is even less useful in evaluating the system than it was going to be.Contrary to the article's final sentence, there are not "many reasons for identity cards". Should 60m of us really have to register our irises and fingerprints with the government and permit the creation of an integrated government database system, just so the police can save a few hours identifying a few thousand drunks of a Saturday night?Milan RaiJustice Not VengeanceSt Leonards on SeaReverse gearSA Mathieson seems to have confused the role of the ID card.  Surely its purpose is to verify identity, so you present your card and biometrics and the system confirms you are probably who you say you are.It is not to allow a "reverse lookup" of ID from biometrics. This is quite a different thing, especially if the government is claiming that carrying an ID card is not compulsory.Mike WhittakerShropshireTested to the limitSo Michael Cross thinks the UK is "Europe's most competitive broadband market" (The backroom boys, May 13)?I beg to differ, as all I see is a plethora of advertising from companies "competing" to re-sell BT's ADSL service. It reminds me of the early days of the opening of the utility markets to "competition". Whichever company you signed up with, the stuff still came out of the same pipe. So it is with broadband: competition will always be stifled by whatever limits BT put on it.True competition will only arrive when cable and wireless broadband companies are fighting for our custom on every street corner and not just in densely populated urban areas or remote villages lucky enough to be the subject of "pilot" projects.Yoav TzabarCarlisleUp to speedTim Russell (Feedback, May 13) takes Jack Schofield to task for missing an opportunity to warn people against becoming Microsoft sheep. His argument is woolly to say the least. He writes: "If websites use features that only work on Internet Explorer, it is the website that is at fault, not the user."Is it sensible to use an inferior browser and then send polite emails to webmasters demanding they dumb down sites so it can cope? Is it reasonable to regard websites as being "at fault" for using the extra features provided by Internet Explorer?Your correspondent's energies would be better used by sending a quick, polite email to Netscape telling them to get up to speed, or he could convert his bookmarks and join the   two-thirds of users who can view sites denied to him at the click of a mouse.Walter GladwinCambridgeWhite elephantsThe reports from eGov Monitor (Implementing Electronic Government) and Accenture (E-government Leadership: Engaging the customer) have shown councils are making slow progress towards meeting the 2005 e-government deadline. What is particularly galling is that billions have been invested in websites and customer relationship management systems, and they still fall short of making public services more accessible, efficient and customer focused.The public sector appears to be repeating the mistakes made by the private sector during the CRM hype days. Consequently, there are many newly designed websites and complex CRM systems containing vast amounts of data, yet this information isn't easily accessible to the public for whom it was intended.Many websites and CRM systems are ill-designed to answer specific and individual questions, with traditional systems requiring users to understand how information is categorised. The irony is the majority of the users go to public sector websites to get answers! Providing a dynamic process that can understand and respond to questions rather than a system that holds lots of data is what the public actually needs.Unless accessibility is improved, significant amounts of taxpayers money will have been wasted as many of these systems will become "white elephants". The message is that the public sector doesn't need to invest in complex and costly CRM. Systems that provide answers and keep people happy can be up and running within six weeks - at far less cost and with efficiency benefits that outweigh traditional CRM.Gerard BuckleyChief executive, TransversalCambridge
Wi-Fi flawedThe popular Wi-Fi (802.11b) wireless standard has a major flaw that could allow hackers to bring down any system by a local denial of service (DoS) attack, according to the Australian Computer Emergency Response Team (AusCERT). The flaw was discovered by students at Queensland University and apparently reported to manufacturers in November, in the hope they could find a fix. They can't.It has been suggested that users switch to the 802.11a standard used by some businesses, or to 802.11g systems operating at higher data speeds - above 20Mbps. The 802.11g standard is a kludge that uses 802.11b technology for backwards compatibility but switches to 11a-style OFDM (orthogonal frequency division multiplexing) at higher speeds, albeit with fewer channels.Although no one has so far bothered to jam Wi-Fi networks, there is no guarantee for the future. Business users are recommended not to install 802.11b for essential infrastructure. The best option may be tri-mode 802.11a/b/g wireless networks, so they have an alternative if attacked. However, there is no guarantee that flaws will not be found in OFDM.www.auscert.org.auNew relationshipsThe Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea is the first UK local authority to deploy Microsoft's customer relationship management (CRM) software. This is being used by the council's Directorate of Transportation and Highways to track postal and email enquiries and reduce the number of documents posted to constituents. Letters are scanned into Microsoft CRM 1.2 and transmitted with any emails to one of 35 staff. The system will make it faster and easier for officers to ascertain who looked at a letter, who is dealing with it, and what actions have been taken.www.auscert.org.auWider knowledgeXeta, a London black cab service, is using Pocket PCs to extend The Knowledge. Every cabbie is being issued with an O2 XDA II smart phone/PDA connected to the GPRS (general packet radio service ) data network. The Xpert software driving the system has been developed by Xeta. The service uses global positioning satellites to track the fleet so the nearest cab to a customer can be located and dispatched more easily. It also means that cabs going out of the central London area, memorised by drivers during training, can use satellite-aided navigation to find their outer-London destination.www.xeta-net.com/driverservices.htmlServer plansMicrosoft has used the anniversary of the launch of Windows 2003 Server to announce the roadmap for future releases. Later this year, the first service pack for Windows 2003 Server will be released to tackle reliability and security improvements, and add support for 64-bit applications. Next year, an update to the server operating system, code-named R2, will add features, including a cross-company identity management scheme, previously code-named Trustbridge. A second service pack for the Windows server is planned for 2006. This will help bridge users to the next major release, the Longhorn server, which should appear in 2007.Switching up3Com says its latest stackable switches will provide a bridge to future networks where 10 gigabit backbones feed one gigabit desktop links. It claims it will be the first manufacturer to provide 10Gbit Ethernet scalability. Although the company admits few companies need 10Gbit networks, it maintains change is inevitable and that enterprise networks should be prepared. The SuperStack 3 Switch 3870 family is available as 24-port or 48-port modules supporting 10, 100 and 1000Mbit/sec per port, with a 10Gbit expansion slot. European prices will be announced at the launch next month, but US pricing is $3,995 (&#163;2,260) and $5 ,995 (&#163;3,390).Spin doctoratesThe European Union is investing &euro;10m (&#163;7m) over the next four years in an attempt to develop secure communications based on quantum cryptography. This would produce the ultimate in secure messaging by creating unbreakable encoding. Quantum cryptography uses subatomic light particles, known as photons, to transmit binary messages. The angle of vibration of a photon can be used to represent a zero or a one. Any attempt by a hacker to intercept the stream of photons will change this angle and can therefore be detected. The new system, known as Secure Communication based on Quantum Cryptography, will attempt to break the current barriers of distance and transmission speeds.Scots go fasterScottish small firms lead the UK in using broadband, with 62% taking it up. The UK average is 56%, according to a survey for cable network operator NTL of 400 firms with up to 50 staff. Of the broadband-using firms, two thirds said it significantly improves their ability to communicate with customers and suppliers, while half thought the opportunity to implement new business applications was a major benefit. They reckon broadband allows time savings of 90 minutes of one employee's work time each day. However, a third of non-users said broadband offered no tangible benefit.
SoftwareOpera deliversNorwegian software specialist Opera has become the first company to offer a web browser that automatically delivers articles and updates to weblogs. Available for a free download (it is supported via banner advertising) Opera 7.50 relays Really Simple Syndication (RSS) items directly to a PC or Mac via the browser's integrated email client, Opera Mail. Also new is an internet chat client that is compatible with private and group online chats. Opera has also revamped the browser's interface to deliver shortcuts to internet activities via a new panel selector.Mobile phonesVouchers take a hitA European directive on electronic money could hit prepay mobile phone users, after the European Commission last week suggested in a consultation paper that it should apply to prepay vouchers, if they are used to buy third-party services or goods such as ring-tones or information. The directive says electronic money must be redeemable for cash, and be protected against use by money launderers. Analyst firm Ovum warns that applying the directive to prepay vouchers would either mean mobile operators setting up special subsidiaries, or outsourcing issuance to specialist e-money companies - both of which would be expensive.http://europa.eu.int/commMP3 playersA Zen for qualityMany budget MP3 players have tacky plastic cases. Not the EZAV Zen EMP-200, which goes on sale this week via MP3 Plus. The &#163;139 256MB player is finished in a solid metallic case. Compatible with MP3 and WMA files, it features direct encoding from audio sources such as CDs and can be programmed to create a new track when silence is detected at the end of a piece. This makes it a good bet for those archiving vinyl records. The player, which works with PCs and Macs, features an LCD screen, a joystick-controlled menu system and USB 1.1 connector.www.mp3-plus.netHardwareDoubling upSony has also unveiled its latest top-end desktop PC that doubles as a home entertainment server. When used with Sony's &#163;300 Network Media Receiver device, the RA104 can wirelessly stream music, video and still images from its hard drive to a television or home entertainment centre using the 802.11g format. The PC features an analogue TV tuner complete with Sony's hard disk video recording Giga Pocket software. The company has also incorporated an electronic programming guide for the PC. This web-based software enables users to instruct the recorder to archive programmes remotely via a PC or an internet-enabled phone. The RA104 goes on sale in June.Socket surfingFor those lumbered with 56k dial-up modem connections, Socket is offering the chance to surf the net wirelessly. Its &#163;99 cordless 56k modem   connects a computer to the internet using Bluetooth. Users plug the modem into a standard phone line and then go online via a Bluetooth-enabled PC up to 100 feet away. It is powered by a rechargeable Lithium ion battery. The modem, which works with Palm and Microsoft-based PDAs, is accompanied by utilities connection set-up software, which apparently makes it easy to program the modem when travelling abroad.www.socket.comSony slims downSony is to bring to the UK next month what it is billing the slimmest and lightest ultra portable notebook PC. Launched in Japan at the end of last year, the Vaio X505 is just 9.7mm thick and weighs around 850g. Sony claims it has cut the note book's bulk by employing a new miniature motherboard that is around the same size as a MiniDisc. Features include a 10.4in XGA screen, 1.1 GHz Intel ultra low voltage Pentium M processor, a 20GB hard disk and 512MB Ram. Also included is 802.11/g wireless connectivity via a PC card, a multi-format flash storage card adapter and a DVD rewriter. It is expected to retail for around &#163;2,200.InternetSite fails disabledA Disability Rights Commission website, &lt;A HREF="http://www.disabilityaware.org""&gt;www.disabilityaware.org, fails basic tests on its accessibility to the disabled, according toBusiness2www, a website testing firm. It found a button that lacks an alt tag, stopping anyone using screen-reading software from identifying what that button does. The firm says that in general, government websites are improving their compliance with web accessibility initiative (WAI) guidelines.Taking into account a range of measures, the research found the Child Support Agency and the Privy Council have the best websites of 67 government organisations, while the Treasury has the poorest.Yahoo vs GoogleUK users of Yahoo's free webmail service will get 100MB of storage space from late summer, up from from 6MB. Paying users, including BT Yahoo customers, will go from 50MB to "virtually unlimited" storage space. Google is trialling a groups service, Groups 2, which can handle email lists and newsgroups - similar to Yahoo Groups.Google is also adding image-based adverts to its context-specific AdWords service. These adverts had been text only. For the time being, the image-based adverts will be shown only on willing third-party websites, rather than on Google's own services.http://groups-beta.google.comStat of the week:Web surfing at work49% of us would sooner lose morning coffee than our work net connection, and we average around two hours a week on personal surfing. 22% of men and 12% of women admit to looking at porn - although 13% of men and all the women say it was an accident.
What's been the most surprising change since you wrote Wired Society in 1978?The book was surprisingly accurate. Two things surprise me. One is how non-academic people talk to computers more than I thought they would. They may not be doing sophisticated things but they are using neat tools. The other thing is how fast the internet grew once it had picked up that initial positive feedback. The web was easy to use so the growth from 1995-2000 was phenomenal. I think we'll see something similar with theGrid. We're also seeing the growth ofdata warehouses. Along with them are various techniques for data mining and pattern recognition.Could supercomputers be harnessed to help the environment?The biggest problem is the pumping of gases into the atmosphere, which may trigger climate change. There are a few supercomputer models of the climate and they indicate it is metastable - you can only disturb it up to a point. The biggest supercomputer isJapan's Earth Simulator, which is working on models of climate. We need more research but lots of technologies could replace carbon-based ones.3G?There are many technologies by which you can do wireless broadband and3Gwas just one . Other ways now look better. One   problem was locking into one architecture before it was capable of dominating the market. We are beginning to see some of the things they said we would with 3G _ a lot of people have mobiles capable of taking and sending photos.Does Moore's Law still hold true?Moore was talking about the growth of transistors on silicon chips, and if we look ahead 20 years, we're going to be talking about something else such as carbon nanotubes. We have a lot of technologies in the research labs, which show we'll soon be able to have enormous memory on very small devices. There'll also be enormous processing power and a high-level of parallelism in supercomputers. Fibre-optics is gaining bandwidth at a phenomenal rate and when you have a web that operates at the speed of fibreoptics, you'll be able to have a huge amount of parallel computing on it.What's next in the evolution of computing?At Virginia Tech in Bermuda they decided they could build a supercomputer by lashing together a large number ofMacintosh G5 processors. Normally, if you're building the architecture for a supercomputer, it takes up to four years and costs between $15m and $100m. They built this one in six months for $5m. They are replacing the desktop G5 processors with the smaller and more powerful server processors. It has now been ranked as the third most powerful supercomputer and means ordinary organisations can effectively have a supercomputer.Visit:www.drjamesmartin.tv,www.headstrong.com&amp;www.martininstitute.ox.ac.uk
There are millions of small businesses all over the world: most have just one or two servers and a handful of desktop PCs, and perhaps one part-time system administrator. How are they meant to keep their business systems under control and secure with an internet full of worms and viruses? Surely a simple system management tool is just what they need, but these have been about as common as hen's teeth.System management tools and frameworks can cost thousands of pounds for even the smallest network, and often require specialised skills to configure and run. The alternative is to go to a consultancy, but even a few hours of an experienced consultant's time can cost hundreds of pounds. Powerful tools such as Microsoft's Small Business Server 2003 are being advertised as the route to efficient, flexible operations, but small and medium-sized businesses need tools to help them keep their complex servers under control.At the recent Microsoft Management Summit in Las Vegas, which I attended as part of a Microsoft UK press trip, Microsoft announced Microsoft Operations Manager 2005 Express, a version of the enterprise-focused Mom 2005 management tool that had been redesigned to support small business. Microsoft's director of management technologies and products, David Hamilton, described Express as "management for the masses". While it may not deliver the whole of that promise, Express is certainly a long way down that road.Intended for use with up to 10 servers, Express gives users a dashboard view of their systems to show what is running and what may be causing problems. It's quick to deploy,   and can be running in less than an hour. One management server deploys software agents across a network, giving the server console access to application and hardware information.There are some differences from the enterprise version. For example, Express is unable to connect to other management platforms, and doesn't offer the same level of reporting as Mom 2005. However, these are unlikely to affect smaller businesses.If a problem occurs, Express will flag the service that has failed. System administrators can then drill down into reports to find the exact cause of the problem, and can even run further diagnostic tests to isolate hardware and software faults. Once a problem has been identified, Express will advise on possible fixes. In a useful touch, system managers can export network and system diagrams as Microsoft Visio files, so they can email annotated images to their partners and service providers.Express uses the same management pack approach as its enterprise sibling. Management packs are an important part of the Mom frameworks and best thought of as sets of rules for monitoring and managing applications, often developed by support specialists and application development teams. Management packs will often contain step-by-step troubleshooting information, as well as common solutions to problems. And they don't just come from Microsoft: many have been developed by third parties. These include tools for working with Citrix MetaFrame, security management, Oracle databases, and Veritas backup tools.Microsoft hasn't announced final pricing for Express, but it is expected to be in the order of $500 (&#163;284) for 10 servers. There's a good prospect   for return on investment here: that could be the cost of one visit from a service provider to diagnose and fix a problem that could have been handled using one of Express's built-in management packs.One of the key issues facing system managers is security. The current release of Microsoft's free Baseline Security Advisor (MBSA) will scan and test all the PCs and servers on a network for security risks and missing patches, while providing advice on how to fix any problems that may have been found. MBSA should be part of the toolkit of anyone running Windows servers (or even just one PC!). Its simple graphical user interface makes it suitable for everything from the smallest home network to an office full of PCs and servers.Of course, Microsoft isn't the only company providing security and management tools for smaller businesses. GFI may be best known for its mail security tools, but its LANguard Network Security Scanner performs a similar function to MBSA, while also identifying all the devices on your network - including Linux systems, network printers and routers. LANguard NSS will also use the BugTraq security database to provide information about other applications that may be running on your network, as well as automatically deploying security patches to operating systems and applications.Tools such as these should give smaller businesses the resources they need to keep their servers under control. Doing more with less is the key to sales in this market, and with lower prices than enterprise management platforms, plus built-introuble-shooting tips, the new generation of system management tools should prove attractive to IT managers.
