Apple’s business may be dominated by its iPhone and iPad devices, but the company isn&apos;t letting the 30th anniversary of its original Mac computer pass by unnoticed.The company haslaunched a websiteto wish happy birthday to the Macintosh, while making several senior executives available for a rare interview to trumpet its impact on the wider industry.“Every company that made computers when we started the Mac, they’re all gone. We’re the only one left,” Apple’s marketing boss Phil Schillertold Macworld this week. “We’re still doing it, and growing faster than the rest of the PC industry because of that willingness to reinvent ourselves over and over.”That reinvention has reduced the importance of the Mac to Apple, though. Revenues from the product line rose steadily from $4.5bn in the company&apos;s 2003 financial year to $23.2bn in 2012, but its share of Apple&apos;s total sales fell from 72.4% to 14.8% in that period as other products – iPod, then iPhone, then iPad – were released.Apple&apos;s 2013 financial year saw Mac sales dip to $21.5bn, accounting for 12.6% of the company&apos;s overall revenues compared to 53.4% for iPhone and 18.7% for iPad. It&apos;s still a very profitable business, just not as important for the company&apos;s overall health.Apple&apos;s senior management tends to tackle questions about the Mac&apos;s future with two responses: first, to talk about how it&apos;s outperforming the wider PC market – research firm Gartner recently noted that Apple&apos;sUS Mac sales were up 28.5% year-on-yearin the final quarter of 2013, compared to an overall market drop of 7.5%.Source: AppleSecond, Apple pitches the iPad/MacBook issue as proof of its willingness to cannibalise its own products with an eye on the future – see also the iPhone&apos;s impact on sales of iPods. &quot;I see cannibalization as a huge opportunity for us,&quot;said chief executive Tim Cook last year.&quot;Our core philosophy is to never fear cannibalization. If we don’t do it, someone else will. We know that iPhone has cannibalized some of our iPod business. That doesn’t worry us. We know that iPad will cannibalize some Macs. But that’s not a concern.&quot;So, there has been new Mac hardware, from the MacBook Air laptop to the recently-revamped Mac Pro. On the software side, despite frequent speculation about a merger of iPhone and iPad&apos;s iOS with Mac&apos;s OS X, the two operating systems have remained separate, but increasingly linked – OS X Mavericks and iOS 7 share several applications as well as Apple&apos;s iCloud cloud service.“The thing that has turbocharged the Mac has been the advent of the iPhone and the iPad. That cross-pollination of ideas, the fact that the [Mac and iOS] teams are the same team, has propelled the Mac further than I had hoped for,” vice president of software technology Bud Tribble told Macworld this week.30 years since the first Mac also means it is 30 years since the memorable 1984 TV commercial for the machine, which was aired during the Super Bowl in January 1984. One of that ad&apos;s co-creators, Lee Clow,hinted last weekthat there may be a surprise coming during this year&apos;s Super Bowl on 2 February to celebrate the anniversary.&quot;Gonna be a goodSuper Bowl. Mac&apos;s gonna be 30 :)&quot; tweeted Clow. Apple&apos;s mobile business may seize many more headlines nowadays, but this may be time for the Mac to step into the TV limelight again.
&quot;Phablet&quot; smartphones with large screens will see rising demand in the Far East over the next five years, says a new report - though data from Europe suggests their appeal here is limited.According to Juniper Research, phablet sales (which it defines as having a screen of between 5.6in and 6.9in measured diagonally) will hit 120m annually in 2018, compared to just 20m this year.Around half of those - 60m - will be bought in the Far East and China, the company forecasts, while about 20m will be sold in North America and 20m in Europe, it forecasts.Juniper&apos;s definition of a &quot;phablet&quot; describes a larger screen than most research companies, which define it as a smartphone with a screen measuring 5in or more diagonally. That includes devices such as Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S4, released last April, and its Note 3,released in September, and HTC&apos;s One Max, released in autumn.Juniper says &quot;phablets will easily find seed demographics, such as gamers in South Korea or [video] streamers in China, allowing vendors to establish a large enough consumer base to benefit from economies of scale.&quot;Phablets&apos; appeal: how big?But data collected by Kantar ComTech from its panel of 56,000 smartphone buyers in Europe suggests that phablet screens are too big for a significant number of those who buy them - who then &quot;scale down&quot; to smaller screens.According to Kantar&apos;s data, which covers the whole of 2013, 42% of people who bought a phablet - which it defines as a screen over 5in, slightly smaller than Juniper&apos;s definition - subsequently bought a smaller screen size.In fact, Kantar says it has identified a trend for smartphone buyers to swap between four sizes of screens:those less than 2.9in (roughly equivalent to an older BlackBerry)3in to 3.9in (a size range that includes the iPhone 4)4in to 4.4in (such as the iPhone 5 andSony Xperia Z1 Compact)4.5 to 4.9in (such as the Moto X, HTC One and - on Kantar&apos;s definition - Samsung Galaxy S4)5in and above (such as the HTC One Max and Samsung Galaxy Note range).But it found that there is a cycle of swapping between them:88% of sub-2.9in owners move to a larger size;68% of 3.0-3.9in [iPhone 4-size] owners move to a larger size (only 1% move down)56% of 4.0-4.4in [iPhone 5, Xperia Z1 Compact] owners move to a larger size (13% move down)41% of 4.5-4.9in owners [HTC One, Samsung Galaxy S4] move to a larger sizeamong phablet owners, 58% remain but 42% downgrade to a smaller size.How Europeans switched between smartphone screen sizes in 2013. Source: Kantar ComTech. Photograph: /PR/KantarKantar carries out its study by continual interviews of the same panel of people, so that it knows what their buying decisions are, and how they change.&quot;In general, more consumers upgrade to a larger device each time they change, rather than buying the same size or downsizing,&quot; says Dominic Sunnebo, global insight director at Kantar ComTech. &quot;However, this changes pretty quickly when you look at consumers upgrading from 5&quot;+ devices (Phablets) - 42% of these switched to a smaller device (mostly 4.5&quot;-4.9&quot;).&quot;Sunnebo says that in Europe, people almost always move between device sizes by simply switching to the next size up or down. &quot;In Europe there&apos;s far, far less interest in phablets, so manufacturers find it a struggle to push them over here, compared to Asia where they are a big thing. The difference is that tablets took off a lot earlier in the US and Europe - in the UK, tablet penetration is close to 40% of households.&quot;By contrast growth in tablet sales of all sizes in Asia has been more recent. &quot;When finances are under pressure there, then a phablet is the preference&quot; - because its large screen means it can serve the purposes of both a phone and a small tablet.Kantar defines Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S4 as a sub-5in screen, rather than a &quot;phablet&quot;, because &quot;it&apos;s practically the same size body as the Galaxy S3 [from 2012]. That makes it difficult to classify.&quot;He added: &quot;There are strong rumours Samsung is bringing out a smaller version of the Note III which speaks volumes about its performance to date - this essentially just brings the Note 3 closer and closer to the Galaxy S4 (and soon to be S5), and therefore loses its USP [unique selling point], which is mainly simply its size.&quot;Using the data from Kantar, one can run a simulation that suggests how phone screen size ownership might migrate among the population. Note that it&apos;s subject to these criteria (and cautions):it assumes that the ratio of upgrades/stayers/downgraders remains the samethe iteration rounds each time to an integer value so it more quickly approaches a limitif this were carried out on two-year smartphone contracts, it would take more than 20 years to occur.But it may give a broader picture of trends in the smartphone market.Assuming that you start with everyone owning a sub-2.9in phone:Simulation of smartphone screen size ownership trends based on Kantar data. Photograph: /GuardianIn this scenario, phablets end up with 38% of the market - and the range from 4.0-4.9in with a total of 60%. The 3.5in size is left with 2%.Note that this modelling has another key assumption: that some people cycle back and forth between owning phones of larger and smaller sizes.If one were to use a &quot;marking&quot; system, where those who have traded up or down and then returned to a particular size remain with that screen size, you&apos;d get a different result.Withrumours that Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S5 will have a 5.25in screen, andsimilar rumours that Apple is working on a 4.7in (and even 5.7in) iPhone, the appeal of larger screens - and phablets - is likely to be tested in 2014.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft financials: record revenue, consumer sales declining in drift towards Enterprise &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingHere is what is notable. Looking at these figures, Microsoft's cash cow is obvious: licensing server products, Windows and Office to businesses, which is profitable almost to the point of disgrace: gross margin $10.077bn on sales of $10.888bn. Microsoft breaks this down a little. Hyper-V has gained 5 points of share, it says, and Windows volume licensing is up 10%.Cloud (Office 365, Azure, Dynamics CRM online) may be growing strongly, but it is a sideshow relative to the on-premises licensing.How do we reconcile yet another bumper quarter with the Microsoft/Windows is dead meme? The answer is that it is not dead yet, but the shift away from the consumer market and the deep dependency on on-premises licensing are long-term concerns.Chrome bugs lets sites listen to your private conversations &gt;&gt; talater.comTal Ater discovered this, told Google last September, got rewarded. But the fix hasn't been rolled out:A user visits a site, that uses speech recognition to offer some cool new functionality. The site asks the user for permission to use his mic, the user accepts, and can now control the site with his voice. Chrome shows a clear indication in the browser that speech recognition is on, and once the user turns it off, or leaves that site, Chrome stops listening. So far, so good.But what if that site is run by someone with malicious intentions?Most sites using Speech Recognition, choose to use secure HTTPS connections. This doesn't mean the site is safe, just that the owner bought a $5 security certificate. When you grant an HTTPS site permission to use your mic, Chrome will remember your choice, and allow the site to start listening in the future, without asking for permission again. This is perfectly fine, as long as Chrome gives you clear indication that you are being listened to, and that the site can't start listening to you in background windows that are hidden to you.But then the site opens a popunder window...Greylock Helps Jelly &gt;&gt; Jelly blogJelly is the "ask someone a question sort-of-on-Twitter-except-not" service:Last year, Jelly announced a Series A financing led by Spark Capital along with some angels including Reid Hoffman of Greylock Partners. Today, we closed a Series B with Greylock Partners. A former colleague of mine, Josh Elman, will join Jelly's board of directors as part of this investment.Let's guess that it will be about August that Jelly will carry out its pivot towards something people actually want to use it for.Qualcomm buys massive Palm, iPaq and Bitfone patent portfolio from HP &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSan Diego-based Qualcomm just announced that it has acquired 1,400 patents from HP covering Palm, iPaq and Bitfone patents and pending patents.It's unclear how many are from each portfolio, but Qualcomm just made a big leap in owning a chunk of patents covering the fundamentals of mobile operating system techniques.The price of the sale was not released.HP has to make back the $4bn or so it dropped on Palm and the Touchpad somehow. (LG bought webOS, of course.)Apple executives on the Mac at 30: 'The Mac keeps going forever.' &gt;&gt; Macworld"This device," [software chief Craig] Federighi said, pointing at a MacBook Air screen, "has been honed over 30 years to be optimal" for keyboards and mice. Schiller and Federighi both made clear that Apple believes that competitors who try to attach a touchscreen onto a PC or a clamshell keyboard onto a tablet are barking up the wrong tree."It's obvious and easy enough to slap a touchscreen on a piece of hardware, but is that a good experience?" Federighi said. "We believe, no.""We don't waste time thinking, 'But it should be one [interface!]' How do you make these [operating systems] merge together?' What a waste of energy that would be," [marketing chief Phil] Schiller said.Earth visualisation: wind mapYou can zoom in and tilt to get better views. (Helpfully, it labels it "Earth".)The unique origins of 25 popular products &gt;&gt; Business PunditHappy accidents make good inventions. Spills, explosions, odd chemical reactions, and plain old forgetfulness produced some of today's most practical products. From saccharin to shopping carts, each of the inventions below has a strange and unique origin:No.1 (at the bottom of the page) is a surprise. (This seems to be the canonical page for this set, but if the original lies elsewhere please let us know.)How to use Chrome to cut your mobile data consumption &gt;&gt; CITEworldChrome's share of the mobile browser market has more than quadrupled since last February, when it was less than 2%. It's likely Chrome will continue to gain users as Google pursues its strategy of integrating many of its services through the browser.Chrome reduces your data usage by condensing image file sizes on Google's own servers and sending only HTTP requests to the search giant's servers; HTTPS requests go straight to the destination server. (Note to incognito mode users: Google servers don't handle pages loaded through Chrome's private browsing mode, so it won't reduce data consumption. That's the price of being on the down low, I guess.)So Google proxies your requests. But does it do that for video too, which is generally the largest chunk of mobile data?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
I don't understand why people go on about the boot-up time on PCs when there's only that one time in the day that they have to tackle that problem. Surely there are other things that affect one's productivity much more than boot-up time. What do you think?ChrisPeople have been complaining about the boot-up time on Windows PCs because it used to take far too long. Happily, that has been fixed in Windows 8, which, if installed correctly, boots up very quickly. Indeed, when I hit the power button on a Microsoft Surface Pro 2 (I have one on loan), it starts up faster than my DAB radio.There are four main reasons why the Surface Pro 2 boots in seconds and provides almost "instant on". First, it doesn't have to wait for the old and very slow BIOS chip: that's been replaced by a newer, more secure, industry standardUEFIinterface. Second, it isn't slowed by loading the "crapware" installed by most PC manufacturers, who make money by distributing (pre-loading) unwanted software. Third, it has a solid-state drive (SSD), so it's not waiting for a mechanical hard drive platter to spin up to speed. Fourth, in most cases, it's not actually booting: the power button is just waking it from hibernation. Nowadays, my Windows 7 and 8.1 PCs only ever get rebooted after Microsoft's monthly updates are downloaded on "patch Tuesday".If you have an older Windows PC, the boot-up time should be around 50-90 seconds, and usually it's a case of "the older, the longer". You can spend some time optimising the boot sequence withSlimCleanerand/orAnVir Task Manager Free. Removing programs and services you don't need should speed it up. Just saving 10-30 seconds pays off eventually, if you're sort of person who sits and waits for a PC instead of making a cup of tea, or whatever.I agree that there are much better ways to increase your productivity, but these are harder to evaluate, and may cost money or involve work.Buy a fast PCIn my experience, by far the biggest productivity boost comes from buying a fast PC, but it's not easy to measure. For example, a program may load in five seconds rather than 10, or a web page may load in three or four seconds rather than eight or nine. There are huge time savings -- and productivity gains -- if you do these things hundreds of times a week. However, most people aren't very sensitive to small time differences. The users who invest in fast chips and SSDs are typically gamers or people who have big jobs to run. If a program compilation, photo manipulation or spreadsheet calculation takes from 10 minutes to an hour to run, running it four or five times faster makes a very noticeable difference.Given the salaries paid to programmers, graphic artists, video and photo editors, architects and similar workers, it would be insane not to give them fast PCs. (See:How much does your slow machine cost your company?.) But not everyone's time is so valuable.Automate thingsAnother huge gain in productivity comes from automating processes. It drives me batty to see people manually changing two spaces to one space in a long piece of text, when they could use the Search/Replace command to do it in a couple of seconds. Better still, they could record a Microsoft Word macro to do this and several other tasks at the same time. The macro does the job almost instantly and can be re-used many times a day for many years.In Microsoft Word and Excel, you now have to go to the Options menu and click "Show Developer tab in the Ribbon" to get to the Record Macro button. This is shocking. It implies that very few people are using macros to make productivity gains.If you have a computer -- any computer -- you can use it to automate many other jobs instead of doing them manually. You can do it with macros, batch files, simple scripts, email filters, and free programs such asAuto HotKey. Some programs have batch processing facilities built in. For example, if I want to upload 20 photos to Facebook, I use BlueFive'sPIXresizerto reduce the whole batch to a reasonable size in one go.Adobe Lightroom's Sync Settings let you edit one picture and then apply the same changes to all the similar photos from the rest of the shoot. Doing each snap separately could take hours.Use keyboard shortcutsYou can get massive gains in speed and productivity by using the keyboard instead of the mouse. For example, it takes a split second to hit Ctrl-S to save a file, whereas it takes several seconds to grab the mouse, go to the File menu and select Save. Yes, this does mean learning the shortcuts, which you can find by observing the underlined characters in the various menus. The ones everyone should know include Ctrl-A (select All), Ctrl-C (Copy), Ctrl-V (insert), Ctrl-X (cut) and, most importantly, Ctrl-Z (undo). Whenever you do something wrong, Ctrl-Z is your first option to undo it, though it doesn't work everywhere. Ctrl-Y is "redo".For Microsoft Word users, Ctrl-Alt-V (Paste Special) is incredibly useful.Not everyone needs to know that Alt-Spacebar-N will minimize a window or that Shift-F10 will pop up the equivalent of a right mouse-click, but shortcuts like these are hugely useful to people with limited vision or other disabilities.There are a few useful Function key shortcuts, such as F2 to rename a file, F3 to search for a file or folder, and F5 to refresh a window. Alt-F4 closes the current window or application or, if there isn't one running, Windows. The useless one you always hit by mistake is F1 for Help.Microsoft introduced a further selection of shortcuts with the Windows Key, which is the one with a Windows logo. Most of these aren't particularly useful unless you have Windows 8. If you do, then you should definitely know that hitting WinKey toggles between the desktop and Start screen, WinKey+X pops up the Power User menu, WinKey+E runs Explorer on the desktop, and WinKey+L locks the computer. The Power User menu provides instant access to the Control Panel, Command Prompt and other features, including shut-down options.Some web-based applications also have keyboard shortcuts, including Gmail. Of course, it's quicker to use a desktop mail client, but if you have to use web-based email, learning the keyboard shortcuts can save a lot of time.Learn to touch-typeFinally, one of the biggest productivity gains you can make is to learn to touch-type. If you are an experienced hunt-and-peck typist then you will lose some productivity to begin with. However, once the keystrokes have been committed to"muscle memory", you'll be able to type without even thinking about it.I'd expect every touch-typist to manage 30-40 words a minute, and a lot of PC users can do 60-80wpm, which is about as good as a good secretary. Really fast typists can do 80-100wpm.There are plenty ofonlinetypingtestsand touch-typing courses. I've previously recommendedKAZ(Keyboard A-Z), which aims to get you touch-typing in 90 minutes, but that was in2000and2004. Maybe you can find something better now, but I'm confident it will still do the job.
You’re spoilt. Spoilt with your tactile touchscreen smartphone with its one-tap access to apps and games and its app store full of new things to try.Let me take you back to a time when games were played by dialling 0898 800 876 on your rotary-dial telephone, listening to a story and every so often dialling a number to choose your next move.Well, some games. Let me take you back to F.I.S.T.It’s an interesting episode in the history of British gaming, launched in 1988 by Steve Jackson, a veteran of the roleplaying and games industries in the UK.He co-founded the Games Workshop stores with his business partner Ian Livingstone, introducing Dungeons &amp; Dragons to the UK, before moving on to launch the Fighting Fantasy range of “interactive adventure game” books.Jackson also co-founded PC and console developer Lionhead Studios; created a collectible trading cards game called Battle Cards that predated Magic: The Gathering; and is now professor of game design at Brunel University.F.I.S.T.? That was the first “interactive telephone role-playing game”, launched as a joint venture with a British company called Computerdial, which had been impressed by the multi-million-selling success of Fighting Fantasy.“They’d licensed technology from a Californian company that could read the clicks on rotary-dial phones, and it also worked for the tone-dial phones that were just starting at the time,” Jackson said in a speech at the Mobile Games Forum in London today.“Computerdial had Russell Grant’s Hotline to the Stars, where you dialled in your birth date, and Russell Grant gave you a horoscope. They were pleased with what this was doing, and thought they were really onto something. And a guy from the States came across the Fighting Fantasy books and said ‘why don’t you go to see these guys…’”The first result was a swiftly-aborted attempt to turn a Fighting Fantasy book into an audio adventure to be played over the telephone line. “It was pretty much a disaster. The more you thought about it, the more it just wasn’t appropriate,” he said.“In a book a 10-page introduction is absolutely fine, but on a telephone, having this audio coming through and having to wait for five minutes at 25p a minute or something like that, it just wasn’t going to work at all!”Instead, Jackson and Computerdial decided to try something new: still fantasy-themed adventures like the books, but more suited to short, sharp snatches of narration and dialogue, so that players weren’t left kicking their heels on a premium-rate call.Thus was born Fantasy Interactive Scenarios by Telephone, shortened to F.I.S.T. for its launch. “A rather unfortunate title in this day and age, but at the time it seemed to be quite punchy,” said Jackson. The first adventure took Jackson six months to write, then three weeks of recording and mixing work in the studio.The action was broken up in a similar fashion to the books: instead of reading a chunk of text then turning to different pages according to the choices of the player, F.I.S.T. involved listening to chunks of audio then dialling numbers.This being audio, there had to be a narrator – a voice actor called Tony Jackson – and there had to be some sound effects. Including one for someone having their head chopped off.“I’d heard that what you do is chop a cabbage, and that sounds like chopping somebody’s head off. So we had it all mic’d up in the studio, and I got a sword and then bought this cabbage from a greengrocer. And I got my sword and swung it and it went… pfft,” said Jackson, making the noise of the world&apos;s least impressive beheading.“So we went through all the vegetables, all the different things we could find in the studio, and the one we came across in the end was a bricklayers’ trowel, with a cabbage. The cabbage was still good. You stuck the trowel in and twisted it, and there was all this popping noise. And Tony Jackson got right into it, got a glass of water and went *gurgling noise* for about 20 seconds. It was fantastic!”F.I.S.T. launched, complete with an adventurer’s pack that people could request by sending a stamped addressed envelope, and that 25p-a-minute premium-rate number to start playing the game.Steve Jackson gave an audio demo of F.I.S.T. at the Mobile Games Forum. This is what players heard down their telephone line.Computerdial advertised the game in Games Workshop’s magazine White Dwarf, and started getting around 1,000 calls a day, although this dropped off after a couple of weeks, either because people lost interest, or because they’d played the whole game and wanted more.“Computerdial took a gamble by putting an advert for F.I.S.T. on the TV page of the Daily Mirror, and that day they got 5,000 calls, the next day they got another 5,000, and while it dwindled off softly, they were getting excited about it,” said Jackson.“Then they took it to The Sun and placed an advert for F.I.S.T. on the back page. That day, and the rest of the next week, they got 7,000 calls a day. They were on the phone to me saying ‘we need more adventures’, so it prompted a whole series of games.”The series also diversified, including a telephone game called Gladiators of the Roman Empire with a combat system that got players to dial one numbers: 1, 2, 3 or 4 to attack their opponent’s head, body, arms or legs respectively, then another number to choose which of those four to defend.Another spin-off, a codebreaking game not a million miles away from Mastermind, but with a £5,000 grand prize, was quickly shut down after it was cracked “about half an hour after the whole thing went live by a housewife from Birmingham”.In total, F.I.S.T. was played for around 7m minutes by players in the UK and US, which at 25p a minute for the UK, meant it was fairly lucrative. But technology (and Jackson’s career) moved on, leaving the game as a historical oddity – but a very interesting one.Has Jackson ever considered reviving it for modern devices? It’s an obvious ancestor of mobile games like the two Papa Sangre games on iOS, which deliver their adventures with audio only, for example.“Not really. The sound files are quite big, which isn’t that big a deal nowadays I suppose,” said Jackson. “I guess now you could do it, but what would you do with the screen? You could put graphics on the screen, or a combat system. But I don’t develop apps, so…”
Some mobile and tablet manufacturers are being charged six-figure fees by third party testing facilities for a licence to use Gmail, Google Play and other parts of Google&apos;s mobile services, the Guardian has learned.The fees, which can range from $40,000 to $75,000, are part of a largely hidden production process for the hundreds of large and small manufacturers in the mobile device industry.The Android mobile operating system is free for consumers and for manufacturers to install, but manufacturers need a licence to install Gmail, Google Maps and the Google Play store - collectively called Google Mobile Services (GMS).Manufacturers can be refused a licence if they do not meet Google&apos;s requirements. Google does not charge for a GMS licence, but any company producing an Android device will need a certificate from an authorised testing facility in order to apply for the licence. That often incurs fees.One source told the Guardian that the fee varies and is negotiated on a case-by-case basis, with one example costing $40,000 for a batch of at least 30,000 devices. A separate source said that in another deal, a testing facility quoted $75,000 to test 100,000 devices.Google said it had no comment on GMS licensing.A Welsh distributor, KMS Components, wasput out of business in Januaryafter the retailer Argos withheld £3.2m because of a GMS licensing dispute.Google-approved, licenced manufacturers include those making their own devices, such as Samsung, and original device manufacturers Foxconn and Archos. Paid-testing is also offered by a range other non-approved companies.&quot;Installing Google play without a licence is illegal,&quot; said one source in the Android developer community, who did not want to be named. &quot;Smaller OEMs [device manufacturers] don&apos;t register on Google&apos;s radar, and Google tends to turn a blind eye. Retailers get pressured by legal OEMs to make sure illegal installs of GMS are weeded out. It&apos;s almost like crowdsourcing.&quot;In August 2010, Augen Electronics of Florida removed the $150 tablet it was selling through US retail store Kmart because unlicensed GMS software was not removed before the devices went on sale. The company later closed down.For consumers, meanwhile, all Google mobile services are free to use, and individuals can also legally download and install the full suite of apps to their own device.• The original article was taken down pending investigation, on 28 January 2014. The article was launched in error before editorial processes had been completed and contained errors for which we apologise. The story said that Google charges Android device makers a license fee for Google mobile applications. This is wrong. In addition the article stated in reference to a licence fee that: &quot;It is a lot of money, but you can&apos;t see it anywhere [in Google&apos;s accounts].&quot; This is also incorrect.
Google has updated its search by integrating encyclopedia-style facts and figures directly into its results page, speeding up information gathering.The update places results pulled from Google’s Knowledge Graph – a database containing encyclopaedia entries on about 570m concepts, relationships, facts and figures – under small popup information panels next to search results.“To help you learn more about the websites you see in your search results, starting today you may see more information about them directly on the results page when you search on your desktop,” said Bart Niechwiej, a software engineer at Googlein a blog post.The panels are accessed through a small clickable link on the second line of applicable search results.Could cause issues for website ownersWhile the update is likely to enhance search for individuals, it could cause issues for website owners who appear in search results with the added information panels.“The popup adds up to three extra links to the search result that don’t go to your website,”explains Matt McGee, editor-in-chief of search specialist Search Engine Land. “If this becomes a popular feature with searchers, it could lead some to click away from the actual web page that Google included in its search results.”Starting as a small trial, Google will continue to expand the number of sites that bring search results with Knowledge Graph entries attached.The update builds on the biggest change to the search algorithm Google had made in three years, called “Hummingbird”, which focused on Knowledge Graph and natural language interpretation making the core search better at answering longer, more complex and spoken queries.• In January, Google’s Eric Schmidtdenied knowledge of the NSA’s data tappingof the search firm
Ebay is under attack from activist investor Carl Icahn, who is nominating two of his employees to the board of the internet marketplace in a campaign to force the sale of its online payments business PayPal.Icahn bought a 0.82% stake in eBay earlier this month, which is now worth over $570m, the company said in a statement on Wednesday. Shares jumped as much as 12% in extended trading after the company disclosed Icahn's stake, eventually rising to $57.47 from the $54.41 closing price in New York."We've done a lot of work on eBay and we believe without question it's a no brainer that PayPal should be spun off," Icahn told Bloomberg. "There is no reason why they should be together at this point ... it would be helped by a management team that is separate, and I think the multiple would go up dramatically and also the health of the company would be better."Ebay chief executive John Donahoe tweeted that he had spoken with Icahn to hear his views, but insisted that PayPal was more valuable as a part of the larger group. In a letter to staff, Donahoe urged employees not to be distracted by Icahn's proposals, saying:"We believe strongly that PayPal and eBay are far more valuable together than apart. The synergies are clear. PayPal has succeeded because it is part of eBay, not in spite of it. Ebay accelerates PayPal's success, providing tens of millions of customers who then help PayPal grow ... and eBay funds PayPal's growth. This enables PayPal to invest aggressively in mobile, credit and acquisitions."PayPal is growing faster than its parent company, with revenues up 19% last year, comfortably ahead of eBay's 12% increase, according to full year results released Wednesday.PayPal processed payments worth $180bn in 2013, dwarfing trading on eBay, which totalled $76bn, but revenues from the marketplace are still larger at $8.3bn compared with $6.6bn for PayPal.Ebay is the latest Silicon Valley name to be targeted by Icahn. TheAmerican investor has bought $3bn of shares in Appleand hopes to persuade the iPhone maker to return a greater share of its cash reserves to shareholders. Icahn has also increased his stakes in Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft.
Nokia's Lumia smartphones failed to light up Christmas gift lists, with handset sales for the Finnish group falling 5% during the crucial December quarter compared with the previous three months.  .Sales of the flagship Lumia range, on which Nokia had pinned its hopes of a revival, actually fell during the festive period, with 8.2m sold compared with 8.8m in the September quarter. Shoppers may have been rattled by last autumn's announcement that Nokia was to sell its handset business to Microsoft for €5.4bn (£4.43bn) in cash.The news could damage prospects for former Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop, who is one of the candidates named as a potential replacement for Steve Ballmer at the head of Microsoft. The arrival of popular apps including Instagram, Waze and Vine on to the Windows Phone software platform used by Lumia phones, the release of Nokia's first large screen smartphones, or phablets, and its first Windows 8 tablet, the Lumia 2520, were not enough to halt the slide.Microsoft, which is expected to take control of Nokia by the end of March, may take comfort from the fact that 30m Lumias were sold in 2013 compared with 14m the year before.But the handset business suffered a 29% year-on-year drop in sales, with revenues tumbling from €2.8bn in the September quarter to €2.6bn in the three months to 31 December."The year-on-year decline," according to the results statement, "was primarily due to lower mobile phones net sales and, to a lesser extent, lower smart devices net sales ... Our smart devices net sales were affected by competitive industry dynamics including the strong momentum of competing smartphone platforms, as well as our portfolio transition from Symbian products to Lumia products."The average selling price of smartphones has also fallen, Nokia stated, although the company would not disclose numbers. The handsets business lost €590m in 2013. The company said it had written off €50m in excess handset components and future purchase obligations, with losses widening in the fourth quarter to €198m, and forecast ongoing losses during the first quarter.Nokia's remaining network equipment and mapping business fared better, with net sales up 19% to €3.5bn quarter on quarter. The divisions made €274m in operating profits during the fourth quarter as network owners invested in better mobile internet coverage and the company gained market share.Risto Siilasmaa, Nokia chairman and interim chief executive, said: "The strength of NSN's underlying profitability highlights just how fundamentally different the company is today, compared with two years ago when it started its restructuring and transformation program. Today, we are more focused, more innovative and more disciplined."Nokia shares fell 3.5% in Helsinki to €5.52. Microsoft will update the market on its financial performance later on Thursday.
In early 2006, almost five years before I came out to my family and friends as transgender, I started playing the online fantasy game, World of Warcraft. I played it a lot. As with other multiplayer online adventures (MMOs), players live in a Tolkien-esque world of trolls and elves, battling for treasure among millions of other players. But World of Warcraft, and other games like it, are often about much more important things than looted gold and slayed dragons. They provide a place in which identity can be explored safely. And for me, someone who the world viewed as male, World of Warcraft provided a space to discover that I felt more comfortable when treated as female.One of the very first things you do as a World of Warcraft player is design your character. You can decide on their race, their physical attributes and most importantly for me, their gender. When I first got involved in playing the game, I was fourteen and in deep denial about my own feelings regarding my gender expression and identity. While socialising, I had begun to act in a stereotypically male way, as though I wanted to prove to the world that I wasn&apos;t different. I was making an active rejection of everything female in an attempt to deny something that was becoming ever more clear to me. However, for some reason I couldn&apos;t explain, when it came to World of Warcraft I opted to play the game as a female character.Maybe it was because I didn&apos;t know anyone else playing the game before I started. Maybe it was because I remembered the Runescape quest a few years before that forced male players to briefly present with a female avatar to complete a quest string. Maybe it was something else entirely. Whatever the reason, in that one area of my life I was willing to try out expressing myself as female. I picked a screen name that would indicate that I was a female player. I tried to relax and get into a different role in my head and I went off on an adventure to see how I felt being treated as female.War and addictionRight from square one I was hooked; I didn&apos;t want to leave. At the time I assumed this was mostly to do with the compelling game mechanics, but looking back I&apos;m sure it was a lot to do with how I had presented myself in the world. I found a place where I had friends that treated me as female, for better or for worse. I had found a world where I got complimented on my appearance in game, where people were not scared away by my gender presentation. A world where I felt happy with who I was. I didn’t want to leave. I didn&apos;t want to go back to the real world where I felt I needed to be masculine to remain safe.Very quickly, my growing addiction to this world, and to being considered female, became problematic. I played all night and went into school in the morning exhausted. I got angry, upset and even depressed by the life I had to live during daylight hours. I resented the fact I couldn&apos;t live my whole life in a world that saw me how I felt happiest. I played for longer and longer periods, eventually having to force myself to cut out MMOs from my life; to go cold turkey. I knew I couldn&apos;t keep living in that wonderful place and at the same time keep my physical life together in one piece.MMO addiction is something we occasionally read about on gaming news sites and in newspapers; it’s often the sad tale of some Korean teenager, dying in an internet cafe after days at a computer screen. I was an MMO addict in a different way. I was addicted to leaving this world and immersing myself completely in a life – in an identity – that did not seem to be my own. I had an addiction, that much I know for sure, but it wasn’t really about the game and its compulsion loops. I was addicted to finding out who I was. There was something healthy in it.Out in the worldCrucially, World of Warcraft gave me a way to peek into my future. It allowed me to try out female names and find which ones I liked, which ones felt like they fit me as a person. It gave me a chance to talk to people who only ever referred to me as female. It also gave me a chance to see the huge issues I would have to face in the future when people discovered that the person they had referred to as female was, “actually a guy”.Yes, the first time I got “outed” was on World of Warcraft; the first time someone discovered I was living my real life as male but presenting online as female. I lost a lot of online friends. I had spent months in the game working incredibly hard to avoid giving myself away. I used pictures of friends from social networks when people asked to see a picture of me. I talked about how I didn&apos;t have a microphone and my webcam was broken.Eventually, people in my group got tired of those excuses and started to press me on the issue. I panicked. I didn&apos;t know what I was. I came clean about it, about not knowing why I had presented myself that way. This is something else I learned from World of Warcraft: when people discover that you present as a gender different to that of your birth, they sometimes get very angry about it. Sometimes they will refuse to acknowledge you any more. That group in particular got very vocal about me to their friends and I moved away from World of Warcraft for good not long after. Had I understood myself better, had I understood that I was transgender and not just someone misleading their friends, maybe I could have explained differently. Maybe I could have found other players in my situation. Alas, it was a good few years still before I would really understand what was going on.Still, World of Warcraft taught me a lot about transition in a space where I didn&apos;t have to commit to my future. During a period of my life that I had a huge number of questions about who I was, it taught me things about myself in an environment where, for a long time, I felt safe. And I could walk away from thoughts of transition any time I needed to. Without World of Warcraft and MMOs like it, I don&apos;t know if I would ever have had the courage and confidence I needed to come out. I don&apos;t know if I would have had the self understanding to commit to a life that is now wide open in front of me.• Gamer communities: the positive side• From bullied child to transgender woman: my coming of age
Some straight talking for the mobile games industry in 2014: &quot;If your business model consists of ripping off four year-olds or ripping off Supercell, you&apos;re unlikely to be successful in the future.&quot;That was the blunt message delivered by games and media veteranRobert Tercekin his keynote speech at the Mobile Games Forum conference in London this morning.Tercek, involved in mobile games since the industry’s early days, criticised developers for copying successful games like Supercell&apos;s Clash of Clans, as well as for including in-app purchases of up to £69.99 in children&apos;s games.Instead, he encouraged mobile games developers to cast their nets wider and think about some of the big trends around smartphones and personal technology“I think a lot of people who are focused on imitating and chasing or following the market are thinking too small. They need to think bigger: there are some amazing challenges happening if you begin to think outside the phone,” said Tercek.He cited the buzz in the digital marketing world around reuniting the digital world with the real world, suggesting that in the hands of many marketing agencies, this will result in “hamfisted and cumbersome” campaigns.“I think this presents a gigantic opportunity in the future for mobile games developers, who are uniquely positioned to make that appealing, interesting and fun for consumers,” he said. “Game developers lure people in with fun, and know how to turn them from passive to active.”Examples of the real and digital worlds coming together that might be interesting for mobile gaming? Tercek talked about the trend for “second-screen” projects, where an app or site running on a smartphone or tablet synchronises with what’s happening on a bigger screen nearby – usually the TV.“In TV, I happen to think the concept of the second screen is a fad, it’s not necessarily a long-term trend. Most second-screen apps are trying to shore up television, which is a distinctly retrograde experience compared to all the experiences you can get in digital media,” he said.From wearables to smart citiesInstead, Tercek suggested that mobile games developers could do much more interesting things around real-world events such as sports – “all the big arenas are gearing up to have synchronised gameplay on top of their events” – as well as mobile apps that interact with console games.He also said games developers should be thinking harder about what the buzz around the Internet of Things might mean for gaming, noting the proliferation of computers inside other devices – from cars to thermostats to cities to…“Wearable computers: they’re terrible today, I know, but this is a very early stage. We’ve been there before with mobile: in the next two generations, these will get far better,” he said, citing fitness-trackers like Fitbit and FuelBand as just as relevant as Google Glass and smart watches.“Even entire cities, with the smart city initiatives that have turned more than 100 cities around the world into kind of networked computers,” he said. “These are all going to expand greatly the field we have for designing games, and having games experiences in the real world. And this is how we’re going to interface with them: the smartphone. The smartphone will become the link, the ignition key, that opens up the internet of things.”Tercek didn’t shy away from some of the privacy concerns around a world where everything is connected and capable of tracking the people around it.In fact, he warned the audience to think beyond the familiar notions of the social graph – people’s network of friends and activities on social networks like Facebook – and the interest graph of topics you talk about online (“Twitter introduced us to the interest graph and Facebook promptly ripped them off!”).But he noted that marketers are now just as interested in the “physical graph”, breaking that down into the geolocation graph, which is where you go in the real world, and the proximity graph, which is the access points and devices around you that you may interact with – knowingly or not.“There is a gigantic pattern of behaviour that to most of us has been invisible until now, and it will be no surprise to you that marketers are keenly interested in this information,” said Tercek, pointing toDisney’s launch of RFID bandsfor visitors to wear around its theme parks, as well asGoogle’s acquisition of smart-home device maker Nest.“Google bought Nest, and that is a very important threshold. Nest devices are some of the earliest internet-of-things devices that consumers have purchased themselves, consciously. Nest has a long-term roadmap – they’re brilliant visionaries from Apple – and Google acquired them,” said Tercek.“The reason? Google desperately wants to get into the home to track user behaviour, and these devices do track user behaviour in the home: who’s there, when you go out, when you come back and more. That’s very valuable information for Google… now Google is inside of your nest, which is a little bit troubling as a concept.”Shopping and trackingThat’s not all. Tercek talked about developments in retail technology, where (some) shops are tracking movement around their stores by analysing CCTV footage, but also sniffing for the data being transmitted by smartphones as they search for Wi-Fi networks.“As shoppers move through the stores, retailers are capturing all those SSIDs and tracking where you go in the store to build a map of behaviour, and create heat maps to find which areas of the store are which active, where traffic bunches up. They can A/B test different displays in stores to see which capture interest more,” said Tercek.“But they can take all that behavioural and SSID data, and they can correlate that to credit-card numbers. With two credit-card transactions, they can do an SSID match, and you lose all anonymity in the shop. Most people are unaware that this is occurring.”Tercek is involved with an initiative calledThe Wireless Registrythat is aiming to give some of the control back to people, in terms of how their data allows them to be tracked (or not). The idea, people can opt in or opt out, which he described as being like a do-not-call list for mobile identity, as people travel around.“Why opt-in? Sometimes we do want to get the free coupon or find out the free offer, and sometimes we don’t. We’re going to give people the ability to set permissions,” he said.“But there is an opportunity in the future for mobile developers to invite people to participate in game-like experiences that overlay the shopping activity and all the other activities. There’ll be an opportunity to opt in to game-like experiences.”The message of Tercek’s speech was for more games developers to be thinking about these kinds of concepts, rather than simply looking at the games making most money on the app stores now, and following in their footsteps. Or, indeed, simply ripping them off.“I see copycats: iteration on the same concept over and over again instead of genuine innovation. If you look on the App Store, there are hundreds of games there that are lookalikes,” said Tercek, showing a slide of games all with the same clear inspiration.“Those are all variants on Clash of Clans. I call it the Clash of Clones. I don’t think these add much value for people at home, and candidly it defines a category of competition, which is this unimaginative, imitative approach, because people are desperate to find a way to break through.”Children's brands have been spotted offering heavy in-app purchases.Tercek was equally dismissive of games based on children’s brands that are including heavy in-app purchase options, showing a couple of slides fromThe Guardian’s article last Junerevealing that brands including Snoopy and SpongeBob SquarePants had done this.“That’s the very ugly part,” he said. “It’s one of the most pernicious aspects of mobile games today… The child could be inadvertently lured into making a purchase, which is hard to explain to your parents if you’re pre-literate… Many of the kids playing these games don’t read, or don’t read particularly well.”However, Tercek also praised some of the innovation happening around user interface and user experience in mobile gaming, citing Badlands, Hundreds, Device 6 and Strata as just four examples.He also had warm words for a startup calledImagimod, which has its own spin on reuniting the digital and physical worlds, based on 3D mobile games: “A system to enable developers to allow people to capture their favourite moments and print them out on 3D printers.”
For a few years, back in the early 90s, virtual reality (VR) looked like the obvious future for video games. Here was a technology capable of truly immersing participants in the digital environment; the essentially alienating presence of the 2D screen would be gone for ever, to be replaced by computer-generated realms that we could step into and exist in. Consumer headsets by companies such as Virtuality and Victormaxx crept on to the market, as films like the Lawnmower Man and Disclosure considered the implications of our soon-to-be lives in cyberspace. But the screens were low-resolution and the motion tracking primitive, the sensors prone to sickening lag. The gulf between expectation and reality was impassable. The future moved on.Two decades later, in a packed room at the Washington State Convention Centre, Valve Corporation told the industry that virtual reality can become a consumer reality by 2015. When Valve says something, people in the technology sector listen. Not only has it produced two of the most beautiful and sophisticated science fiction game series&apos; of all time (Half-Life and Portal), it also runs the Steam digital distribution service, where 75m PC owners purchase 20m games a month. During a talk at the company&apos;s Steam Dev Days conference, attendees discovered that Valve will be working closely with the creators of the Kickstarter-funded Oculus Rift, a VR device that has received a huge amount of positive attention in the gaming press. The aim? To &quot;drive PC VR forward&quot;.The attendees have seen in Valve&apos;s declarations a genuine desire to explore and support the technology rather than to stake a claim on the mega-bucks that could ensue. &quot;I remember when computer entertainment companies were careful about toying with new technology, and constantly missed new trends because they lacked sufficient mainstream exposure,&quot; says Leonard Ritter of German studio Duangle, currently working onNowhere, an experimental RPG for Oculus Rift. &quot;I&apos;m happy to see that an established player isn&apos;t afraid to meddle with cutting edge tech, not because someone did the numbers, but because they think it&apos;s cool and they&apos;d like to see it succeed.&quot;This slide shown during Valve's Steam Dev Days event shows the company's vision for consumer VR in 2015On a PowerPoint slide that has been widely photographed and shared through Twitter, the proposed specifications for a consumer VR technology were laid out. It would have a mere 20 milliseconds of latency, 110-degree field of vision, and one million pixels per eye. Valve now seems to be suggesting that it won&apos;t bring its own prototype head-mounted display to market – despiteimpressing developerswith a short demo. Instead, the company is set to releasea VR platformthat will make it easier for developers to create and share virtual reality games; there&apos;s even aVR interfacein development for its Steam service, which would turn the online store into a virtual space. It seems Oculus Rift,will be the go-to hardware.And there is plenty of support for Rift from an enthused and curious development community. The main candidate for &quot;killer app&quot; right now is perhaps space combat title EVE Valkyrie, which astonished many who saw it at Gamescom and CES. But the likes of zombie survival adventure DayZ, forthcoming shooter Doom 4 and David Braben&apos;s long-awaited modern day Elite sequel,Elite: Dangerous, have all promised implementation.These are all a way off. Right now, the Rift is available only as a developer kit, which lacks some of the specifications of the proposed consumer version set to arrive later this year. The company, which has attractedalmost $100m in fundingsince its successful Kickstarter campaign, showed the latest version of its head-mounted display (HMD) technology, dubbed Crystal Cove, at the CES show –to impressive effect. Developers are lining up to support the device, which is relatively easy to accommodate. The $300 developer version comes with an SDK, documentation and sample code, and current game projects can be retro-fitted with compatibility in a matter of days.&quot;The process involves increasing the internal framebuffer resolution, inserting a post processing shader and applying an additional transformation to the camera,&quot; says Ritter. &quot;We integrated Oculus VR support across all three platforms – Windows, OSX, Linux – within a week or so.&quot;&quot;Video games are one step before a whole other virtual universe&quot; Vin DieselBut the real challenge for coders and designers is to learn the new language and conventions that virtual reality demands. &quot;Details are vital,&quot; says Daniël Ernst, who has produced the highly regarded Rift demo,The Shoebox Diorama, and is now working on a narrative adventure. &quot;In a traditional game, environmental micro-details are less important. You won&apos; t really notice the names of the books on the shelve, or what text is written on a piece of paper on a desk. There is always a distance between you and the environment. With the Oculus Rift, you don&apos; t have this distance. Things can be a couple of inches from your face and if the texture is blurry or pixelated it will break the immersion. You actually have to measure objects before replicating them in 3D. You will even notice if a telephone is a couple inches too big.&quot;Interestingly then, true immersion may well put the brakes on mainstream gaming&apos;s constant sense of forward momentum. Titles like Call of Duty are always prodding the player forward through corridors of escalating sensory violence – is that just compensation for the lack of physical ownership of the game space. In VR worlds, we may be happy spending several hours exploring every aspect of one room. &quot;We&apos;ve found that a vast majority of our players behave differently in VR,&quot; says Hrafn Thorri Thorisson, co-founder of Icelandic games and simulation company,Aldin Dynamics. &quot;When you&apos;re inside a virtual world, as opposed to looking at it on a regular monitor, the urge to explore and inspect is really compelling.&quot;Henrique Olifiers is overseeing the Oculus Rift version of Bossa Studio&apos;s hugely successful Surgeon Simulator title. For him, the problems are in jettisoning some of the effects we usually see in first-person games designed for a 2D screen. &quot;The difficult bit is grasping what works and doesn&apos;t fly on VR from a content point of view,&quot; he says. &quot;For instance, you don&apos;t want abstract interfaces in a VR game, the information has to be shown in the world itself. You want to avoid movements that are not triggered by the player, such as camera shakes as they cause discomfort. You have to strip out unnatural behaviour like running backwards or strafing laterally – all hallmarks of first-person shooters. The manual on game development for virtual reality is yet to be written, there&apos;s a lot to learn before we can create amazing games with it.&quot;Surgeon Simulator – imagine this in immersive 3DJames Parker at Bristol-based developer Opposable Games sees similar challenges. &quot;There&apos;s an ongoing issue with what&apos;s the most appropriate control system, particularly in shooters,&quot; he says. &quot;Traditionally, players are used to pointing their gun essentially in the same way as their face – as soon as you separate those two things, it&apos;s a pretty radical shift in control experience. On the other hand, if you keep the two locked together you lose a lot of what make VR so immersive.&quot; Meanwhile, David Braben, founder of Frontier Developments, believes developers will need to consider the playing position of the participants. &quot;Oculus Rift is great, but it works particularly well with games where, in the setting you&apos;d actually be sitting.&quot;Clearly, there is powerful potential in the concept of inhabiting a virtual environment; indeed the technology has been used in science, medicine and the military for many years, aiding in everything from training to therapy. If nothing else, a cheap HMD like Oculus Rift will allow more researchers to try out a greater range of serious implementations – just as the Wii Remote and Kinect camera have done with motion tracking. &quot;Imagine VR for learning life-saving skills such as first aid, for example,&quot; says Thorisson. &quot;That&apos;s something that the Icelandic Institute for Intelligent Machines has been exploring in collaboration with us.&quot;But for consumer appliance, it&apos;s about whether developers can pull themselves away from the forms we&apos;re used to. &quot;My general view of VR is sceptical,&quot; says Ed Key whose exploration game Proteus is currently being retro-fitted with Rift compatibility by programmers Aubrey Hesselgren and Nick Ludlam. &quot;At the moment it seems like not many people having figured out good things to do with it beyond naively trying to make current FPS games into a holodeck. I think there are a lot of unsolvable problems if one just assumes you can put on a headset and amplify immersion. You&apos;re still just pressing buttons to move around, and you&apos;re not getting most of the sensory input that you get from actually moving – ie inner-ear stuff, forces on the body, proprioception. Any successful VR work has to understand the limitations before making something satisfying.&quot;&quot;Does virtual reality provide us with new ways to augment, enhance, and experience reality, or does it undermine and threaten that reality?&quot; Derek StanovskyThe big uncertainty, perhaps, is less to do with content and more to do with consumer interest in the whole concept. Is there a mass mainstream market for virtual reality? There certainly seemed to be in the early 90s, when the much-hyped rise of the technology was accompanied by worried researchers envisioning people dying of starvation at their VR terminals. But in reality, many users went on to suffer overwhelming nausea due in part to lag from the motion controls. Even now, gamers have reported feeling ill after 10 minutes or so on Oculus Rift, which has higher resolution screens and much better motion tracking than the early headsets but can still induce motion sickness. Basically, your brain says you are moving but your body disagrees, and for some people, this is probably always going end with a rush to the bathroom.Beyond the physical effects, there is just the idea of being totally immersed in a game world. It&apos;s pretty intense for a start, as game designer Adam Sawkins discovered last year. &quot;In thecharity Dungeon Crawler I wroteand showed at the Eurogamer Expo, everyone gave positive feedback, but about 10-15% of people simply took the helmet off at a large lava chasm and went, &apos;Wow, that&apos;s brilliant, but I simply can&apos;t continue – it&apos;s too scary&apos;. The whole &apos;cynical gamer&apos; hat comes off, and we&apos;re back in 1992 again, being completely scared by Doom. Fifteen minutes in the Rift and you&apos;re no longer playing a game; you&apos;re simply there.&quot;The sheer physicality of the tech may also be off-putting. Do mainstream consumers want to pay upwards of £200 to wear a helmet and be lost in a virtual domain? People didn&apos;t really want to wear silly plastic glasses in their living rooms to watch 3D TV, as the consumer electronics and television providers have found to their cost. So a whole helmet? And possibly not only a helmet. For the full effect of physically exploring a virtual world, there&apos;s a chance we&apos;ll all need to buy things likeomnidirectional treadmillsorwearable gaming exoskeletons. Do you want to wear a gaming exoskeleton? Does your gran? It&apos;s possible that until there is a means of externalising the virtual realm – until there is something approaching a holodeck (which iscertainly a possibility) or a workable, non-invasivebrain-computer interface– many consumers will steer clear of becoming leisure cyborgs, kitted out in technology, their senses co-opted by screens and tracking motors.&quot;Communication in the age of virtual reality is in some ways about transportation. Tele-presencereplaces tele-vision.&quot; Frank BioccaThe thing is, it&apos;s can&apos;t just be about games – there need to be other mass-interest enticements. It&apos;s likely that the consumer future of VR that Valve hopes to engender, will be about a wide array of interactive entertainment and services. We may, for example, see online stores adopting virtual reality interfaces. &quot;We&apos;ve been talking to some brands about using the VR as part of the shopping experience,&quot; says Ben Trewhella at Opposable Games. &quot;Rather than looking through a grid or list of items in a web browser, the user can walk into a virtual store and look around for goods in a way analogous to their normal shopping experience. There&apos;s a lot of groundwork to be done, but I&apos;d expect the technology to be integrated into online fashion fairly quickly.&quot;Brad Jeffrey, who is working with his studio Urban Logic on the VR-based space strategy game,Flagship, sees other benefits. &quot;The potential for interactive education is staggering. Students could experience what they’re being taught in context, or be exposed to 3D representations of things they’d never be able to see in real life. Imagine walking around a spinning hydrogen atom, or visiting recreations of important historical events. Far more engaging than anything I ever experienced at school.&quot;Flagship a space strategy VR adventure from Urban Logic.This takes us toward the idea of virtual exploration. Google is already looking into rendering its Google Earth data to beviewable through Oculus Rift– how amazing will it be to be able to &quot;visit&quot; anywhere on the planet? Add an online connection and you can go on holiday with friends, without leaving your front room. For most of us, this could be a good way of staking out potential holiday destinations – but for those with limited mobility it could well be something truly liberating. &quot;I talked to a group at Eurogamer who wanted to use the Rift to offer experiences to disabled children – for example, going to the top of Mount Everest,&quot; says Sawkins. &quot;This is a completely brilliant idea, and I sincerely hope that it takes off. I told them to think bigger though. Why go somewhere possible? You could take people to the bottom of the Mariana Trench, fly along the Grand Canyon, go to the Apollo 11 moon landing site, visit Mars - the possibilities are endless. Scott Adams once wrote that the holodeck will be mankind&apos;s last invention. I&apos;m beginning to believe that he might be right.&quot;Certainly the movie industry will watch all this with interest. The corporatisation of virtual space is inevitable, which means we can expect immersive animated experiences from the likes of Disney and Dreamworks. But there are fascinating indie prospects too. Welsh studio Mr Dog is currently working on a virtual-reality game to accompany locally made horror movie Banshee. The company is also prototyping a live action 3D immersive sci-fi film designed especially for the Oculus, and filmed using a 360-degree camera mount. &quot;Viewers can watch the main action or turn their back on it and see what&apos;s going on behind them,&quot; explains managing director, Si Stratton. &quot;It&apos;s their choice what they look at and in that way, they&apos;re the editor of the movie. We will also record in 360 degree sound, so that if two conversations are happening at once, behind you and in front of you, you only hear the one you&apos;re paying attention to. The audio environment will respond to your perspective.&quot;Stratton expects both Banshee and the studio&apos;s virtual reality movie to be out in 2015 – Valve&apos;s year of consumer VR.&quot;You see in virtual reality, the whole world is your body – equally – and everybody shares the same body.&quot; Jaron LanierEven if virtual reality remains in the niche it currently is, Oculus is likely to make money on its invention. There are enough hardcore gamers out there thrilled with the very idea of the technology and ready for something that seems new. The arrival of a fresh console generation last year showed us that, at this point, the 2D display is becoming the limiting factor, not the chipsets in the machines: the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are great, but they represent no paradigm shift over their predecessors. High definition affordable home VR with masses of developer support certainly does.But for Valve to really drag the whole world into the virtual space, it will need to enable developers who have a broader vision, alongside the game creators. We&apos;re now seeing a growing number of VR hackdays where weird new concepts can be developed and explored.For a little while, consumer virtual reality will probably be about putting veteran gamers right into first-person action and horror games – and that&apos;s fine. Beyond this somewhere looms a sort of virtual singularity, a point at which the whole idea of the human-computer interface is re-written. 30 years ago, for example, William Gibson imagined a version of the internet – cyberspace – as a &quot;physically&quot; explorable space, as a grand architecture of data. It could be that Oculus Rift will bring something like that about. &quot;For a long time I&apos;ve been waiting for the internet to become more spatial,&quot; says Ritter. &quot;I can imagine web servers hosting spaces instead of sites, a quirky mixture of disjoint places that people visit via whatever would be the VR equivalent of browsers. Second Life was a neat proprietary demo for what such a space could look like, but it&apos;s never been completely decentralised. I&apos;m looking forward to seeing that happening.&quot;Valve has the corporate clout to drag us all in this direction, the question is whether everyone will let themselves be dragged. The developers are there, and the equipment is becoming good enough. What will encourage us to leave our bodies and our world behind?• The future of virtual reality: want to conquer vertigo or have a go at surgery?• Virtual reality is coming of age• Valve announces Steam Machines to challenge games console market• Half-Life 3 – the game that doesn&apos;t exist
A security flaw on its website led to the World Economic Forum at Davos leaking attendee&apos;s email addresses for at least five days in mid-January.Embarrassingly for the organisation, even while their insecure website was exposing attendees&apos; information, the World Economic Forumreleased a reportarguing that a failure to deliver &quot;a robust, co-ordinated approach to cybersecurity&quot; could cost the world up to $3 trillion.The security flaws wererevealed by information-security firm High-Tech Bridge, which discovered three major vulnerabilities on the WEF website, as well as one lesser vulnerability that leaked the emails of users.The major vulnerabilities were all of a type known as cross-site scripting (XSS), which allows attackers to run their own commands on the target website. Not every XSS vulnerability can be exploited, but all are potential vectors of attack. At their worst, attacks using XSS can hijack a user&apos;s machine entirely.Thousands of emailsThe firm also discovered a second flaw, which they say would have allowed them to harvest thousands of emails held by the organisation. The flaw was in the company&apos;s contact form, and allowed attackers to change a simple parameter to expose email addresses associated with the forum. It&apos;s unclear exactly which database the addresses were being drawn from, but they include individuals with addresses ending in @hsbc.com, @london2012.com and @kpmg.ca.Despite High-Tech Bridge contacting WEF, the organisation didn&apos;t fix the vulnerabilities until the security researchers went public with what they had found on Wednesday, five days after the Forum was first contacted.&quot;It’s regrettable that such respectable, large and important organisations as the WEF don’t pay enough attention to web security,&quot; says Ilia Kolochenko, the chief executive of High-Tech Bridge. &quot;This may not only put their own infrastructure at risk, but their stakeholders&apos; as well. Hopefully, they will change their security policy soon and provide security researchers with a responsive security contact, just like many other companies and organisations do today.&quot;I sincerely hope that these vulnerabilities were not exploited by hackers for whom WEF and its participants are very attractive targets.&quot;&apos;Trolling for business&apos;A WEF spokesman told the Guardian not to take High-Tech Bridge&apos;s claims seriously, saying that the firm was &quot;trolling&quot; having failed to secure a contract with the forum.&quot;It&apos;s deeply unprofessional behaviour by any company to go around trying to troll for business,&quot; the spokesman added. &quot;We review all of our stuff as we go along, we review it internally and externally, and we&apos;re satisfied with the security we have in place on our website.Kolochenko says &quot;that we have never entered into a bid for a contract with WEF, nor were we trolling for business. We simply found those website vulnerabilities after surfing the WEF website for information about the Davos annual meeting. We have alerted several companies to website vulnerabilities we’ve found, for free, and have a proven track record of this without requesting referrals or payment from them. So, why on Earth would we start now with the WEF’s?&quot;Surely the fact that someone from WEF called us yesterday to apologise for WEF’s delay in responding, thanked us and let us know that the vulnerabilities we had found had been fixed demonstrates that we were right.&quot;The World Economic Forum&apos;s annual meeting at Davos in Switzerland began on Tuesday and continues until Saturday 25 January. This year&apos;s theme is &quot;The Reshaping of the World&quot;, and attendees include Bill Gates, Kofi Annan and John Kerry. The pope did not attend, but did contributea special addressto the meeting.•How to be a hacker
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOn the Matter of Why Bitcoin Matters &gt;&gt; The Magazine on MediumGlenn Fleishman responds to Marc Andreesen, who has been talking up the wonders of Bitcoin; Fleishman is less sure, having researched it closely.Bitcoin doesn't eliminate fraudulenttransactions; it only eliminates counterfeitpayments. This can, of course, save many tens or hundreds of billions of dollars a year globally and translate to more efficiency in commerce. But removing the intermediary also removes recourse outside of courts, and the cost and nature of that can't be determined.Because Bitcoin is like untraceable cash, the process for solving a dispute would likely follow the same rules as for cash. When a transaction occurs over the Internet, the odds of recovering one's Bitcoins when a seller fails to meet his or her obligations is the same as if you'd sent a wad of bills in an envelope through the mail.Battle of the Box &gt;&gt; stratēcheryBen Thompson compares Dropbox (consumer-oriented) with Box (enterprise-oriented):Dropbox's model makes sense theoretically, but it ignores the messy reality of actually making money. After all, notably absent from my piece onBusiness Models for 2014was consumer software-as-a-service. I'm increasingly convinced that, outside of in-app game purchases, consumers are unwilling to spend money on intangible software. That is likely why Dropbox has spent much of the last year pivoting away from consumers to the enterprise.There are multiple reasons why the latter is a more attractive target for all software-as-a-service companies, especially those focused on data:The implication, if you follow this line of thought through, is that all that lovely free space on Dropbox is going to stop as it seeks customers who will pay. (Thompsonresponds: "I doubt the Dropbox freemium will go away, FWIW [for what it's worth].")Why VMware spent $1.54bn on AirWatch &gt;&gt; CITEworldPalador co-founder Benjamin Robbins, whose firm helps clients build their mobile strategies, says it is both the end and beginning of an era. "It's the end of an era because AirWatch equals MDM [mobile device management]. MDM can no longer be a point solution and must be part of a larger EMM [enterprise mobile management] framework," he explained. "At the same time, it's the beginning of an era because security firms must have a reputable MDM component as part of the their EMM strategy," he said.Jack Gold, principal at mobile research firm Jack Gold and Associates, added that VMware was struggling mightily in the mobile space and purchasing AirWatch gives them a fighting chance. He said that VMware specifically brought Sanjay Poonen on board from SAP to give the unit a lift and AirWatch fills in some blanks and brings a growing customer base with them.AirWatch, MobileIron and Good Technology all offer technologies for controlling smartphones in enterprise environments - in effect, they compete with the non-handset aspect of BlackBerry.Windows 8 is worse than Vista (for Microsoft) &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsSteve Wildstrom:I think Microsoft really should pull the two halves of Windows 8 apart and come out with two operating systems (or at least two user interfaces, not quite the same thing), each optimized for its own usage. Tablets should get a touch interface–son of Metro. Traditional PCs, likely to be the smaller market in the future, need a UI designed to work primarily with a keyboard and a pointing device, and that would probably look more like legacy Windows than Metro.I'm not convinced there is much of a future for touchscreen notebooks. I have used Windows 8 and 8.1 on both conventional clamshell touch notebooks and convertibles of varied design and I am not convinced that any of them come close to a MacBook. In fact, running Windows on a MacBook is a superior experience to most Windows notebooks because of the superiority of Apple's touchpad.The big question is just what will make a Windows 9 tablet an attractive proposition? The answer has to be what Microsoft has always thought it was: Office.From quantified self to qualified house &gt;&gt; Arousing the Buy CuriousBecki Saltzman looks a little further ahead on Nest:In real estate, sellers disclose and buyers beware. Disclosure laws differ state-to-state and so, too, does the buyer burden to figure out exactly what they're buying. Nest products could be a game-changer. Now the thermostat reveals heating and cooling inefficiencies. Now the smoke detector becomes a radon detector, a mold detector, a moisture detector. If those levels are found on the sellers' smart phone and the seller didn't disclose those details to a potential buyer, what recourse might a buyer have? How is the seller to know what is important to disclose once the Internet of Things is able to measure all sorts of things? Should the seller give the buyer access to the application where they can download every measurement every gadget provides?If a seller likes cutting edge coolness and is one of the first to install the new Nest products, does that seller have a greater responsibility to disclose just because they are now aware of a greater number of measured…things? Will buyers decide that a seller is hiding something and choose to buy only homes that have measurements for everything that is possible to measure?Surely this will be an episode thread in Modern Family very soon.Video: how to cancel email with Gmail's Undo Send feature &gt;&gt; TIME.comIt's a Google Labs feature (remember Google Labs?) that you can still implement. It gives you 10 seconds' grace. That might be enough to save you just that once...Network Solutions auto-enroll: $1,850 &gt;&gt; inessential.com:Brent Simmons (who is probably not a member of the 1%):I got an email from Network Solutions — where I still have two domains, originally registered in the '90s — that informed me I have been enrolled in their WebLock Program.To help recapture the costs of maintaining this extra level of security for your account, your credit card will be billed $1,850 for the first year of service on the date your program goes live. After that you will be billed $1,350 on every subsequent year from that date. If you wish to opt out of this program you may do so by calling us at 1-888-642-0265.Not a phishing scam; it's real. Network Solutions takes $1,850 from people for doing what it ought to do anyway.This is why opt-in should be a default on anything.Samsung, Google become 'frienemies' &gt;&gt; Korea TimesA Samsung official said Tuesday the firm will hold a developers' forum to promote Tizen-embedded smartphones at the upcoming Mobile World Congress (MWC) fair in the Spanish city of Barcelona."We are working with leading mobile carriers in Europe and distribution channels to expand the use of Tizen-embedded mobile devices," the official said.Samsung said the "Tizen Reception" will be held on Feb. 23 by Tizen Association, an open-source group that was created through the merger of the former MeeGo and LiMo platforms. Samsung is the largest backer of the association.Then again, your correspondent recalls seeing Meego being shown off with great assurance of its viability at MWC a couple of years ago.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
South Korea’s already impressive internet speeds are about to pull even farther ahead of the rest of the world with plans to introduce a next-generation 5G wireless service capable of downloading full-lengthfilms in a second.The country’s science ministry said on Thursday it would invest 1.6t won ($1.5bn) with local firms in the service, with a view to making it commercially available by the end of the decade.The 5G network will enable users to download an 800-megabyte movie in one second, compared with 40 seconds on the current 4G network – already the fastest in the world.That would mean passengers on high-speed trains would be able to access the internet even at speeds of 500kmh (310mph), compared with the current limit of 300kmh.&quot;Bullet trains around the world keep getting faster, with some in China running as fast as 500kmh and 600kmh,&quot; a ministry official, who declined to be named, told AFP in Seoul. &quot;If we have the technology to allow fast internet access in these trains, it can open new opportunities for us globally.”South Korea is determined to protect its position as a global leader in super-fast internet connections. More than 78% of South Korea&apos;s 50 million people use smartphones; among 18-24 year olds, the proportion rises to a staggering 97%.Regular upgrades to the country’s mobile network have been instrumental in fuelling economic growth, starting with the 2G service in the 1990s through to the introduction of the 4G service in 2010.&quot;Countries in Europe, as well as China and the US are making aggressive efforts to develop 5G technology ... and we believe there will be fierce competition in this market in a few years,&quot; the science ministry said in a statement.The ministry estimates the project will generate about 331t won in 5G-related mobile devices and infrastructure between 2020 and 2026, with a focus on new features such as ultra-HD and cutting-edge social networking services. The new network will generate a domestic telecom market worth 68t won, it said.The ministry said it would develop 5G with expertise and investment from mobile carriers and handset makers such as LG and Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of smartphones.While South Korea, led by Samsung, dominates the global mobile device market with a 30% stake, its share of the telecom infrastructure market is just 4.4%. The ministry said it hoped increase that share to one-fifth by the end of the decade. Rivals such as the Chinese firm Huawei, which also plans to roll out a 5G service by 2020, have much bigger shares of the telecom infrastructure market.The 5G service will be tested on social networking services as early as next year before expanding to include 3D images and cloud services in 2017, the ministry said. The full range of services will be tested at the Winter Olympics in PyeongChang in 2018.In a test of 5G technology last year, Samsung said it had successfully sent and received data over a distance of two kilometres at a download speed of one gigabit per second.
Facebook has spread like an infectious disease but we are slowly becoming immune to its attractions, and the platform will  be largely abandoned by 2017, sayresearchers at Princeton University(pdf).The forecast of Facebook's impending doom was made by comparing the growth curve of epidemics to those of online social networks. Scientists argue that, like bubonic plague, Facebook will eventually die out.The social network, which celebrates its 10th birthday on 4 February, has survived longer than rivals such as Myspace and Bebo, but the Princeton forecast says it will lose 80% of its peak user base within the next three years.John Cannarella and Joshua Spechler, from the US university's mechanical and aerospace engineering department, have based their prediction on the number of times Facebook is typed into Google as a search term. The charts produced by theGoogle Trendsservice show Facebook searches peaked in December 2012 and have since begun to trail off."Ideas, like diseases, have been shown to spread infectiously between people before eventually dying out, and have been successfully described with epidemiological models," the authors claim in a paper entitled Epidemiological modelling of online social network dynamics."Ideas are spread through communicative contact between different people who share ideas with each other. Idea manifesters ultimately lose interest with the idea and no longer manifest the idea, which can be thought of as the gain of 'immunity' to the idea."Facebook reported nearly 1.2 billion monthly active users in October, and is due to update investors on its traffic numbers at the end of the month. While desktop traffic to its websites has indeed been falling, this is at least in part due to the fact that many people now only access the network via their mobile phones.For their study, Cannarella and Spechler used what is known as the SIR (susceptible, infected, recovered) model of disease, which creates equations to map the spread and recovery of epidemics.They tested various equations against the lifespan of Myspace, before applying them to Facebook. Myspace was founded in 2003 and reached its peak in 2007 with 300 million registered users, before falling out of use by 2011. Purchased by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp for $580m, Myspace signed a $900m deal with Google in 2006 to sell its advertising space and was at one point valued at $12bn. It was eventually sold by News Corp for just $35m.The 870 million people using Facebook via their smartphones each month could explain the drop in Google searches – those looking to log on are no longer doing so by typing the word Facebook into Google.But Facebook's chief financial officer David Ebersman admitted on an earnings call with analysts that during the previous three months: "We did see a decrease in daily users, specifically among younger teens."Investors do not appear to be heading for the exit just yet. Facebook's share price reached record highs this month, valuing founder Mark Zuckerberg's company at $142bn.Facebook billionaireWhen Facebook shares hit their peak in New York this week, it meant Sheryl Sandberg's personal fortune ticked over $1bn (£600m), making her one of the youngest female billionaires in the world.According to Bloomberg, the 44-year-old chief operating officer of the social network owns about 12.3m shares in the company, which closed at $58.51 (£35) on Tuesday in New York, although they fell back below $58 on Wednesday. Her stake is valued at about $750m.Her fortune has risen rapidly since last August, when she sold $91m of shares and was estimated to be worth $400m.Sandberg has collected more than $300m from selling shares since the company's 2012 initial public offering, and owns about 4.7m stock options that began vesting last May."She was brought in to figure out how to make money," David Kirkpatrick, author of The Facebook Effect, a history of the company, told Bloomberg. "It's proving to be one of the greatest stories in business history."Sandberg's rise in wealth mirrors her broadening role on the global stage. The Harvard University graduate and one-time chief of staff for former Treasury secretary Lawrence Summers is a donor to President Barack Obama, sits on the board of Walt Disney Co, and wrote the book Lean In. She will be discussing gender issues with IMF boss Christine Lagarde at Davos on Saturday.
All four British mobile phone networks are to ask the government to explain how spy agencies have been able to tap into a secret US database to trawl through the text messages of UK citizens without their knowledge.In the first sign of a push back by the British telecoms industry against the mass surveillance of their customers, as exposed by the National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden, BT's chief executive also waded into the debate, describing the laws on data collection as not fit for purpose.Three, which has nearly 8 million customers, on Wednesday joined Vodafone, O2 and EE in demanding answers from the government on how spies are apparently able to get around UK laws by using theDishfiredatabase operated by the NSA, which has collected almost 200m text messages a day from across the globe.A spokesman for Three said: "We take our customers' privacy seriously. We are seeking clarity from the authorities following the reports of Dishfire activity."Mobile phone operators are required by law to hand over customer data on a case-by-case basis where specific individuals are being targeted, but Dishfire is understood to have collected information on citizens indiscriminately, sharing data on customer location, border crossings, banking details and travel plans.Documents dating from 2011 reveal how UK spy agency GCHQ has made use of the NSA database to search "untargeted and unwarranted" communications involving British mobile phone customers.In a statement, the second largest network, O2, which has 23 million subscribers, told the Guardian it would raise the issue with GCHQ. It said: "We are in the process of writing to the GCHQ to understand these allegations further. Once we hear back we'll be in a better position to understand our next steps."EE, Britain's largest mobile network, said on Tuesday it would raise the matter with government representatives. A spokesman said: "We were not aware of Dishfire and have asked the relevant authorities for some clarification."Vodafone last week became the first British telecoms firm tospeak out, saying it would not go beyond what was required by the law in meeting government surveillance requests. The network's Stephen Deadman toldChannel 4 Newslast week that he was shocked and surprised after learning of the Dishfire operation."We are going to be contacting the government and we are going to be challenging them on this. From our perspective the law is there to protect our customers and it doesn't sound as if that is necessarily what is happening. For British companies protecting the privacy of British customers is absolutely imperative and we expect the government to step up and take some control."Vodafone has gone further than any other UK telecoms company in saying that it is keen to follow American networks AT&amp;T and Verizon by publishing statistics about the number of surveillance requests it receives from governments around the world each year, and has asked for a meeting with the home secretary, Theresa May, to clarify its legal right to do so.BT's chief executive, Gavin Patterson, spoke on Wednesday at the World Economic Forum in Davos, describing the law that protects the data of private citizens as murky.Patterson, who was sharing a platform with Yahoo's chief executive, Marissa Mayer, said: "It's just too murky at the moment, it needs to be transparent and needs … clear guidelines about what's acceptable and what isn't."The legislation has to catch up … It's not fit for purpose today. Everybody recognises the internet plays a role in protecting us and we've got to make sure it's not intrusive and also protects the rights to the individual. I don't think the legislation has managed to keep up."
We have an early favourite for the title of silliest Google Glass app.Sex with Glass, which is being developed by students at Central St Martins, offers couples the chance to "see everything, from every angle" while having sex, using a pair of linked-up headsets. Narcissistic users can watch the feed from their partner's point of view live, and experience something vaguely akin to having sex with themselves.A quick browse online reveals plenty of other contenders: there's JewGlass, for example, now renamedJewish Guide for Glass, which reminds users that sunset is coming so they can pray at the right time, in much the same way that looking out of a window does already. Or GlassPraiser, which sends you "messages to boost your ego" once a day, on the assumption that users are so insecure they crave the approval of inanimate objects. One does nothing more than let the user roll virtual dice.So, in the spirit of Sex with Glass, here are five more ideas  for Google Glass apps that we expect to see in development  any day now:You Got GlassSends the user constant ego-boosting reminders that they own a Google Glass headset. Messages include: "You're winning at life", "You look like the future" and "Ignore that guy, he's drunk".Shorter LifeReplaces your entire visual field with the livestream from a camera mounted on your chest. This allows you to experience what life would be like if you were several inches shorter.  Sister app Taller Life is much the same, but requires users to wear a top hat.Never Look AwayRelays live footage of your partner's right eye to you, and yours to them. Allows long-distance couples to maintain all-important eye contact throughout the entire day, forming deeper bonds and making each other permanently uncomfortable.See The KissHellish, augmented reality app that streams footage from a tiny camera implanted at the back of your partner's throat. Theoretically makes snogging even better. Also good for checking the back of each other's teeth.Everybody's MeSuperimposes your face on to everyone else you talk to, making it much less intimidating to meet new people, but also terrifying just to be alive.
We now know that "password", "iloveyou" and "123456" are some of the most common passwords in use. If you are still using a similarly weak password, it's time to change to one that's so secure and unguessable that it stumps even the cleverest of computers, robots and devious humans. Here are a few tips to creating a secure and memorable password:1.Security technologist Bruce Schneier suggestsconstructing a password from a sentence, such as "This little piggy went to market", which might become "tlpWENT2m". Or "wizard, you shall not pass" might become "wUshallNOTp". I wouldn't advise constructing one from "hackmeifyoucan", though. That's tempting fate.2.Or,take a line of a song, and use the initial letters of each word. "You know you make me wanna shout" would become "ukuMAKEMEws". Don't choose a catchy song. It might give the game away if every time you log on you start singing Shout for no apparent reason.3.If you have to pick a number to go in your password, steer clear of addresses – and birthdays. Pick a number that means something to you but isn't so blatantly obvious. Use the latest unemployment figures, or the number of miles from your desk&nbsp;to your favourite place, or the temperature at which a&nbsp;pigeon would spontaneously combust.4.Don't let your browser remember the password for you. A browser cannot be trusted – it's open to hackers, and if your computer is stolen your passwords are as good as plastered on the screen. Anyone who has ever left their Facebook page open with cheeky friends around has felt the sting of a wide-open browser.5.A nonsense word made up of several words is another winner for a secure password. If I felt like recalling the months of the year with 30 days I could make my password SeApJuNo. But length is an advantage. The longer the password, the more secure, so don't be afraid to smoosh together as many words as you like. For example, if my family members were Bart, Lisa, Maggie, Marge and Homer, my password could read BaLiMaMaHom.
Modern life demands of us a seemingly endless series of trivial choices, not the least of which is the requirement to&nbsp;make up a password for your hundred-and-somethingth web account. Who can be bothered to create&nbsp;and memorise yet another twisty bolus of alphanumeric gibberish? Not many of us, it seems. According toa new reportby Splashdata, the most common password in 2013 was "123456", closely followed by that faithful old standby, "password", which it is somehow charming to see still so popularly deployed. Is this sheer laziness, a lack of security education, or something else?Some of the other popular passwords on Splashdata's list (mined mainly from a huge leak of Adobe customers' details) do begin to paint an intriguing portrait of the collective digital id. Isn't it heartwarming to see "iloveyou" at No 9? (Unless people are typing it to themselves, which would imply that extensive use of the internet really does turn you into a frothing narcissist.) At No 14 is "letmein", which one can't help hearing as containing an implied "goddammit" at&nbsp;the end. (It also reminds us that a&nbsp;"password" was originally spoken to&nbsp;gain admission to secure parts of a&nbsp;palace or military installation.) Somewhat surprisingly, No 17 is "monkey", whether out of general admiration for our simian cousins or a&nbsp;hitherto unsuspected upsurge in popularity of the seminal 1970s kung-fu show it is hard to tell.At 24 on the list, presumably contributed by a lot of The X-Files fans,&nbsp;is "trustno1". But this seems a&nbsp;bit&nbsp;contradictory. If you really were a&nbsp;paranoid sci-fi enthusiast who believed that the government was run&nbsp;by aliens, wouldn't you choose a&nbsp;stronger password? On the other hand, if it is government snooping in&nbsp;particular that you care about, you&nbsp;will suspect that passwords are irrelevant, since we now know theNSA&nbsp;and GCHQcan hack into just about anything.But spies aren't the only ones looking; there are also cyber-gangs mounting sophisticated attacks on websites in order to hoover up ID details, credit-card information, and so on. Why make it easy for them?Tom Stafford, lecturer in psychology and cognitive science at the University of Sheffield, says: "Most people seem to believe there is little risk in having weak passwords – most of us seem to&nbsp;rely on 'security by obscurity'. Obviously this isn't a wise choice as more and more of our lives are online."It has long been known, moreover, that even when people are encouraged to choose a password stronger than "123456" or "admin", they tend to fall into predictable patterns. According toa 2006 study by Shannon Rileyof the psychology of password generation, "users typically use birthdates, anniversary dates, telephone numbers, licence plate numbers, social security numbers, street addresses, apartment numbers, etc. Likewise, personally meaningful words are typically derived from predictable areas and interests in&nbsp;the person's life and could be guessed through basic knowledge of his or her interests." Hence all the TV detectives who guess brilliantly that the suspect's laptop password is the name of her dog.We should hesitate to interpret these findings as showing that ordinary internet users are just stupid, however. The firm that compiled this list, Splashdata, sells password-management software, so it is understandable that the lesson it derives from its findings is&nbsp;that people should choose stronger passwords, perhaps with the benign help of its own products. So why don't&nbsp;they?One reason might be that, since we&nbsp;all think that some of our accounts (for example, banking, Facebook) are more important than others (a Tumblr that sends you a picture of a kitten every morning), we believe it doesn't matter if we&nbsp;use weak passwords for the latter. But this is risky since it means those services become a big target for hackers,as Adobe's did. Indeed, the rise of two-factor authentication – where you need both&nbsp;a password and a unique code generated by your smartphone to log in&nbsp;– is beginning to ease the password problem for services people really care about, such as email or Dropbox. So it is those "disposable" accounts that are really the dangerous ones. This is all the more galling when one considers that, according toa 2010 study by Joseph Bonneau and Sören Preibusch, many websites use passwords "primarily for psychological reasons, both as a justification for collecting marketing data, and as a way to build trusted relationships with customers" – in other words, the password demand is a commercially motivated placebo to begin with.The second reason people might be driven to choose such weak passwords when they can get away with it is because technology's way of attempting to save us from ourselves is so irritating. You know the drill on some websites: your password must be between eight and 12 characters long, and contain a mixture of upper-case and lower-case letters, as well as numbers, punctuation marks, currency symbols, sad-faced emoji and the Chinese characters for "For heaven's sake, will this do?". It is unlikely you&nbsp;will remember one of those, let alone&nbsp;dozens.Stafford says: "For me, passwords are a great example of how technology asks us to be more like computers rather than computers learning to be more like us. Recommended passwords are strings of arbitrary letters, numbers and strings – exactly the thing it is easy for computers to store, and difficult for&nbsp;humans. It's the reserve of the early&nbsp;dreams of artificial intelligence, asking our intelligence to be more like the artificial."As it happens, it is also simply bad security. In point of mathematical fact,&nbsp;a picturesque phrase such as "lemon Beyoncé anvil cake" is far more difficult to crack than "j&amp;!Wo078:(((", because every extra character of password length expands the combinatorial possibilities in dizzying fashion. This is well known to fans of&nbsp;the web-comicXKCD, which has explained why a brute-force attempt to&nbsp;hack the password "correct horse battery staple" would take a fast computer 550 years. (The geek joke is&nbsp;that, since that cartoon appeared, everyone's password is now "correct horse battery staple".)The wholesale replacement of text passwords by reliable biometrics (such as fingerprint scanners) is one of those technological promises that has been around for decades and still has not come to fruition, despite the fingerprint sensor on the new iPhone. In the meantime, I like to think of the millions of people choosing "password" for their password as a kind of silent dissident movement, a virtual groundswell of sardonic protest at the manifold laborious annoyances of digital existence.If you doubt that a simple password can be sarcastic, consider number 25 on the most-popular list, "000000", which has a curious historical analogue. In the late 1970s, according to Eric Schlosser's recent book about nuclear security,Command and Control, it was&nbsp;decided that the US air force's Minuteman nuclear missiles should all be fitted with a device requiring a code to be entered before they could be launched. In what Schlosser calls an "act of defiance" against prissy safety concerns, the USAF set the password to "00000000" everywhere. I don't know about you, but that puts the possibility of my Twitter account being hacked into some sort of perspective.
Google faces a $125m damages claim over push notification functionality in Android after a jury decided that it infringes patents owned by SimpleAir, a Texan company.The decision is believed to be the first time that a US court ruling has gone against Android as software, rather than a handset manufacturer such as HTC or Samsung which has implemented Google&apos;s software in a physical device.In a verdict handed down on Saturday, a jury decided that Android&apos;s push notification services for Android smartphones and tablets infringes five claims of a patent owned by SimpleAir, formed in 2004 by two former staff from a company called AirMedia which went bankrupt in 1999. They bought the patents that that company had filed.SimpleAir is already suing other Android handset manufacturers including Samsung, Google-owned Motorola, Sony Ericsson, and HTC, as well as Microsoft and Nokia.SimpleAir previously sued Apple, whichsettled a suit in May 2012that had been filed in 2009. It also sued BlackBerry, which settled in April 2012.Because the jury did not agree on how much to award in damages, a limited second trial will be held to determine the amount. SimpleAirsaid in a press releasethat it will seek $125m, though it did not specify how it had calculated the amount.The patent found to have been infringed isUS 7,035,914, which describes &quot;a system and method for data communication connecting on-line networks with on-line and off-line computers&quot;. In effect it describes &quot;push&quot; notifications which are sent out to devices when new information arrives at a server. It was filed in July 1999, and published in April 2006.SimpleAir said that Google Cloud Messaging and Android Cloud to Device Messaging infringed the patent: &quot;the services are used by Google to process and send instant notifications for Android applications, such as Facebook, Twitter and Gmail,&quot; the company said.SimpleAir didn&apos;t return a call asking for comment. Google said that it had no comment on the decision.
Corporate raider Carl Icahn said Wednesday that he had upped his stake in Apple by $500m as he steps up pressure on the technology company to hand some of its giant cash hoard over to shareholders.&quot;Having purchased $500m more $AAPL shares in the last two weeks, our investment has crossed the $3bn mark yesterday,&quot; Icahnwrote on TwitterWednesday morning.The move comes as Apple prepares to release its latest quarterly results on Monday.Last year the activist investor began pressuring Apple to buy back “not less than” $50bn of its shares. The company has cash reserves of roughly $150bn, much of it sitting in offshore bank accounts. Apple “is not a bank”, Icahn told Reuters last year.Apple&apos;s board of directors &quot;is doing great disservice to shareholders by not having markedly increased its buyback,&quot; IcahntweetedWednesday. He said an &quot;in-depth&quot; letter would follow soon.Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook met with Icahn last September, and Icahn described the meeting as “cordial”. The company has, however, formally rejected his proposal and called on shareholders to do likewise at its annual shareholder meeting in February. The company has announced it plans to spend up to $100bn on dividends and up to $60bn on share buybacks in the next few years.Icahn disclosed his stake in Apple last August, when the stock was trading at $468. Apple shares topped $556 in morning trading Wednesday but are down from a high of $700 in September 2012.“Since tweeting about our large position in $AAPL on Aug 13, when the stock was 468 per share, we’ve kept buying shares of this ‘no brainer.’” Ichan tweeted.The investor’s $3bn stake, however, does not make him even one of Apple’s 30 largest shareholders. His position in the company, which is now valued at over $500bn, represents less than 1% of the shares outstanding.
The Guardian games editor Keith Stuart is joined by blue chip panel to discuss and debate the broad trends in gaming this year.  Keith is joined by three industry luminaries: Eurogamer senior writer Christian Donlan, game designer George Buckingham and Shahid Ahmad, Senior Business Development Manager at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe.
Former footballer Stan Collymore has accused Twitter of not doing enough to combat illegal abuse on the network, during a week when he and the former gymnast Beth Tweddle have both been subjected to derogatory comments.Collymore  has been the victim of a series of abusive tweets since saying the Liverpool forward Luis Suárez had dived when winning a penalty against Aston Villa in the Premier League. Tweddle was targeted on Tuesday during a question-and-answer session hosted by Sky Sports.Collymore, 43, wrote: "In the last 24 hours I've been threatened with murder several times, demeaned on my race, and many of these accounts are still active. Why? I accuse Twitter directly of not doing enough to combat racist/homophobic/sexist hate messages, all of which are illegal in the UK."The police confirmed on Tuesday night that they were investigating a series of messages directed at the former England international.On Tuesday night, Sky Sports condemned the abuse of Tweddle during their Q&amp;A session, describing some messages as "unacceptable and offensive".On Wednesday Tweddle wrote: "Thanks for all your messages. Yesterday was unfortunate but I've been heartened to see the reaction from responsible Twitter users.A Twitter spokeswoman said the company was unable to comment on individual users. However, she pointed out that targeted abuse was against its rules and the site had recently made it easier for users to report it.
Scientists in the US have developed a sugar-powered &quot;biobattery&quot; that they say stores 10 times more energy than the equivalent-size lithium-ion batteries found in smartphones.According to the team at Virginia Tech university, the results of their work could be in use within three years – and recharging could be a matter simply of adding some more sugar.&quot;Sugar is a perfect energy-storage compound in nature,&quot; said Y H Percival Zhang, professor of biological systems engineering at Virginia Tech. &quot;So it&apos;s only logical that we try to harness this natural power in an environmentally friendly way to produce a battery.&quot;Their “biobattery”, which releases energy from sugar instead of chemicals such as lithium, used in batteries found in today&apos;s electronic gadgets, could replace conventional disposable or rechargeable batteries – and is cheaper, refillable, biodegradable and more environmentally friendly.The researchers reported their work in thelatest issue of Nature Communications.The new battery technology produces significantly more energy from the sugar fuel than ever before. It can also store “one order of magnitude” - 10 times - more energy than the lithium-ion batteries commonly used in portable electronics and electric cars, claim the researchers. That could greatly extend the battery life of smartphones, tablets, and electric cars.From potatoes to batteriesThe battery operates like other types of fuel cell, breaking down a fuel and releasing energy in the process. It is powered by a partially digested starch – the foodstuff present in high-energy plant-based foods such as potatoes that are broken down into sugar in the gut.The starch is broken down into a complex sugar called maltodextrin (already available as a food additive), which is then further broken down by a chain of 13 enzymes. The process releases significant qualities of electrons - which can be used to generate a current, which can in turn power electronic devices. The main byproduct is water being its main byproduct, making it environmentally friendly.&quot;We are releasing all electron charges stored in the sugar solution slowly step-by-step by using an enzyme cascade,&quot; said Zhang.Unlike other fuel cell technologies, including hydrogen and methanol fuel cells, the sugar solution used in the new biobattery is neither explosive nor flammable, making it an ideal candidate for powering portable gadgets that often sit in pockets or bags.Zhang and his team claims that in &quot;as soon as three years&quot;, the new battery could be fitted to and run some of the myriad of electronic gadgets including mobile phones, tablets and portable video games, and could be cheaply refilled like an ink cartridge.• Biobatteries could be a good use of the sugar thatwe shouldn&apos;t put in food
Programmers famously have to balance their technical concepts with the needs of the human beings on which their projects rely. Too often, an engineer&apos;s tunnel-vision means they end up focusing on the stuff that can be fixed, and abstract away the rest.The latest example can be found in Bitcloud, a software projectannounced breathlesslyto Reddit as aiming to &quot;replace YouTube, Dropbox, Facebook, Spotify, ISPs, and more with decentralised apps&quot;.Nobody can accuse the Bitcloud team of aiming low. Their proposal – which currently existsonly in draft form– is nothing less than an entire shadow internet, built using a heavily modified version of the bitcoin protocol.Where bitcoin uses a &quot;proof of work&quot; system, requiring users to demonstrate that they have spent processing power before they can verify transactions, Bitcloud proposes a &quot;proof of bandwidth&quot; equivalent, rewarding users for providing capacity to the network.The Bitcloud project is in such early days that it has yet to decidequite what proof of bandwidth actually entails, but the team is confident they will flesh out the white spaces.In principle, there&apos;s little reason why they shouldn&apos;t succeed. The biggest leap has already been made by bitcoin, which demonstrates that a network with no centralisation can work even without any trust between members.Bitcloud promises to &quot;replace many of the centralised applications on the current internet, such as YouTube, Dropbox, Facebook, Spotify, and others with decentralised, open-source alternatives.Decentralising the internet&quot;We will have to start by decentralising the current internet, and then we can create a new internet to replace it. If you&apos;re interested in privacy, security, ending internet censorship, decentralising the internet, and creating a new mesh network to replace the internet, then you should join or support this project.&quot;But Bitcloud isn&apos;t the first to attempt to replace major aspects of the internet with a decentralised network; in 2010,Diasporaraised over $200,000 on Kickstarter to build a peer-to-peer replacement for centralised social networks. Anyone can run a disapora &quot;node&quot;, hosting their data on a server under their control, neatly sidestepping issues of copyright and monetization. Users can also join nodes run by others.But Diaspora solved an interesting technological problem without dealing with the people at its heart. The project is still ongoing – in fact, version 0.3.0.1 was released on Tuesday – but has been struggling to scale. It turns out that people prefer social networks which all their friends are on, and that innovative technological solutions to problems of privacy are rarely enough to overcome that hurdle.Bitcloud has the same problem but magnified tenfold. Diaspora nodes are, at least, accessible to those who aren&apos;t on the network, so that if you were to share photos there, others could see them, although they couldn&apos;t interact unless they also joined a Diaspora node. By contrast, Bitcloud nodes are invisible unless the user is also running Bitcloud.We now have the technology to build a fully decentralised, impossible to censor second internet with no content on it and no one using it. But the future&apos;s going to be some time coming.•eBay clamping down on UK bitcoin sales
In space, no one can hear you scream – but the void isn’t quite as silent as you might think.Cosmic particles populate the emptiness of space, and while they make no sound in the conventional sense, their speeding paths can be translated into sounds we can hear.Now Domenico Vicinanza, a project manager at Géant – Europe’s high-speed data network that powers Cern and the Large Hadron Collider among other things – has taken 37 years of data sent back from deep space by Nasa’s Voyager 1 and 2 spacecrafts, and turned it into music.A duet, separated by billions of kilometresVicinanza used 320,000 measurements collected at one-hour intervals by the cosmic ray detector aboard each spacecraft to build a musical piece, tying different detections to different frequencies of note.Different groups of instruments and sound textures were used to given each of the two different spacecraft - which are separated by billions of kilometres of space – a unique musical voice producing a duet from deep space.“I wanted to compose a musical piece celebrating the Voyager 1 and 2 together, so used the same measurements (proton counts from the cosmic ray detector over the last 37 years) from both spacecrafts, at the exactly same point of time, but at several billions of kilometres of distance one from the other,” said Vicinanza, who is trained musician with a doctorate in Physics.The result of this “data sonification” is an up-tempo string and piano orchestral piece.But there is a serious side to the manipulation of data into audible melodies.“Analysing the melody is exactly the same as looking at data in a spreadsheet, but using the ear,” explained Vicinanza. “The information content is exactly the same: represented by regularities, patterns, changes, trends and peaks.”Data sonification is used to spot trends, correlations and long-range regularities in data that are difficult to identify by looking at the numbers but are much easier to listen out for.Data from the Large Hadron Collider, for instance, was turned into sound by theLHCSound projectas part of an outreach initiative to the public, while the International Community for Auditory Display has been hosting conferences focused on auditory analysis of data since 1992.• The sounds of science –turning particle physics into interesting audio
History is not always kind to great games. Titles once heralded as masterworks are often lost as console cycles turn. Alternatively, there are the offbeat outliers completely shunned during their own lifetimes, only to be quietly ransacked by later generations of designers.Here, we be remember 30 brilliant, idiosyncratic, challenging or just plain weird titles that have been erased from the gaming annals, or at least criminally overlooked. Each one of these did something interesting with gaming, just not interesting enough to be endlessly recalled in misty-eyed retro articles or on otherwise pretty good Charlie Brooker documentaries.What have I forgotten? What crimes against video game nostalgia have I committed? Add your own favourites in the comments section.3D Deathchase (Micromega, ZX Spectrum, 1983)Written by lone coder Mervyn Estcourt (who also produced a PC remake almost 20 years later), this remarkably progressive 3D chase game gets the player to ride a futuristic motorbike through dense woodland, attempting to track down and shoot enemy riders. The first-person view and smooth sensation of movement were astonishing at the time (especially considering it ran on the older 16k Spectrum), and it no doubt prepared the way for future variations on the free-roaming driving game.Aliens: The Computer Game (Software Studios/Electric Dreams Software, C64/Spectrum, 1986)Activision developed a higher profile tie-in with the movie, but this version is far superior and has lasting significance in game design terms. It's essentially a prototype first-person shooter, complete with moveable targeting reticule. Players have to guide six of the film's characters through the colony base, toward the queen's lair. Although movement is essentially limited to left and right (firing at doors lets you pass through them), the action is tense, and the importance of quick accurate aiming hints at the FPS genre to come. There's also a brilliantly unsettling take on the movie's motion tracker sound effect that ramps up the scare factor considerably. And when the face huggers leap at you it is terrifying.Alter Ego (Activision, C64/PC/Apple II, 1986)Designed by psychologist Peter Favaro and released by Activision, this fascinating life simulation gave players control over either a male of female character as they progressed from childhood to grave. Designed around a series of key decision points, the mostly text-led experience was based on hundreds of interviews conducted by Favaro, and was hugely critically acclaimed at the time. Alongside David Crane's Little Computer People it laid the groundwork for modern era "virtual soap opera" The Sims. Alas, the sparse presentation and offbeat concept meant that the sim sold poorly and a proposed sequel, based around rearing a child, was scrapped. You canplay the original game online.Astal (Sega, Sega Saturn, 1995)Golden Axe, Streets of Rage, Altered Beast... Plenty of Sega's classic side-scrolling beat-'em-ups have gone on to become legends of the genre. But somehow this beautiful early Saturn release has been over-looked, perhaps thanks to the console's untimely demise. Banished from Earth by an angry goddess, the eponymous hero must return to rescue the girl he loves. Okay, forget the horribly trite story and revel in the gorgeous hand-drawn artwork and interesting attacks, which allow Astal to blow his enemies over or wrench trees out of the ground to chuck at them. There's also an innovative but tricky co-op mode which puts player two into the role of Astal's bird sidekick. Watchthis playthroughfor a taste of the wonderful character and landscape designs.Bioforge (EA/Origin, PC, 1995)The "interactive movie" genre of the mid-90s brought us plenty of nightmarishly unplayable dross as game developers fell in love with the idea of using full-motion-video to create, ugh, "cinematic" experiences. But there were some fascinating examples, too, like this cyberpunk adventure, set on a moon base governed by religious maniacs who believe man must evolve toward a machine-hybrid state. The player awakens as a cyborg and must escape the lab, piecing together the plot from PDA diary entries and using security and computer equipment to hack defenses. Elements of Deus Ex, Bioshock and Dead Space all combined to create a tense and interesting adventure. It was so expensive to produce, however, that low sales ensured a planned sequel never arrived. Edge later published anexcellent 'Making of' feature.Bust A Groove (Enix/Metro Graphics, PlayStation, 1998)This formative rhythm action game cordially invites players to bust ridiculous disco moves by following onscreen direction prompts, in a similar manner to Sony's revered PaRappa The Rapper. The difference here is the head-to-head competitive dance fighting element, allowing dancers to knock each other off the beat with special disco fight moves. Featuring an excellent electronica soundtrack, bizarre characters and super-smooth animation, the title helped build the "post-pub gaming" credentials of the PlayStation, and spawned a sequel. But then Konami's all-conquering Dance Dance Revolution strutted in and kicked it from the dance floor.ChuChu Rocket (Sega/Sonic Team, Dreamcast, 1999)How this frenetic combination of Pac Man, Bomberman, Lemmings and Hungry Hippos failed to become a continually updated gaming staple is beyond us. Designed by Sonic co-creator Yuji Naka it's a fast-paced maze puzzler in which players have to place arrows on the floor to direct a line of mice into rockets so they can escape the giant cats. In the four-player mode, participants can also use arrows to direct the feline enemies toward competitors, making for fraught, hugely tense encounters. Given away free to European Dreamcast owners, the game would later surface on GameBoy Advance and iPhone but should – if there were a whiff of justice in the universe – be on every single console released from 1999 to the end of time.Devil Dice (Sony/Shift, PlayStation, 1998)A modest success on its release and followed by two sequels, this ingenious puzzler was briefly revered, but has somehow slipped from wider memory. Players must navigate a grid by stepping on and turning dice cubes – when the numbers match between two adjacent cubes, they disappear. It's sort of a numerical match-three puzzle, bringing in some of the deeper mathematical reasoning of Area/Code's masterful iPhone title Drop 7. Originally created using Sony's home programmable console, the Net Yaroze, it was one of the few 'homebrew' titles to see release on the PlayStation.Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem (Nntendo/Silicon Knights, GameCube, 2002)Resident Evil 4 wasn't the only standout survival horror experience on Nintendo's under-rated GameCube system. Developed by Canadian studio Silicon Knights and originally meant for the N64, Eternal Darkness is a fascinating Lovecraftian romp following student Alexandria Roivas as she investigates a book known as the Tome of Eternal Darkness. The powerful artifact provides a portal to a selection of previous lives, all of which must be experienced by the player in order to prevent an ancient evil from re-surfacing. The narrative and locations are creepy and unsettling, but the best part is the sanity meter which drops when you encounter enemies, causing visual disturbances and even tricking you into believing your TV has broken. Critically acclaimed, but with its mature rating, Nintendo fans weren't quite sure what to make of it. A proposed sequel never materialised, despite Nintendo renewing the trademark as recently as 2012. Meanwhile, many of the original development team went on to form Precursor Games and planned a spiritual successor named Shadow of the Eternals which sadly failed to hit its crowdfunding target last year.Freedom Fighters (EA/IO Interactive, GameCube/PS2/Xbox, 2003)On a break from the highly successful Hitman series, Danish studio IO Interactive launched this innovative third-person squad-based shooter, getting to the whole America-invaded-by-Communists plotline years before Call of Duty. You play as a regular Joe running round New York taking on Russian troops – and the more you kill, the more your "Charisma rating" goes up allowing you to recruit followers. That's right, it's Homefront meets Twitter. Great controls and smooth squad commands ensured a thrilling yet surprisingly tactical experience. Maddeningly, it seems a proposed sequel was put on indefinite hold so that the studio could work on... Kane &amp; Lynch. Wha... why?!! Anyway, Eurogamer has a nice retrospective on the gameright here.FreQuency (Sony, PS2, 2001)The first title from music game innovator Harmonix was a compelling cross between Tempest and Rez. Your avatar, FreQ, zooms down an octagonal tunnel, swapping walls to hit the correct musical chunks and keep the soundtrack pumping. Fans of the musical game genre recall this trailblazer fondly, but it doesn't get enough credit for its crucial interface innovations. Famously, then VP of Xbox, Ed Fries,turned the game down, but suggested the team work on a similar idea with a dedicated controller. They went away and made Guitar hero.Gitaroo Man (Koei/Inis, PS2/PSP, 2001)Of the many rhythm action games involving talking dogs and heroes that transform from lonely schoolboys into guitar-wielding galactic saviours, Gitaroo Man is definitely in the top three. Developed by music game specialist Inis (which would go on to create the Xbox karaoke title, Lips) it's a deranged mash up of teen manga, weird future rock and beat-'em-up complexity. PaRappa got there first and is the more approachable of the two, but Gitaroo Man is a joyous celebration of music, fashion and surreality. A later PSP version added new modes and was well-received, but the title has never escaped its 'cult' label.Hellfire (Toaplan, arcade/Mega Drive/PC Engine, 1989)Okay so the late eighties and early nineties saw no shortage of beautiful scrolling shooters, but when the subject comes up, it's the works of Irem, SNK and Treasure that tend to get eulogised. The now sadly defunct developer Toaplan was a master of the genre though, and Hellfire is a scorching space blaster with a wonderfully balanced and satisfying weapon system that lets you quickly swap between four different laser types to take on the various attack waves. The Mega Drive conversion is arguably better than the arcade original, adding a super cannon and new difficulty levels, and it remains one of the console's finest moments. Incidentally, Toaplan followed Hellfire with another side-scroller, Zero Wing, which, in its European Mega Drive conversion, contains the immortal line, "All your base are belong to us".Herzog Zwei (Sega/Technosoft, Mega Drive, 1989)When gamers talk about the origins of the real-time strategy genre they often pick out Dune II as a starting point, forgetting the whole host of foundational games that proceeded it. One of them was Herzog Zwei, an early Mega Drive title in which the player pilots a transforming mech over a series of eight warzones, dropping units off to engage enemy craft, then issuing an array of orders. Although the AI isn't amazing, the array of available vehicles, including both air and ground options, made this a surprisingly sophisticated tactical challenge on a machine better known at the time for brawlers and shooters. The head-to-head mode was a fantastic inclusion, too – but even this wasn't enough to impress contemporary critics, many of whom were bemused by the comparatively glacial pace of battle.Interstate 76 (Activision, PC, 1997)Released in the midst of a major seventies revival, Activision's stylish driving adventure was a spot-on pastiche of that era's cop shows, road movies and paranoid thrillers. Set in an alternative America where the 1973 oil crisis has never been resolved, it follows unlikely heroes Groove Champion and Taurus as they go up against a Mad Max-style army of muscle car psychos. The brash flat-shaded visuals and funk jam soundtrack accentuate the exploitation feel, and there is some brilliantly dark humour hiding behind more conventional period references. There was a sequel, Interstate 82, and a spin-off series of car combat games, Vigilante 8, on consoles, but, come on Activision, a proper remake would go down amazingly well on Steam.Little Big Adventure (EA, PC/PlayStation, 1994)The early-to-mid-nineties saw a burst of creativity in the French development scene with titles like Alone in the Dark, Flashback and Rayman attracting worldwide acclaim. Among these idiosyncratic gems was Little Big Adventure, a colourful science fiction epic developed by Adeline Software, and overseen by Frédérick Raynal, the co-creator of the Alone in the Dark series. The surreal narrative follows unwilling prophet Twinsen as he journeys across his world to defeat evil overlord, Dr. Funfrock. The appeal is in the disarmingly neat isometric visuals and strange puzzles and side-stories, and the game sold well enough to spawn a decent sequel. There has been talk of a remake, but the title's quirky charms are unknown to many younger adventure fans.Meridian 59 (The 3DO Company, PC, 1995)While the ill-fated 3DO company is best known for its failed 32bit games console, it was also the publisher for this seminal massively multiplayer online RPG. Originally coded by brothers Andrew and Chris Kirmse in their parent's basement, the game arrived before Everquest and Ultima Online, bringing 3D visuals to the online adventure genre and introducing a large fanbase to many of the key conventions that would follow. After 3DO abandoned the title in 2000, the game was taken on by Near Death Studios, which itself closed in 2010. But somehow it has survived and is now run as a free-to-play open source project by the Kirmse brothers. A living piece of MMORPG history.Mischief Makers (Nintendo/Treasure, N64, 1997)Named Yuke Yuke!! Trouble Makers in Japan, this delightfully colourful and energetic puzzle scroller from Treasure pits ultra intergalactic cybot Marina against the evil Clancer empire as she fights to rescue her imprisoned employer. Created by many of the team behind the legendary Gunstar Heroes, it has a gorgeous kawaii styling and an interesting attack mechanic that allows Marina to grab and shake enemies. With its offbeat level design (Marina has to compete in an athletics event in one mission) and decent boss battles, Mischief Makers achieved cult appeal at the time, but because it could be finished reasonably quickly, reviews were muted. Some kind of Wii U/3DS update  or at least a Virtual Console port would be extremely welcome.Nato Commander (Microprose, Apple II/Atari/C64, 1983)The first military strategy sim designed by Civilization creator Sid Meier is recalled by fans of the genre, of course, but often overlooked in retrospectives of the famed game designer. Set during the Cold War, the player is tasked with moving allied forces against Russia and its Warsaw Pact brethren as nuclear war threatens in the background. Like the later, and incredibly chilling Theater Europe, it captures the paranoia of the era, but Nato Commander also brings in political elements such as strikes in munitions factories or friendly nations inconveniently surrendering mid-offensive.The Neverhood (Neverhood, Inc/Dreamworks, PC/PlayStation, 1996)Designed by Earthworm Jim artist Doug TenNapel, this unusual claymation-based point-and-click adventure stars an amnesiac figure, Klaymen, who wakes up on a deserted world and must discover what the heck has happened. The animation is beautiful, the slowly unfolding narrative intriguing, and there's a great soundtrack by cult American songwriter Terry Scott Taylor. It was admired at the time, but nostalgic recollections of nineties adventures are now largely dominated by the great LucasArts titles, leaving The Neverhood skulking in their immense shadows. There was a sequel, Skullmonkeys, and last year TenNapel ran a successful Kickstarter to fund a spiritual successor,Armikrog– although the right-wing views he has espoused on Republican opinion site, Brietbart, have caused controversy.Oids (FTL Games, Atari ST/Mac, 1987)Over-shadowed in its day by the mighty Commodore Amiga, the Atari ST computer had few of its own original titles to shout about. One of them, however, was this inertia-based shooter, which borrowed elements from sub-genre heavyweights Gravitar and Choplifter as well as Defender to tense and exciting effect. The aim is to navigate a series of minimalist caverns in your dart-like craft, taking out enemies and rescuing robotic hostages – the eponymous Oids. A key appeal of the game is its taut fuel system: you need the stuff both to fly and to recharge your shields, so there's a constant balance going on as it slowly runs down. FTL, of course, would later become much better known for its hugely innovative and influential first-person RPG, Dungeon Master.Oni (Rockstar/Bungie, Mac/PC/PS3, 2001)In between revolutionising the first-person shooter genre with Marathon (1994) and Halo (2001), Bungie took some time out to update the third-person beat-em-'up with this cyberpunk action romp. Heroine Konoko stands alongside D'arci Stern from Urban Chaos as one of the great lost female protagonists of video gaming – a renegade cop with a devastating range of combat moves, an interesting back story and clothes that... well, she basically wore actual clothes (a situation that artistLorraine McLees claimshad to be continually fought for). Although criticised at the time for its sparse visuals and lack of multiplayer, this combination shooter/brawler has such pace and energy, paving the way for modern melee adventures like Batman: Arkham Asylum.Pyjamarama (Mikrogen, Amstrad/C64/Sectrum, 1984)Everyone of a certain age recalls Britsoft favourites like Jet Set Willy, Skool Daze and Attack of the Mutant Camels, but many of the more nuanced classics are slipping from collective memory. Created by lone coder Chris Hinsley, Pyjamarama is a platforming adventure, starring loveable everyman Wally Week who has forgotten to set his alarm clock, and must now wander the house in a  somnambulist state, looking for the key to wind it up. Like Jet Set Willy, it is filled with surreal puzzles and weird enemies, but in its detailed depiction of Wally's modest terrace home, it reveals one of the charms of early-eighties British games: they weren't always about space heroes or ludicrous anthropomorphised critters; they were sometimes about normal people worrying about everyday things. Wally is so distraught about the possibility of losing his job at the car factory, he sleep walks his way to a solution. Like the Monty Mole series, which made satirical references to the miners' strike, it says things about the country at that time. A social history in blocky sprites.Return Fire (Silent Software/Prolific, 3DO/PC/PlayStation, 1995)True, the 3DO console was not a great success when it was launched as a hugely over-priced multimedia machine in 1993. And while its software library was let's say modestly populated, it boasted a few minor masterpieces. One was this excellent two-player military sim, in which participants use their tanks, helicopters and jeeps to invade the opponent's base and capture their flag. It's sort of a cross between Advance Wars and Counter Strike, a mix of fraught action and sneaky thinking, and if it had been originally released on PC and PlayStation rather than ported over later, we'd probably still be playing sequels.Runabout (ASCII/Climax Entertainment, PlayStation, 1997)Western developers don'tentirelyown the open-world adventure genre. Although Grand Theft Auto and Saints Row are dominant, Japanese studios have pitched in: Sega with its brilliant Crazy Taxi and Emergency Call Ambulance titles, and Climax Entertainment with its chaotic Runabout series. Designed by Climax director Kan Naito (also responsible for the classic Shining and Landstalker RPGs), its a mission-based driving quest, in which points are earned by smashing up as much scenery and as many other road users as possible. Renamed Felony 11-79 in the West and followed by a series of inferior sequels, it is as daft, hilarious and anarchic as you'd expect from a game that rewards you for driving a bus through a cafe.Sacrifice (Shiny/Avalon, PC, 2000)Visually stunning and filled with interesting stylistic flourishes, Shiny Entertainment's real-time strategy sim pitches warring wizards against each other in an exotic fantasy landscape. With an emphasis on close combat rather than resource macro-management, the title was at odds with genre big-hitters like Command and Conquer and Total Annihilation. But it brought in its own packed menagerie of beasts, spells and weapons and the third-person action made the warring more immediate and exciting. Although critically revered, it sold poorly and is barely credited for its technical innovations – as Kieron Gillen later lamented inhis retrospective essayon the game.Tenchu: Stealth Assassins (Acquire/Activision, PlayStation, 1998)Although the PlayStation One era of fighting games was dominated by the showy Tekken series, there were a few more sophisticated outliers. Acquire's ninja stealth adventure, for example, is just about the most unforgiving combat game of the era. Players are slung into the bloody world of Feudal Japan with just a blade and a series of mission objectives. As with the Thief series, quietly sneaking about in the shadows and surprising enemies is the only way, because face-to-face fights can be ended with just one swipe of your opponent's sword. Dark, complex and dripping in atmosphere, Tenchu was a sophisticated cult classic. A series of sequels followed but we haven't seen a new one in five years. It would come into its own on the PS4 or Xbox One.Vib-Ribbon (Sony/NanaOn-Sha, PlayStation, 1999)More of an audio/visual experiment than a game, this monochrome rhythm action folly from the makers of PaRappa the Rappa involves guiding Vibri the rabbit along an ever-pulsating ribbon, avoiding pits and carefully managing looped sections. Naturally, the landscape changes in time to the music, but the key feature is that players are able to play their own CDs with the onscreen world reacting accordingly. Much fun could be had attempting the game with musical extremes, either speed metal or ambient house, and the concept was clever enough to get the game intoMoma's design collection. Vin-Ribbon's eccentric creator, Masaya Matsuura, has often spoken about a modern update – with Sony now actively pursuing offbeat PS4 projects like Hohokum, it could be his time.The Warriors (Rockstar, PS2/Xbox, 2005)No one in the games industry does sleazy urban grit like Rockstar and this tie-in with the cult 1979 movie is one of the company's most under-rated titles. Following the events of the movie, players control the eponymous street gang is it makes its way through New York City to its Coney Island home base. Unlike the Grand Theft Auto titles, there's little in the way of open-world freedom, but this is more of a straightforward brawler, with a complex fighting mechanic and rollicking two-player co-op mode. Typically for Rockstar there is also an amazing licensed soundtrack slinging in '70s disco hits to contrast the relentless violence; the company even brought back original cast members to voice their virtual representations.According to Kotaku, a spiritual success was planned, based around the mods vs rockers battles of '60s Britain, but sadly nothing emerged.Zillion (Sega/Tatsunoko Production, Master System, 1987)Though successful in Europe, Sega's 8bit Master System console nose-dived in Japan and the US so this tough, multi-directional platformer has faded from memory. Which is criminal because it is a tense, sprawling combination of Metroid and Impossible Mission, pitching the player into a maze-like enemy base looking for crucial diskettes filled with valuable information. Interestingly, every door in this place is locked so you have to explore each room, looking for code combinations to make progress. There are cool little RPG elements too. As you rush through you can power-up the character's health, jump and laser gun, and if you discover his two team mates, Apple and Champ, you can switch between them, making use of their differing capabilities. It's an unforgiving adventure, but totally worth revisiting if you can track down a working Master System and a copy of the game on eBay. And in the unlikely event you beat it, there's a sequel out there too.• Tech Weekly Podcast: What will computer games look like in 2014?
Eric Schmidt says that Google&apos;s acquisition of the Nest home appliance business is &quot;an important bet&quot; which will lead to products that are &quot;infinitely more intelligent&quot;.But Google&apos;s executive chairman, speaking at an exclusive event at the Guardian, also deepened the mystery over how and what data Google will use and swap with Nest, which it isbuying for $3.2bn.Nest currently makes a thermostat and a smoke/carbon monoxide alarm, both of which collect user behaviour data to produce a more tailored response. That data isn&apos;t shared outside Nest.Asked on Tuesday by The Guardian why Google had moved into hardware with the purchase of Nest, Schmidt replied: &quot;We actually are already in the hardware business, in the sense that we have a [phone handset] business called Motorola - that&apos;s doing well with a lot of interesting phones - and we have a whole Nexus product line [of smartphones and tablets].&quot;The Nest is a natural evolution of those kinds of devices, and I think you should imagine that the Google technology applied to the things that Nest do will be infinitely more intelligent, and infinitely more useable. We&apos;re making an important bet and I&apos;m very excited about it.&quot;Google completed its $12.4bn acquisition of Motorola in July 2012; since then the business has made cumulative losses of $1.6bn.The takeover of Nest has sparked questions about data use and privacy, and the extent to which a Google-owned Nest would pass user data to Google, and how that might be used. That follows Google&apos;s implementation of changes to its privacy policy in spring 2012 and in January to its Google+ social system which forced users to opt out, or abandon the system altogether.Some owners have expressed concerns about privacy and how data would be used, given Google&apos;s current business model which focusses on targeted advertising.At the takeover, Nest said in a statement that &quot;Our privacy policy clearly limits the use of customer information to providing and improving Nest&apos;s products and services. We&apos;ve always taken privacy seriously and this will not change.&quot;Tony Fadell, the former Apple staffer who founded Nest, said at the DLD conference in Munich earlier this week that &quot;If there were ever any changes whatsoever [to the privacy policy], we would be sure to be transparent about it, number one, and number two for you to opt-in to it.&quot;
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTerrible idea punished with death &gt;&gt; ValleywagSam Biddle:Have you ever yearned: 'I love the physical junk mail I get, but is there any way I could have it intercepted, opened by strangers, scanned, and routed directly to my email inbox, so I don't have to touch paper?' San Francisco startup Outbox thought it had the solution. Maybe it did. Now it is gone. Good.Ever more rare than humility in the face of failure is failure itself: bad ideas are usually rewarded as unidentified innovation, not simply dumb. Outbox was one such smiled-upon inanity, having received millions of dollars in venture cash, and credulous headlines from tech press:"Outbox Pours Salt On Snail Mail By Launching Its Digitizing Service In San Francisco""Kiss your postal mailbox goodbye for $5 a month".The fact that people were spending real money and real human working hours to address the greatest non-problem of our time was an insult to anyone not ankle-deep in horse shit. Hardly ever did anyone ask: why not just go get your own mail?Amazingly, Outbox had 2,000 customers by the time it wound up.Neural nets: now available in the cloud &gt;&gt; MIT Technology Reviewneural nets are shy creatures. Rarely are they shared in the same way as other computing resources such as memory, processing power or software.That looks set to change thanks to the work of Erich Schikuta and Erwin Mann at the University of Vienna in Austria. These guys have created a way of setting up neural networks in the cloud so that their services can be shared, just like other resources. They call their new system N2Sky and they are putting it through its paces now.This could be as big as storage and processing in the cloud - a whole new generation of startups should make use of this.Fanboys &gt;&gt; The VergeLessley Anderson:Marooned in his home office, pounding tepid coffee, Fisk meandered down the path of calling various journalists and commenters "idiots" in his posts. Especially those who unfairly bashed Android. He had, without realizing it, become a fanboy."I can bitch anonymously, and I've tried to tone it back, because I let it get to me," he says.But that's not all that gets to Fisk. He has a meta-frustration that seems to be always vibrating in his mental circuitry, like a hum you can't place. It has to do with the power that technology companies wield over his life.He talks about being "trapped in his contract" with his former phone carrier, and about being unable to receive Android updates because of some Machiavellian plot on the part of the manufacturer to force consumers to upgrade their phones. He paints Apple as a ruthless force that effectively killed Flash, the software plug-in favored by designers, by refusing to support it on Apple's mobile devices. At the time, Fisk made his living as a Flash developer."Apple to me is just a gigantic, media-bending smokescreen," he complains.A great piece of reporting - it looks all over this manure-strewn field - which is today's must-read.Microsoft hasn't given consumers much reason to renew Office 365 &gt;&gt; CITEworldIt began on 29 January 2013, so the one-year renewal period is coming up:For people who already have Office 2010, it's a pretty easy choice - there isn't a good reason to renew your Office 365 subscription. Revert to Office 2010 and wait and see if Microsoft adds any must-have features to Office 365. At that time, you can start subscribing.When Microsoft launched Office 365 Home Premium, it said that it would deliver new features and services to subscribers as soon as they were ready, eliminating the need for users to wait for the next version of the software to get the new features.However, in the year that it's been available, Microsoft hasn't added anything notable to Office 365. That makes it hard to see the benefit of using Office 365 instead of Office 2010.Are there blockbuster new features that it can add? If so, what are they?Dad gets OfficeMax mail addressed 'Daughter Killed in Car Crash' &gt;&gt; latimes.comAn off-and-on customer of OfficeMax, Mike Seay has gotten the office supply company's junk mail for years. But the mail that the grieving Lindenhurst, Ill., father said he got from OfficeMax last week was different.It was addressed to "Mike Seay, Daughter Killed in Car Crash."Strange as that sounds, the mail reached the right guy. Seay's daughter Ashley, 17, was killed in a car crash with her boyfriend last year. OfficeMax somehow knew.It didn't exactly "know"; it had bought the list from "a third-party provider".You don't want your privacy: Disney and the meat space data race &gt;&gt; GigaOmJohn Foreman, chief data scientist at Mailchimp, went to a Disney park where he and his family were issued with an individually-programmed RFID-equipped wristband.Stop a moment and dream of the MagicBand possibilities.The pitch that Disney is making is personalization. For each band, for example, Disney asks for the name and birthday of the person who'll be wearing it. So if your kid is having a birthday in the park and there's a character wandering nearby, that character can be notified to sneak up on your kid and creepily wish them a happy birthday individually.Now, let's dig a little deeper.What does Disney get out of the deal? In short, it tracks everything you do, everything you buy, everything you eat, everything you ride, everywhere you go in the park. If the goal is to keep you in the park longer so you'll spend more money, it can build AI models on itineraries, show schedules, line length, weather, etc., to figure out what influences stay length and cash expenditure. Perhaps there are a few levers they can pull to get money out of you.Microsoft Office blog hacked after redesign | Security | News | PC ProMicrosoft fell victim to hackers for the third time in a month, after attackers defaced the newly redesigned Office blog.The group known as the Syrian Electronic Army posted several articles on the Microsoft Office site, including one titled "hacked by the Syrian Electronic Army".The group crowed that it had managed to hack into the blog's CMS [content management system] despite Microsoft's best efforts - and suggested it had access to employee login details.This could continue for quite a while. Two-factor authentication isn't any use if the intruder is inside the system and the system is big enough.The decay and fall of guest blogging &gt;&gt; Matt CuttsIf you ignore the bad spacing and read the parts [of the received email] that I bolded, someone sent me a spam email offering money to get links that pass PageRank. That's a clear violation of Google's quality guidelines. Moreover, we've been seeing more and more reports of "guest blogging" that are really "paying for PageRank" or worse, "we'll insert some spammy links on your blog without you realizing it."Ultimately, this is why we can't have nice things in the SEO space: a trend starts out as authentic. Then more and more people pile on until only the barest trace of legitimate behavior remains. We've reached the point in the downward spiral where people are hawking "guest post outsourcing" and writing articles about "how to automate guest blogging."Though it is hlarious that someone would try an SEO-spamming tactic on Matt Cutts, who is Google's anti-spam guy.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
This is not quite how I expected an interview with Hans Zimmer to end. The composer has worked on more than 100 films, including scoring the likes of The Lion King, Gladiator, The Dark Knight, Black Hawk Down and Inception. He’s justifiably feted in the film and music worlds alike.But yes, the chuckling man on the other end of the phone line is happily claiming thetheme tune for British TV game show Going for Gold, during an interview wind-down conversation about British TV prompted by his (British) colleague Russell Emanuel.&quot;Going for Gold? I’m not ashamed of it! It paid the rent and opened up all sorts of doors. I will admit to it: we all have to have our guilty little somethings!&quot; says Zimmer, in a conversation that also includes the unexpected phrase: &quot;I know Les Dawson. Come on, I&apos;m notcompletelyignorant.&quot;Zimmer and Emanuel aren’t talking to journalists just to reminisce about British light-entertainment TV from the late 1980s and early 1990s, of course. They’relaunching a contest on audio site SoundCloudaiming to unearth new composing talent.Zimmer has created a piece for the competition that has been divided into audio ‘stems’ and made available on SoundCloud for composers to download and work on. The winner will be offered a job at Bleeding Fingers, a joint venture between the two men’s respective companies set up to score TV shows.“A hundred million years ago in England, I was given a chance by [film composer] Stanley Myers and other people who by chance heard what I was doing, and gave me a chance to start writing things,” says Zimmer.“Now, there are thousands of people out there in the world who will never get heard, and I always thought that was a great pity. This seemed like a really good way to figure out not only a mechanism through which we could hear people but also through which they could turn that into a career.”&apos;Don’t send me anything that sounds like me!&apos;The temptation when downloading audio stems composed by Hans Zimmer must be to use them to compose something, well, Hans Zimmerish. This kind of contest could easily throw up the compositional equivalents of tribute acts.This, unsurprisingly, isn’t the aim at all. “I would hope that somebody will turn it all on its head. Don’t send me anything that sounds like me! I can do that myself,” he says, harking back to a time 20 years ago when he was working at Hollywood studio DreamWorks as its head of music, alongside Steven Spielberg.“People kept sending me demos that sounded just like John Williams, and I wondered why are they sending me this? If Steven wants to work with John Williams, all he has to do is walk 20 feet down the hall, and there’s the real thing. Put your own voice forward: be bold, be brave, and be original. Be the next thing. And that is still the case today.”Emanuel says that a key part of the contest will be its public nature too. There’s a panel of judges to rate the entries, but SoundCloud users will play a key role too, by listening to and sharing the submissions.“The first round of getting this to us is getting it past the millions of SoundCloud users. It’s the community that’s going to take the first listen and bring it to our attention,” says Emanuel. “That’s why it truly will have to be brave, I think. They’ll only be excited by something that’s different and bold.”Zimmer talks engagingly about the importance of mentorship for film composers, from his own days working with Stanley Myers, to the community of creators he has built up in and around his studios in Los Angeles. He’s also very accurate (judged from a journalist’s perspective) on the importance of deadlines.“A lot of composers with a formal music education background have never really been exposed to the impossible deadline. I remember before I had this studio, my old really crappy studio was near a billboard site,” he says.“The movie I hadn’t written the theme for yet had a billboard up with a release date, and I’d go by every day and say ‘Oh my God, I haven’t written anything yet!’. It’s that reality that teaches you a lot. Someone asked me today what inspires me, and I’d say it’s a great filmmaker, great storytelling and a healthy fear of deadlines.”&apos;I think we’re in the second golden age of television&apos;Zimmer is about as far from a film snob as you can get, stressing that working on scores for television isn’t a poor second to working on films.“TV at this moment in time, the writing is fantastic. I’m stuck having to get everything across in two hours for movies, but in television it’s longform storytelling now. You can really get under the skin of the characters, and really develop your themes and your music,” he says.“TV suddenly has something to say. I think we’re in the second golden age of television, with great writing, great performances and great stories if you look at stuff like Breaking Bad. And there’s really original music being created in television as well, with really original sounds starting to happen.”One of the judges of the SoundCloud contest is Junkie XL, the electronica artist who has also composed for films like Man of Steel, The Dark Knight Rises and 300: Rise of an Empire. A colleague of Zimmer’s from his studio campus, he’s one of a growing number of dance artists to work on film scores, with Daft Punk (Tron) and the Chemical Brothers (Hanna) other recent examples.Zimmer is particularly keen on the latter – “Hanna is fantastic! One of the great scores” – and is enthusiastic about the potential of more composers making electronic music to make a similar leap to the big screen, telling the tale of calling in Junkie XL to conduct in a 12-drummer session last year.“I saw this amazing conductor. People forget that Junkie XL has a perfectly good, solid classical music education. He’s really versatile. Once you get a bunch of musicians into a room, nobody asks about your background or whatever. It’s always ‘Does your playing and your music move me?’ That’s the only criteria,” he says.&apos;People have realised that film and television music is really interesting&apos;Plenty of people have been moved by Zimmer’s music, judging by the warm reception to his two Ask Me Anything interviews on tech site Reddit in June 2013 and January 2014. They were full of questions from knowledgable, appreciative fans, showing the esteem in which his work is held, but also film music in general.“It’s a strange thing. When I started in film music, I very consciously left rock’n’roll, and the music business behind. I realised I was more interested in film music, and at that time, people weren’t really that interested in it,” he says.“With the demise of the music industry, it feels like everybody has turned to the last living form where they can express themselves and actually earn a living, which seems to be film music! And over the years, people have realised that film and television music is really interesting.”How so? “It gives you an incredible amount of freedom, because it’s not as restricted as when you have a hit record and people assume you are supposed to repeat yourself. And that structure: verse / chorus / bridge, is pretty limited,” he continues.“Even if you think just about the stuff I did with Ridley Scott, Gladiator is very different from Hannibal, which is very different from Black Hawk Down. Stylistically, it’s all over the place, and that’s just this one filmmaker. That’s what makes it exciting.”
Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, has insisted he had no knowledge of the US National Security Agency's tapping of the company's data, despite having a sufficiently high security clearance to have been told.He said that he and other members of the search company were outraged by the tapping carried out by the NSA and the UK's GCHQ –first revealed in the Guardian in June– and that they had "complained at great length" to the US government over the intrusion. Google had since begun encrypting internal traffic to prevent further spying, he said.Speaking in a private session at the Guardian, Schmidt, 58, said: "I have the necessary clearances to have been told, as do other executives in the company, but none of us were briefed."Had we been briefed, we probably couldn't have acted on it, because we'd have known about it. I've declined briefings [from the US government] about this because I don't want to be constrained."But Schmidt, who was Google's chief executive from 2001 to April 2011, was equivocal on the question of a pardon for Edward Snowden, the former NSA contractor who leaked the documents that led to the revelations. "Had this information not come to light, we would not have been able to [stop the NSA spying]. I can understand the position he felt," said Schmidt, who revealed that he had protested against the Vietnam war as a young man. But on the question of whether Snowden should be pardoned or jailed, he said: "I don't think it's so obvious one way or the other."Schmidt hinted that the number of requests for data filed by the NSA is small: "It's illegal to notify the public how many requests we get; we've filed suit to release the aggregate number. You can imagine why." He said that although he had clearance, and could if he chose see the requests filed through the standing court for NSA access to data, "I do not by choice, because if I did then I would be subject to a whole lot of rules. There's a team of attorneys who see them."He said that the broad debate about the level of oversight there should be on government surveillance was "a luxury problem" compared with countries such as China, which operate strict censorship of internet use.Schmidt predicted that China's adoption of smartphones and social networks such as Weibo and WeChat, which have around 300 million users each, would eventually overwhelm its government's ability to censor online discussion there. "You can't heavily censor that many people all the time. They don't understand the power of empowering a hundred million Chinese, no matter how brutal they're going to be with the bloggers."He said that people in countries such as Myanmar, where only 1% of the population has access to the internet, were hungry for the capability it offers. "We went there and kept meeting people who hadn't used the internet but told us how it was going to change their lives and make them rich. It was the vision of the internet that we in the west know, not the one that they have in China even though it's right next door to them."The fact is that for most of the world's population, the next five billion, the internet is first going to be a set of ideas that permeates their society months or years before they ever use it as a tool. People are aware that there's all this information out there and they're being excluded from it, either because of economic reasons or their government. And humans don't deal well with a situation where they're denied access to information."Schmidt also acknowledged that his "humanitarian mission" to North Korea in January 2013 could be seen as controversial. But he indicated that he was under no illusions about his welcome there. "Everyone you meet, everyone you see in the street, is an actor," he said.But the reality of the desperation of North Korean life was evident from the efforts people made to contact the outside world by heading to its frontiers with smuggled mobile phones to get a signal and make calls. "They know that the penalty for being caught is that they will persecute your family for three generations," he said. "Yet they do it because it is so important to them to communicate."'Do you eat with your smartphone on the table?'Eric Schmidt's newest and biggest challenge sounds easy enough: get through dinner without looking at his smartphone or computer. "It's important to have defined times when you're on and off. I'm trying to turn my computer off when it's dinner," he told an audience at the Guardian. "I'm actually trying to establish the basic principle that dinner can be eaten without being online. It's a new social norm: do you eat with your smartphone on the table?"The executive chairman of Google, 58, said that he didn't use social media such as Twitter much – despite having a Twitter account – but "there's always something on the internet that's interesting."He said though that the rise of tablets could have profound effects. "I watched my grandson at Christmas, and he never turned the TV on – he just spent the whole time on his tablet. And I wondered, 'have I just seen the death of television?'"
Passengers on planes, boats, trains and coaches will soon have access to internet speeds comparable to the average home broadband service after regulators agreed to release new spectrum.Moving vehicles in the skies, on the sea and on the ground will be licensed to use special antennae that communicate with satellites at up to 12 Megabits per second per passenger when travelling in the UK, the telecoms watchdog Ofcom said.Known as earth stations, the antennae will use high frequency spectrum to transmit information at ten times the speed available on moving vehicles. Land based vehicles will no longer require an internet spectrum licence, while Ofcom hopes to accept licence applications for ship mounted antennae by February, and is working with the Civil Aviation Authority to license the technology for aeroplanes in a similar timeframe.It will be up to airlines to decide whether passengers can use their digital equipment in the sky, but some including Virgin America and American Airlines offer internet during commercial flights.In a statement, Virgin Atlantic, which flies to and from the UK, said: "We are conducting broadband trials across some of our long haul flights which we hope to roll out more widely this year so we will follow this new technology with interest and look forward to seeing further development on a global scale."Recent advances in technology have improved the effectiveness of earth stations, which can maintain very stable pointing accuracy, allowing the earth station to track the satellite closely – even when mounted on a fast-moving vehicle.Ofcom is releasing very high frequency spectrum – which can carry larger amounts of data than low frequency spectrum – for use by earth stations. The frequency is in bands ranging from 17 Gigahertz to 30 Gigahertz – the highest frequency currently in use by mobile phone companies in the UK is in the 2.3 Gigahertz range.
The firewall being operated by theUK&apos;s biggest internet service providers as part of David Cameron&apos;s child internet safety campaign has blocked an update of an online video game due which unintentionally included the letters &quot;s-e-x&quot; in its web address.The update to online strategy game League of Legends was disrupted by the internet filter because the software attempted to access files that accidentally include the word “sex” in the middle of their file names.The block resulted in the update failing with “file not found” errors, which are usually created by missing files or broken updates on the part of the developers.The porn filter only takes affect on new internet connections, presented as a choice at the point of first connection, and therefore does not yet cover a majority of people.VarusExpirationThe issue wasfirst noted on social news site Reddit by LolBoopjeshowing that files namedVarusExpirationTimer.luaobjandXerathMageChainsExtended.luaobj(emphasis added) were enough to trigger a block at the internet service provider level.For users affected by the broken update, the only current recourse is to switch off the internet filtering by contacting their internet service provider, or to use the online support forms often located within the router and internet settings.This is not the first time the adult content filter championed by the Prime Minister has caught more than was intended.TalkTalk was forced to apologise when it incorrectly classified one of London’s oldest lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender charities, London Friend, as pornographic - a mistake which meant the charity&apos;s site was blocked to some users.“Sadly there is no silver bullet when it comes to internet safety and we have always been clear that no solution can ever be 100 per cent. It requires all of us to play our part,” said TalkTalk spokespersonto PinkNews.• What doesDavid Cameron’s great firewallreally look like?
eBay UK is to limit sales of bitcoin to its classified advertising platform from February 10, banning the currency from its auction and buy-it-now formats.After the change comes into force, merchants will only be able to sell bitcoin through the classified ads format, which requires the buyer to contact the seller directly, without obligation.&quot;To promote a trustworthy marketplace and ensure compliance with applicable regulations, eBay is currently updating its currency policy,&quot; the site said in a statement. &quot;The updated policy will clarify that listings for Bitcoin and other similar virtual currencies must be listed in the virtual currency category in the classified ad format.&quot;The virtual currency category is expected to be available on the UK site on February 10th.&quot;Bitcoin transactions are unusual in that they are (comparatively) instantaneous and irreversible. Under eBay&apos;s normal auction rules, this could leave the site open to fraud, with a buyer purchasing bitcoins and then refusing to pay, or initiating a credit-card chargeback. By switching to the classified ads model, where users pay for an ad up front and eBay takes no part in settling the deal, the site removes itself from the risky end of the transaction.Bitcoin is not currently covered by any of the site&apos;s policies, and since the site does not specify items which are allowed to be sold, only those which are prohibited or restricted from sale, that means that until now the currency has been traded relatively freely.One merchant is selling bitcoins in 0.02 BTC increments for £15.99; another, claiming to be the &quot;cheapest on eBay&quot;,sells the same for £24.99.At the current exchange rate, 0.02 BTC is worth around £12, which might explain why the majority of bitcoin-related sales are for computer hardware called ASIC miners. These are specialised chips that allow users to &quot;mine&quot; bitcoin more efficiently than if they just use a normal computer.Despite the fact that the changes in policy massively reduce the scope for bitcoin trading using the eBay platform, many organisations, includingThis Is MoneyandZDnethave reported the news as a positive step for the currency.While many high-up staff at eBay&apos;s executive team have said nice things about bitcoin, with PayPal&apos;s president David Marcussaying&quot;we&apos;re believers in BTC&quot;, Bitcoin fans may conclude the acts speak for themselves.•Holocaust memorabilia removed from sale on eBay
Games video creators on YouTube have reacted angrily to a stealth marketing campaign for Microsoft&apos;s Xbox One which paid bloggers for posting favourable videos.The revelation that Microsoft paid extra for positive videos featuring at least 30 seconds of Xbox One game footage and for the tag &quot;XB1M13&quot; on the popular YouTube gaming channel Machinima has promptedconfessionsandcomplaintsfrom gaming YouTube video creators.Games expressedoutrage- but the discovery has exposed a larger issue of undisclosed marketing efforts and routine payments to video bloggers. According to one,boogie2988, Microsoft is not the first company to try this kind of promotion, as it is “so commonplace” that it is “happening every day on YouTube”.Thereportedstealth marketing promotion saw video producers get paid extra for including 30 seconds of Xbox One game footage and mentioning the Xbox One with the tag “XB1M13” in a positive or neutral light in videos on the popular YouTube gaming channel.Described as the “easiest/best promo” Machinima had ever done by the Machinima&apos;s UK community manager, terms of the deal specifically blocked disclosure of the payments,according to a leaked copy of the legal agreement. That could breach the US Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC)guidelines (PDF)for use of endorsements in advertising that require links between endorsers and sellers of the product be disclosed. It might also break Advertising Standards Authorityrules on bloggers and paid promotions.Free and uneasyThe FTC terms dictate that &quot;a connection between the endorser and the seller of the advertised product that might materially affect the weight or credibility of the endorsement&quot; be disclosed because the endorsement could be &quot;disseminated via a form of consumer-generated media in which his relationship to the advertiser is not inherently obvious.&quot;The FTC guidelines give the specific example of gamers getting free game systems and then talking about those systems on a blog where disclosure of that free gift is necessary.The ASA, which regulates advertising in the UK,says: &quot;Put simply, a blogger who is given money to promote a product or service has to ensure readers are aware they’re being advertised to.&quot;According to an allegedleaked Machinima emailpromoting the deal to video creators, only the first 1.25m video views would qualify for the extra money, which at the rate of $3 per thousand views equates to $3,750.The campaign started on 14 January but was marked as expired on 16 January on a clearinghouse for video marketing campaigns, indicating that the required 1.25m video views had been reached.Complaints and confessionsAround7,000 videos tagged “XB1M13”remain online and continue to rack up views, although not all the videos are associated with the promotion, including complaints from other YouTube users about the stealth marketing effort.“Anyone with any integrity on YouTube is going to look at that and go ‘what the fuck are you doing?’” said aYouTuber by the name of attackslug. “When I go onto YouTube looking for Let’s Play videos, I want honest opinions.”The popularity of gaming YouTube video producers likePewDiePieand“Let’s Play” videos(who is not involved in the Xbox One promotion) has made them attractive to marketers as they seek to avoid ad blocking technologies used by users as well as their resistance to traditional advertising.This kind of marketing strategy is likely to increase given the influence of gaming vloggers, which will make disclosure of payments and promotions a key issue.Both Microsoft and Machinima were contacted for comment but had not replied by the time of publication.• In December, anew YouTube copyright scannerautomatically blocked gaming YouTube videos which saw game publishers vow to help reinstate them
The gathering crisis of trust around consumer web services and the fallout from Edward Snowden&apos;s revelations is fuelling a significant uptake in anonymity tools, new research shows, as internet users battle censorship and assert their right to privacy online.Globally, 56% of those surveyed by GlobalWebIndex reported that they felt the internet is eroding their personal privacy, with an estimated 415 million people or 28% of the online population using tools to disguise their identity or location.Aggregating market research data from 170,000 internet users worldwide, GWI found that 11% of all users claim to use Tor, the most high profile for anonymising internet access.On these figures, Tor could be regularly used by as many as 45.13 million people. Its biggest userbase appears to be in Indonesia, where 21% of respondents said they used the tool, followed by 18% in Vietnam and 15% in India.Indonesia also has the world&apos;s highest penetration of general anonymity tools among its internet users, with 42% using proxy servers or virtual private networks known as VPNs, which disguise the location of the user&apos;s internet connection - their IP address - and therefore bypass regional blocks on certain content.34% of Chinese using anonymity toolsThe Chinese government reportedly employs as many as 2 million &quot;internet analysts&quot; to review and block content deemed politically or commercially inappropriate, yet GWI research estimates that 34% of the country&apos;s online population disguise their online location so that they can bypass such filters.Of those that use VPN or proxies, 60% say they do so to access Google&apos;s YouTube video site, and 55% said they use it to access Facebook and Twitter.The use of IP-masking tools means that size of China&apos;s Facebook and Twitter userbase, for example, could be significantly larger than first thought. China&apos;s VPN-using audience alone could be as much as 160 million people, many of whom are currently being incorrectly identified as being in another country - usually the US.Normally, the location of a user&apos;s IP address would be used to deliver relevant regional advertising as well as a version of the site in the local language.Geo-located advertising &apos;missing the mark&apos;&quot;VPNs serve a perfect dual purpose for consumers in lots of markets, allowing them to access restricted content and better content as well as stay anonymous,&quot; said Jason Mander, GWI&apos;s head of trends. &quot;It&apos;s a perfect combination and one that is likely to see their popularity grow. It also means that the numbers using sites such as Facebook in China are likely to have been under-estimated, and that geo-located advertising is completely missing the mark for these internet users.&quot;&quot;The figures also suggest that the global internet audience is a lot savvier and more concerned about this type of thing than is traditionally supposed, and chimes with the statistic that 55% are concerned about their privacy being eroded by the internet.&quot;In Vietnam, VPN is used by 38% of the online population and in Brazil and Thailand 36%. Mexico, India and China all reported use by an estimated 34% of the population that has access to the internet, with the UAE and Argentina on 32%.The US, UK, Germany and Ireland meanwhile all report 17% penetration, with Japan the lowest at 5%. The data includes those aged 16-64 for the last quarter of 2013.The data also underscores the shift from text messaging to mobile messaging apps, with WeChat seeing a 379% increase in active users between the second and fourth quarters of 2013 to around 385 million users, 78m of whom are in China.Instagram beats Facebook for growth, and younger usersFacebook has by far the biggest audience among social networks with an estimated 1.1 billion active users, but also has a very active user base with 56% saying they visit the site at least once a day.Facebook&apos;s $1bn acquisition of the photo-sharing site Instagram in 2012 proved a sound bet; GWI found it had the fastest growth of any social platform in 2013 adding 23% active users from Q2 to Q4 to reach 91 million users. Instagram also led the move ofyounger web users away from more established social sites.Along with Twitter, Facebook has the largest proportion of users aged 55-64, while Tumblr and Instagram have the highest share of 16-24 year olds at 45% and 39% respectively. Use by older people is compounded by the ageing of early-adopter users as well as older users being more likely to join established sites.The most common activity on Facebook was sharing content, private messaging and commenting on posts, while the least popular activity - which doesn&apos;t bode well for the site&apos;s advertising strategy - included complaining or commenting on a brand or sharing brand videos.MySpace, meanwhile, languishes at the bottom of the charts. Despite an ambitious and sophisticated redesign, the site has not integrated sharing with other networks and has struggled to regain its former glory. According to GWI it has the lowest numbers of active monthly accounts, has seen the biggest drop in user numbers for 2013 and fewer daily visits.•A beginners guide to Tor
It's the second instalment in our look at games that perhaps don't invoke as much warmhearted nostalgia as they really ought to. Some of these were huge at the time, but have since been overlooked, other managed to slip completely under the radar.Many of these will be familiar to veteran gamers, though, so if you can think of some even more obscure classics, please add them in the comments section.FreQuency (Sony, PS2, 2001)The first title from music game innovator Harmonix was a compelling cross between Tempest and Rez. Your avatar, FreQ, zooms down an octagonal tunnel, swapping walls to hit the correct musical chunks and keep the soundtrack pumping. Fans of the musical game genre recall this trailblazer fondly, but it doesn't get enough credit for its crucial interface innovations. Famously, then VP of Xbox, Ed Fries,turned the game down, but suggested the team work on a similar idea with a dedicated controller. They went away and made Guitar hero.Gitaroo Man (Koei/Ini, PS2/PSP, 2001)Of the many rhythm action games involving talking dogs and heroes that transform from lonely schoolboys into guitar-wielding galactic saviours, Gitaroo Man is definitely in the top three. Developed by music game specialist Inis (which would go on to create the Xbox karaoke title, Lips) it's a deranged mash up of teen manga, weird future rock and beat-'em-up complexity. PaRappa got their first and is the more approachable of the two, but Gitaroo Man is a joyous celebration of music, fashion and surreality. A later PSP version added new modes and was well-received, but the title has never escaped its 'cult' label.Hellfire (Toaplan, arcade/Mega Drive/PC Engine, 1989)Okay so the late eighties and early nineties saw no shortage of beautiful scrolling shooters, but when the subject comes up, it's the works of Irem, SNK and Treasure that tend to get eulogised. The now sadly defunct developer Toaplan was a master of the genre though, and Hellfire is a scorching space blaster with a wonderfully balanced and satisfying weapon system that lets you quickly swap between four different laser types to take on the various attack waves. The Mega Drive conversion is arguably better than the arcade original, adding a super cannon and new difficulty levels, and it remains one of the console's finest moments. Incidentally, Toaplan followed Hellfire with another side-scroller, Zero Wing, which, in its European Mega Drive conversion, contains the immortal line, "All your base are belong to us".Interstate 76 (Activision, PC, 1997)Released in the midst of a major seventies revival, Activision's stylish driving adventure was a spot-on pastiche of that era's cop shows, road movies and paranoid thrillers. Set in an alternative America where the 1973 oil crisis has never been resolved, it follows unlikely heroes Groove Champion and Taurus as they go up against a Mad Max-style army of muscle car psychos. The brash flat-shaded visuals and funk jam soundtrack accentuate the exploitation feel, and there is some brilliantly dark humour hiding behind more conventional period references. There was a sequel, Interstate 82, and a spin-off series of car combat games, Vigilante 8, on consoles, but it seems like a proper remake would go down well on Steam.Little Big Adventure (EA, PC/PlayStation, 1994)The early-to-mid-nineties saw a burst of creativity in the French development scene with titles like Alone in the Dark, Flashback and Rayman attracting worldwide acclaim. Among these idiosyncratic gems was Little Big Adventure, a colourful science fiction epic developed by Adeline Software, and overseen by Frédérick Raynal, the co-creator of the Alone in the Dark series. The surreal narrative follows unwilling prophet Twinsen as he journeys across his world to defeat evil overlord, Dr. Funfrock. The appeal is in the disarmingly neat isometric visuals and strange puzzles and side-stories, and the game sold well enough to spawn a decent sequel. There has been talk of a remake, but the title's quirky charms are unknown to many younger adventure fans.Meridian 59 (The 3DO Company, PC, 1995)While the ill-fated 3DO company is best known for its failed 32bit games console, it was also the publisher for this seminal massively multiplayer online RPG. Originally coded by brothers Andrew and Chris Kirmse in their parent's basement, the game arrived before Everquest and Ultima Online, bringing 3D visuals to the online adventure genre and introducing a large fanbase to many of the key conventions that would follow. After 3DO abandoned the title in 2000, the game was taken on by Near Death Studios, which itself closed in 2010. But somehow it has survived and is now run as a free-to-play open source project by the Kirmse brothers. A living piece of MMORPG history.Mischief Makers (Nintendo/Treasure, N64, 1997)Named Yuke Yuke!! Trouble Makers in Japan, this delightfully colourful and energetic puzzle scroller from Treasure pits ultra intergalactic cybot Marina against the evil Clancer empire as she fights to rescue her imprisoned employer. Created by many of the team behind the legendary Gunstar Heroes, it has a gorgeous kawaii styling and an interesting attack mechanic that allows Marine to grab and shake enemies. With its offbeat level design (Marina has to compete in an athletics event in one mission) and decent boss battles, Mischief Makers achieved cult appeal at the time, but because it could be finished reasonably quickly, reviews were muted. Some kind of Wii U/3DS update  or at least a Virtual Console port would be extremely welcome.Nato Commander (Microprose, Apple II/Atari/C64, 1983)The first military strategy sim designed by Civilization creator Sid Meier is recalled by fans of the genre, of course, but often overlooked in retrospectives of the famed game designer. Set during the Cold War, the player is tasked with moving allied forces against Russia and its Warsaw Pact brethren as nuclear war threatens in the background. Like the later, and incredibly chilling Theater Europe, it captures the paranoia of the era, but Nato Commander also brings in political elements such as strikes in munitions factories or friendly nations inconveniently surrendering mid-offensive.The Neverhood (Neverhood, Inc/Dreamworks, PC/PlayStation, 1996)Designed by Earthworm Jim artist Doug TenNapel, this is an unusual claymation-based point-and-click adventure starred an amnesiac figure, Klaymen, who wakes up on a deserted world and must discover what has happened. The animation is beautiful, the slowly unfolding narrative intriguing, and there's a great soundtrack by cult American songwriter Terry Scott Taylor. It was admired at the time, but nostalgic recollections of nineties adventures are now largely dominated by the great LucasArts adventures so The Neverhood is often overlooked. There was a sequel, Skullmonkeys, and last year TenNapel ran a successful Kickstarter to fund a spiritual successor,Armikrog– although the right-wing views he has espoused on Republican opinion site, Brietbart, have caused controversy.Oids (FTL Games, Atari ST/Mac, 1987)Over-shadowed in its day by the mighty Commodore Amiga, the Atari ST computer had few of its own original titles to shout about. One of them, however, was this inertia-based shooter, which borrowed elements from sub-genre heavyweights Gravitar and Choplifter as well as Defender to tense and exciting effect. The aim is to navigate a series of minimalist caverns in your dart-like craft, taking out enemies and rescuing robotic hostages – the eponymous Oids. A key appeal of the game is its taut fuel system: you need the stuff both to fly and to recharge your shields, so there's a constant balance going on as it slowly runs down. FTL, of course, would later become much better known for its hugely innovative and influential first-person RPG, Dungeon Master.
The technology industry is a place where an idea scrawled on the back of an envelope in a college dorm room can become a multimillion-dollar company overnight. Maturity, social skills and being a team player are meaningless, as long as you&apos;re a whiz coder or can invent that app people didn&apos;t know they needed.Last week, Yahoo&apos;s chief executive, Marissa Mayer, fired the company&apos;s chief operating officer Henrique de Castro just 15 months after she persuaded him to follow her to the struggling internet company from Google.Rumoursof a personality clash were already circulating a couple of months into de Castro&apos;s time there, and this week we learned that when he joined Yahoo in 2012 he waspaid more than his boss, Mayer.Tensions could have stemmed from this fact, with Mayer earning $36.6m annually, compared with de Castro&apos;s $39.2m. For the 15 months he&apos;s worked at Yahoo, he&apos;ll have received – including severance – a figure somwhere between $88 to $109m.And it&apos;s not the first time huge stakes have failed to stop conflict tearing though a successful tech business.1) SnapchatAs with most classic tech bust-ups, this one involves American Ivy League students and a fraternity – in this case, Stanford’s Kappa Sigma. Snapchat co-founders Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy were taken to court by fellow Stanford student Reggie Brown, who claims he came up with the idea of disappearing photos, designed the logo and thought of the company&apos;s original name, Picaboo. Each day on Snapchat, 400m photos are now shared and current CEO Spiegel has reportedly turned down buyoutoffers from Google and Facebookfor as much as $4bn.Brown claims disagreements led his co-founders to secretly create a new company that cut him out. Spiegel and Murphy called the lawsuit &quot;frivolous&quot;. The lawsuit is ongoing.Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel Photograph: Jae C. Hong/AP2) TwitterThe idea for Twitter is said to have come out of a conversation between two college dropouts in a car one rainy day on San Fransisco&apos;s Mission Street. Seven years later and Jack Dorsey, one of those college dropouts, pocketed $1.5bn in the company&apos;s initial public offering. Noah Glass, the other, received, erm, about as much as Dorsey&apos;s secretary. Twitter&apos;s market capitalisation is nearly $40bn.According to Glass, he was pushed out by Dorsey in his bid for more power over the company. In a notoriousBussiness Insider interview, Noah Glass opens up about the conflict: &quot;I didn’t create Twitter on my own. It came out of conversations. I do know that without me, Twitter wouldn’t exist.&quot; Noah Glass&apos;s Twitter bio still reads: &quot;I started this&quot;.Dorseydenieshe was responsible for Glass being fired, saying he &quot;didn&apos;t have that leverage&quot; in the company.A promotional video for Twitter, posted to YouTube by Noah Glass in 2006, featuring another Twitter co-founder Biz Stone.3) MicrosoftPaul Allen met Bill Gates, almost three years his junior, at Lakeside high school in Seattle. The two bonded over their shared love for computers and, in 1975, when Allen was 22 and Gates was 19, the pair founded Microsoft.In abook released in 2011, Paul Allen claimed Gates tried to cheat him out of his fair share of the company – to make matters worse, Allen was suffering from cancer at the time. He describes overhearing Gates discussing ways to dilute his stake in the firm and says he burst into the room, shouting, &quot;This is unbelievable! It shows your true character, once and for all.&quot;&quot;While my recollection of many of these events may differ from Paul&apos;s, I value his friendship and the important contributions he made to the world of technology and at Microsoft,&quot; Gates wrote in a statement to theWall Street Journal.The relationship never recovered and Allen refused to sell his stake in the firm, which was a wise move. After Microsoft went public in 1986, he became one of the richest men in the world. He has fallen slightly in the rankings since then, but he is still worth an estimated $15bn.Microsoft company portrait fro 1978. Paul Allen bottom right, Bill Gates, bottom left. Photograph: AP4) Apple and GoogleThe rift that emerged between Apple&apos;s Steve Jobs and Google&apos;s Eric Schmidt has developed into thebiggest brand warin the technology industry. Schmidt was forced to abandon his role on Apple&apos;s board in 2009 after he entered Google into the mobile phone market with its competing Android products.Schmidt still maintains that Google&apos;s Android project began before Apple started developing the iPhone. Before his death in 2011, Jobs was adamant that Google&apos;s Android ripped off the iPhone. A biography of the Apple CEOquotes him as saying, &quot;I will spend my last dying breath if I need to, and I will spend every penny of Apple&apos;s $40bn in the bank, to right this wrong... I&apos;m going to destroy Android, because it&apos;s a stolen product. I&apos;m willing to go thermonuclear war on this.&quot;The Google Nexus One smartphone and the Apple iPhone. Photograph: PAUL J. RICHARDS/AFP/Getty Images5) FacebookFacebook&apos;s Mark Zuckerberg has been surrounded by feuds since the social networking site&apos;s inception in 2004. First there was Eduardo Saverin, the company&apos;s chief financial officer and business manager. Brazilian-born Saverin met Zuckerberg at Harvard and invested around $15,000 of personal wealth in the project. He claims Zuckerberg later tried to secretly dilute his share in the company (see the clip below). Saverin filed a law suit against Facebook, which was settled out of court and a non-disclosure contract signed.And, of course, there were the Winklevoss twins who founded the Harvard social networking site ConnectU while they were students with Zuckerberg. They claim he stole the idea for Facebook from them and, in 2004, the brothers also filed a law suit against Facebook, winning an estimated $65m.The various spats in Facebook&apos;s comparatively short history are portrayed in the film The Social Network, which Zuckerberg apparently still refuses to watch.Scene from the film The Social Network, in which Eduardo Saverin (Andrew Garfield) confronts Zuckerberg (Jesse Eisenberg).
If you thought the internet fridge was a bad idea, here&apos;s confirmation: a security company says an internet-connected fridge helped send more than 750,000 spam and phishing emails over the Christmas break.Proofpoint describes the discovery as an &quot;internet of things cyberattack&quot; and says that more than 100,000 &quot;everyday consumer gadgets&quot; including multimedia centres, smart TVs and &quot;at least one&quot; refrigerator that had been hacked were used to launch the attack.Commonly it is home and business PCs which are subverted to create &quot;botnets&quot; which can number millions of machines that are used to generate spam and phishing emails, and to launch &quot;denial of service&quot; attacks on websites.But the addition of internet connectivity to objects such as fridges, washing machines, and media players has created a new raft of devices that hackers can attack and exploit.The emails were sent out between 23 December 2013 and 6 January 2014, the company said.Open devices&quot;The majority of gadgets do not appear to have been &apos;infected&apos; by remote-control software - a Trojan Horse - in the traditional way personal computers are infected,&quot; said a spokesperson for Proofpoint. &quot;Most seem to have simply been left open, so existing software running on them can be used by attackers. A basic port-scanning atttack would enable attackers to discover essentially open devices.&quot;Specifically, a vast number of the devices are running embedded Linux servers (usually busybox); some use mini-httpd, some Apache. Some are ARM devices, some are MIPS (or something very similar) others are based on an embedded Realtek chipset (eg media players). We believe some are game consoles. Some are NAS [network attached storage] devices. We&apos;ve also seen set-top boxes exploited. But the commonality is that in such embedded situations, many have open telnet, open SSH and an SMTP (aka &apos;email&apos;) server, so there&apos;s less &apos;infection&apos; or &apos;exploit&apos; involved by the attacker than simple &apos;open or default user/pass login and configuration&apos;, login, and set up the existing emailer to send or relay malicious email.&quot;The devices would continue to send spam until taken off the network, the company said. It said that it couldn&apos;t name the model of fridge - though it wouldn&apos;t elaborate on whether that was because it couldn&apos;t be identified or that it belonged to a client.There are more than a million &quot;smart TVs&quot; in the UK, and although internet-enabled fridges have yet to make an impact they were heavily promoted by a number of companies at the recent Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. Both LG and Samsung, which have substantial presences in the home appliance market, showed off &quot;connected home&quot; plans which include adding internet connectivity to washing machines and dryers.But it&apos;s unclear whether such devices have the same security setup as the typical home PC, where anti-malware measures have been strengthened over the past decade after being the target of repeated hacker attacks.Proofpointreportsthat hackers have begun taking over appliances to create &quot;thingbots&quot;.Internet of things security implications&quot;As the number of such connected devices is expected to grow to more than four times the number of connected computers in the next few years, proof of an &apos;internet of things&apos;-based attack has significant security implications for device owners,&quot; David Knight, general manager of ProofPoint&apos;s security division, said.The discovery is the first time that an appliance has been discovered to have been subverted to take part in a spam email campaign, in which millions of emails are sent out advertising pharmaceuticals or to pump stocks.But without serious security measures it could get substantially worse. The research company IDC forecasts that there will be 200bn devices connected to the internet by 2020 - compared with about 1bn PCs, 2bn mobile devices and another 2bn &quot;things&quot; such as temperature monitors, webcams and other passive devices.&quot;The &apos;Internet of Things&apos; holds great promise for enabling control of all of the gadgets that we use on a daily basis. It also holds great promise for cybercriminals who can use our homes&apos; routers, televisions, refrigerators and other Internet-connected devices to launch large and distributed attacks&quot;, said Michael Osterman, principal analyst at Osterman Research.•Internet fridges: the zombie idea that just won&apos;t die
Would you wear a pair of Google glasses while having sex? Would being able to see what your partner is seeing make you more or less likely to?Sex with Glass, a new app in development for Google Glass, hopes the answer is yes.The project started off with the question &quot;how can we make sex more awesome with Google Glass&quot;, says Sherif Maktabi, the founder of the project.The answer to that question is, apparently, shared live streaming, ephemeral video recording and voice controls for your connected home.Sex with Glass Photograph: Sex with GlassMaktabi, a Lebanese product design student at London&apos;s Central Saint Martins art college, had only one day with the smart-glasses at a hackathon held in November 2013, but development has continued in the months since then.The cornerstone of Sex with Glass is the shared live streaming: &quot;See what your partner can see… Just say &apos;OK glass, it’s time&apos; and Glass will stream what you see to each other. And if you feel like stopping everything, just ask: &apos;OK glass, pull out&apos;.&quot;&quot;Some people find what we do repulsive,&quot; Maktabi says. &quot;But a lot of other people – and I am basing this from the emails we are getting online – really desire to try this. People have fantasies, desires and needs. It&apos;s personal.&quot;What they do with that is up to them. Guilt, dogma and shame is something we still widely experience when it comes to sex and how we talk about it.&quot;Sex with Glass. Photograph: Sex with GlassAs well as sharing viewpoints, the app also offers video to users who want to replay the night – although the videos are deleted automatically five hours after they are created.On top of that, if the user&apos;s home is wired up correctly, the app can control other the lights and music, as well as present a virtual Kama Sutra to anyone who needs inspiration.Reaction to the app has been mixed. Maktabi cites responses &quot;that range from &apos;I want to have this now because I want to try it with my boyfriend&apos;&quot;, to &quot;I want to write about the anthropological impact of this app on…&quot;, and adds that his favourites are &quot;those anonymous messages that just say &apos;awesome&apos;&quot;.But others have pointed out that the promotion for the app doesn&apos;t match up with the egalitarian promises: most of the images are sexualised photos of women, the advertising slogans assume heterosexual couples, and some of the statements are just plain odd (&quot;You&apos;ll be able to watch your videos for five hours until they are deleted forever. That&apos;s for all the ladies out there.&quot;)Since the Hackathon, the team has grown to include Sabba Keynejad and Satara Achilles, a pair of graphic designers from Central Saint Martins, and an iPhone app is now in the works, to be launched in early February.Despite Google&apos;s crackdown on other sexy Glass apps, includinga ban on sexually explicit content, Maktabi sounds unconcerned about its response: &quot;People at Google know. And they are happy and had a good laugh. But I don&apos;t know what Google &apos;the thing&apos; thinks of what we are doing.&quot;•Is Google Glass just the latest toy for Silicon Valley boys?
Windows 7 is &quot;back by popular demand&quot;, according to HP, the world&apos;s second-largest maker of PCs, which has begun offering the previous generation of Microsoft&apos;s operating system to US customers via email flyers.Against a backdrop where consumers, who buy about half of all PCs, have been equivocal about Windows 8&apos;s tiled interface since its launch in October 2012, HP has begun trying to boost sales by offering people what they are more familiar with: the desktop interface of Windows 7.In the email flyers, it offers a handful of both desktop and laptop PCs which run the older OS, which was first released in October 2009 and which Microsoft&apos;s claimed was its most successful version of Windows - with only Windows XP, released in autumn 2001, competing with it.Like other PC vendors, HP can offer Windows 7 for new PCs, but would almost certainly have to pay the same licensing price to Microsoft as it does for Windows 8.About half of Windows licences are sold to businesses, which can buy the right to &quot;downgrade&quot; them to an earlier version such as Windows 7. Roughly half of Microsoft&apos;s Windows revenue comes from such sales. It doesn&apos;t break out what proportion of its licences are downgraded in its financial results - where it will report its latest quarterly figures on Thursday.WithPC sales slumping by 10% in 2013, and Intel suggesting in its recent quarterly results that the slowdown could last into the third quarter of 2014, HP is looking to push sales of PCs.IDC said that HP suffered most in the US with the contraction of PC sales: &quot;HP had a difficult quarter, contracting -12.3% year on year as the market slowed following an HP surge in the third quarter,&quot; said Loren Loverde, IDC&apos;s vice-president of Worldwide PC Trackers earlier this month.That seems to have triggered a decision to focus on Windows 7.PC manufacturers have seen theirprofit margins squeezedas sales of PCs have fallen. For HP, which has been pushed out of the top spot in making PCs by Lenovo, boosting sales has become important.Windows 8, and the updated version 8.1, still lag well behind both Windows 7 and Windows XP - with the latter due to reach its official &quot;end of life&quot; in April.According to StatCounter, which measures the operating system used by machines connecting to a wide range of sites worldwide,in DecemberWindows 7 had a 54.8% share of browsing worldwide, while XP had a 19.8% share and Windows 8 had an 8.1% share, only slightly ahead of Apple&apos;s Mac OSX with a 7.8% share. Apple claimed in June 2013 to have 72m users worldwide, which would suggest about 80m Windows 8 systems in use worldwide if the browsing stats are proportional.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamConsumers trusting Google less, warier of Facebook, Twitter &gt;&gt; Advertising AgeAsked which companies are the greatest threat to the future of privacy, 59% of 1,100 respondents cited Facebook and 40% said Twitter, according to a survey conducted by McCann; 32% pointed to Google, almost doubling from the 18% who said as much when McCann conducted the same survey in 2011."It's not necessary that people feel Google or Facebook has done anything bad with data to date. It's what might happen in the future. It's a nebulous fear," said Laura Simpson, global director of McCann Truth Central, during a session on privacy held by Ad Age and IPG at CES in Las Vegas.By comparison, Amazon topped the list of companies consumers trust with their data, with 73% of respondents citing the e-commerce giant. It's worth noting that a majority of respondents also named Google to this category, but that number fell from 63% in 2011 to 53% in 2013.Twitter is seen as a threat to privacy?Beats hooks up with AT&amp;T to help pay for your music &gt;&gt; BusinessweekMusic streaming services in the US have struggled to find a workable business model. Beats is marketing itself as a tastemaker, but its success may ride on a partnership with the squarest of companies: AT&amp;T, the country's second-largest wireless provider. Starting 21 January, Beats customers can pay $10 a month for the service either directly or via their monthly smartphone bill from AT&amp;T.For AT&amp;T customers with a family plan, the carrier will subsidize subscriptions significantly: As many as five customers can access Beats for $15 per month, total, compared with the combined $50 they'd pay individually. AT&amp;T customers will also get free trials of the service for 30 to 90 days, depending on their plans.Clever way to get access to a lot of users. But you can bet AT&amp;T is keeping a lot of that money.Is Yahoo even worth trying to save? &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBrian Hall:Yahoo is the Detroit of web properties. Once big, once thriving, it helped create a future it can never be part of. It's only hope, in my view, is to whither away, quickly, so maybe a few worthy pieces can find life in the wild.While the tech blogosphere was in a tizzy last week, some outraged, most envious over the firing and massive golden parachute that Yahoo's Henrique de Castro received, they missed the larger story: de Castro was not the "dead man walking."  Yahoo is the dead man walking. Gleeful rubbernecking by industry watchers won't change the company's fortunes.Outraged that Yahoo dropped so much on an executive who failed at his job? Surprised that Yahoo paid so much for Tumblr? The desperate always pay too much. de Castro and Tumblr's David Karp are, I suspect, only the first of many scavengers who will feast on Yahoo's bones."Yahoo is the Detroit of web properties." Ouch. But so apt.Typo Keyboard review: mistakes were made &gt;&gt; The VergeDavid Pierce:Getting the Typo set up and connected is impossibly easy. The two halves of the thin, matte black plastic case slide easily onto your iPhone 5 or 5S and connect firmly and simply in the middle. Press and hold the Bluetooth button until a blinking blue light appears, then open Bluetooth settings on your phone and select Typo Keyboard. It pairs almost instantly — I was ready to go in six seconds.That's where the list of good things about the Typo ends. The rest of my experience has been a poisonous mix of mistakes and missed opportunities, leaving me waiting with bated breath for the moment I could tear the case off my iPhone and go back to the way things should be.If only the iPhone had voice dictation. Oh, hang on.BBM Windows Phone app still not in the works says BlackBerry &gt;&gt; Trusted ReviewsBlackBerry has suggested that there are still no plans to launch a BBM Windows Phone app despite having brought the messaging service to iOS and Android.Despite the iOS and Android iterations of the free-to-use BBM messaging app secure a staggering 10 million Day One downloads late last year, the Canadian manufacturer as claimed that there is still not enough consumer demand to warrant a BBM Windows Phone app."It [the continuing lack of a BBM Windows Phone app] is entirely market driven," David Proulx, BlackBerry's Senior Director of BBM Business Development said while speaking with TrustedReviews. "Our initial launch on iOS and Android was a function of the prevalence of those platforms."BBM remains a zero-million-dollar business for BlackBerry. Downloads aren't use - and use isn't high, according to all the independently gathered data.Meizu Russia confirms Ubuntu is officially in the works! &gt;&gt; Gizchina.comMeizu Russia have posted details that Meizu engineers are in fact working on an Ubuntu version of the Meizu MX3 and that work is still currently underway to make things stable. They also go on to say that currently the Meizu team are mainly focussing on working on a new version of Flyme ROM (based on Android) for both the Meizu MX2 and MX3 and Ubuntu won't be released until the Flyme ROM is launched.It is believed that Meizu will first offer the Ubuntu phone in the US later this year along with a 4G LTE version of the MX3.Are they offering Ubuntu in the US because they think it's the best possible for the market segment they're aiming at, or to avoid patent suits over Android from Microsoft? (Meizu is a Chinese handset maker.)Ex-Googler Tom Moss gets $18m from Accel, Google Ventures to build a mobile something &gt;&gt; Re/code"We are in the Apple IIe days of mobile," Moss told Re/code. "It's just starting."The 14-person San Francisco-based company has been working at whatever it is doing for about a year now.There are some hints in Moss' background and in the other people that are part of the team–a group that includes workers with experience in iOS and Android as well as recruits from Amazon and Dropbox."We love to solve crazy complex problems by architecting elegant solutions," Nextbit says on its barebones Web site.Joining Nextbit's board is Google Ventures partner Rich Miner, who is also a co-founder of Android and worked with Moss on Google's mobile operating system."Tom had an uncanny ability to address and understand their pain points," Miner said in an e-mail. "He's always one step ahead, and is better equipped than anyone I know to build a platform and products that address this space and bring a next-generation vision to market."Certainly up to speed on the buzzword bingo.One diabetic's take on Google's Smart Contact Lenses &gt;&gt; GigaOmOm Malik has diabetes, and points out that contact lenses are discouraged if you suffer from it. So why do this?I emailed Google's press relations department — about 12 hours ago — asking them to elaborate on why the researchers took this specific approach. Yes, as a diabetic, I appreciate the efforts of Google in general and specifically Brian Otis and Babak Parviz, the project smart contact lens co-founders, just as I appreciate every effort made by every scientist and doctor around the world trying to tackle one of the worst diseases to afflict the post-industrial society.And yet, I cannot get over what seems to me a tone-deaf approach by Google's scientists. It also highlights Google's fundamental challenge: it fails to think about people as people, instead it treats them as an academic or an engineering problem. Instead of trying to understand the needs of actual people, they emerge with an elegant technological solution.Which gazillionaire has had the biggest effect on human health? Bill Gates. How? Buying $10bn of vaccines and getting them administered. Sometimes simple solutions work best.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia, has joined The People’s Operator phone network which gives 10% of customers’ bills to charity.Wales will co-chair the for-profit business as well as taking a stake in the business. His primary focus with the People’s Operator (TPO) will be to expand the phone network’s customer base outside of the UK to Europe and the US.“With over 4 billion mobile phone subscribers forecast for 2016 worldwide, TPO has huge potential for viral growth and the more it grows, the more money will pass to the people and communities that need it,”said Wales.Tech City basedBased in Tech City in East London, TPO launched in November 2012 in the UK using EE’s 3G network to provide service to customers.TPO’s standout feature is that it donates 10% of each customer’s bill to their choice of cause. In addition, 25% of the phone operator’s profits will be put into the TPO Foundation, which will distribute money to good causes.Offering both pre-paid plans and monthly mobile phone contracts TPO aims to maximise profits while offering competitive prices, much like O2’s GiffGaff subsidiary, by minimising the costs of running the business and saving on marketing relying on word of mouth.“Only a small percentage in global take up will make a massive difference to people’s lives. Just as Wikipedia grew virally as communities wanted to work together to liberate knowledge, so I believe TPO will grow in a similar way as communities work together to support good causes across the globe.”TPO’s charity partners include ChildLine, Emerge, Trinity Hospice, the NSPCC and the Big Issue Foundation, although ties with the Labour Party and the Unite industrial union have drawn negative press.• In August, Jimmy Wales described David Cameron&apos;s plans to filter pornographic material as &quot;an absolutely ridiculous idea that won&apos;t work&quot;
Age:Founded in 1889. Moved into video games in 1977.Appearance:A short fat Italian plumber who refuses to retire.Is that a reference to Mario?Obviously. It would be a weirdly specific metaphor if it wasn't.True. So why Mario?Because you can't think of Nintendo without thinking about the little moustache-wearer the company invented back in 1982.Why not?Mostly because it brings out roughly six new games about him and his brother every year.Really?Really. The pair starred in four games for the Wii U console and three for the handheld Nintendo 3DS in 2013 alone.Such as?Such as puzzler Dr Luigi, role-playing game Mario &amp; Luigi: Dream Team and gay-rights protest simulatorMario &amp; Sonic at the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games.Is that why we're talking about Nintendo?No, that's actually just a sports game. We're talking about it becauseit has just announced a loss of £146m– and its share price has tumbled.Which is bad?Which is terrible, considering at the start of the financial year the company predicted it would make a profit of £322m.What happened?People didn't want their consoles. The sales forecasts for the Wii U and 3DS have been drastically scaled back after the Wii U sold less than a third of its 9m units target.So people are finally bored of Mario?You'd think. But apparently people have just had enough of playing Mario games on consoles.It's not the end of Nintendo then?More like the beginning of a new era. Analysts reckon the disastrous results will finally convince the company to shift its focus.From what to what?From making games for its own purpose-built consoles to the lucrative world of smartphone gaming, where, in theory, a whole new breed of gamer could learn to love six different Mario games a year.Do say:"Now that I can play these games on my phone, this 30-year-old Italian stereotype is somehow totally cool again!"Don't say:"I wish they really were making a gay-rights protest game."
The Xbox Kinect is to blame for the delay in the release of BBC iPlayer on the Xbox One, claims an unnamed BBC programmer.The claim,reportedby gaming site Ultimate Gaming Paradise, describes the integration of Microsoft’s enhanced Kinect motion sensor as the major issue holding back the release of the iPlayer app on Microsoft’s new console.“We can’t seem to get it working; it [the Kinect sensor] is causing a major development headache for the team,” said the unnamed member of the BBC’s iPlayer development team who did not divulge the exact cause of the issue.The BBC iPlayer was initially expected to be available on the launch of the Xbox One on 22 November in the UK, but was delayed by the BBC without giving a specific reason for the set back.“BBC iPlayer is already available to audiences on over 1000 devices and platforms in the UK. Whilst we are working to bring BBC iPlayer to Xbox One in the future, we have no further details to share at this time,” said a BBC spokesman when contacted by the Guardian to clarify the issue.The unnamed developer claimed that the BBC iPlayer app would not be available on Xbox One until April at the earliest. The BBC could not give an exact date for the release of the app.• Over Christmas, the BBC iPlayersaw a record number of 2.2m tablet viewson Boxing Day alone as viewers switch from computers to tablets and smartphones
