It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Angry Birds Star Wars (£0.79)Rovio's latest Angry Birds game is its second to be set in the Star Wars universe, with characters turned into birds and pigs, and 120 levels to fling them through. This time round, you can play as both sides, and there's a range of Telepods toys that interact with the game.Read our reviewfor the full lowdown on the game.Moves (Free)Activity-tracking app Moves has one crucial difference to the likes of Fitbit and Jawbone UP: it doesn't require an extra gadget. Instead, it uses your smartphone's sensors to measure your daily steps, recording your location as it goes for a mini life-diary.Read our interviewfor more details on the app.Dumb Ways to Die (Free)The Dumb Ways to Die video has been a big hit on the web this year: a public safety campaign by Australian transport provider Metro Trains that went viral. This is a collection of 15 mini-games based on the original, as you try to collect the various characters without letting them, yes, die.Chirp (Free)Chirp may be a novelty, but it's a clever one. It's a technology that shares photos, links, notes and other content by sound, "singing" them from one phone to another. There are less flashy and easier ways to do this kind of thing, but smartphone show-offs will love it.Smartsheet: Project Management (Free)This app goes with website Smartsheet, a project and task management service for workplaces that's attracted more than 2m users. The app is free if you're an existing account holder, and helps you view, update and share your project data, as well as adding new documents via the camera.Final Fantasy All The Bravest (Free)A new Final Fantasy game for Android? Happy times! Well, maybe. The iOS version came in for a lot of criticism from fans due to its use of in-app purchases, where you can buy 35 characters from Square Enix's famous franchise, but can't choose which – it's random each time. The game itself is combat-focused, as you drag and tap to kill enemies.Learnist (Free)Learnist is one of the startups trying to help people learn online, or as it describes itself: "like a collaborative, multimedia and interactive ebook from the future". It pulls in content from around the web including YouTube, Wikipedia and SoundCloud, and sorts it into topics in a range of categories.Wickr Self-Destruct Messaging (Free)Self-destructing messages haven't been this cool since the heyday of Mission Impossible, thanks to the rapid growth of Snapchat. Wickr is something different though: a messaging app claiming "military-grade encryption", and promising to store no personal data on its developer's servers.Photo Mix + (Free)Is there still room for innovation around photo-sharing apps? In a word, yes. Photo Mix + has a good idea, for example: a quick and easy way to create photo collages on an Android device, then share them on Facebook. It's simply a case of placing your shots into the templates.Blue Bernard (£1.99)Square Igloo is one of a growing number of developers making engaging storybook-apps for children on Android. This one's about Bernard, a blue boy who "feels very lonely on the pink planet, where absolutely everything is pink". But after meeting green girl Zoe – heroine of the developer's previous app – he cheers up. A charming spin on "themes of diversity and relationships".NFL Runner: Football Dash (Free)An endless runner with shoulder pads, is the best way to describe the new game from Pocket Gems. It's a casual American football game that sees you sprinting for the endzone (well, endlesszone perhaps) while dodging opposing players and collecting stars and power-ups to beef up your player. Like Temple Run meets Backbreaker Football, and fun with it.Foap (Free)More social photography, and another attempt to put a spin on the category. In Foap's case, it's the ability to make money from your photos – either by responding to "missions" set by brands like Puma and Sony, or by actually selling your snaps to photography buyers.Sonic &amp; Sega All-Stars Racing (£1.60)Sega's party-racing Sonic game speeds onto Android with 16 courses and 13 of the publisher's characters in tow, from previous Sonic games and other titles. The racing involves cars, bikes, planes and trucks, with 25 missions and online multiplayer battles to boot.Anchor by Tomfoolery (Free)Another collaboration app for work rather than play, although in this case it has more of a social skew: less sharing documents, and more sharing quick thoughts with colleagues and teams. The app includes one-to-one messaging as well as a more traditional social-feed structure.Incredipede (£2.49)Puzzle game Incredipede is one of the best-crafted games to appear on the Google Play store this week: a physics-puzzler whose central character – Quozzle – can sprout arms and legs to turn into a variety of creatures to get through the 120 levels. A creative delight.Madden NFL 25 (Free)EA's latest Madden game has also come in for a bit of criticism online for its freemium structure, as you collect a team from digital "packs" of player cards as well as playing them on the field. As ever, fully licensed teams and players feature, with a mixture of modes to test your skills.Pocket Nanny GPS Tracker (£1.71)"Almost like a real nanny who takes care of your child," claims the Google Play listing for this new location-based app, which is designed to be installed on a child's Android smartphone to track them – including defining specific areas with geofencing to get an alarm if the child leaves it.Frank &amp; Oak (Free)Only available in the US, this app is for the online men's clobber store Frank &amp; Oak, with shopping features, the ability to view order history and create an account from the device, as well as get push notifications when new products and sales go live.Cloudy with Meatballs 2 (Free)Strange title? It's the official game of the film Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs 2: a colourful match-three puzzler with more than 60 levels to string foodimal characters together. It's a freemium game with buyable boosts, following the pattern laid down by Candy Crush Saga and others.Dynamic Keyboard - Pro (£0.50)Finally this week, "a keyboard that changes as you type", modifying the keys visibility and size depending on whether it thinks you'll need to use them. "If you press the 'h' key, the e,o,u,i and y keys expand as commonly the h key would be followed by these letters," explains its developer as an example.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Computer games such asGrand Theft Autocan have a “corrosive effect” on the behaviour of players, Nick Clegg told listeners of his LBC Radio phone-in show.Clegg’s comments came in the wake ofa shooting in Washington DCin which 13 people died. Some reports have questioned the role of thekiller&apos;s computer game habit.“These games can have an incredibly powerful effect, and I expect in some cases a corrosive effect, on someone&apos;s behaviour,&quot; said Clegg. “They occupy a hermetically sealed world of their own and that can have a very detrimental effect.”The deputy prime minister did not say on which research he based his assertion, but the effects of gaming on behaviour remaincontentious.Some critics, includingteachers’ union head Alison Sherratt, warn about the effect lifelike computer games can have on young children who see older relatives playing the game, though the GTA series has always been rated 18.One2009 meta-analysis thatexamined previous studies on the link between violent media and violent behaviour concluded that “methodological problems such as the use of poor aggression measures inﬂated effect size. Once corrected for publication bias, studies of media violence effects provided little support for the hypothesis that media violence is associated with higher aggression.&quot;In 2010,a second meta-analysisconcluded that “debates can and should finally move beyond the simple question of whether violent video game play is a causal risk factor for aggressive behavior; the scientific literature has effectively and clearly shown the answer to be &apos;yes&apos;.&quot;Thefirst paper’s authors hit back, arguing that the second contained “a number of methodological flaws that all appear likely to inflate effect size estimates”.Grand Theft Auto 5, the latest in the long-running game series,made sales worth £498m ($800m) in its first 24 hours, making it the fastest-selling game ever.
Apple says it will fix an embarrassing security flaw on its new iOS 7 software which hackers showed can bypass the lockscreen and access personal data.The flaw, discovered within hours of iOS 7 becoming publicly available, can be exploited on the iPhone 4S and 5 and gives access to personal data including email, photos, Twitter, Facebook and Flickr. It is exploited via the Control Center function, which is found by swiping up from the bottom of the screen. That offers access to the phone user's alarms, a calculator, and the camera, as well as frequently-used settings such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and Airplane mode.It appears not to work on the iPhone 5S and 5C.From the alarms screen, a hacker can use a combination of button presses to access the multitasking manager, bypassing the lockscreen. That offers access to some user data including photos, email, Twitter, Facebook and Flickr accounts: an intruder can email or delete photos, send tweets, read and make Facebook posts and messages, and send text messages, though not read email."Apple takes user security very seriously," an Apple spokesman told the Guardian. "We are aware of this issue, and will deliver a fix in a future software update."Typically, Apple has taken at least two weeks to fix such flaws when they have been found."This is yet another embarrassing example of Apple's lax approach to iOS security," says Graham Cluley, an independent security expert. "I can remember at least two or three other recent occasions where Apple has been shown to be sloppy when it comes to security in past revisions of its mobile operating system."Security flaws have been found previously in Apple's iOS mobile operating system on both theiPhone 4 in 2010and theiPad in 2011that had to be fixed by a security update.The vulnerability relies on the hacker having physical access to the phone and cannot be executed remotely."It's only a potential problem if your phone gets stolen," said Cluley. "It's a bit of palaver to execute, and if a hacker has access to your phone not even a secure four-digit PIN lock will prevent them getting into the phone by hooking it up to a computer, as it only takes 10,000 combinations before they can access the phone."He added: "I don't think it's disastrous, but it's certainly embarrassing yet again."Until Apple releases a fix for the security issue, iPhone owners can protect themselves by disabling access to 'Control Center' via the lockscreen in the Settings app.• Apple released iOS 7 as a free update for existing iPhone owners on 18 September,causing a surge in UK and German internet traffic.• The Guardianreviewed iOS 7on 19 September.
Modern football, that overblown and ongoing soap opera, is built on a mix of loyalty and nostalgia. That team, that goal, that year – the fan sticks with the badge through countless squads. This even seems to apply to football videogames; I wanted to play PES 2014 because the memories of its predecessors, like ISS Deluxe and Pro Evolution Soccer 2, play through my mind like a Cruyff highlights reel. This is why it's important that, as the title screen appears for the first time, Nessun Dorma starts to play. This is Proust's madeleine cake for the pie-chomping masses, the evocation of a particular era and all it means, a callback to Italia 90. It is a promise; here is not just football, but romance.The ongoing alphabet war in football games is PES versus Fifa, the Old Firm of the digital age with its legions of fans queuing up to buy one and decry the other. EA's flagship title has recently ruled the roost and, with Fifa 14 seemingly offering more of the same but better, the onus is on Konami to up its game. PES 2014 does that and then some. This is a new beginning for a series that was looking timeworn, and one where the first principles are absolutely bang on.For the first time I can remember, PES 2014 looks better than Fifa 2014. It's not a simple matter of comparing screenshots or the various player likenesses, but how everything moves. Players constantly track the ball, and their every twitch reflects the situation – crowded, open, one on one, holding off a defender – the range of animations and the sheer liveliness of the spectacle is astonishing. The crowds and stadiums are a gigantic improvement over recent PES titles, and the match introductions for competitions like the Champions League recreate the television presentation perfectly.The visual upgrade aside, the far more important change is in how this feels. Suffocated beneath PES 2014's marketing ballocks about a Motion Animation Stability System (geddit?) and Trueball tech is the colossal achievement of approximating player momentum and movement – the 22 men on the pitch feel like 22 individuals.PES 2014 doesn't have the license for certain clubs or players, but a handy feature means you'll be able to download fan-made 'corrections' easily enough. Photograph: KonamiIn slow motion you can see the extraordinary precision of this system, and how every limb's animation flows fluidly out of another, every kick working and looking like football. First-time shots are caught sweetly on top of the toe, boots wrap right round the ball for swerving crosses, and the bad tackles make you wince in sympathy. The feeling of control this creates is remarkable: things like knowing when you have time or don't feed into simple actions such as cushioning the ball. Being man-marked is suddenly a massive deal. And thinking about what you're going to do next is as important as knowing what you're going to do now.This creates a slower pace than the style of Fifa and recent PES, where with simple inputs players can ping the ball around with first-time passes. The way PES 2014's players move and act is from another world. Receiving the ball in midfield, for example, your first consideration is collecting the pass cleanly, then shielding the ball or turning, then picking the pass and only then pressing the button and getting the weight right. Players cannot swivel on a sixpence and slot a through-ball when they're running away from goal, nor can they effortlessly gather an over-hit pass or suddenly switch direction for an under-hit one. These might be the first videogame footballers I've ever controlled that vaguely resemble humans in motion, rather than just running through human animation cycles.This has an acclimatisation period. The manually aimed through-ball system initially seems like a mess of waving cursors and lost possession, then after some practice a calmer head starts to prevail. This is also a supreme example of why PES's idiosyncrasies are so well thought out; the execution of a through-ball in this needs the same combination of split-second execution and cool planning as doing the real thing in a game. These little illusions or overlaps, call them what you will, permeate the advanced controls of PES 2014 and create an increasingly firm connection between you and the players.Still, it's not all glory. The AI in PES 2014 is generally very good, especially on higher settings, but it has blind spots where defenders turn into Titus Bramble, gormless ball-watcher extraordinaire; specifically, a simple chip through on goal often leaves the AI flailing. More worryingly, it seems the developers have 'solved' this issue by giving defenders the odd speed boost in such situation. The goalkeepers also retain a tendency to drop the odd clanger, often from deeply unpromising situations like a lofted pass forwards, and online especially it's rather an embarrassment to score goals like this.There are other aspects of PES that make Fifa look good; it could use an overhaul of the menus throughout, especially for mid-game changes, and faster transitions when the ball goes out of play. There are also some frame rate drops at the beginning of matches and after close shots, which are rather annoying but not detrimental to the football.These flaws should not be ignored, but nor can they detract from what a monumental game PES 2014 is. Calling it a simulation doesn't quite feel right, but this captures the look and action of a football match better than anything else I've played. It even has an air of mystery in the form of its 'heart' system, which is supposed to mimic players' reflections of the way a match is going. This didn't have any impact that I could see until, in a Champions League semifinal, Celtic were at home to Barcelona and trailing by two goals. In the second half, an early goal for Celtic took the roof off – and for the next ten or fifteen minutes every player seemed a little more pumped-up, and first to the ball. The mighty hoops soon equalised, and went on to win 3-2. Was that the 'heart' system? I have no idea but, you've got to say Clive, what an atmosphere that was.So what are the new battle lines between Fifa and PES? Where the first is brash, slick, easy to pick up and filled with pop songs, PES 2014 is slower and more solid, with all the focus on the pitch and what happens there. One of Fifa 2014's cover stars is the direct and thrilling Gareth Bale. That works. But if PES 2014 had a cover star it would be more like Andrea Pirlo as described by Barney Ronay; the space-conducter, the maestro, the artist capable of "filleting out the spaces between the people".PES 2014, for all of its flaws, takes a different direction to Fifa. More than anything, its sensitivity in how it interweaves deep mechanics with the feel of its controls leads to a much more satisfying experience, and in its way delivers on that promise of romance. Technology in the service of atmosphere and animation. A feeling PES 2014 rewards the head as much as the hands. In these matches you have some unquenchable conviction that – whether you win or lose – there is a right way to play, and it is PES 2014. This is a beautiful game. This is Total Football.• The game was reviewed on a PS3
Shoppers are queueing overnight in London's most popular shopping districts – in the rain, in sleeping bags and on folding chairs – not for the opening of the Harrods sale or a new Primark branch, but to become the first owners of Apple's latest iPhone.On Friday  morning, the makeshift camps will be packed away as Apple opens the doors of its Regent Street and Covent Garden stores for the arrival of not one, but two new handsets.As the gadgets go on sale in nine countries, Apple is venturing into new territory by offering its followers a choice: the slightly lower-priced 5C, in its colourful plastic casing, or the top-of-the-range 5S, with a fingerprint scanner and a souped-up camera.But for most of those who spent a night shivering on the pavements of central London, there is only one phone that matters – the 5S."I prefer to buy the better one, not because it is more expensive, but because of the speed, the display, the finger scanner," said Noah Green, a 17-year-old London student waiting outside Apple's flagship Regent Street store.Under the porticos of Covent Garden, where the shelter helped draw a larger and less damp crowd, a group of Norwegians sat huddled around their phones and tablets. "It doesn't come out in Norway until December," explained 33-year-old Stig Martin Fiska.His group of friends and colleagues flew to London on Thursday, and will head back straight after making their purchases. They admitted that Apple had lost some of its lustre. "It's lacking a bit of magic now," said Fiska. "But they are still the best."With the arrival of the iPhone outshining the Harrods Boxing Day extravaganza as one of the most reported events of the retail calendar, the annual queue is also an opportunity for marketing and money-making.Max fisher, a 17-year-old student from Hendon, was being paid £100 by a developer to wear a T-shirt advertising their smartphone app – and was enjoying the camaraderie. "It's a great experience in itself," he said.For Michael Roberts, an estate agent from Surrey and number three in line at Regent Street, the plan was to sell his place in the queue. "I've already had an offer – £7,000," he told technology websitePocket-lint. "He's some rich guy from Dubai. We exchanged numbers and he said he'll be back tomorrow morning."For Apple, the new devices will help Silicon Valley's richest company reach $90bn (£56bn) in revenues from smartphone sales this year, pushing its overall takings to $170bn, according to Bernstein Research.Apple's products remain desirable, and it boasts nearly 50% market share of all the phones sold for more than $300, but the company's insistence on high prices is limiting its ability to reach new customers. Investors now wonder whether Apple will eventually become a niche player in the market it invented in 2007, as it loses share to Samsung and other manufacturers using Android software.Shareholders and shoppers had hoped that the iPhone 5C would be cheap enough to become Apple's first mass-market handset. But it costs almost as much as its top-of-the-range sister model. In the UK, prices start at £469 without a contract, just £80 less than the 5S.Mobile network owners, who sell more phones than Apple's stores thanks to the subsidies they offer in exchange for two-year service contracts, said this week that pre-orders were significantly down on previous years.Only one model, the cheaper 5C, has been available to buy in advance. One network said pre-orders had been just 10% of those achieved by last year's iPhone 5. Networks said there was high demand for the 5S, which could sell out due to initial supplies being constrained.Ronan Dunne, chief executive of O2 in the UK, added his voice to the debate on whether or not Apple has produced yet more bestsellers on Thursday with a tweet saying: "5C only part of equation – 5S key". He suggested the flagship model could sell out, saying O2 had the "same supply as everyone else, but will it be enough is the key question".Sales of the iPhone 5 surpassed 5m in their first week, Apple revealed last year, and with its successor models available in more markets including China from day one, demand will be higher than ever."We will get the same level of excitement and buzz that we have with the normal launch of an Apple phone and they will sell out quickly," predicted Gartner analyst Van Baker. He added that the fingerprint scanner might be to blame for supply constraints. "We are hearing they are having a hard time getting the fingerprint sensors produced. The carriers in the US say their allocation on the 5S is very small."Apple did not respond to a request for comment.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCyanogen Mod closes $7m funding round &gt;&gt; Mitch LaskyLasky's venture capital firm funded them:Cyanogen, Inc. has announced its $7m Series A financing, led by Benchmark. Actually, we closed the round several months ago, and have been hard at work with the company since then, and so we are very excited to confirm our participation today.The Cyanogen Mod, or "CM", is the most comprehensive and successful Android firmware distribution in the world. It is based upon Google's Android Open Source Project, and designed to vastly improve the speed, security, and overall user experience of Android on mobile phones and tablets. CM is already in use on millions of handsets, and with the simplified installer that the company is announcing simultaneously with this financing, that number is sure to grow quickly. We believe that CM is poised to become one of the largest mobile operating systems in the world.With literally billions of Android devices in users' hands, the opportunity is enormous for an Android-based OS like CM that leverages the Android app development community. According to reports, more than half of existing Android devices run an out-of-date version of the OS. Installing CM improves performance, increases data security, and insures compatibility with the tens of thousands of available Android apps.As long as they're running Google services, Google will be delighted. Wonder if Microsoft and Nokia might see an opportunity to offer their products as the defaults - Here maps, Outlook email.Economic collapse seen through aerial photos of abandoned mansions &gt;&gt; Wired.comSimply a lovely aerial gallery of locations in Nevada and Arizona.BlackBerry's August quarter will reveal whether the company has to be chopped up &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:The context here is that Q10, Z10 and Z5 were aimed at what was a 70m strong BlackBerry user base just a few short months ago. The inability of that existing pool of users to absorb more units is the real horror here. It implies sky high defection rates to competing OS camps. Yet BlackBerry has been able to pull rabbits from the hat in some tough periods in the past; opaque emerging market carrier orders sometimes come in stronger than what US analysts project.If the BB10 units grew from 2.8m in the May quarter to 3.3m or higher in the August quarter, there is a chance that BlackBerry might find a willing buyer. 15% or higher QoQ momentum offers a glimmer of hope, even with the big spring volume disappointment...BlackBerry could be worth a substantial amount even if it is dismantled and sold piecemeal. But the investor mood about patent portfolios has darkened a fair bit since Google bought Motorola.BlackBerry Messenger &gt;&gt; Android Apps on Google PlayThis isn't BlackBerry Messenger (and read the text for the app to see how shameless an attempt to game search it is). Yet it's got 197 five-star reviews. How? Perhaps the clue is with this review: "Forces you to vote 5 stars before you can use it... Bad app.. Not worth the download." We emailed the developer, who said: "Our purpose isn't bad, we are tying to make some money. Yes, this is illegal, so Google will delete this app 4-6 hours later." (That was 11pm BST on 19 September.)Security researchers claim Apple technically capable of intercepting iMessages &gt;&gt; TechCrunchTechcrunch: Is this attack something you feel can be widely distributed or leveraged, or is it so difficult that this is not likely?Cyril Cattiaux: The iMessage protocol is strong. Only Apple or a powerful institution (NSA is randomly chosen as an example) could tamper with it.TC: Does it require physical access to a user's device? If not, then can you give some details on what info you need to make it happen?CC: Basically, if you are Apple or the NSA, it doesn't require any prerequisites.Await the demonstration: next October 17-18 at the HITB Security Conference in Asia.Top fashion legal topics - #1 wearable technologies and privacy &gt;&gt; GamingTechLAWEspecially in the case of usage of health and fitness Apps, a number of health-related sensitive data concerning their users will be collected and this will require to comply with stringent privacy obligations. Indeed,as already prescribed with reference to smartphone apps, the company managing the app used through the wearable technology will be subject to the privacy law of the country where the device/user is located even in the case of non-European entities and it will not be sufficient to merely ask for a privacy consent, but it will be necessary to provide a data protection notice listing all the information requested by the relevant privacy law. Therefore the pop-up message that is displayed following the download of most apps would not be sufficient.In other words: US-based apps won't be able to assume their privacy warnings are sufficient in countries such as Germany.12 new and hidden settings in iOS 7 &gt;&gt; The Mac ObserverThe Do Not Disturb ones are clever. A comment at the end compares these to "vanilla" Android.ios 7 - Android Apps on Google PlayPlease, someone explain this: Android apps which try to look like iOS 7 apps. Wow, and there's a lot of them.Malware writers, fraudsters target gamers with fake GTA 5 serials &gt;&gt; HOTforSecurityA week ago, the Bitdefender Laboratories in France also discovered thatimpatient gamers were infected with another Trojanwhile trying to download free GTA kits on torrents and peer-to-peer networks.Users are advised to disregard GTA copies "accidentally" leaked on the Internet, as they are probably fake, leading to fraudulent or malicious websites. Bitdefender recommends gamers keep their security solution and other software updated to avoid malware infections, phishing and fraud.A collateral cost of "free"?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
He was known as "the godfather of the console", building the Japanese firm Nintendo from a playing cards manufacturer into one of the world's most powerful computer games businesses. Now the gaming industry is paying tribute to the company's former president, Hiroshi Yamauchi, who diedon Thursday  at 85.For a generation of gamers, Yamauchi's Nintendo represented a golden era of mainstream gaming, dominated by classic titles like Super Mario Bros, Legend of Zelda and Metroid. In the early 90s, the company's mascot Mario, a moustachioed Italian plumber, became one of the world's most popular animated characters. A 1990 survey found he was more recognisable to American children than Mickey Mouse.Yamauchi installed the company's central doctrine – that gameplay is always more important than technology. It is the philosophy that would continue to define the company after his retirement, leading to the hugely successful Nintendo Wii, which introduced a motion control device for gaming but relied on cheap off-the-shelf hardware, unlike its expensive rivals, the PS3 and Xbox 360.The company said it was "in mourning today from the sad loss of the former Nintendo president Mr Hiroshi Yamauchi, who sadly passed away this morning."Yamauchi took over the company after his grandfather, the previous president, suffered a stroke. He transformed Nintendo from a little-known manufacturer of Japanesehanafudaplaying cards into the most powerful force in the global video game industry, and stood as president of the company from 1949 to 2002.Yamauchi had a reputation for spotting talent and at a Nintendo factory he picked out engineer Gunpei Yokoi, who would eventually go on to develop the Game Boy handheld console. Yokoi had built a robotic arm for his own amusement, but Yamauchi saw the potential to mass-market the device as a product, kickstarting Nintendo's expansion into the toy and gadget market.Noting the boom in video games, Yamauchi later asked young artist Shigeru Miyamoto to create an arcade machine that would appeal to the growing global audience. The result was Donkey Kong, a massive success in its own right and the origin of the Mario character.The long-standing president would go on to oversee the company's entry into the home console business, which it dominated in the 80s and early 90s with the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) and Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) consoles. At its height, Nintendo enjoyed a 90% share of the console hardware market.Importantly, in the wake of the video game crash in 1983, where a glut of mediocre third-party releases for consoles such as the Atari VCS effectively devalued the whole industry, Yamauchi oversaw the introduction of Nintendo's "seal of quality" programme, which restricted the numbers of developers that could release games on its systems.He intrinsically understood the importance of good games and talented game designers, rather than engineers and hi-tech hardware. In 2004, he told one Japanese newspaper: "Cutting-edge technologies and multiple functions do not necessarily lead to more fun. The excessively hardware-oriented way of thinking is totally wrong, but manufacturers are just throwing money at developing higher-performance hardware."A shrewd businessman, Yamauchi ensured that Nintendo remained debt-free throughout his long period in charge. Unlike the consoles marketed by most of his competitors, Nintendo machines were always sold at a profit rather than as loss-leaders for software sales; he also ensured that game publishers paid in advance for the manufacturing of game carts, removing the risk for his own company. In this way, he helped to revolutionise the way the games industry functioned.Although Yamauchi stepped down in 2002 to be replaced by current president Satoru Iwata, he remained a major shareholder and retained an advisory role."Hiroshi Yamauchi transformed a run-of the-mill trading card company into an entertainment empire in video games," said Ian Livingstone, co-founder of Games Workshop and life president of games developer Eidos. "He understood the social value of play, and the economic potential of electronic gaming. Most importantly, he steered Nintendo on its own course and was unconcerned by the actions of his competitors. He was a true visionary."
Generations of children have grown up loving Super Mario Bros, Pokémon characters, theLegend of Zeldaseries and hundreds of other video games without ever hearing the name of Hiroshi Yamauchi, who has died aged 85. Yamauchi ran Nintendo for more than 50 years and turned it into a global brand bigger than Disney.Unlike Walt Disney, he was not a creator. He did not even play video games, though in the early days he strictly controlled the games Nintendo launched. Yamauchi was, from first to last, a businessman. He knew that he had an audience of children – Nintendo's Famicom brand name came from "Family Computer" – and he knew that he was in the entertainment business, rather than the technology business.Outside Japan, the Famicom became the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES). Yamauchi's games consoles did not have to have the most advanced specifications – he said "people are not interested in cutting-edge technologies" – but they did have to be affordable and enjoyable. And extremely profitable.Yamauchi's strategy of high-quality games and low-cost hardware wrested control of the games console business from US-based pioneers such as Atari and Magnavox and turned an obscure Japanese playing-card company into a colossus. It also made the reclusive Yamauchi, for a while, Japan's richest man. As he was ready to admit, much of it was not planned. He was dragooned into becoming Nintendo's president in 1949, aged 21, and getting into the home games market was a happy accident.He was born in Kyoto. The family of his mother, Kimi Yamauchi, had no male heirs, so Kimi's husband, Shikanojo Inaba, adopted her surname, on the assumption that he would take over the family's playing-card company. However, Shikanojo abandoned his family when Hiroshi was five, and Hiroshi was brought up by his disciplinarian grandparents, Sekiryo Yamauchi, the president of the company, and his wife, Tei.Hiroshi was educated in Kyoto and in 1945 went to Waseda University to study law. He abandoned his studies in 1949 when Sekiryo had a stroke. In the absence of his father, Hiroshi was asked to take over. This he agreed to do, on condition that he would be the only family member working at the company.The young and inexperienced new president resorted to draconian rule. According to Game Over, David Sheff's history of Nintendo, Yamauchi fired all the "old guard" managers one by one, "in spite of their years of dedicated service". He also changed the name of the company to Nintendo Karuta (Nintendo Playing Cards), opened a new head office and started innovating.An early success was making western-style playing cards under licence from Walt Disney. These used pictures of Disney characters and brought the old Japanese company a new market – families with children – and new experiences, such as television advertising. These were to stand Nintendo in good stead when it eventually entered the games market, but it tried many other things along the way including instant rice, a "love hotel" (Sheff says "he was one of his own best customers") and a taxi company. Setting up a games division was a better idea: the success of his playing cards gave Yamauchi a distribution system that could deliver products to Japan's toy shops and department stores.Nintendo began to enjoy success with electronic toys and had a hit with the Game &amp; Watch series. These were handheld LCD games based on pocket calculator-type technologies. To progress, Yamauchi wanted a console like the Atari models that were appearing in Japan. This resulted in an even bigger hit – the Famicom – and then the Game Boy handheld console, both of which took Japan and then the US by storm.The Famicom/NES made it clear that there was more money to be made from writing games, because each console buyer wanted five or more games. Yamauchi set up three competing divisions to create games. He also wanted to make an arcade machine, and asked one of his young designers, Shigeru Miyamoto, to create one. The result was Donkey Kong, which featured the first appearance of the Mario character. Miyamoto turned out to be the Shakespeare of games designers, and he helped to make Nintendo the world's dominant games company.Of course, not everyone was happy with Yamauchi's autocratic rule, and the growth of a new market – adult games – enabled some of his suppliers to break away. The most significant was Sony, which converted a would-be Nintendo accessory into the PlayStation games console, and Square Enix, which took its important Final Fantasy series to Sony. Now adults, not children, formed a core part of the games market, and rivals were willing to supply the realistic, blood-soaked violence that Miyamoto, and Nintendo, would not deliver.After running Nintendo for 53 years, Yamauchi finally promoted Satoru Iwata to replace him in 2002. Yamauchi served as chairman until 2005. At their 2008 peak, his Nintendo shares made him worth $6.4bn (£4bn), though that later fell to $2.1bn. He was also the principal owner of the Seattle Mariners baseball team.When, after years of estrangement, Yamauchi heard that his father had died of a stroke, he was grief-stricken. At the funeral, he met his father's wife and four daughters that he did not know existed. Hiroshi and his wife, Michiko, had two daughters, Yoko and Fujiko, and a son, Katsuhito. Michiko died last year.•Hiroshi Yamauchi, businessman, born 7 November 1927; died 19 September 2013
Have you ever thought that it would be great if your cat could use an iPhone, but been worried about the security risk that that poses? Well, worry no more! The Touch ID sensor on the new iPhone 5S can read the patterns on a cat&apos;s paw just as easily as it can read your fingerprints, ensuring that none of its feline secrets can be stolen.We know this now, because TechCrunch&apos;s Darrell Etherington successfullymanaged to get his 5S to register a cat&apos;s pawprint, and then used that same cat&apos;s paw to unlock the phone seconds later.&quot;For the curious,&quot; Etherington writes, &quot;I also tested the 5s fingerprint sensor on the heel of my palm, as well as on the inside of my forearm up around the wrist, and found that I could register and successfully unlock with both skin regions.&quot;
BlackBerry is making its smartphone messaging service BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) available on Google's Android and Apple's iPhone from this weekend - marking a radical shift for the company which once relied on BBM's exclusivity to sell phones.The releases will be the first time that BBM, the original non-SMS-based phone messaging service, has been available on a non-BlackBerry phone.BBM was a crucial tool for attracting and retaining users on BlackBerry's platform. The company's subscribers peaked at 80m around September 2012 but since then have declined to around 70m.But there are questions over whether the release is too late. In the past three years other cross-platform messaging apps and services such as WhatsApp - which recently reported that it has more than 250m users and was processing over8bn inbound and 12bn outbound messages a day- have sprung up in direct competition to BBM."The phone messaging market is a very crowded space at the moment, with big services like Google Hangouts, Line, WhatsApp, and even [Apple's] iMessage available," said Ben Wood, mobile analyst with research firm CCS Insight.Google's own Hangouts instant messaging service also offers text and video calling for Android and iPhone and computer, while iMessage offers similar functionality between the iPhone, iPad and Mac.One of BBM's key differentiators on the BlackBerry platform has been screen sharing between users, allowing the shared viewing of photos, documents or webpages directly in the app. BlackBerry hasn't said whether screen sharing will be available to the Android and iPhone BBM apps.BlackBerry says the apps for Android and iPhone will support file sharing, group messaging of up to 30 friends, and the sending of voice notes."BBM is a very engaging messaging service that is simple to use, easy to personalize and has an immediacy that is necessary for mobile communications," said Andrew Bocking, Executive Vice President for BBM at BlackBerry. "With more than a billion Android, iOS, and BlackBerry smartphones in the market, and no dominant mobile messaging platform, this is absolutely the right time to bring BBM to Android and iPhone customers."With BlackBerry's business under increasing stress as rival smartphone makers squeeze it out, and withthe board examing the possibility of selling the businessas itaims to cut costs further, a strong start for BBM on other platforms could be key to its longer-term survival as a business unit.BBM will be available as a free download for Android smartphones running Ice Cream Sandwich and Jelly Bean (Android 4.x) beginning at 7AM EDT on 21 September. BBM for iPhones running iOS 6 and iOS 7 will become available for each market on the App Store schedule of 12:01 AM local time on 22 September."When BlackBerry announced that it would be making BBM available on other platformsin May, the general consensus was that it would represent an escape route for BlackBerry users wanting to switch platforms," said Wood. "Now, however, the release is more about creating viable services to support BlackBerry's business, as its hardware business is failing."The UK is a stronghold for Blackberry, which accounted for 9.3% of all smartphones shipped in the the country during the first half of 2013, according to data collected by market-research company IDC. In the US and world markets, though, its share of new sales has fallen to less than 3%."It'll be fascinating to see if they can get traction with BBM on Android and iPhone. I suspect they'll be banking on existing BBM users convincing their friends to use the new apps," Wood added. "It could be very attractive to BlackBerry users or people who have recently switched platforms. If BlackBerry users can convince just one or two friends on other platforms to use BBM, BlackBerry could end up with a user base that rivals WhatsApp," he said.
Apple iPhone and iPad users drove data demands on some ISPs around the world to double from their normal levels on Wednesday evening as they tried to download iOS 7, the latest version of the Californian company's operating system.By Thursday morning an estimated 130m people had updated their devices - based ondata from Mixpanel, an analytics company which tracks the OS being used on apps and web pages.It found that by mid-afternoon on Thursday in the UK, 10 hours after iOS 7 was released, 33% of iOS devices it monitored were running iOS 7 - compared to 2.9% before its release, which would have been use by developers with pre-release versions - and that the figure was growing by about 1% per hour. Separate calculations by Benedict Evans of Enders Analysis suggest that there are 415m "live" iOS devices, excluding the Apple TV. Extended across all devices, that would imply 130m iOS 7 users in less than 12 hours.But Cook's claim - made as he showed off Apple's new iPhones last week - that iOS 7 would soon become "the world's most popular operating system" may have to wait for validation: more recent versions of Android are used on around three times as many devices.Evans reckons there are 785m working Android devices which have been activated by Google.Google's own data on its OS fragmentationsuggests that 36.6% of active Android devices are using Android version 4.1.x of "Jelly Bean", and 8.5% using version 4.2.x. That would translate to 287m users of Android 4.1.x, and 66.7m using Android 4.2.x - a total of 353.7m.Even so, demand for the free download - which averaged 750MB but peaked in size at 1.4GB for some iPad models - meant heavy loads for ISPs woridwide. In the UK a graph from the London Network Access Point (LONAP), which provides services for ISPs across Britain showed an abrupt spike at 6pm as the download become available. Demand peaked at about 9.30pm as Apple's servers, which had initially struggled, began running more smoothly.BT Retail told the Guardian that traffic levels were at the highest ever seen: "within 20 minutes of the launch traffic grew over 200 gigabits per second," said a spokesperson.iOS 7: availability on Wednesday drove a huge traffic spike for UK ISPs through LonapIn Germany, where the Berlin Internet Exchange saw an increase of over 10 gigabits per second as the download become available at 7pm local time.iOS 7 release drove a huge data spike in Germany tooBut the traffic blitz was not limited to the UK and Germany. Global Nerdyreported on Wednesday eveningthat internet traffic in total was 12% above normal as the download became available, using data from Akamai.In October 2011, the release of iOS 5caused a similar jump in data trafficwith throughput jumping by 200 gigabits per second. However iOS 6 was less well received because of fears over its Apple-generated Maps app, which seems to have put some people off upgrading.
Grand Theft Auto 5 has smashed its way into the record books with the largest ever first-day takings for a video game.The latest instalment of the British-produced franchise took more than $800m (£498m) worldwide on Tuesday, underlining the appeal of the medium as Sony and Microsoft prepare to launch a new generation of consoles.Billed as one of the most ambitious and expensive games ever created, the California-based crime epic has already more than recouped its $270m development and marketing budget.Sales dwarf the previous $500m record set in 2012 by Activision's Call of Duty: Black Ops 2, and beaten in a single day the $500m in revenue which Grand Theft Auto's fourth instalment generated in its first week nearly five years ago."The last major Grand Theft Auto title sold just under 13 million [units] in the course of the year. This did that in a day," said Daniel Ernst, an analyst at Hudson Square Research.The success of a game which features mafia bosses, motorcycle gangs, man-eating sharks and cynical movie producers running riot in a fictional town loosely based on Los Angeles, has underlined once again the console's ability to host entertainment franchises more valuable than those produced in Hollywood.The biggest ever opening weekend for a feature film was achieved by Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 in 2011, when it took $480m worldwide at the box office – a fraction of Grand Theft Auto's single day achievement.Described by the Guardian's games critic as"a monstrous parody of modern life", the game unleashes the player's inner thug with missions to steal cars and rob banks. It has defied predictions that lavish video game productions will soon be sidelined by a multitude of cheaper and more disposable smartphone apps.News that consumers are still prepared to part with £38 for a single title will cheer Sony, which releases Playstation 4 in the United States on 15 November, and its rival Microsoft, whose Xbox One goes on sale a week later."No one title is an indicator of success of upcoming platforms," said David Riley, executive director at market researcher NPD Group. "You can't say because of GTA the industry would be saved. But it is a boost in the arm of the industry that it has needed for quite a while. We are going to have a great holiday season worldwide."In August, NPD found US sales of hardware, accessories and software grew year on year for the first time since October 2011, albeit by a modest 1%. But the boost was entirely due to new titles, with sales of consoles down 40%.Take-Two chairman and chief executive Strauss Zelnickpraisedthe Edinburgh-based team at Rockstar North which produces the GTA franchise for "setting the entertainment industry's new standard for creativity, innovation and excellence". He said in north America alone, 8,300 shops had opened their doors at midnight to make the most of the release.Sony said Thursday it expected sales of its new PlayStation 4 console to reach 5 million units this financial year, about 40% more than its third console generated in the same period seven years ago. But smartphones already far outsell consoles, and less complex games like Angry Birds, Candy Crush and Dots are booming."A lot of kids don't want $40 games any more, they want 40 $1 games," Nancy MacIntyre told Bloomberg. A former executive at game studio LucasArts, she now runs a social-gaming network Fingerprint Digital.
Activity-tracking devices by the likes of Nike, Fitbit and Jawbone have been growing steadily more popular over the last year, working with companion apps to track people's daily steps and encourage their efforts to get fitter.Finnish startupMovestook a different approach when it launched in December 2012: it junked the idea of a separate device. Instead, its iPhone app used the sensors in Apple's smartphone to track walking, cycling and running, while also storing details of where those activities happened.It's been pretty popular. "We didn't expect it to pick up so quickly, but it's now been downloaded over 2.5m times on iPhone, and we are now tracking more than 2bn steps a day," says designer and chief executive Sampo Karjalainen."Most activity-tracking gadgets don't really give out numbers, but Jawbone says it is tracking more than 1bn steps a day, so we are starting to feel that Moves may be the most popular activity-tracker."That wouldn't be a surprise, given that Moves is a free app that doesn't require users to buy a separate gadget. Karjalainen says that the decision to focus purely on smartphone sensors was partly an attempt to take activity-tracking beyond early adopters."We wanted to make a mainstream product for people who are not that into sports or the quantified self," he says. "That's also why we have kept the app very simple, clear and approachable, with that element of lifelogging – the complete story of your day – that makes for a different experience to the more fitness-oriented products."Today, Moves is taking a new step beyond iPhone, launching a version for Android smartphones: initially for a selection of handsets running the Android 4.0 software and upwards, with hopes of expanding beyond that in the coming months.Karjalainen says Moves is excited about being able to support Android – unsurprisingly, given its dominant market share in the smartphones world – and is refreshingly un-grumbly about the challenges involved in porting the app across."The main problem is the scale of different devices, which behave a little bit differently, especially when it comes to the barometer. And some of them don't work very reliably in the background, for example when we try to collect acceleration samples," he says."But we have worked around those problems, and it's looking good. The additional battery hit is a bit smaller compared to iPhone too, although many Android users have all kinds of crazy apps that already affect the battery use quite a bit. But we're very excited."Once the Android version of Moves launches, the company will start to focus more on helping people make sense of the data that the app is collecting on a daily basis."The next goal is to build the next level of analysis on top of this data: to summarise it and show interesting insights about your life," he says."Not so much the traditional charts about how activities change over time that you see in other apps. That feels very data-driven, and in some ways a little lazy if you are showing a graph and asking the user to analyse it."Instead, Moves is hoping to find the "stories in the data" for people using Moves, as much about helping them to understand and change their behaviour (if they want to) than simply providing a daily score.Karjalainen is keen not to start badgering Moves users to get fitter and walk, cycle and/or run further, though. "If you have a good day, we celebrate it a little bit, but we don't really push you," he says."When we did our initial research, we interviewed a lot of people who don't do much physical activity, and who don't feel they're very good at it. If it becomes a competitive situation and someone is nagging them all the time, they don't find it very appealing."In recent months, people have started toask more questions about the privacy policies of activity-tracking apps: what data they're collecting, how they're storing it and what other companies they might be sharing it with."We did our best to write our privacy policy in very plain and clear English, so if you read it you get some answers," says Karjalainen. "We think it's very important to be very open about it, and we are currently discussing with legal advisers how we can make it even more clear."Moves has more than 20 partners using its Connected Apps APIOne of the strengths of activity-tracking apps as things stand is their ability to share your data, though. It's standard practise for fitness, nutrition and activity-tracking apps to either run their own APIs or to tie into those of other apps, enabling these services to be connected together by users.Moves is part of that trend too: it has aConnected Apps catalogueof more than 20 other iPhone apps that use its API, with plans to extend this to Android."We can't develop every feature, so we have provided this open API where users can give permission to a third party to use their data from Moves," says Karjalainen. "We think it can provide a lot of value to people to be able to combine their data with other services."What's next? Moves is currently assessing the likely impact of Apple's newiPhone 5ssmartphone, with its M7 motion co-processor that will seemingly enable any activity-tracking app to get the kind of data from the device's sensors that has been Moves' key feature.In other words, while the M7 could be most disruptive for the companies trying to sell separate gadgets, it could also open Moves up to much more competition. Karjalainen seems relaxed about the implications though."In general, it's a really good thing for activity-tracking and the quantified self. Battery use has been the biggest challenge in this area previously, and Apple are doing the right thing optimising the hardware and software," says Karjalainen."We are really happy to use those APIs, but while they work for walking and running, they don't do cycling, so we still need to build a hybrid product, and use a lot of our own technology."So what's next for Moves? Karjalainen has been following the buzz around wearable gadgets like smart watches with keen interest. Not least because fitness-tracking appears to be one of the key marketing hooks for devices likeSamsung's Galaxy Gear."We feel it's in the same space as FitBit or Nike FuelBand or Jawbone and these other gadgets. It's still about buying one more gadget, paying $200 for it and then remembering to charge, carry and synchronise one more device," he says."That's not a mainstream thing, although it's good for people with motivation to really track their activities. But the phone is really good for the mainstream: there are a billion iPhone and Android smartphones out there."Moves will continue to monitor the space, though, having noted speculation about Apple and Google's plans to build their own smart watches. "If Google or Apple build a new wearable platform, it would make a lot of sense to use those gadgets for activity-tracking," says Karjalainen.On a philosophical level, Moves is also deciding how much to edge towards lifelogging, using location data and other content to build an even more detailed picture of each user's day."There is a lot of data that can be connected, from your calendar entries, the communication you do with your phone, the music you listen to, the photos you take. You could end up with an automatic diary, packaged into very beautiful stories," he says."But for now we say that we will stay in activity-tracking and gradually expand to life-tracking and making sense of life. We are a small startup, and we can't do everything!"The big question is how Moves plans to make money, given that it's not selling physical hardware, its app is free, and advertising isn't part of the mix. The concern around apps of this type is that their users will be the products: business models involving selling their data to third parties.That doesn't appear to be on Moves roadmap. Karjalainen says its main plan is to add new features to its app paid for via in-app purchases."Premium features for people who really want to be more goal-oriented: who want to increase their physical activity through things like exercise programmes," he says. And definitely no shady data-selling behind the scenes?"Data can be a really and interesting and valuable thing, particularly when we have millions and millions of users, but you would need to do it in such a way that users understand how their data is being used, and they approve," he says.
I'm a novelist with a bad back, and need something more portable than my perfectly functional laptop for working on my manuscripts away from home. Netbooks are dead; Ultrabooks are expensive; Chromebooks defeat the object, because all I need is to work in, and save frequently on, Microsoft Word – no touchscreens and, probably, no cloud.CharlotteYou don't mention a budget, but is £350 too much? At the moment I'd go for anAsus VivoBook S200with an 11.6in screen for £349.97. This gets you a PC that is about the size and weight of a netbook but with a much better specification. It includes an Intel Pentium processor, 4GB of memory, a 500GB hard drive, VGA (D-SUB) and HDMI video ports, two USB 2 ports, one USB 3 port, an SD card slot and an Ethernet port.The VivoBook S200SE comes loaded with Microsoft Windows 8, which will soon get a free upgrade to Windows 8.1. As you say, you don't really need a touch-sensitive screen, but it is an advantage when using Windows 8's "modern" (formerly Metro) apps downloaded from the Windows Store.Even better, go for VivoBook S200E, which is essentially the same machine with an Intel Core i3 processor. This increases the price by £37.90 to£387.87, but provides a worthwhile increase in performance. For completeness, you can also get the S200E with a much slower 1.1GHz Intel Celeron 847 processor and a smaller, 320GB hard drive for£329 from Tesco Direct. However, it's really not worth saving £21.The VivoBook S200E is solidly made, for this class of machine, with a brushed aluminium top and a decent keyboard. It includes "instant on", starting from sleep/hibernate in about two seconds. It doesn't qualify as an Ultrabook because, at 21.7mm, it's a couple of millimetres too thick.If the 11.5in screen is too small, consider theAcer Aspire S3-391Ultrabook at £451.99. This has a 13.3in non-touch screen, but otherwise it has a similar specification to the VivoBook S200E with an Intel Core i3-3217U. There's also anAsus VivoBook S400CAwith a 14in screen for £384, but this is about a pound heavier at 1.8kg against 1.3kg for the S200E and 1.4kg for the Acer Aspire S3-391.The netbook resuscitatedLater, Charlotte responded to a much shorter email version of the  suggestions above:I looked at the Asus [VivoBook S200E] in John Lewis, who had only one left and think it's being stopped. Can't decide if I should snap it up or wait for possible future cheap models. I love the thought of one of these but will only be using it infrequently and am loathe to spend £350 on what feels like an indulgence. But is that a false economy? Also,today's Guardian recommends a netbook: "The purple Asus Eee PC X101CH weighs less than a kilo and has a 10.1in screen, a 1.6GHz Intel Atom processor and a 320GB hard drive. IT Trade Station sells it via Amazon for £219.95."Actually, there is a pink version of the same netbook being sold by Technoworld on Amazon for only£174, which is an even better deal.The Asus Eee PC X101CH is a very good netbook, as netbooks go, and it would do the job. However, netbooks have a lot of limitations, which is why they have almost died out (though they still sell in some poor countries, and are often used in schools).The main limitations of the PC X101CH are its slow 32-bit 1.6GHz Intel Atom N2600 processor, slow graphics, very limited 1GB of memory, screen resolution of 1024 x 600 pixels, and its use of Microsoft Windows 7 Starter Edition. The Asus VivoBook S200E has a 64-bit processor that is two or three times quicker, has four times as much memory (4GB), a touch-sensitive screen, stereo sound and a significantly better keyboard. It also has, in Windows 8, a much better operating system. With most netbooks you would lose Windows 8's fast start from sleep, though the PC X101CH does offer Asus's own rapid-resume technology.The 1GB of memory is a big drawback when running Windows and Microsoft Office. Unfortunately, the memory is soldered to the motherboard and there is no standard SODIMM slot. This makes it impractical to replace the 1GB with the maximum 2GB memory chip that has been the salvation of many an old netbook.The netbook's lower screen resolution means that you could lose roughly nine or 10 lines of text on screen, and each line will be about six words shorter, compared to the usual low-end Windows screen resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels. This is based on running Microsoft Word 2007 full screen with text in 11pt New Times Roman in web layout with the ribbon minimised, which I simulated by changing the size of Word's window on my own much bigger (1920 x 1080) screen. That is, I could see 39 lines of text with Word in a 1366 x 768-pixel window and 29 lines in a 1024 x 600-pixel window. I usually write in a Word window that's roughly 1200 x 800, so I find the netbook screen cramped. Tastes vary, so this may not bother you, but you should be aware of it.How about a mini-laptop?Instead of a netbook, you should consider a new-style mini-laptop that doesn't use an Intel processor, and is therefore free of Intel's netbook requirements. The blue 11.6in Acer Aspire V5-121 is a good example at£237.94with free delivery from Amazon.co.uk. For less than £20 more than a purple netbook, you get a 1kg laptop that has 2GB of memory, a standard 1366 x 768-pixel screen, and a full copy of Windows 8.The main drawback with the cheapest Acer Aspire V5-121 is the horribly slow 1GHz AMD C70 processor, which was previously used in some Acer Aspire One models sold as netbooks. However,NotebookChecksays "the processor speed is somewhere between a single core 1.6 GHz Atom N455 and a dual core Atom N550," which puts it in the same ballpark as the Atom N2600. Without actually being able to try it, I'd guess that the extra memory (2GB) and the slightly better efficiency of Windows 8 will make the Aspire V5-121 roughly as good (or as bad) at running Microsoft Word. Anyone who has done it is invited to comment below.The VivoBook S200E (£350) is a faster, better-made, and all-round much more capable Windows machine but, as you say, you already have a perfectly good laptop. If you're only going to use it to run Microsoft Word, and run it "infrequently", then it may not be worth paying twice the price of a pink Asus Eee PC X101CH (£174), or £112 more than an Acer Aspire V5-121 (£238). Your money, your decision.If you can wait, there should be some better mini-laptops coming out for the Christmas sales season. One example is theDell Inspiron 11. Most will have Windows 8.1 and some will have new versions of Intel's Core iX chips (code-named Haswell) and a much-improved Atom processor (Bay Trail), which will be better at running Microsoft Word.
The driver of a Google Street View car fled in his vehicle after a collision with minivan near the Indonesian capital Jakarta - and then was in a collision with another minivan and a parked truck, police there reported.The driver of the Google-branded Subaru, with its distinctive roof-mounted Street View camera was initially in a collision with a a public minivan - a privately-owned minibus - in the Bogor district on the outskirts of Jakarta."He did accompany the minivan driver to the garage, but he said he was scared the repair fee would be high, so he got in his damaged car and fled," Bogor district police operations chief Hendra Gunawantold the AFP.The minivan driver chased him for around two miles in his damaged vehicle before the Google car was in a collision with another minivan while attempting to escape.The chase continued as the Google car fled again, finally ending in a third crash with a parked truck.The Google driver, whom police refused to name, was taken in for questioning, but was later released. Photosposted by an eyewitness on a local internet forumshowed damage to the front bumper of the car. It's unclear whether anyone was hurt in the multiple incidents - or whether the onboard Street View camera captured the events.Google Street View cars drive along roads with a roof-mounted camera which captures pictures of the area surrounding a location, which is then tagged to a map and made optionally viewable in Google's maps products. Street View cars have driven hundreds of thousands of miles - sometimes with notable incidents: in 2009, onehit a baby deer, and later that year onehit a bridge, while in Botswanaone hit a donkey.According to local police, all costs for the damage have now been paid. The repair bill of the first incident alone would have cost around £11, they added."We take incidents like this very seriously. We're working closely with local authorities to address the situation," Google's head of communications for Indonesia, Vishnu Mahmud said in a statement to the AFP.
Hollywood’s trade body has lambasted Google and other search engine providers for doing too little to prevent people finding pirated content online.In a report published on Wednesday, the Motion Picture Association of America says that 58% of the search queries people used before viewing copyright-infringing content &quot;contain generic of title-specific keywords only&quot; - suggesting that they weren&apos;t necessarily looking to find illegal content when they began a search.That would mean that rather than searching for a phrase that would imply a search for illicit content, such as &quot;Breaking Bad torrent&quot; or &quot;Star Trek Into Darkness free download&quot;, people just entered the name of the TV series or film and were served up links to illicit content.The report, “Understanding the Role of Search in Online Piracy”, says search engines remain a major method by which users access pirated content: 74% of those surveyed by the association admitted to using a search engine for either discovery of pirated content, or for navigating around what the MPAA calls “domains with infringing content”.However the report also shows that only 20% of visits to infringing URLs comes via search engines, while 35.4% comes from &quot;linking&quot; sites, and 40.5% is given just as &quot;other&quot;.Google has always maintained that it cannot be held responsible for users&apos; decisions to access pirated content such as films and TV shows. But the MPAA says the report&apos;s main finding indicates that &quot;consumers who may not explicitly intend to watch the content illegally ultimately do so online.&quot;The report is the latest salvo in a long-running battle between the MPAA, search engines, and illicit content providers.As long ago as 2004the MPAA claimed that a quarter of internet users had downloaded a film illegally at least once - although it limited its figures to broadband users, a far smaller number then.The MPAA also charges Google’s anti-piracy methods with being ineffective, writing that the company’s plan to “demote” the search ranking of sites which support piracy, enacted in August 2012, actually left referrals to those sites flat.“Search engines bear responsibility for introducing people to infringing content - even people who aren’t actively looking for it”, said Chris Dodd, the chairman of the MPAA who is also a US senator. “The television and movie community is working every day to develop new and innovative ways to watch content online, and as the internet’s gatekeepers, search engines share a responsibility to play a constructive role in not directing audiences to illegitimate content.”But Michael Beckerman, president and chief executive of the Internet Association, hit back at the MPAA, saying it was &quot;blaming the internet and technology for its problems&quot;. He said: &quot;In reality, the internet is empowering content creators and consumers to access more lawful content than ever before.&quot;In fact, I would argue that the internet provides a massive opportunity for creators to reach consumers and build their audience,&quot; Beckerman continued. &quot;MPAA fought the VCR years ago and that technology ended up being a boon to their industry. We&apos;ll see the same story repeat with the Internet.&quot;Google declined to comment for this story, butin an anti-piracy report released just last week, the company laid out exactly how it decides to demote and remove infringing sites.“While we use the number of valid copyright removal notices as a signal for ranking purposes,” it writes, “we do not remove pages from results unless we receive a specific removal request for the page. Even for the websites that have received the highest numbers of notices, the number of noticed pages is typically only a tiny fraction of the total number of pages on the site. It would be inappropriate to remove entire sites under these circumstances.”
Hiroshi Yamauchi, the president of Nintendo from 1949 to 2002, has died at the age of 85. In a short statement released to the press today, the company wrote, "Nintendo is in mourning today from the sad loss of the former Nintendo president Mr Hiroshi Yamauchi, who sadly passed away this morning."Yamauchi, who took over as president after his grandfather suffered a stroke, transformed Nintendo from a little-known manufacturer of playing cards into the most powerful force in the global video game industry. It was Yamauchi who spotted talented engineer Gunpei Yokoi at one of the company's factories – Yokoi-san had built a robotic arm for his own amusement, but Yamauchi saw its potential as a product, ordered its manufacture and so kickstarted Nintendo's expansion into the toy and gadget market. Yokoi would go on to invent the hugely successful Game Boy handheld console.Noticing the boom in the video game market, Yamauchi later tasked young artist Shigeru Miyamoto with creating an arcade machine that could attract the growing global audience. The result was Donkey Kong, a massive success in its own right, and the origin of the legendary Mario character.The long-standing president would go on to oversee the company's entry into the home console market, which it soon utterly dominated with the Famicom and Super Famicom consoles released in the eighties and early nineties. At its height, Nintendo enjoyed a 90% share of the console hardware sector. Importantly, in the wake of the video game crash in 1983, where a glut of mediocre third-party releases for consoles such as the Atari VCS effectively devalued the whole industry, Yamauchi oversaw the introduction of Nintendo's "Seal of Quality" programme, which restricted the numbers of developers that could release games on its systems.Although Yamauchi stepped down in 2002 to be replaced by current president Satoru Iwata, he remained a major shareholder and retained an advisory role at Nintendo.
The stars have aligned for film-maker Cullen Hoback. With the ongoing, unfolding series of sensational stories about surveillance by US and UK security agencies came a new wave of energy and interest around his filmTerms &amp; Conditions May Apply, which began as an exploration of our attitudes to our data and digital privacy.Hoback has found himself promoting a film that explores, in real depth, our relationships with corporations who build businesses around our data, their connection with government regulation and security access to data – and the near-universal ignorance of consumers. And in the context of the NSA stories, has found a widespread concern and appetite for change."Edward Snowden completely shifted the dialogue – we could not have had this conversation without him," Hoback told the Guardian. "Despite that, it's still politically cancerous for anybody to support him. We should thank him, and then investigate [US intelligence chiefs instead of asking where in the world Edward Snowden is."Hoback expresses real concern for the fate of the whistleblower. He recalls a conversation at a rally with Daniel Ellsberg who, while a military analyst in the 1970s, leaked the "Pentagon Papers" documenting how the US public had been misled over the Vietnam war. "He told me that had he been in Edwards Snowden's position, he would have run too. It's the only thing he could do. Look at Bradley Manning – if you hang around they stick you in a box."For Ellsberg, government attempts to undermine his reputation only served to reinforce his credibility and the value of his crime of conscience. "I've thought a lot about why the attitude [to Snowden] is not the same as towards Ellsberg, and a big part of it is political culture," said Hoback. "We've moved away from a time where something like the Pentagon Papers was enough to bring someone down, and have created a culture where whistleblowing is considered a crime.At the time of the Pentagon Papers, there was a public mistrust of government and a desire to hold it to account. "The government also didn't have as much control of the media," said Hoback. "That's very controlled now, and they spend so much money trying to figure out how to shape the narrative. What would Nixon have done if he could have shaped the narrative in the same way?"We, the internet-dependent public, have to move on from our romantic image of a wild west internet, says Hoback. "As with most major tech discoveries someone with money figures out a way to control it – we're seeing that now with alternative currencies, like Bitcoin. [Corporations] pervert the original intent to make money out of it, and as they found out how the world works they have to make certain relationships to achieve a certain scale. The philosophy changes."Hoback funded Terms and Conditions May Apply with an anonymous investor, unconnected to the tech industry, who went through a slate of ideas until they settled on digital privacy. That was more than three years ago – a dream situation for a film-maker, and not a subject that Hoback had worked on before.Now, with all the zeal of a convert, Hoback is effectively lobbying the nation – and Washington – for change. "Calling this a 'lobbying film' makes is sound very skewed, and we took sources from all sides of the political spectrum. This is education. We have to start by being more aware of what's going on.""Such a culture of fear has been built in America that it is somehow unpatriotic to raise this privacy issue. But this is freedom of speech. This is one of the foundations of our country."•Terms &amp; Conditions May Applyis being screened to staffers and Congressmen in Washington DC later this month. The film is currently available internationally throughiTunes.Watch anexclusive edit for the Guardian here
Can we admit that the iOS interface, as introduced in January 2007, was getting long in the tooth? Sure we can. Conceived in an era when capacitative screens were an expensive novelty and "retina-quality" (ie high pixel density) displays weren't available on phones, it has done well. But it was time for a change.While iOS has chugged on from year to year (rigidly eschewing the back button favoured in Android and, latterly, Windows Phone), other user interface ideas have come in. WebOS and the BlackBerry PlayBook brought the idea of viewing your multitasking apps on a flat carousel, and killing apps by swiping them upwards, or choosing them by pressing on them. BB10 introduced the neat swipe left to move back to a previous screen. Android offered quick ways to access your Wi-Fi and other settings without necessarily unlocking the phone.So iOS needed an update. The defenestration of Scott Forstall last autumn gave the reins of both hardware and software design to Jonathan Ive. And he grabbed the opportunity. iOS 7 is alive with light. It's brighter, easier, flows better than its predecessors.It also performs a neat, and necessary, optical illusion: not its "parallax" effect (put a photo on the lock screen and tilt the phone; the photo seems to gain real depth), but making the phone's screen seem larger. This, together with its introduction of screen-invariant gestures, may be the most important thing it does.Below is a review andalso some tipsin case you've found any of the change puzzling - such as where Spotlight has gone, how you search in Safari, how you kill an app when multitasking, and how you enable parallax.Seeing's a sort of believingiOS 6 and iOS7 compared on a lock screen: the iOS 7 one seems bigger though the screens are exactly the same size. (Taken from an early beta of iOS 7)Above are screenshots of a lock screen, one running iOS 6, the other iOS 7. One looks bigger. Howcome? iOS 7 removes more of the chrome, and especially gets rid of the black bars at top and bottom of the screen. At first this is disconcerting; it feels like being on stairs without a handrail. But it quickly becomes familiar, so that going back to iOS 6 feels like walking back into a cave.The importance of this "bigger screen" effect can't be overstated. I think that Apple has a real challenge on its hands in the smartphone market. Lots of people expected it to zig towards a much cheaper phone in order to attract buyers in Asia and Europe who have to buy the phone outright, rather than through the US subsidy model. It zagged instead to one which costs the same as the iPhone 4S.Where does Apple get its customers from? People upgrading, and people switching from old featurephones and other smartphones. (There's traffic in the other direction, from iPhone to Android and others, though in the US at least substantially more coming in than going out.) But here's the thing: hardly anyone switches from a bigger screen to a smaller one. So someone who gets a large-screen Android phone is far less likely to switch to smaller iPhone than the other way, other things being equal. But Apple hasn't changed the size of iPhone screens this year. (It did that last year.) So iOS 7 has to make screenslookbigger than iOS 6 did. How? Get rid of the black bars, and the darkness generally.Another thing that iOS 7 does, I think, is to lay the groundwork for larger iPhone screens - because navigation can increasingly be done through gestures at the screen edges, rather than reaching diagonally with your thumb across to a "back" button. (It's physically impossible to do without shifting your hand position on an HTC One or Samsung Galaxy S4; it's only just possible on the iPhone 5.) I think Apple is getting developers and users ready for bigger screens - something the Wall Street Journal (which has a good record on this topic) suggested are being tested even now.Start at the lock screenEven at the lock screen, things look different. Rather than the classic bars showing phone signal strength, you have dots. Rather than the rails of the "slide to unlock" system (from those far-off days of fuzzy screens), you have the same words highlighted by a helpful animated glow. But you don't have to slide the words to unlock the phone; anywhere on the screen, left to right, will do.Control CenterBut wait, don't unlock it just yet. A line at the bottom of the screen suggests something down there (not well enough in my opinion; something like a filled semicircle would suggest a "tab" better). Drag up, and you have Control Center (sic) – Apple's solution to the vexed question of rapid access to often-used controls. It's a translucent layer which you drag up and which offers rapid access to Airplane Mode, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Do Not Disturb (which holds phone calls and alerts except from nominated people) and Screen Rotation Lock.Below is the brightness control; music controls; AirDrop settings; and in a row under that Flashlight (invaluable; you'll use this a lot), Alarms/Clocks/Timers, Calculator and the Camera.You can't configure which controls or apps appear in the top or bottom rows. That will bug Android enthusiasts, who'll see an opportunity missed. Certainly you can see that you might prefer to trade, say, access to alarms for one-touch access to Spotify, or whatever your favourite app is. I have a suspicion some configurability might come in a future iOS version - but not this year.That said, Control Center is no-brainer useful. Use it for a week, and try to go back to iOS 6, and you'll grind your teeth in frustration. (You can decide whether it appears on the lock screen or not. As the early version has abug that can be used to bypass iton the iPhone 4S and 5, keep this in mind.)Wait, we're not done on the lock screen.AirDropWhen Apple didn't include NFC (Near Field Communications) technology in the iPhone 5, there was much wailing, though commentators couldn't decide whether it was Apple or the NFC community which had lost out on the chance to institute a wireless payment system. Clearly, they hadn't been paying attention: Apple introduced AirDrop, a peer-to-peer encrypted ad-hoc Wi-Fi and Bluetooth data transfer system in its Lion desktop OS in July 2011. Pretty much everyone ignored it.A year later there's still no NFC; instead, Apple is bringing AirDrop to iOS 7-compatible phones. That changes a lot. In use, it's very simple: a "sharing" icon in an app lets you send a file, link or other piece of data to those willing to receive it. You choose AirDrop and you get a list of people in the vicinity. Press their icon, and it's done. The receiver gets a message popping up on their screen where they can accept or reject the data - photo, file, link. (Developers might think of more - in-app payments, real cash?)Obviously, one can think of worrying uses ifAnthony Weinergets his hands on this in a crowded room, but you can switch AirDrop to accept offers of files from Everyone, or "Contacts", or off. (The latter leaves Wi-Fi and Bluetooth settings untouched.)Of all the features in iOS 7, this is one of the most intriguing in its possibilities. Paired with another technology - called iBeacon, which willlet merchants send you offers or maps when you're in Bluetooth range. Dislike the idea? Set AirDrop to Contacts.Notification CentreLast year iOS 6 introduced the Notification Centre - offering little gobbets of information from your email, or stocks, or Twitter, or games. It was pretty basic. Now it's split into three elements - Today (a calendar and weather update), All (the things you used to find in the old Notifications) and Missed (appointments, calls). The calendar element is like Windows Phone, though more useful (you get a day view). You can decide what is visible in the lock screen - it won't show all your notifications if you don't want.Tip:there are three parts to the Notifications: "All" (the default view), "Today" (swipe left-to-right) and "Missed" (swipe right-to-left). The "Today" view is very useful.Home ScreenThe new Home Screen has a couple of subtle changes.•Folderscan now be multi-page - so you can add more than 16 apps. (Swipe across to get the extra apps you've stored.)•Apple's provided appssuch as Newsstand can be placed in a folder.•Spotlight(for searching the phone) doesn't have its own page on the left of the first home screen any more. Instead, it's reached by swiping down from themiddleof any home screen. (Swipe from the top and you'll just get Notifications.) Itdoesn'toffer to search the web or Wikipedia if a search isn't found on the phone; that's to be done in Safari.MailApple's Mail had lost out to Google's Android versions, especially for handling Gmail. Dealing with email beyond deleting things was too slow. Android offers press-and-hold to bring up options; now Apple has gone a couple of steps ahead.iOS 7 Mail now has gestures. L: swipe from the right of a message and you get an immediate "Trash" option; R: press "More" and you get other options.First is thegesture controlfor messages. When you need to perform triage on your mailbox, you swipe from anywhere on the left of the message to reveal a set of options: delete the message, or a submenu with a list. (That other options are in the submenu implies most people just delete, though arguably you should have all the options available at once.)Or, if you press on a message to read it, you can swipe (left to right) back to the list in the mailbox. It's far less effort than in iOS 6: again, swapping back will make reading email seem arduous. (The gesture feels, let's say,emulatedfrom BlackBerry's BB10, which uses the left-to-right swipe to "peek" at its message centre. BB10 has all sorts of user interface pitfalls that iOS 7 avoids, though.)There are alsosmart mailboxes- though not as configurable as you might wish: you can only pick individual elements (unread, flagged, with attachments) or a particular mailbox (eg your spam, if you're a masochist), from across your mailboxes. It's not quite like the desktop version, where you might choose email matching arbitrary strings. Still, it's better.Safari: Reading list and moreThe same page in Safari on iOS 6 and iOS 7: the latter gets a little more space and a cleaner feelSafari really blows away the chrome; the screen again looks bigger compared to iOS 6. It adds AirDrop as a means of sharing links. There's also "Reading list", which lets you read offline, and "Shared links" - a personal favourite: it pulls in tweets or Facebook posts from your contacts which link to URLs. It's Twitter and Facebook with just the links.You're no longer limited to eight pages; you can have as many as you like. You can send URLs via AirDrop (via the Sharing icon). To view the pages you have open, press the "pages" icon on the bottom right: this brings up a vertical carousel of pages, which you can kill (x on left of each page) or choose. This, too, flows better than iOS 6, which soon feels clunky in comparison.Tip:where's the search box? The new Safari now includes an "omnibar", like that in Google Chrome or the desktop Safari. So either enter a URL or type the words of your search in the bar. You can set the search engine to be Google, Bing or Yahoo in the Settings.Security"Jailbreaking" iPhones has increasingly become a minority sport - probably because Apple has plugged many of the holes that used to exist and which let people crack its software. It can't however stop thieves stealing a phone in a run-by or ride-by grab - police get scores of reports of these every day.Of course you use a passcode lock, and a SIM lock on your phone (of course! Because otherwise thieves can wipe and reactivate the phone, and use your SIM to rack up gigantic phone bills; don't wait to find out). Even so, the phones are still an attractive target."Find My iPhone"now adds an extra dimension of post-theft security: you can track it while it's on, and if it's turned off (thieves' favoured method) then powering it up again will present a screen requiring your Apple ID (used to activate the phone) and password. Without those, the phone remains encrypted - and effectively useless to anyone else. It's possible that this will make the post-theft value of iPhones running iOS 7 drop to zero once a few thieves have run into this problem. Will it make the number of thefts fall to zero? Well, here's hoping.PhotosEveryone knows the curse of trying to find a particular photo in their photo gallery. Scroll, scroll, scroll.. and usually give up. Apple's Photos app borrows from its iPhoto desktop product to organise photos by day and place ("Moments") and then hierarchically into months and years.iOS 7's Photos app organises sets of time-related photos into "Moments" which make up "Collections" (on L); those fold into "Years" (on R)The "years" organisation looks like a min-tapestry - but hold a finger on it and little thumbnails pop up, letting you go directly to a photo. It's very clever; it may be the single most useful user interface change on the whole OS. Aside from gestures, that is.SoundsTo go with its new-look interface, there are sounds aplenty. To my ears they're quite abstract and Android-y, though the new calendar alert sound is a welcome change from the "Beep-be-de-beep!" you hear all around the past seven years.Multitasking and app updatesThere are plenty of people who don't know you can double-click the home button in iOS to get a palette of recently used apps. (The apps won't necessarily be running, though.)This lets you navigate to recently used ones more rapidly than clicking to the home button and finding the app you want. In iOS 6 and earlier, it was a row on the bottom of the screen; now it's a flat carousel in the screen centre. Apple has, um, borrowed liberally here from WebOS and BB10, introducing aswipe upwards to kill an app(much simpler than in iOS 6, which involved press-and-hold, press the x, press the home button). As before a swipe through the carousel - more visual here - locates the app.Apps can now update in the background if you allow them, say for messaging or mapping. And - celebrate! - apps can be updated automatically (bringing iOS finally on a par with Android). This setting is enabled the first time you log into the App Store.The parallax viewThis is enabled by default in the new iPhone 5c and 5s, but on the 4S and iPhone 5 you have to turn it on: in Settings, choose a "dynamic" wallpaper. You should find that any photo on your lockscreen has the parallax effect on by default.iTunes RadioIsn't available in the UK so far; so I couldn't test it.SiriLaunched as a "beta" two years ago, Siri is adding more elements. It can open apps, turn Wi-Fi or Bluetooth on or off, turn on Airplane mode (at which it asks HAL-style "are you sure? I won't be able to operate"), and adds Twitter searching. The fact that you don't necessarily see many people using Siri doesn't necessarily mean it isn't used; as a culture, we're still shy in front of other humans if we talk to machines (unless it's to shout at them for not working). Car drivers can find it a boon for texting and sending email, with a headset (Bluetooth or wired). And the voice recognition has improved.MapsRemember Apple's first attempt at maps? No, it wasn't perfect. Yes, Google's were better. Yet quietly, Apple has been working away at the problem. Google still has more cartographical information, and its cleverly exaggerated representation of roads makes it much easier to navigate. But Apple's Maps are improving; the representation in iOS 7 is clearer, and the POI (points of interest) database is getting better. There are spoken directions for walking too. Personally, my experiences with Apple's Maps, and directions, remain good.And it is improving: itknows where Mildurais, and thatAirfield Park isn't an airfield. Fixing maps isn't impossible; it just takes time and money. Apple is playing a long game here.Any Other BusinessThere's actually a huge amount more that has changed. Often it is to add subtle animations, or brighter colours, or to make something more sensible. The big change, the one that rings through the entire operating system, is the end of skeuomorphism - building software which mimics real-life objects. "Photos" doesn't show a photo; Game Center doesn't have green felt; when you delete something in Passbook (for holding tickets) it doesn't animate putting the ticket through a shredder. (My heart sank at Scott Forstall's evident glee when he demonstrated that at last year's iPhone launch.)There is animation and movement throughout iOS 7: when you return to a home screen, the icons zoom in from the sides. When you open an app from one of those screens, the icons zoom back out towards the centre; it's a bit Star Trek. In the weather app, it rains, or pours, and clouds drift by. Necessary? No. Enjoyable? Yes.Got someone annoying you in phone calls? You can block their number permanently. This also works for FaceTime Audio, which is Apple's voice-over-internet play. It has come at this from either end - iMessage for over-the-top messaging, FaceTime for video calling. FaceTime Audio is very promising (especially for 4G).Overall? The colours are brighter, and lighter. It's as though someone went and did a big spring clean and got rid of all the cobwebs. The usability improvements - through gestures - make a lot of difference.And one tiny thing: you want animated live tiles? The clock icon shows the correct, updating time. You cangolf clapnow.Let's compareYes, yes, but how does iOS 7 stack up against its rivals? Looking again at Android (I studied HTC Sense on the One, and Android 4.3 on the Nexus 4) I'm struck by how much wasted space they have, and how dark it seems - giant strips top and bottom, huge gaps between the icons. Of course iOS 7 has to put things closer together; its screens are smaller. Even so, it feels like there's wasted space. As to Android's configurability - yes, it's great. Also, potentially confusing as hell. And iOS 7 trumps it now for rapid access to functions such as turning functions on or off. And that flashlight. Trust me, you'll use it.Windows Phone - well, the same problem ofinformation densityremains there (it's all elaborate fonts, not enough information, even on big screens), added to unintuitive navigation. BB10? If you give it time, it makes sense, and its use of gestures is (was, now) smart. But there are other UI foibles (for example, why do your Twitter direct messages live in the BlackBerry Hub, but youcan't reply to them there?). BB10 has some nice ideas, but it's incoherent.OverallThere are places where iOS 7 shows its hurried origins. When you're in the Pictures app, you can't pull back from "Moments" to "Collections", or "Collections" to "Years", even though both are hierarchical changes just like that in email (from message to listing to mailbox). At the time of testing, the Find My Friends app still has the awful "stitched leather" effect (I hope that changes, and soon).It can also be hard to read if your eyes aren't pin-sharp, though there is an "Increase Contrast" setting (in Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Accessibility). Use it - there's nothing to lose.And while mentioning Settings: although the search on the phone has improved hugely from iOS 6 (pull down in any home screen to get the search bar), the Settings app is now so big that it needs its own separate search system. Finding the mobile data usage setting (will it be in "Mobile" or "Usage"?), for example, is just a typical problem.So many things haven't changed in iOS 7. In particular, you still can't change default apps (though as usual apps can have their own browser). But so much has: it's a very different experience, and once app developers have optimised their apps for it (as you'll soon see; a number already have), you'll be unable to go back without making futile left-to-right swipes.But it's the features that have had the least public visibility - especially AirDrop - which could have the biggest impact. The idea of mobile payments is always waved around, but even just being able to pass photos or URLs to a large group rapidly, and wirelessly, is attractive.And the use of gestures (which to me indicates the potential for - or even planning of - bigger phones) really does speed up work; using iOS 7 in testing, I was repeatedly disappointed when an app didn't allow the "slide back" gesture to retreat one screen. Android has the back button, which its devotees swear by; iOS 7 introduces the back swipe, which may become as beloved. And potentially more important: with Android so dominant, and large screens so popular in Asia - where Apple needs to grow if it is to thrive - having an OS that works well on multiple screen sizes is a lot more important than it was a year ago. With iOS 7, this is only the beginning.iOS 7 is a free download from Apple for the iPhone 4, 4S, and 5, and iPad 2, 3, 4 and iPad mini.
The mobile apps market still has the feeling of a gold rush, with a few developers making their fortunes, and many more kicking their spades in frustration.But how much gold is there to go round? Research firm Gartner has publishedits latest market forecasts, estimating that 103bn mobile apps will be downloaded in 2013: a 59.4% rise on last year's total.Gartner predicts that global apps revenues will reach $26bn (£16.1bn) this year, up 44.4% on 2012's $18bn. Free (or freemium) apps are continuing to drive the market. The report suggests that 91% of downloads will be free this year, while in-app purchases will account for 17% of revenuesAs ever, Gartner is also sticking its finger in the wind to predict future trends in the market, claiming that by 2017, annual app downloads will reach 268.7bn, by which point 94.5% of app downloads will be free, and in-app purchases will be generating 48% of revenues.The report also predicts that apps will remain a Google and Apple game for the next few years. "iOS and Android app stores combined are forecast to account for 90 per cent of global downloads in 2017. These app stores are still increasingly active due to richer ecosystems and large and very active developer communities," said research director Brian Blau.Gartner expects a slowdown in the number of apps being downloaded per device over this time though: from 6.2 average monthly downloads per Android device in 2013 to 5.8 in 2017, and from 4.9 to 3.9 for iOS in the same period."This relates back to the overall trend of users using the same apps more often rather than downloading new ones," said Blau. That's one reason for the expected growth in in-app purchases' share of overall app revenues."We believe that IAP is a promising and sustainable monetisation method because it encourages performance-based purchasing," he said. "That is, users only pay when they are happy with the experience, and developers have to work hard to earn the revenue through good design and performance."How do Gartner's predictions compare with those of its rivals? The revenue predictions are similar to thosepublished by ABI Research in June, which forecast $27bn of apps revenues this year, with two thirds of them expected to be generated on iOS.However, the company recentlypublished separate researchclaiming that Android apps will generate nearly $6.8bn in 2013, and that over the next 12 months Android apps will reach 65.9% of iOS app revenues.Meanwhile, Juniper Researchclaimed in Julythat 80bn mobile apps will be downloaded in 2013, rising to 160bn by 2017 – so more cautious than Gartner's latest forecasts. Juniper agreed that only around 5% of apps will be paid by 2017, though.In August, the company claimed that in 2017,"consumer apps" will generate $75bn of revenues, with just under a quarter of those revenues coming from paid apps, and the rest from advertising and in-app purchases.
There have been widespread complaints from Apple users about the latest software for iPhones and iPads amid lengthy delays in downloading the new features.Customers took to Twitter to complain about problems in downloading iOS 7 on to their mobile devices after the update came online at 6pm BST.The new operating system overhauls the look of iPhones and iPads and brings in a number of new navigation features – the biggest change in the look of the software since the iPhone was launched in 2007.Some users claimed the download – which required a Wi-Fi signal – was taking a number of hours to complete."iOS8 will be available by time iOS7 finish updating," said one user, DJ Melo.  Elle Lake (lizzylake) said: "43 minutes remaining to download iOS 7.0 but now 10 minutes later there is an error, and I have to upload it again with another 2 hour wait".Many found they were unable to download the new software at all, instead getting error messages on their screen.Sam Allison, tweeting under VF2010, responded to the problem saying: "Guess I'm not the only one getting an Error message trying to Download IOS 7.0 £Annoying".Conor Rickards, using the handle cajr, opted for irony, tweeting: "Having a great time using IOS 7.0" whilst posting a picture of the error message.The new system, which includes fresh camera functions and a streaming radio feature, was unveiled at the company's annual Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco in June.It has been designed to make the iPhone appear bigger, with features crafted to take advantage of the entire screen.Text is said to appear sharper, while a "control centre" on the phone allows users to adjust settings with just one swipe from the bottom of the screen.Apple did not respond to calls about the matter.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPhoto of kissing TV couple leads to new Mac malware attack &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blogThe Trojan application is disguised as a digital photograph of a man and a woman kissing. Because Mac OS X does not show file extensions by default (something you should change in both Mac OS X and Windows to avoid precisely this kind of trick!), victims may not realise that they are not viewing an image but running a program instead.And don't think that checking your OS X dock or switching between apps using Cmd-Tab will reveal that a program is being run. The Trojan deliberately hides itself from appearing in those places.Mac malware? It's been a while.Researchers can slip an undetectable trojan into Intel's Ivy Bridge CPUs &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaIn arecently published research paper, scientists devised two such backdoors they said adversaries could feasibly build into processors to surreptitiously bypass cryptographic protections provided by the computer running the chips. The paper is attracting interest following recent revelations the National Security Agency is exploiting weaknesses deliberately built-in to widely used cryptographic technologies so analysts candecode vast swaths of Internet trafficthat otherwise would be unreadable.The attack against the Ivy Bridge processors sabotages random number generator (RNG) instructionsIntel engineers added to the processor. The exploit works by severely reducing the amount of entropy the RNG normally uses, from 128 bits to 32 bits.iOS7 Redesign - Before and After Pics &gt;&gt; TapfameShould really be called "iOS 6 and 7, before and after", but hey. The lack of a "Back" target in many of the updated apps is because going back a screen can now be accomplished by a left-to-right swipe gesture.Google announces Calico, a new company focused on health and well-being&gt;&gt; GoogleGoogle today announced Calico, a new company that will focus on health and well-being, in particular the challenge of aging and associated diseases. Arthur D. Levinson, Chairman and former CEO of Genentech and Chairman of Apple, will be Chief Executive Officer and a founding investor.Announcing this new investment, Larry Page, Google CEO said: "Illness and aging affect all our families. With some longer term, moonshot thinking around healthcare and biotechnology, I believe we can improve millions of lives. It's impossible to imagine anyone better than Art—one of the leading scientists, entrepreneurs and CEOs of our generation—to take this new venture forward." Art said: "I've devoted much of my life to science and technology, with the goal of improving human health. Larry's focus on outsized improvements has inspired me, and I'm tremendously excited about what's next."This really will be one to keep an eye on.Lavabit email founder goes to great lengths to avoid email &gt;&gt; AllThingsD[Ladar] Levison himself was not only the operator of Lavabit but also a user of it, and he hasn't logged into email since August 8. He saved an archive of his account to encrypted drives to access if and when he returns."I'm still holding out hope that victory in the courts will allow me to restart my service in the future," he said today onstage at the Privacy Identity Innovation conference in Seattle. For now, Levison is making use of "the electronic equivalent of a methadone clinic" by messaging people through Facebook, LinkedIn, text and the new encrypted communication service Silent Circle. "I haven't needed a real and valid email address to register for something yet," he said."Anything that I consider sensitive, I try to talk about it to people in person, with my cellphone off, in an area where I know that nobody's pointing a parabolic mic at me," Levison said. "If you're fighting the government that's what you need to do."A new app called SHADOW wants to record your dreams &gt;&gt; Daily DotQuick: Do you remember what you dreamed about last night? Did you remember any better eight hours ago? Do you even want to remember that boring dream where you forgot to take off your watch in the shower? But what if it means something?Fortunately, there's an app for that.Lumen View: "Calling us patent trolls is a hate crime, now you owe us even more money" &gt;&gt; Boing BoingRemember this from yesterday? The story has moved on:In response, Lumen has sent a threat to [DoubleClick founder Kevin] O'Connor, saying that calling them patent trolls is a "hate crime" ("I didn't know patent trolls were a protected class" - O'Connor) and threatening to seek criminal charges if O'Connor doesn't pay them a bunch of money and apologize.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
I’m a film-maker by trade, so heading to Capitol Hill the other week was a new experience for me. I was there to talk privacy, and in essence, to advocate. I didn’t have the first clue where to begin. The architecture, both impressive and oppressive, made me feel simultaneously important and meagre, and as I was later told, this was intentional.For the past month we have accrued about 20,000 signatures at our sitetrackoff.us, from people who want their Congressmen to see my film about digital privacy:Terms and Conditions May Apply.I had a feeling a lot of people on the Hill didn’t really understand how privacy has been eroded through the digital corporate/government alliance. It’s not because these Representatives are dummies, it’s because the unholy alliance of the surveillance-industrial complex is just that: complex.Everything in our digital lives now comes with this legally binding contract, a contract designed to take away fundamental rights. And with 30 or more pages of undecipherable legalese at many sites, how is anyone supposed to understand the nature of the trade for digital services?These contracts had largely evolved after the Patriot Act, designed to take as much from the user as possible, while simultaneously protecting the company from any and all legal recourse. Who was bargaining on behalf of the user? I suppose I had made a film, and I was now in Washington to change that.Slowly but surely I got my bearings straight: meet with staffers (the guys who work for the Congressmen behind the scenes), not Congressmen, and talk to those with a vested interest in privacy reform.Staffers were surprised to hear my refrain: “A private internet experience will be impossible until we get rid of the FISA amendments and overhaul the Patriot Act.” They thought I would be advocating some specific form of legislation, perhaps tied to terms and conditions.“Sure,” I’d say. “I’d love to see users at least have access to information a company has on them, then I’d like for them to have control over that data. But that’s not the priority&quot;.Not that reforming the way corporations use our data isn&apos;t important. I actually have a pithy phrase I like to say: The right to know, the right to control.Terms and Conditions May Apply &ndash; trailerIt’s pretty simple, really. The right to know means that we should be able to audit any company that has information on us. For example, there’s a scene in my film where an Austrian student manages to get all the information thatFacebookhas on him (you can’t normally, but he found a loophole): over 1,200 pages of PDF searchable data in less than three years. And he was a light user.Basically, when you know how much a company has stored on you, it helps you understand the nature of what is, in fact, a trade rather than a gift. You might think twice before clicking &apos;I agree&apos;.The right to control means that we should own our personal data, not the company. And when a company betrays our trust, we should be able to take that data with us, either to another company, or eradicate it, as we see fit.But so long as data retention is required by FISA and the Patriot Act, we will never be able to control our data. And let’s be clear, our data is really our digital identity. So for now, the right to know, the right to control is not my priority.After walking by the roads with bomb blockades, passing through the metal detectors, then meandering through the endless corridors of a House building, I discovered a surprising refrain: a lot of members of Congress are fed up with the surveillance state as well. Behind closed doors, I even heard a common phrase from staffers: “It’s time to sunset the Patriot Act”.This was coming from both sides of the aisle. I was shocked.At our DC premiere of Terms and Conditions May Apply, CongressmanDennis Kucinichmade a surprise appearance in the crowd and went a step further, standing up after the screening and saying the “NSAshould be abolished&quot;, and thatEdward Snowdenshould get a “ticker-tape parade&quot;.While this speech tickled users on Reddit and got a lot of press, open criticism of the surveillance-industrial complex is far from the norm. And supporting Edward Snowden as a public official seems to be politically cancerous.But I have hope, and here’s why:While in DC, I was reminded of something that stuck with me: Congressmen are just people too. When 9/11 happened, they were rushed to protected sites in what must have been a terrifying moment for them. They surely felt like the next target. And then they were asked to pass a bill that would protect America from the kind of horror they had just been put through, first-hand - a bill called &apos;The Patriot Act&apos;.It wasn’t passed because they got together and said, “Let’s gut the Constitution&quot;. It happened partially from fear and partially from a misguided sense of duty.Now, over a decade later, the father of the Patriot Act,Representative Sensenbrenner, has even come out saying that the legislation has been applied in ways it never should have been. The near passage of theAmash Amendmentshowed that it is possible to get bipartisan support to end aspects of the surveillance state. A recent Pew poll showed that 68% of people thinkprivacy protections online don’t go far enough. There is a social and political climate right now that demands change.In fact, this may be the issue that gets Washington working again. Sunsetting the Patriot Act would restore faith in a flailing institution, proving that it can atone for its sins. It would move the conversation from the emotional to the concrete, focusing on an idea on which Americans seem to agree: The Constitution matters.One can wage a war against privacy, just like one can wage a war against terror, or a war against drugs. And that is exactly what governments and corporations have done - waged a war against yet another idea. And because it&apos;s been done so secretly, and with our implicit consent (often through terms and conditions), privacy has taken a nasty beating - but it’s not dead.People are realising that 9/11 was used as a weapon to subterfuge the Constitution, and they’re becoming fed up with it. But is it really impossible to think that we could sunset the Patriot Act?The first step is awareness. That’s what my new film Terms and Conditions May Apply is about - helping people understand the relationship between how corporations use our data and how the government accesses it. Once we understand the stakes, we can understand what needs to change.•Terms &amp; Conditions May Applyis being screened to staffers and Congressmen in Washington DC later this month. The film is currently available internationally throughiTunes.Watch anexclusive edit for the Guardian here
It's Thursday.
Canadian smartphone maker BlackBerry could fire up to 5,000 people, equivalent to 40% of its staff, in a desperate bid to bring costs under control, theWall Street Journal(subscription needed) reported on Wednesday, quoting insider sources.The company effectively put itself up for sale in August amid a heavy losses from its failed PlayBook tablet and a decline in its handset business and subscriber numbers and revenues. But it has so far failed to attract any public offers from private equity companies, although one of its largest shareholders, Fairfax Holdings, wasreported to be trying to put together a buyout plan.BlackBerry, led by chief executive Thorsten Heins, is due to deliver its results for the past quarter to the end of August on 27 September. Other reports – on which BlackBerry has declined to comment – indicated that it wants to try to complete a sale of the company by November.If correct, the latest plans for job cuts, which it is said would be implemented across the organisation, may herald a retreat to a core business focussing on its profitable software and services, where it has a solid base in large businesses, financial and public sector organisations.A BlackBerry spokesperson said: "We will not comment on rumours and speculation. As previously stated, we are in the second phase of our transformation plan. Organisational moves will continue to occur to ensure we have the right people in the right roles to drive new opportunities in mobile computing."BlackBerry's share of the fast-growing smartphone market has slumped over the past two years as Apple, Samsung and makers of Android handsets have tightened their grip on the sector. In the second quarter its share of the world smartphone market fell to less than 3%, according to figures from the research company IDC.More crucially, it has made an operating loss on its business for the past six quarters, and net losses totalling $855m, and the latest quarter is not expected to bring any relief.Earlier this month the company let go a number of sales staff in Canada, while carriers have indicated that sales of the new Z10 and Q10 handsets have been slow. The company released a new handset, the touchscreen Q30, on Wednesday.
Network operators in the UK are reporting weaker than expected demand for the colourful iPhone 5C, the lower-priced model Apple investors hoped would be a mass market hit. Pre-orders are just one tenth of those seen in previous iPhone launches, according to one operator, who blamed the tepid advance sales on the unexpectedly high price. The 5C costs from £469 without a contract, just £80 less than the new premium 5S."It's been a big disappointment," said a mobile network source. "We are seeing a decline in the number of pre-orders. They are 60% to 70% less than we were expecting, and we didn't expect them to be massively high given it's not the flagship model."For those who already own an iPhone, the fingerprint scanner and improved camera may make the 5S a more obvious choice despite its higher price tag.UK networks have taken between 75,000 and 100,000 advance orders in previous years for new Apple phones, but say this year's level of interest is far lower. "This is one tenth of those numbers," said the source.The difference may be due to Apple's decision to release only the 5C, and not the 5S, for pre-order. Advance sales opened on 13 September, and buyers will get their hands on the phone when both models arrive in store on Friday."Pre-orders have not been what we expect them to be by a long stretch," said a source at a second operator. "It was a big surprise that there were only pre-orders on the 5C. Apple have deliberately done it because investors will be looking at whether they can be successful in the mid-range market. The 5C is the device that will move their business from the premium market to a company that sells something for everyone."The 5C, which comes in a range of five colours and has a shiny plastic back case rather than the usual metal iPhone finish, is being sold by all four network owners – EE, Vodafone, O2 and Three – and retailers including Carphone Warehouse and Phones 4u.Last year, Apple secured a record 2m pre-orders for the iPhone 5 worldwide within 24 hours of the handset coming to market, more than double the initial 1m requests for the 4S. This year, the company has declined to release early data on sales."The 5C is not setting the world on fire in terms of pre-orders," said a source at a third operator. "It is dramatically lower. People are waiting and seeing, because Apple has never released two devices simultaneously."Nonetheless, Citibank analyst Glen Yeung estimates advance sales reached 2.2m during the initial 24 hours. He predicts Apple will beat its previous record because China, including Hong Kong, will for the first time be among the nine initial countries to receive the new handsets. The distribution deal with Japan's largest wireless carrier, NTT Docomo, should also lift sales.But Yeung cautioned: "We are not enthusiastic about the prospects for the new iPhones based on disappointing innovation and high price."The retailer Phones 4u, however, reported "phenomenal" interest from its customers. The firm did not disclose how many phones it had sold in advance, but said the level of pre-registration, where customers put their name on the waiting list without paying upfront, was higher by double-digit percentage points than last year."If the price of the 5C was lower, pre-orders would be much higher," said Francisco Jerónimo, an analyst at IDC. But he still expects the cheaper phone to be Apple's best seller this year. "I believe the 5C will be larger than for the 5S. They can address new users who like colourful handsets, and also the current iPhone users. If people upgrade they don't want a device that looks exactly the same as their previous one."Apple did not respond to Guardian requests for a comment.
Microsoft will release its Windows 8.1 update on 17 October, bringing back the Start Menu among other bug fixes and feature enhancements.The update, which will be free for Windows 8 users, is a response to concerns among users and businesses who found the interface changes in Windows 8, released in October 2012, too jarring.The removal in the original release of the Start menu - an iconic part of Windows since 1995 - led to confusion among users.As sales of PCs plummeted in the two quarters after the new product&apos;s launch, Microsoftpitched into a revisionto bring back favourite features. &quot;Are there things that we can do to improve the experience? Absolutely,&quot; Tami Reller, the newly promoted head of the Windows team, told the Associated Press in May. &quot;There is a learning curve [to Windows 8] and we can work to address that.&quot;But the revision does not bring back the Start menu; instead it revives the Start button, which takes the user straight to an &quot;all apps&quot; view of the Windows 8 Start screen, a collection of &quot;tiles&quot;. It also introduces an option so that when started, the machine will boot directly into the Windows 7-style desktop view.Windows 8.1 also includes enhancements to more than20 different Microsoft applications and services, including Internet Explorer 11.Windows 8.1will be available as a free download for Windows 8 users, directly from the Windows store. Two versions costing $119.99 in the US (around £75 in the UK) for Windows 8.1 and $199.99 (around £125 in the UK) for Windows 8.1 Pro, which includes additional, business-oriented features, will also be available for installing Windows 8.1 on a new computer, or to upgrade an earlier version of Windows.A Professional upgrade for Windows 8.1 will also be offered for $99 in the US (around £65 in the UK).Windows 8.1 will only be installable on a computer without an operating system, or as an upgrade on a Windows 7 or Windows 8 computer.Windows 7users will have to reinstall all their programs after the upgrade, as only documents and file transfer is supported. Upgrades from previous versions of Windows, including Windows XP and Windows Vista, are not supported by Windows 8.1, unlikeWindows 8.Skipping Windows XPWindows 8.1&apos;s lack of upgrade support for previous versions of Windows isn&apos;t a &quot;big issue&quot; for consumers, according to Annette Jump, research director at consultancy firm Gartner. &quot;The percentage of consumers still using Windows XP is in the low single digits, and those machines that do use Window XP will likely be too old to upgrade,&quot; she said.&quot;Most machines that are young enough to be upgraded will have shipped with Windows 7, however, consumers generally do not upgrade their machines, and simply buy new computers with the latest version of Windows on them,&quot; Jump added.The lack of support for upgrades from Windows XP is a non-issue for businesses, according to Jump: &quot;We&apos;ve seen a large migration from XP to Windows 7 in the last 18 months, and will likely see an acceleration of that trend as support for XP ceases at the end of 2014. Companies are not looking at Windows 8 or 8.1 unless they are using touch-enabled laptops or tablets, which likely came with Windows 8 pre-installed.&quot;Jump also points out that companies don&apos;t upgrade the operating systems on their machines, simply erasing and re-imaging them with a company-wide installation of Windows that includes pre-loaded applications and settings instead.• In June, the Guardian reviewed the preview of Windows 8.1 including the20 plus features Microsoft has improvedin the update.
Grand Theft Auto V, one of the most expensive computer games ever made, has caused outrage among human rights groups for including a torture scene in which the player must pull teeth and electrocute an unarmed man.Freedom from Torture joined Amnesty, teachers&apos; union the ATU and MP Keith Vaz in condemning the scene, just two days after the release of the game.Players of the 18-rated game become career criminal Trevor Phillips, and in a mission within the game called &apos;By the Book&apos; are commanded by the FBI to torture an alleged terrorist for information.Players must complete the scene to finish the game and are offered a selection of torture implements, including sledgehammers and electric cables to use on the victim. If his heart stops, a shot of adrenaline restarts it.Following the scene, the character drives the witness to the airport while lecturing his victim on how torture is a technique for exerting power.Grand Theft Auto 5 includes a graphic scene where the player is asked to torture a victim. Photograph: /Eurogamer“Rockstar North has crossed a line by effectively forcing people to take on the role of a torturer and perform a series of unspeakable acts if they want to achieve success in the game,&quot; said Freedom from Torture chief executive Keith Best.&quot;Torture is a reality, not a game and glamourising it in popular culture undoes the work of organisations like Freedom from Torture and survivor activists to campaign against it.Labour’s Keith Vaz addedthat he was “astonished at the level of violence depicted”, while the release also prompted Alison Sherratt, president of the Association of Teachers and Lecturers, to warn that young children watching their siblings play may not be able to tell that it is fictional.&apos;Young children watch GTA too&apos;“The graphics are so realistic that little ones don’t think what they’re watching is a game,&quot; she said. &quot;Four to five-year-olds have a tendency to copy what they see on TV, whether it’s this or Fireman Sam putting out fires.“ATL is not calling for a ban on these games, or censorship at all. What we are asking is for parents to become aware that the little ones are seeing these things.”But the most recent instalment has faced a different level of protest with critics arguing that the series, normally cynical and satirical in tone, misses its mark at timesAs the main protagonist trevor Phillips, players are sent on a mission by the FBI that involves electrocuting a victim. Photograph: /EurogamerThe Grand Theft Auto series isn’t new to criticism, being a frequent target of attacks by campaigners who claim its content is violent and sexist.Jack Thompson, a now-disbarred attorney in the state of Florida, brought severallawsuits against Take Two, the game’s publisher, calling GTA IV “the gravest assault upon children in this country since polio”.&apos;Hardly the biting satire of GTA past&apos;Jeff Gerstmann of gaming site Giant Bombclaims that much of the writing“feels expected and unadventurous, hardly the biting satire that it felt like in past outings”.In the runup to the launch, reviewers discussed a strain of misogyny that runs through the game.In one in-game mission set in a strip club puts players have to grope strippers while avoiding the bouncer’s attention. In a review, editor ofgaming site GamespotCarolyn Petit argues that defending the scenes under the guise of satire is wrong-headed.“Yes, these are exaggerations of misogynistic undercurrents in our own society, but not satirical ones. With nothing in the narrative to underscore how insane and wrong this is, all the game does is reinforce and celebrate sexism.”Petit also said the game was undermined by its moments of &quot;hypocrisy and inconsistency&quot;, and said the suggestion with the torture scene was that it was a comment on the use of waterboarding and interrogation techniques by the US.&quot;But the fact that Trevor tortures the man regardless, and that he does end up spilling more information as a result, sends a very different message.&quot;GTA is &apos;the go-to bad example&apos;Game designer, theorist and academic Ian Bogost is one who has defended attacks on the game. &quot;GTA is the easy, go-to bad example in discussions of games as culture,&quot; he said.&quot;It&apos;s certainly a characterisation that underestimates the meaning and impact of the series, but nevertheless, among the general public GTA is a shorthand for prurience and abhorrence.&quot;Freedom from Torture&apos;s Best is unimpressed with whatever satirical comment Rockstar has attempted to make.&quot;This adds insult to injury for survivors who are left physically and mentally scarred by torture in the real world,&quot; he said.&quot;If Rockstar North’s message is a satirical critique of the practice of torture, it’s lost on us.”Rockstar was contacted for comment.
What's the biggest game out this week? The obvious answer is Grand Theft Auto V, which analysts have been suggestingmay hit $1bn in salesin its first month.That's around 16.7m copies, which would be hugely impressive, and certainly makes GTA V the most lucrative game out this week.  But it may well be beaten for reach by a mobile game based on two equally-familiar global entertainment brands.Angry Birds Star Wars II is the sequel toa game downloaded more than 100m timessince its release in November 2012, although more than half of those were the free Android version. The sequel is launching simultaneously on iOS, Android and Windows Phone as a paid game, with an additional free version for Android.It's also developer Rovio's most ambitious title yet, taking inspiration from Activision's Skylanders with a range of physical toys –Telepods– designed to work with the game. There will also be the now-customary merchandise, and an official book from National Geographic.As before, the game takes the familiar bird-slinging action of Angry Birds into the Star Wars universe, with the birds and enemy pig characters based on characters from the latter.The likes of Chewbacca, R2-D2 and several versions of Luke Skywalker (Pilot Luke, Endor Luke and Jedi Luke) rub shoulders with Darth Vader, Storm Troopers and Boba Fett from the original Star Wars trilogy.But newer characters also feature: Anakin, Mace Windu, Darth Maul and yes, Jar Jar Binks. Each character has their own attack move, from light sabres, lasers and The Force through to Yoda's ability to ricochet around scenery or Jar Jar's swinging rope tricks.Wait: the bad characters (portrayed as pigs) have attack moves? That's one of the new features in Angry Birds Star Wars II: you can play as the pigs and splat birds, rather than just the other way around.This time round, you can fling pigs at birdsLevelling upAt launch, there are three sections: Naboo Invasion, Escape to Tatooine and Reward Chapter. The first two are split between Bird Side and Pork Side levels – 22 for each side, so 88 levels in total across the two chapters.If you hit certain points targets with each character, you unlock their own level in the Reward Chapter: 18 for the birds and 14 for the pigs. So that's 120 levels at launch, with more chapters to be added in the future.You earn points in each level, and are graded with one, two or three stars for completing it – a familiar mechanic to Angry Birds fans. You'll need 20 stars on each Bird Side chapter to unlock its Pork Side version, but thereafter, their main role is for completion addicts.The gameplay isn't hugely different from previous versions in its broad strokes: catapult the birds/pigs with a gesture, and repeat until you've destroyed all the enemies on a level.The characters provide variety though: with more to use, there are more attacks to master, and it's clear that each level has been designed around the specific characters you're provided with to beat it.You don't, however, have to use those characters, which is where in-app purchases and the Telepods toys come in. We'll take them separately, starting with the game's in-app character store and its system of virtual coins comes in.Characters are sold in the Angry Birds Star Wars II in-app storeStore WarsYou earn coins for hitting different achievements in Angry Birds Star Wars II, which can then be spent on buying different birds and pigs ready to be swapped in to levels whenever you like – although you can only use pigs on Pork Side levels and birds on Bird Side levels.The characters are sold in finite quantities depending on their abilities. 10, 30 or 100 Jar Jar Binks will cost you 70, 130 or 250 coins respectively, but Darth Vader will cost you 800, 1,500 or 2,000 coins for the same quantities. "Bundles" are available of three characters at a time too.Each character can also be bought as a "permanent" upgrade, enabling you to use them once on every level. Poor old Jar Jar costs just 1,000 coins for this, rising to 3,350 coins for Anakin Episode III and 3,500 coins for Darth Vader.As a guide, I unlocked all the chapters while playing for this review, gaining 224 stars out of a possible 264 on the two main chapters, and that earned me 1,650 coins through achievements.Two conclusions: first, you can play through Angry Birds Star Wars II without having to spend more money. Second, though, if you want to play with the full spread of characters, you probably will have to pay.Rovio is selling coins in various quantities: £1.49 for 150 through to £69.99 for 15,000. So the monetary value of 10 flings of Darth Vader is between £3.76 and £7.92 depending on how many coins you buy at once, but getting him permanently costs between £16.45 and £34.65.Got all that? This web of virtual and real currency may be par for the course in free-to-play mobile games, but it does make it hard to pin down the value of a particular feature or power-up.The Telepods toys can be teleported into Angry Birds Star Wars IITelepods toysNeedless to say, parents of children playing Angry Birds Star Wars II – and kids are a big part of the first game's fanbase – should have their passwords secure and their in-app purchase settings locked down before handing their device over.Which brings us on to the Telepods. Made and sold by Hasbro, there are more than 30 being sold in packs starting at £5.99 for two characters and a stand.More expensive packs include more characters and other items to sling them at with physical catapults: the Death Star or a Star Destroyer for example. The latter is the most expensive pack at £39.99, for which you get 10 figures plus the 20-piece ship to set up and destroy.Just like Skylanders, you can teleport the Telepods characters into the game itself. Once per level for each, you can tap the on-screen Telepods button, attach the toy to its transparent stand, and place it on top of your device's camera.A QR code on the character's bottom is scanned, and there's the digital version ready to be flung. They're physical toys, digital power-ups and collectible objects all in one.More maths: the Jedi vs Sith Telepods multi-pack costs £9.99 and includes six characters: Yoda, Anakin Episode II, Qui-Gon Jinn, Emperor Palpatine, General Grievous and Darth Maul.Buying all six as purely in-app permanent power-ups would cost 15,000 coins, so at least £69.99. By that reckoning, £9.99 is pretty good value (and perhaps the best way for parents to point children towards saving up pocket money and/or birthday and Christmas lists as the route to new characters).Some of the levels are set in spaceEnough business model talk. Is Angry Birds Star Wars II a great game? Yes, it is. Like its predecessor, it does an excellent job of staying faithful to the Star Wars universe, right down to the sound effects. Even the way the much-maligned Jar Jar Binks feels like a wry nod to fellow fans.In-app purchases are more of a factor than in previous games, but Rovio has walked the line well between art and commerce, in terms of not aggressively pushing people towards the latter. You can complete the game without paying more, and it doesn't feel like a grind.One criticism: the lack of cloud saves for your progress. Players with an iPhone and iPad, for example, can play Angry Birds Star Wars II on both devices, but they won't synchronise the data. It's a frustrating omission, given Rovio's announcement earlier in the year of something calledRovio Accountdesigned to do exactly this, includingacross iOS and Android.That aside, this is excellent. Angry Birds Star Wars II won't make more money than GTA V, and it will be played by more people. But it's not really a battle between these two very different games. What they share are fervent fanbases whose anticipation has been rewarded this week by the craft of their respective developers.Browse our gallery ofAngry Birds Star Wars II screenshots.
A tool developed by researchers at Southampton University has indexed historic maps, photos and historic documents to provide a simple location search tool for the UK.ThePelagios 3 projecttakes data from ancient Latin and Greek sources, which formed the basis of two previous Pelagios projects, and builds on it with documents and maps from Arabic sources, medieval European and Chinese maps, and seafaring charts from the 13th century, cross-linking them into one searchable database.A partnershipThe project is led by archaeologistDr Leif Isaksenworking in partnership with the Open University and the Austrian Institute of Technology, and funded by theAndrew W Mellon Foundation.The tool is open to the public and researchers. A search for a UK town, city or village returns information up to 1492 matching names in text documents from the period as well as maps and images, connecting facts, stories and maps of places they wouldn’t ordinarily be able to find, or that would be separated in disparate documents and archives.Map after Herodotus of Halicarnassus, (circa 484 BC - 425 BC). Photograph: Interfoto/AlamyThe index also includes local descriptions and stories from the time, including how residents talked about locations at different times and how they related to other places.More than just locations“Places mean much more than dots on a map,” says Dr Elton Barker, co-director of Pelagios and a reader in ancient Greek literature and culture at the Open University. “We are used to seeing the world mapped out in a particular way, a partial ‘truth’ that is only exacerbated by modern technologies, such as Google Earth.”“For instance, it’s remarkable to see that Claudius Ptolemy, a Roman astronomer, used London as one of his primary reference points for global time zones in the late second century, just as we do today,” said Isaksen.Emperor Trajan at Tower Hill.Photograph: [Duncan]/flickrCombining documents from different cultures, languages and sources across time allows cross-referencing, corroboration of evidence and allows the reader to build a much broader, richer picture of both well-known cities and more obscure places.Isaksen and his team are bringing the open, interconnected-data approach, which has enabled significant research advances in subjects ranging from systems biology toGoogle’s flu trends, whichcharts the spread of influenza outbreaksacross the globe, to the world of ancient history.&quot;With such an unprecedented variety of data linked together, it will be possible to trace in broad terms the continuities - and discontinuities - of people&apos;s responses to the world around them,&quot; Isaksen told the Guardian. &quot;Equally exciting is that if you&apos;re interested in a particular place, you&apos;ll be able to bring together disparate fragments of its life history, its connections with other places, its stories and imagery.”Citizen scienceThe simple search boxthat currently represents the front end to the Pelagios project is just the start. Isaksen and his team hope to get the general public involved in the evolution of both the data set and its tools.As the research team discover unknown places and texts without obvious geographic links they will be putonto the project’s site, for interested parties to access.The aim is to integrate some &apos;citizen science&apos;, allowing members of the public to contribute to the project to help identify unknown places and texts.Isaksen is also actively looking for input on where the project’s tools should go next, and how best to evolve the database’s interface to help both researchers and amateur historians.The Ancient Greece and Rome area from the British Museum. Photograph: Massimo Borchi/Atlantide Phototravel/Corbis“The Pelagios project would be a useful starting point to any classics research project, as the more information that’s available when starting out the better,&quot; said Matthew Hosty of Jesus College, Oxford, who is conducting research into ancient parody.&quot;I’m all for unexpected connections like this, especially as many researchers become so specialised that it’s difficult to make links to other disciplines or languages”.• In April, Iran announced its plans tocreate an &quot;Islamic Google Earth.&quot;
Live TV-streaming serviceTVCatchuphas finally introduced acatchup service, offering content for the UK&apos;s four major TV broadcasters.Despite its name, TVCatchup has previously only offered live TV streams for most major UK channels after alegal challenge from UK broadcasterssuspended itsstreaming-TV recording service.It has now added content listings for previously broadcast shows on the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Channel Five, and directs viewers to broadcasters&apos; own on-demand services to watch shows.&quot;[The service is] bringing together the best collection of on-demand TV programmes,&quot; said TVCatchup&apos;s marketing director Alex Guestin a press release.&quot;Viewers today want one place to find all they want to watch and we&apos;re making it easy for broadcasters to reach their public.&quot;TVCatchup hashad battles with TV broadcastersin the past, but this new service, which links out to the on-demand players of the individual broadcasters, is more likely to see favour.&quot;People behind things like the BBC iPlayer want as many people to see their content on their site as possible, so they&apos;re likely to see it as a good thing,&quot; says Hunter Skipworth, technology editor at TV specialist Digital Spy.&quot;The collective EPG isn&apos;t a new thing - it&apos;s been done before in set-top boxes like Tivo, YouView and Freesat - but this is the first time it&apos;s been brought to the desktop for on-demand content, and it could be a real boon.&quot;The service will initially be available onTVCatchup’s website, with a rollout to its mobile phone and tablet services planned for a later date.• In March,TVCatchup was defiantover a European Union ruling that required online rebroadcasting of content to be licensed from the original rights holder.
Kiosked, a new service that allows internet users to buy virtually anything they see when browsing the web, has raised nearly $7m in second-round finance led by the impresario behind the Live 8 and Chime for Change concerts.Kevin Wall, the concert promoter and tech investor who has taken early stakes in startups ranging from Facebook to Bread Labs, will be taking a seat on the board of the Finnish company.He led the $6.9m investment round along with John Lindfors of the Russian tech firm Digital Sky Technologies.He said he was "intrigued" by Kiosked which has developed a giant database of products enable users to buy anything they see such as clothing, footwear or music.Kiosked was founded in 2010 and currently works with 10,000 brands including Nike, Asos, Zalando and eBay, to allow users who spot a pair of shoes, a phone or millions of other products on a website or YouTube video to instantly purchase them.Using visual recognition technology, Kiosked matches the items with the brand and overlays a transactional function with participating brands. It hopes to extend the concept of making all content digitally "smart" by launching a consumer application which would allow browsers to purchase items they see their friends wearing on Facebook, Instagram or other social media for example.Micke Paqvalén, the chief executive and founder of Kiosked, said: "Kiosked has made significant progress in the market and the numbers speak in favour of Kiosked's solution. Our clickthrough rates average at 5.5%, significantly higher than traditional forms of online advertising."Wall said "online marketing needs to become a non-intrusive service for consumers, otherwise it will not succeed" and he believed Kiosked efforts to make all web content smart content "provides the right tools to turn advertising into a true service for consumers".Wall is an early investor in numerous startups, including Facebook, Intent.com, Zumbox, Omaze and Bread Labs, and is a general partner of Craton Equity Partners, a $200m green tech private equity fund.The second round of financing brings Kiosked's total funding raised since last year to $12.65m.
Google's latest doodle marks the birthday of Jean Bernard Léon Foucault, the French physicist and inventor of a pendulum that demonstrated the rotation of the earth.Foucault is also credited with making an early measurement of the speed of light and with the discovery of eddy currents: electric currents induced within conductors by a changing magnetic field in the conductor, which are sometimes called Foucault currents.The son of a publisher, Foucault was born in Paris in 1819, where he initially studied medicine but soon switched to physics. Initially, the primary focus of his research was into LJM Daguerre's photographic processes, while he was also an assistant to the bacteriologist Alfred Donne in the course of his work on microscopic anatomy.After collaborating with his fellow physicist Hippolyte Fizeau on a series of investigations into the intensity of the light of the sun, he made his name at the Panthéon in Paris in 1851 with a demonstration that involved suspending a 67-metre, 28kg pendulum suspended from the building's dome.The plane of its motion, with respect to the earth, rotated slowly clockwise. The experiment sparked a pendulum-mania across Europe and the United States, and crowds were attracted to observe so-called "Foucault pendulums" in major cities on both sides of the Atlantic.Later achievements included devising a method of testing the mirror of a reflecting telescope to determine its shape, the so-called "Foucault knife-edge test".By way of recognition for his achievements, Foucault was made a member of the Bureau des Longitudes, of the Royal Society of London and of the Legion d'Honneur.The physicist, whose name is one of 72 French scientists, engineers, and mathematicians engraved on the Eiffel Tower, died in Paris in 1868.
Apple did it differently this time: it released two phones, not just one. In a world where Samsung seems to release that many each week, and Chinese makers of low-cost Android phones are scrambling over each other for scraps of market share, Apple takes what you could call a stately approach to this "release" stuff.Even so, notice what it hasn't done. The screens aren't bigger. There's little concession to cost. And, in fact, there are plenty of people in line for upgrades, or who are still using phones of all sorts whose screens are smaller than the 4in of the iPhone 5, 5c and 5s - just look around. For them, Apple has something to lure them: fast connections, a simple interface, and really great usability.iPhone 5sA photographer holds up a new iPhone 5S at Apple Inc's announcement event in Beijing. Photograph: Jason Lee/ReutersApple calls this its "most forward-looking" phone. What's it got to offer? A 64-bit dual-core chip, a fingerprint reader that really works, a much better camera (and dual flash) and an intriguing coprocessor - apparently for motion detection.Unlike the iPhone 5c, the 5s (the "s" for sensors, apparently) is the same template as the iPhone 5: metal, chamfered edges. It's not on sale in black - possibly because that colour shows up every little ding - but instead in "gold", silver and "space grey". There are pricey leather cases, though I don't think they add anything useful.As with the 5c, the 5s does all the LTE bands. Depending what you do with it, you can geteven better battery lifethan the 5c - the M7 coprocessor can take over from the A7 CPU if it's sitting motionless with no wireless networks in sight. (Which usually means it's in, say, a metal locker or similar Faraday cage.)Chargingis rapid - I've been very impressed by this aspect of the iPhone. Given that its normal battery life, if you use it intensively for a few hours a day, is 16 hours at best, being able to pick up quick charges makes a big difference. And to those who say "replaceable batteries!" I say "external power packs", such as the Mophie Juice range.My finger is on the buttonAn Apple employee instructs the use of the fingerprint scanner technology built into the company's iPhone 5S during a media event held in Beijing, China. Photograph: Ng Han Guan/APIt's the fingerprints, isn't it? You wanted to know if the fingerprints work, and whether they're beamed back to the NSA.First of all: training the phone to accept a fingerprint is a doddle. It takes about 30 seconds of pressing your digit onto the home button in various orientations before you're declared a signed-up user. You can enrol up to five prints, and delete them as you like.If like me you've got a long passcode protecting your phone (a four-digit passcode isn't really enough; every extra digit makes cracking it ten times slower), then unlocking it quickly becomes tedious - moreso when you hurry and miss a digit. (Though iOS 7's use of the whole screen for the unlock buttons, compared to iOS 6's half-screen, makes miscues less common.)The fingerprint unlock? It just works. Again and again. Wake the phone up with a press of the home button, then rest your finger on it, wait a second - and you're in. I've tried fingerprint scanners on desktop computers (seemy review of the Eikon "Digital Privacy Manager"review from May 2008). They were frustrating - always in the way. Apple has the advantage of faster processors, but even so the simplicity of this feature is remarkable. And Touch ID is just a brief obstacle.Now, to address our post-Snowden paranoia, is the NSA able to reach in and grab your fingerprints? A first question might be "why would it want to, when you leave your fingerprints all over the place, and gave them to US border control if you visited it in the past decade?" But on the basis that it justmight, what's stored is an encrypted hash of a mathematical representation of your prints; it's retained in what Apple calls a "Secure Enclave" of the chip. Apple says that isn't backed up or sent off the device. As a colleague remarked, if Apple had introduced this six months ago, everyone would have been cooing; now, everyone cooks up conspiracy theories.It's notable how none of those have attached to Android's own biometric system, Face Unlock, which apparently can be fooled with a picture from Facebook. "That's because nobody uses it," came a suggestion from Twitter. By contrast, people will use Touch ID. A lot. Some have indicated that that's why they're getting the 5s over the 5c.It's supremely convenient, and I suspect that once Apple feels that people have regained confidence in these systems, it will become available to more payment methods than just its own App Store. (You can buy iTunes and App Store content, though I wasn't able to do this; Apple said it was a bug in a pre-production product.)I do expect that we'll see companies trying to imitate this in the near future (LG put out a phone with a fingerprint reader recently; not much has been heard). Then we'll realise just how well Apple has set this up.64-bit?This question has beendealt with elsewhere. Clearly, Apple sees a need to move in that direction, rather than to more cores (the A7 is dual-core; Samsung is offering eight-core 32-bit phones).Camera: a big step forwardThe Camera app is designed for the Instagram generation (there are filters galore), but also adds two extra elements. Last year gave us Panorama (now available throughout Android). Now there's "Burst mode" for stills, where you hold the shutter button and get 10 frames per second. Let go, and you're presented with the phone's choice of the best picture. (Though the other shots are still there in its library, and can be retrieved for selection.) It's good at this. Compare it to other smartphone cameras, where you have to wade through a gigantic menu of never-used options, and you can see Apple has this right. (Motorola's MotoX also has this feature - which is laudable.)There's also a dual LED flash, offering two colours, which are mixed to balance against the prevailing lighting - so if you're under fluorescent light, it will add more yellow to give a better white balance.Here's the 5c photo (no dual flash):Flash photo taken with iPhone 5c - single LED flashAnd here's the 5s photo (with dual flash)Flash photo taken with iPhone 5s, with dual LED flash. It's more true to the tones in the original.No other top-end smartphone has this, though Samsung's new Galaxy Note 3 phablet does.On the video camera, you can swipe to a setting where you shoot slo-mo video at 120 frames per second: the editing process is simple (you drag some sliders around the point you want to be slowed). Again, it's not the first to offer slo-mo; but it is to make it simple to enable and edit. This, and the Burst mode, are where those who complain that Apple offers "limited" functionality miss the point. There's no use having every function under the sky available if it takes you valuable time to find it. Slo-mo, Burst mode, Panorama, square shots (for Instagram) - they're all located within a swipe of each other. No menus; no stabbing at a faraway button. It's the difference between enjoying using the device, and being frustrated by it.M7, secret agent?The introduction of the M7 coprocessor, which is able to monitor the phone's movements (so that it can do health monitoring, for example, or tell when you're in a car and where you're heading) seems like Apple offering us a little peek into its future plans. Movement? Low-demand processors? What can it be about? If the 5s is forward-looking, this might be something that it's looking to make more in the shorter term. I wouldn't be surprised if the M7 turns up in another Apple product soon.SummaryThe 5s is typical Apple: it's got top-end characteristics, at a top-end price. But with that you get really good implementation of complex problems. Fingerprint unlocking has seemed like a great idea for ages, but nobody could make it work well (Motorola tried it on the Atrix in 2011; it frustrated users). Apple has it nailed. Different camera modes are an obvious feature which smartphone makers have added with abandon (HTC's One has 13 camera optionsbeforeyou get to the "Camera options" tab, which has another six options). Apple has added useful ones, but kept the clutter away.If the 5s is forward-thinking, it's clearly looking at a world where we use fingerprints to buy stuff, and our phones serve us simply rather than entangling us in useless choices. I liked the iPhone 5 last year; the iPhone 5s just shows that you can improve on it.
The nicest phone I've ever held was a Nokia Lumia 800 - the company's first Windows Phone. About the size of the iPhone 4, it had round edges where the iPhone's were square, and square edges where the other's were round. It sat beautifully in the hand. Whatever the phrase is - hand-feel? - the Lumia 800, made of black polycarbonate (aka plastic) had it in spades.(Wondering about iOS 7, which powers the 5c and 5s?See our video review.)But the iPhone 5c comes a close second. Its bright plastic (red, yellow, blue, white, or green) has what initially feels like a soap-slippery texture. Yet it's thin enough, and the back edges rounded enough, that it soon sits easily in the hand (to the extent that the metal-edged iPhones - and all the other non-plastic Android phones, or those with square edges - feel uncomfortable by contrast. (I've never objected to plastic phones; Idon't agreeto the objections from some quarters to Samsung's use of it in the Galaxy S range, for example.)Seamless and smooth, the 5c is a colourful answer to the question Apple faced: how was it going to compete with increasingly cheap, and increasingly large, Android phones which are touting for peoples' business?All onboard for 4G/LTEIn the UK and US, it's priced where "last year's iPhone" used to be: that is, you can pick it up for the same price as an iPhone 4S was until a few days ago. Except this has LTE high-speed connectivity which works on every UK network, and a larger screen than the 4S. In effect it is the iPhone 5's year-old internals (with better LTE, battery life, software and camera, and really fast charging) in a bright, shiny, scratch-resistant plastic casing that says, loudly, "Yup, I got one of the new iPhones."That the 5c aims to be a fashion statement - and that Apple's first adverts for its new phones tout the 5c, not the pricier top-end 5s - indicates the company's view of how the market is shifting. In effect, this is its "cheap" phone. Except Apple never really does "cheap", only "less expensive".An LTE test on an iPhone 5c: 23Mbit/s download, 10Mbps upHook one up to an LTE network, and the speeds can be remarkable: I got 23Mbit/s download and 10Mbps upload on EE's network, and that was just a random effort; I wasn't seeking the fastest possible speed. By contrast, on 3G I managed around 6Mbps. Apple's other statement in the 5c is that LTE is an essential element of a phone you buy today that could last two, three, four years. You'll want the speed, even if you don't yet know it. And the LTE contracts will get cheaper, while offering more data, in the lifetime of this phone.And the colours? The £25 price of a case might be a step too far - though (whisper it) if you want to make your year-old iPhone 5 look up-to-date, the new 5c cases will fit snugly on it. A whole upgrade for just £25. Well, apart from LTE, and all the other benefits.What's better?In terms of the actual hardware performance, I found the following better in the 5c than the 5:•battery life(marginally; you can get a couple of hours' more use in a day)•phone reception(not dramatically, but enough to connect a call where the 5 just shrugged)•call voice quality(notably)•camera(marginally)•charging. This isn't much talked about, but from the iPhone 5 onwards, Apple has concentrated on rapid charging. Compared even to top-end Android phones, or Nokia's Lumias or the BlackBerry Z10, the iPhone tops up noticeably faster: a half-hour charge can take you from, say, 20% charge to 60%.SummaryThe essence of the 5c is that it adds colour, a plastic covering on parts for the iPhone 5 which have been improved. It's not competing on screen size with higher-end Android phones (which I think poses a problem, long-term), but there are still plenty of people who use smaller screens - hello, disaffected older BlackBerry users, or older Android phone users, or feature phone users.By effectively offering a "new" phone for less than the iPhone 5 last year, Apple has lowered the price for a new iPhone. It's a canny move. In the US, it's certain to increase its share of the smartphone installed base (which already sits at 40%). Elsewhere? That depends. People may opt for the pricier 5s, given the comparatively small price gap (only £80) between them.I wouldn't necessarily set much store on the reports of low pre-orders for the 5c: its two-year-ago predecessor was the iPhone 4S, which didn't launch until October, so there's a hump of people who bought on a two-year contract in 2011 who will become eligible for an upgrade in a couple of weeks. It's a solid phone if you're looking for an iPhone upgrade, or don't want to splash out on the 5s.
This week, Aleks Krotoski is joined by Guardian games editor Keith Stuart to discuss Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto V and the future of the controversial games franchise.Click here to read Keith's review and view all the Guardian's GTA coverage.Plus, the team discuss the imminent Twitter stock market launch. The Guardian's telecoms correspondent Juliette Garside joins technology editor Charles Arthur and the Guardian's head of technology Jemima Kiss to talk aboutTwitter's rumoured value of $15bn..They also analyse the recent launch of Apple's iPhone 5C and iPhone 5S along with the debut of iOS7 (click here for Charles Arthur's iOS7 video review).Finally, Jemima Kiss visits a 3D printing installation at this year'sBrighton Digital Festivaland walks away with a digital print of herself.
At some point today, Apple will make its iOS 7 software update available for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch owners to download.It's one of the biggest updates to iOS for some time, and developers have been working hard to update their apps accordingly since the software was revealed at Apple's WWDC event in June.Those updates are going live in a steady flow today too, and for many the changes will those inFoursquare's breezy blog postabout its update for iOS 7 : "We've fancied up the icon, updated the UI, and made it all work flawlessly in Apple's new iOS."Is there more to iOS 7 than what Foursquare describes as a "fresh coat of paint" though? The Guardian canvassed several developers to find out what they think the biggest implications of the new software will be, and as well as assessing how it will affect the ongoing battle between iOS and Android.Cutting the clutterExpect a lot of fancied-up icons and lots of neon on the App Store by tonight, but is there more to iOS 7 from a design standpoint? One theme is coming through strongly: its encouragement to remove clutter and unnecessary textures."The new iOS encourages the focus away from embellishments of user interface elements that we've seen in the past, such as paper textures and other realistic effects that mimic reality," says Tom Censani, product design manager at ticketing service Eventbrite."Instead it puts the focus on content, letting the audience use the app as it was naturally intended." Eventbrite has accordingly "removed distractions" so its users can focus on the tickets they've bought, and discovering new events.A number of developers suggested that this isn't just a case of Apple leading and app design following: but rather Apple responding to trends already making their presence felt on both iOS and Android."The design philosophy hinges on displaying the richness of content without trimmings to distract the user," says Anil Nair, director of mobile at ESPN EMEA, of that company's iOS app."It should be noted, however, that this was not done for Apple's OS. Rather is a case of our design work and the ideas behind the app being in line with their principles: it is minimalistic and fluid in design with the content being the hero."There's some under-reported excitement about the likely impact of iOS 7's UIKit Dynamics features, using behaviours such as attachment, collision, gravity, push and snap to the physics of app interfaces."We've taken the new Dynamics APIs, and re-worked all the interactions in Clear to use them," says Nik Fletcher of Realmac Software, which has redesigned its to-do list app for the new software's launch."It may sound like a small thing, but it makes check off tasks even more satisfying, and makes Clear more cohesive with the OS with extra depth and subtle parallax."Cesani agrees that animations will become an increasingly important focus for user-interface design on iOS, suggesting it's "the next big feature everyone will want to concentrate more effort on in the future"."Now that Apple has encouraged less focus on the UI, developers can concentrate on the flow of their app and that's where animations can really shine and delight users," he adds.Out-of-the-way interfacesMany of the changes may not be obvious to people using apps, at least not at first. And that's because they'll focus on interface elements getting out of the way, rather than grandly announcing their presence.Sushmita Subramanian, lead mobile designer at brain-training games firm Lumosity, cites iOS 7's new transparent status bar as a good example of that."Instead of being a stark, distinguished object at the top of every screen that feels like a disruption from the main content of the app, the status bar will now subtly exist at the top of apps," she says, suggesting that app developers will take their cues from design touches such as this."We anticipate that the iOS 7 focus on clarity and deference will encourage app developers to simplify their designs and reduce visual clutter to create a cleaner, better user experience," says Subramanian."Developers may also take more inspiration from the use of cinematic motion in iOS7 – we may end up seeing a lot more movement used to communicate with users in a more engaging way."Expect a brighter, lighter experience from many apps too. Music discovery startup Soundwave provided this comparison image showing pre and post shots of its iOS 7 update that shows the kind of changes you can expect:Soundwave before and after its iOS 7 updateIn the backgroundSomething iOS 7 users may notice more quickly is the use of background refresh: the ability for apps to download new content in the background without – according to Apple, at least – draining the device's battery.In theory, this means no more opening up an app and then having to wait a few seconds while it refreshes its content. Several developers suggest that iOS users will quickly expect this from all their apps, increasing the pressure on developers to support the feature."The new background APIs mean that whenever a user comes to open your app, it should be showing much more recent information/data than before," says Fletcher. "This sense of continuity is really going to improve the iOS experience."Eventbrite's senior mobile engineer Ravi Rani says the feature is a boon for commerce apps. "The background app refresh allows us to push a user's ticket to their device in real time. So, whenever they open the app, the content is fresh and ready," he says.London events app YPlan is following a similar strategy. "We've already implemented background updates. They allow our app to always have a fresh list of events when customers open it up, so there's no more need to wait staring at a 'Refreshing…' box," says chief technology officer Viktoras Jucikas. "That's a massive improvement in customer experience."Developers are also thinking about social and sharing with some new features under iOS 7. AirDrop, for example, will see apps able to swap data with those on the devices of nearby users. Event information and tickets in Eventbrite's case."We think AirDrop has a lot of potential because of its simplicity and ease of use," says Rani. ESPN is thinking about other forms of social sharing too, according to Nair."Social sharing of content is something we have been bullish on across digital products for some time. The new iOS 7 more tightly integrates social sharing, something that we also see in the Android OS," he says.Kids category is alrightFor parents and children's apps developers alike, one of the most significant new features in iOS 7 is actually part of the App Store: its new Kids category.It's expected to launch today alongside the new software, and willgather and promote apps for three age categories: Five and under, 6-8 and 9-11, with Apple requiring apps to have clear privacy policies, no behavioural advertising and parental gate features for in-app purchases or outbound web-links.Children's apps developers are excited about the new category. "Hopefully our apps – which are currently split across several categories of the store – will be easier to find both serendipitously, for people who are browsing, and deliberately, for parents who've set out to find them," says Tom Bonnick, digital project and marketing manager at publisher Nosy Crow."There'll be a more nuanced set of age bands, as well, which we expect to be particularly helpful for those in the education sector looking to introduce apps to the classroom."Bonnick says that the new category will also provide a dedicated space for children's app promotions, which "often struggle for space in the main part of the App Store", and points to the new rules on in-app features as positive for parents and developers alike."The fact that apps that are featured in the Kids' App section will have to include a 'gating mechanism' to prevent inadvertent in app purchasing will, I hope, improve general consumer confidence in kids' apps, and confer a sort of 'safety guarantee' on those that are listed in the new category," he says.The App Store's new Kids categoryBlazing iBeaconsLooking further ahead, a number of developers are enthusiastic about the potential for iBeacons, another feature that wasn't given a huge amount of attention when iOS 7 was first announced, but whose potential is gathering more comment now.The feature uses Bluetooth Low Energy technology to deliver notifications and content to iOS devices based on a more-accurate reading of their location, including indoors."The ability to use Bluetooth 4 Low Energy on your device to discover iBeacons allows hyper-local information to be shown in-app - for example, if you're in front of a museum exhibit an iBeacon at the exhibit would switch the museum app to information about it," says Realmac's Fletcher."Devices being able to understand where you are on a more intelligent level (eg inside a particular shop, at a train station) – is very exciting. It opens a whole new range of intelligent apps and services," adds Richard Zito, principal software engineer at publisher Touch Press.Eventbrite is already thinking about iBeacons' potential for live events. "It will allow us to present/push more targeted notifications to attendees and allows seamless checking in to events," says Rani.s for SpeedLooking beyond iOS 7, there is also the prospect of the iPhone 5s smartphone going on sale later in the week, with its 64-bit processor the star of the show – with reports already suggestingupcoming Android handsets will include similar computing power.At the iPhone 5s launch event, Apple focused on games as the key app category to benefit from this: Infinity Blade III is the showcase title at launch, and was released today ahead of the new handset's debut.It's not just about games, though. US firm Smule makes music apps, and its chief executive Jeff Smith says there is just as much benefit for his company."Smule has never been the friend of the CPU or your battery. We typically run 30 frames/second of graphics in Open GL, have several audio processes running in parallel (for example to convert your speech into rap!), and then have all application and network logic," he says."iOS 7 with the 5S gives us (and others) the opportunity to begin to approach mobile as we would desktop computing in terms of performance. And so, for example, for the first time we can do real-time audio processing that even a decade ago was only possible on a premium workstation."Automatic updatesOne last iOS 7 feature that's giving developers something to think about is its automatic downloads feature: the ability for users to hit a switch to automatically download updates of their apps as soon as they become available, rather than have to manually trigger them from within the App Store app.For developers, this should mean more confidence that new features will roll out to their users quickly, although that will bring its own challenges."Automatic app updates is a big one I think, because 100% of your customers will have your update. It's great, but developers should be much more careful with updates, because one small bug can ruin everyone's experience," says Denys Zhadanov, marketing manager for productivity apps developer Readdle."From a communication perspective, it now requires an extra effort to deliver the message 'what's new' to your audience, since they won't read it on the App Store any more."A separate issue is how the big changes in iOS 7 make developers think about support for older versions of Apple's software."Developers love the ability to build products for smallest possible selection of platforms and architectures," says YPlan's Jucikas."With iOS 7 we'll be looking to drop iOS 5 support, which means we'll be able to migrate to constraint based layout, collection views and add support for state restoration. That makes things so much easier to maintain.Yet developers' desire to leave old software behind may present challenges too. Apple has just introduced a feature for users on older devices that lets themdownload "the last compatible version" of an appthat supports their device.Platform battlesThe thing that most fascinates me about iOS 7 is how it will affect app developers' strategies for Android. Google's platform has beenevolving its own design languageand specific features, with clear guidelines.A great iOS 7 app may look quite different to a great Android app – and it remains to be seen whether that gap will widen under the next "KitKat" version of Android – even if some of the guiding principles are similar.Some differences will be functional, such as the addition of homescreen widgets for Android. Most developers are relishing the challenge of producing good work on both platforms, rather than grumbling about their differences."In the past few years, Android has also arrived at a design language that focuses on usability and delight, while still allowing strong customisation and personalisation," says Lumosity's Subramanian."It's an exciting time to be in mobile – especially as a designer – with both platforms constantly evolving and rapidly incorporating cutting-edge design languages."Censani suggests that iOS 7 has "put a little more heat on Android", while Fletcher hails Apple for its willingness to "disrupt and reimagine their own OS than let a competitor beat them to it".Smule's Smith warns that there will be challenges as well as opportunities for app developers trying to make the most of iOS, even though he's very enthusiastic about the potential rewards if they succeed."iOS 7 is a fork in the road. It separates iOS from Android, but also iOS 7 from all previous generations of the operating system," says Smule's Smith."Apple has always focused on user experience for their hardware and products. iOS 7 redefines the user experience on mobile. In many ways, it will be the most difficult OS to embrace by developers in terms of both scope and nuance as a result."
James Delingpole is worried.The Daily Mail writer is concernedthat the success of Grand Theft Auto V suggests that modern culture has dipped into dark nihilism, and that the violence depicted in this hyper-real gangster adventure will bleed onto the streets of Britain. It is a concern that his newspaper, and others like it, have been dutifully expressing since the 1990s when titles such as Doom and Duke Nukem introduced a new era of visceral shoot-&apos;em-up action. It is a concern that reflects moral fears of old, about rock&apos;n&apos;roll and movie violence. Both were expected by some to lead to mass delinquency and carnage. And yet crime rates, including violent crime, continue to fall. And the destruction of society has not taken place.Grand Theft Auto V is a grand guignol fantasy – an admittedly nasty, sometimes infantile parody of modern cultural life, constructed around an astonishing sandbox city and an amoral crime narrative. In story terms it presents little to us that we haven&apos;t scene in a hundred gangster movies – criminal lives glamorised at the expense of innocent civilians. Delingpole suggests in his worry piece that Hollywood renders all this OK because often the bad guys get their comeuppance. This shows a simplistic, almost quaint reading of the cinematic experience. Teenagers thought Al Pacino in Scarface and the cast of Reservoir Dogs were cool, despite their grisly fates. Iconic status outlasts the turgid plotlines and moral proclivities of mainstream cinema. The people choose their own anti-heroes.Meanwhile, despite thousands of studies, links between screened violence and real-life violence are vague and usually misunderstood. Whenever a new study on game violence is splashed across the headlines, I often follow it up to the source, and what I tend to find is a harassed and embarrassed researcher whose work has been over-simplified or misrepresented. The people who buy GTA V will see it as a piece of entertainment, admittedly with dark elements, certainly with masses of violence – and then they&apos;ll switch it off and continue to love their families and friends and carry on their lives as functioning adults. Just as they have done after playing the other GTA titles, and Call of Duty and whatever else is drawing the hysterical glare of frightened columnists that week.&quot;What troubles me about Grand Theft Auto V,&quot; sighs Delingpole, &quot;is not just the message it sends out to youngsters (drugs are cool; crime pays; violence is fun), but what it says about the coarsening, the decadence and the hopelessness of our modern culture.&quot;This, suggests that &quot;youngsters&quot; – and by that he must mean 18-year-olds as the game is rated 18 – are utterly unable to distinguish between different influences in their lives. We live in an age of information, in which smartphones and 24-hour multichannel TV serve up an unending flow of data; in which the ability to interpret and understand a mass of incoming signals is pretty much a prerequisite of life. And yet somehow a reality is envisaged here in which one admittedly successful game has the power to utterly divert a teenager&apos;s moral understanding of the world. How insulting. How bizarre.Video games are built around compelling feedback loops – and I have no qualms in accepting that one of the most satisfying is the act of violence: a punch, a kick, a shot. Aggression and adrenaline are human traits that games, like books, art and film, have always understood and exploited. But like all these other art forms, games are outlets – they are cathartic. They allow us to experience things we don&apos;t want to, and can&apos;t in real life. They tell us things we sometimes don&apos;t want to hear, but need to know.The torture scene in GTA V is something I will always have trouble defending, but I know that it asks questions about player engagement and culpability – even if you don&apos;t have the option to not carry out the violent acts on a defenceless prisoner. Could it have been left out? Could the &quot;is it safe&quot; dentist torture scene have been removed from the movie Marathon Man? Sometimes entertainment makes us uncomfortable, and the makers of GTA know it. They&apos;re not evil madmen, they are writers and designers who want to explore the darker edges of existence.And brilliantly, Delingpole references my positive review of the game without once mentioning the glowing critical appraisal handed out by his own publication. &quot;Meaningless violence?&quot; asks the Daily Mail&apos;s five star review, &quot;That couldn&apos;t be further from the truth,&quot; Of course, it&apos;s fine for one newspaper to hold contrasting critical opinions within its staff, but it seems when it comes to denigrating reviewers for their moral ineptitude, better to do so by singling out another publication.We won&apos;t venture to consider the ways in which the Mail&apos;s site paints all manner of modern culture. Instead, consider that in a few months, GTA V will be off the news; the youngsters will have finished it and moved on – next month they may well be playing Fifa, or a delightful new Super Mario game, or one of the many indie titles that explore life and love and humour and optimism and grace.
If you've ever rolled your eyes at the sight of supermarkets stacking the mince pies high in September, look away now: The Great British Bake Off star Mary Berry has releaseda Christmas recipes app.Published by Hachette subsidiary Headline Publishing Group, the £1.99 app promises "15 of Mary Berry's reliable, step-by-step festive recipes", from traditional roast turkey through to an aubergine five-nut roast.Released for iPhone and iPad, the app includes shopping lists, cooking instructions and timers: up to three in the iPad app, although iPhone owners will have to make do with one.The app is not available for Android smartphones and tablets, although ane-book version of Hachette's Mary Berry's Christmas Collectioncan be pre-ordered on the Google Play store for those devices.The app is branded as Berry's rather than The Great British Bake Off, the BBC show that has won the cookery writer and broadcaster a new generation of fans with her judging and masterclasses.The show itself has alreadyspawned an official appreleased by Random House in August 2012, which offered 60 recipes drawn from two spin-off books that had already been published.The latest series of The Great British Bake Off has been a ratings success for BBC2, attracting 5.85m viewers to its 3 September episode and regularly beating shows aired in the same slot on BBC1 and ITV.Mary Berry's new iPhone and iPad appIts app and Mary Berry's new release are part of a wider trend for cookery apps fronted by chefs and presenters.Jamie Oliver has collaborated with British developer Zolmo on several apps, includingJamie's 20 Minute MealsandJamie's Recipes. At the MIPTV conference in April 2013, Zolmo saidthe latter had been downloaded more than 8m times.Other branded cookery apps include Nigella Lawson'sNigellissima, Gordon Ramsay'sCook With Meand Gino D'Acampo'sEating Italian.Meanwhile, Raymond Blanc recently provided recipes for iPad appHenri Le Worm, which aims to get children interested in cooking, and also featured voice narration from Simon Pegg.
When Apple announced that its iPhone 5S would has a 64-bit processor, the reaction from the tech community varied from "Huh?" to "Wow!" to "There's no point in that now." So does it have any benefit, now or in the future?To understand this, we have to go back to basics, and work back up to the overall view.Most computing devices work with binary values grouped together to represent larger numbers. The bigger the grouping, the greater the range of numbers the device can easily represent. A device's CPU is usually described as "64-bit" if, broadly, ituses 64 binary digits as its fundamentally most efficient unit of representation.The idea of 64-bit computing isn't new. Even in the early 1960s, IBM built a supercomputer with 64-bit and 32-bit capabilities. Reductions in size, affordability and energy consumption have brought such technology into the mainstream. Today, most new desktops and laptops use 64-bit CPUs. Smartphones and tablets still used 32-bit processors until Apple announced the iPhone 5S – with a 64-bit ARM-based CPU.A conventional 32-bit CPU in a modern smartphone can still do 64-bit mathematical operations, but because to do so it needs to join two 32-bit numbers together (to represent a single 64-bit number), it often takes longer to do than a native 64-bit CPU.For an idea of the vast range of numbers a 64-bit CPU can represent, imagine that a single bit had the physical volume of a grain of rice – 0.075mlaccording to Wolfram Alpha. 16-bits-worth (65,536) of grains, crushed to eliminate gaps, would fill around 10.5 pint glasses. 32-bits worth of rice would occupy the same space as three London buses. But 64-bits worth of rice would fill the whole of Sydney Harbour... 2,460 times over.Who could possibly need all that in a phone?Immediate benefitsThe CPU is the fastest thing in a smartphone (or computer) by far, but the CPU itself has very little storage space. CPU registers, where the processor stores numbers for fastest possible access, are rare and precious. From the CPU's point of view, everything else outside it works at comparatively glacial speeds. There are lots of tricks to boost speed, including CPU cache memory which acts as a sort of speed buffer between the CPU and main memory (RAM). But in general the more computing you can do entirely within the CPU the better. More registers mean more speed.Often the leap from 32-bit to 64-bit computing is accompanied by an increase in register count. Apple says its new processor has twice the number of registers, so it has twice the "headroom" before it needs to access the (comparatively slow) cache or main RAM. Moreover, it's less likely to need to use them in pairs, since 64-bit registers can contain much larger numbers than 32-bit registers. For example, a 32-bit computer can burn DVDs even though the number of bytes on a disc is greater than can be addressed by a single register; it needs two working together to describe the space on the disc. Not so with 64-bit.Other examples for the need to represent large numbers include large companies and stock exchanges. A 32-bit number can only represent whole numbers from zero to just over four billion. That's clearly not enough in the modern world. Even at home, burning a DVD needs more than 32-bit addressing to describe a position on the disc. (A DVD can store 4.7GB.)Another key consideration is the amount of physical RAM the computer, or smartphone, can "speak to"; with 32 bits, we're often limited to 4GB or less. Many computers contain more - there are tricks to make 32-bit computers address larger quantities, but these add complexity and hamper efficiency. 64-bit makes it easy.But, you say, smartphones don't normally burn DVDs, coordinate stock exchanges or carrying more than 4GB of RAM. In fact, having more RAM may require more energy, so adding RAM to a battery powered device isn't necessarily desirable.Furthermore, although earlier ARM designs such as the Cortex A15used extensions to provide a 40-bit address space, nobody was putting the 1TB of RAM that the chip could theoretically address into a phone back when this chip design became available.So if this 64-bit processor isn't about burning movies to disc, crunching huge spreadsheets or addressing lots of RAM, what's it for?Hidden benefitsNumber-crunching is really important in a smartphone. There's a lot of maths involved in day-to-day communication – 2G, 3G, 4G, WiFi, Bluetooth and so on. Location service calculations using GPS are complex too. Avoiding extra chips for the maths, or being more efficient at the maths, reduces cost and energy consumption.Modern smartphones already include dedicated GPU chips for graphics, audio and video. If the CPU can talk to the GPU with larger numbers – higher accuracy and so forth – then the two might (in theory) communicate less often and more efficiently.Perhaps the biggest issue, though, is virtual address space. This refers to the way that the operating system in the device "views" its whole world. No current major smartphone or desktop/laptop computer OS uses the physical addresses of installed RAM directly. Instead, virtual addresses are used. There's amemory mapthat translates between the two, detailing how the virtual address space translates to the physical one.This is done for reasons too numerous to list here, but they include paging of files, a process that's confusingly also often called virtual memory. Part of this means read-only data in files (eg an app's graphics or its executable code) may be mapped into memory – in essence, described aspotentiallyloaded but notactuallyloaded yet – and thenreallyloaded when needed.That load-when-needed function is achieved by the processor noticing when it tries to use data residing at a virtual address that doesn't actually have a physical destination yet. It warns the OS; the OS takes steps to load the right chunk of data into the right chunk of RAM and then tells the CPU to continue where it last left off. After all, if you never use a particular "screen" of an app, why have the images for that screen loaded in memory all the time?The iPhone OSuses this method a lot. As with other modern operating systems, it uses a virtual memory map, not a physical one. Some virtual addresses might map to RAM, some might map to stored files and others to more esoteric things such as hardware peripherals. Suddenly the 4GB of address space in a 32-bit machine looks rather cramped; you can have very much more than 4GB of apps and data stored on your phone, for starters. 32-bit addressing seriously limits what can be done efficiently with the virtual memory map.Having 64 bits even has a security benefit. A feature such asaddress-space layout randomisation(ASLR) tries to make life hard for malware by mapping chunks of code into the virtual memory map at different addresses whenever loaded. That mean the malware has no fixed address to aim at for an attack. But 4GB of crowded 32-bit address space limits the range of addresses that can be used for this randomisation, meaning cleverly crafted malware stands a reasonable chance of being able to simply scan the entire address space to find something vulnerable. With 64 bits, the address space is so vast that it's not practical to use brute-force scanning. It alters the malware's challenge from finding a needle in a haystack, to finding a needle somewhere inside the orbit of Mercury.So 64-bit addressing isn't so much about being able to address lots of physical RAM; it's more about being able to address lots of everything else, and to do so very quickly.DrawbacksThere's a potential tradeoff: 64-bit numbers are larger, so need more RAM to store them. That's only the case where a programmer really needs a full 64-bit number to be stored; smaller numbers that fit in smaller spaces can be stored just as they were before. Even so, the impact will offset some of the efficiency gains of needing to use CPU cache or main RAM less often, by using more of those resources.All apps on Apple's App Store that pre-date the iPhone 5S will be written using 32-bit code. The 64-bit A7 chip can run these, but it remains to be seen if it will run them as efficiently as the older 32-bit A6 chip did. Any overheads will be mitigated by the fact that any iOS features they employ will be running 64-bit code, and that the A7 CPU is faster overall, including having a faster graphics system.Apps supporting 64 bits will typically include a 32-bit version for older iPhones and iPads. This doesn't mean that the app size will double; for most apps, the bulk of the size is in the graphics and sound resources, not the actual executable code. However, there will clearly be an increase in storage requirements, which will vary from app to app.Over time, apps may appear that require 64-bit capability and simply can't run on older 32-bit hardware, but that has always been the case for any new hardware feature or iOS release when the feature is needed, but not available on older devices. Historically, older phones have a long shelf life and, in any case, none of the apps you currently own are going to stop working, though one day you might not be able to update to the newest version.Fingerprints?Does having a 64-bit CPU help with fingerprint recognition? That's not clear. Details about the underlying implementation of Apple's fingerprint recognition system in the iPhone 5S are not available, leaving room for little but speculation.Apple has stressed that no fingerprint data is sent to or stored by apps and that it's not backed up or sent to iCloud. Some have worried about the careful wording – it might not be sent toiCloud, but is it sent somewhere else? – but it seems likely that even the iPhone OS never gets to "see" fingerprint data. The new iPhone's A7 CPU includes a secure cryptography unit that's independent of its 32/64-bit capability, and the fingerprint sensor probably communicates with this directly.Here's how I think it works:• The sensor "learns" your fingerprint, building up a mathematical map of it, which it stores as ahash(abstracted number) in the A7's crypto module. That's one of those one-way things - you can go from a scanned fingerprint to a hash to get a match, but you can't start with a hash and reverse it to produce a picture of a fingerprint.• Apps don't have general API access to Touch ID at all presently. The OS and the various built-in Apple store apps can probably only ask the Touch ID system, "is this someone you have previously recognised?". The sensor and crypto unit communicate to see if the hash the sensor has made from scanning a print matches something that it stored before and if so, it says "yes"; else "no".It's possible that the creation of the hash and its encryption inside the A7 chip is done by OS-level code, and so benefits from the faster 64-bit mathematics available therein. But it seems more likely that the whole process is self-contained within the sensor and crypto hardware. The OS shouldn't get involved beyond presenting a user interface; that would help explain why the fingerprint image you see during the learning process is just an indication, not your actual fingerprint. Making sure that there is physically no communication path between the fingerprint data and iOS would certainly help security.The waters are muddied by apparent support for multiple people. If the OS can distinguish between individuals then somewhere there must be a map between stored fingerprint hashes and a kind of user identifier, which the OS then maps to a real person. I'm not so sure that's the case though; it may be just recording lots of different fingerprint hashes, which may or may not be for the same person or finger; then saying whether or not it recognises them.The iPhone OS has been, after all, staunchly single-user since its original release, so it would seem odd to shoehorn in bits of multi-user support through Touch ID. Perhaps there's nothing more going on than hardware-level recognition of a print, with no per-user associations. (Editor's note:Apple says you can enrol fingerprints serially, and let only earlier ones buy from the Store. So there seems to be some distinction between specific fingerprints.)Whether or not a 64-bit CPU helps, it would be surprising if Apple stepped sideways and designed a 32-bit version of the A7 with the cryptography unit and Touch ID for, say, a 32-bit Touch ID-enabled low-end iPad. It seems probable that the new hardware will be used in future Touch ID-based products where being 64-bit is almost a side effect, as the product range gradually phases out 32-bit CPUs and moves to a set of fully 64-bit devices.SummaryWith 64-bit computing now achievable at a power consumption, chip size and cost appropriate for mobile devices, it seems inevitable that manufacturers will move to this in time. The performance and security benefits, along with potential reductions in complexity of both hardware and software, ought to aid the reliability of both. It's not a whole new game-changing era of computing dawning upon us – but it's certainly a welcome, logical next step in the progression of mobile technology.Andrew Hodkingson, Steve Revill and Ben Avison are founder members ofRISC OS Open Ltdand have worked with ARM technology back to its 26-bit days in Acorn Computers Ltd during the 1990s
YouTube is preparing to introduce a new feature in its mobile apps that will enable videos to be downloaded onto devices for offline viewing.Due to launch in November, the feature wasannounced on the YouTube Creators blogfor channel-owners, and pitched as a way for them to attract even more viewers."We're always exploring ways to bring more viewers to your content. As part of this effort, later this year we'll launch a new feature on YouTube's mobile apps that will help you reach fans -- even when they're not connected to the Internet.This upcoming feature will allow people to add videos to their device to watch for a short period when an Internet connection is unavailable. So your fans' ability to enjoy your videos no longer has to be interrupted by something as commonplace as a morning commute."YouTube is keeping further details under wraps for now, promising a further blog post in November on "how this will work for viewers". It's thus unclear how long people will be able to store YouTube videos on their devices, and whether creators will be able to opt out of the feature.The new capability will build on a feature in the Android version of YouTube's app calledPreload, which enables people to "preload videos from your subscribed channels and Watch Later playlist while your phone is charging and on WiFi for smooth playback while you're on the move".Mobile is an increasingly important platform for YouTube, which says thatmobile devices now account more than 1bn daily video views, and more than 25% of the service's "watch time" – which given its stat of more than 6bn hours of video watched a month overall, indicates that at least 1.5bn of those are on mobile devices.Adding video downloads to YouTube's mobile apps is likely to spark some interesting discussions with copyright owners. Music, for example, is one of the most popular categories on YouTube, but rightsholders in that industry may see offline cacheing as requiring new licensing deals for their music videos.This kind of feature is increasingly common in a range of entertainment apps, however. Spotify, Deezer, Rdio and other streaming music services have all offered offline cacheing for some time in their mobile apps, mainly as a way for users to avoid blowing through their monthly data limits by streaming over 3G.In the video-on-demand field, meanwhile, the BBCadded TV show downloads to its BBC iPlayer app for iPhone and iPadin September 2012, thento the Android version of the app a year later.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle releases a new version of Google Wallet, dumps NFC requirement &gt;&gt; Ars Technica[Google] Wallet will also be supporting loyalty cards, which will require you to scan the phone screen with a barcode scanner at checkout. A small handful of companies will integrate with the wallet app and display things like rewards points balances in the Wallet app itself. The Wallet blog post also touts integration with Google Offers, which has been around for a while, and Google is offering 100% purchase protection against any fraudulent activity.Since Wallet no longer requires NFC, there's no reason for it to be Android-only anymore. We wouldn't be surprised to see an iOS app (assuming Apple allows it) sometime soon. Almost a year ago, Googleset up an invitation pagefor a version of Google Wallet that would work on Android, iOS, and "other" devices, but nothing ever came of the project.Intriguing that this would happen just as Apple rolls out AirDrop (Bluetooth-range data links) andGoogle buys NFC replacement Bump.Android open source tech lead heads to Yahoo &gt;&gt; AllThingsDJean-Baptiste Queru, formerly of Google's Android team, has left the company to join Yahoo.His new role at Yahoo is architect and senior principal engineer on the company's mobile team, according to LinkedIn, yet another in a string of hires and acquisitions the company has made to bulk up its mobile team over the past year under CEO Marissa Mayer's leadership.Google upset Queru, its Android open source evangelist, by teaming with a chip company which didn't open source the drivers for the new Nexus 7.FBI admits it controlled Tor servers behind mass malware attack &gt;&gt; Wired.comIt wasn't ever seriously in doubt, but the FBI yesterday acknowledged that it secretly took control of Freedom Hosting last July, days before the servers of the largest provider of ultra-anonymous hosting were found to be serving custom malware designed to identify visitors.Freedom Hosting's operator, Eric Eoin Marques, had rented the servers from an unnamed commercial hosting provider in France, and paid for them from a bank account in Las Vegas. It's not clear how the FBI took over the servers in late July, but the bureau was temporarily thwarted when Marques somehow regained access and changed the passwords, briefly locking out the FBI until it gained back control.The new details emerged in a Thursday bail hearing in Dublin, Ireland, where Marques, 28, is fighting extradition to America on charges that Freedom Hosting facilitated child pornography on a massive scale. He was denied bail today for the second time since his arrest in July.Securo-boffins link hired gun hackers to Aurora, Bit9 megahacks &gt;&gt; The RegisterSecurity researchers have linked the "Hackers for hire" Hidden Lynx Group with a number of high-profile attacks, including an assault on net security firm Bit9, as well as the notorious Operation Aurora assault against Google and other hi-tech firms back in 2009.Hidden Lynx is a sophisticated hacking group based in China and made of up of between 50 to 100 individuals, according to Symantec. The hackers provide "full service" as well as "customised" cyber-espionage attacks against corporate and government targets, claims the security firm. Its favoured tactics include compromising third-party sites frequented by individuals from targeted organisations with malicious code.That was the straw which broke the camel's back for Google.Stepping Out of the Search Box &gt;&gt; Search BlogA new visual identity doesn't just happen overnight. We spent months looking at ways to update the look of Bing to represent what the product offers today, while achieving visual parity with Microsoft's over-arching new look for the company. We worked with product, graphic and user experience designers to create a look that matches and grows with the product.We knew our products were evolving beyond just the traditional search page. We were building apps for Windows 8, we were integrating search into Windows Phone and Xbox. This was much more than just a new logo or a single brainstorm.TL:DR: Microsoft redesigned the Bing logo. The end.Angry entrepreneur replies to patent troll with racketeering lawsuit &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaFindTheBest CEO Kevin O'Connor, who also cofounded online ad giant DoubleClick, decided several weeks ago hewouldtalk about it—publicly, and often. O'Connor wrote to tech sites likePandoDailytelling them of his determination to "slaughter" the troll, the "scum of the earth." And in August, hepledged$1 million of his own money to fight the troll that went after his company.Now, we're getting a vision of howFindTheBestis putting that money to use. The company has made a novel legal claim, saying that the troll that came after it is so reckless, it has engaged in outright extortion, violating racketeering laws.Read on - the use of crowdsourcing to try to find out the links between the patent-owning companies is very promising.Former Windows chief: Mobile will quickly become the new normal &gt;&gt; CITEworld"The positive term is 'paradigm shift,'" said [former Windows chief Steve] Sinofsky, who was speaking on a panel with Box engineering chief (and Google Docs inventor) Sam Schillace at the Boxworks conference this afternoon. "One day everybody's mailing around PowerPoint presentations and carrying a five-pound laptop....The next day it's 'I couldn't read them on my phone so they don't exist.' That's what's driving this huge change. Companies are much more in tune with the resources outside them. They have the ability to work with vendors as though they were employees in the same organization."Very big changes afoot. (Thanks #slimbowski for the link.)Nuclear options: Microsoft was testing Surface Phone while Nokia experimented with Android &gt;&gt; The VergeMicrosoft and Nokia need each other more than you'd expect. While Nokia was testing Android in a variety of different ways, Microsoft was busy experimenting with a Surface Phone. Sources familiar with Microsoft's plans tell The Verge that the company built a number of prototype devices to test the viability of such a phone. We're told that Terry Myerson, who now heads the Windows, Windows Phone, and Xbox operating systems, was in charge of the secret Surface phone project. The company hadoriginally considered the idea of its own phone devices as a "Plan B"if Nokia wasn't successful with Windows Phone.So is buying Nokia "Plan C"? (Thanks #beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Facebook reveals plan to WIRE THE PLANET • The Register&gt;&gt; The RegisterYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
