Bafta has announced the shortlist for this year's Audience Award, the sole publically-voted category at the Academy's annual video game awards ceremony.Sponsored by retail chain, Game, the Audience Award features ten of last year's biggest games, selected by a group of specialist magazine journalists. Gamers will now be able to vote on their favourite title via theofficial site. The list was announced by YouTube gaming sensation (it says here)Syndicate.Here's the shortlist in full:* Batman: Arkham City* Battlefield 3* Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3* Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim* FIFA 12* LA Noire* The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword* Minecraft* Portal 2* Uncharted 3: Drake's DeceptionGame fans are already noting in forums that the shortlist compilers found no space for Namco's cult hit Dark Souls or thoughtful cyberpunk adventure Deus Ex: Human Revolution. From this list, it's likely that Modern Warfare 3 will emerge as the favourite – Call of Duty: Black Ops claimed the prize last year, with Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 winning the year before that.The ceremony takes place on 16 March, with other categories including best art, story, music and multiplayer decided by a range of judging panels. The shortlists for those will be announced soon.
Part-Godfather and part-Exorcist,The Darkness II(PS3/Xbox 360/PC) feels, at times, as much a film as a game. In the title menus, each of the game's four difficulty levels is accompanied by a single sentence of explanation. The essence of the game is neatly captured in the tagline of the easiest setting: "Tell me a story."The Darkness II began life as a comic book and, rather than walk the&nbsp;now well-trodden path from cult comic to blockbuster to video game tie-in, it ditched the middle man and skipped straight to 2007's The Darkness – a quiet success story in terms both of&nbsp;sales and reviews. That a film has yet to materialise may be in no small part due to the gruesome setting and tone, combining the prostitution, drugs and&nbsp;violence of the organised crime world with demonic ritual, haemophiliac gore and a journey to&nbsp;the&nbsp;depths of hell.More fool film. For all the vice and viscera, The Darkness II, like its predecessor, is at heart a love story: between our hero, young mafioso Jackie Estacado, and his childhood sweetheart Jenny Ramano, his only friend from the orphanage they grew up in. In one scene from the original game, Jackie and Jenny sit watching To Kill A Mockingbird on a tattered old sofa. Jennie falls asleep, her head on your shoulder, and as the player you can choose to stay there, watching the film all the way to the end, in real time. Games bloggerNathan Graysoncalled it "the most authentic instance of romance ever conveyed in a videogame".For the players who sat with Jenny until the end, it must have hit like a hammer when a short while later rival mobsters shot her dead in front of them. In the sequel the pair are reunited in short, bittersweet and tender hallucinations – stark counterpoints to the relentless blood, guts and grime of the rest of the game.The sofa scene is an example of the way storytelling in games can be both far richer and, at the same time, far less important than in films, and in a sense for the same reason. Unlike in films, the story of a game will tend to be optional – in The Darkness II, as in most new games, players who just want to crack skulls can skip nearly every cutscene and line of dialogue, and scoff at the game's attempt to engage them emotionally or intellectually. Video games can still be mindless if the&nbsp;player wants.But just as there's the option of foregoing the story, you can also seek it out. Early in The Darkness II, the player is left alone to wander his mansion. A pair of burly mafia goons sit at the bar, deep in Sopranos-style banter. You can, of course, choose to ignore them, but opt instead to talk with them and they'll bicker – their names, we learn, are Eddie&nbsp;and Frank, and as well as being mobsters, they're brothers-in-law.Eavesdrop and Frank accuses his brother-in-law of never having been in love. Wait longer and you discover he cheats on Eddie's sister, and Eddie knows, and what's more, he's OK with it. Wait still longer and the pair share a&nbsp;long and smutty Lone Ranger and Tonto joke. Each conversation is warm, characterful and funny. All of it voice-acted, the characters gesticulating wildly – like proper, three-dimensional mob men.This is not a game for action gamers: it plays, by and large, as a fairly simple first-person shooter. But as an answer to the refuseniks who still dismiss games' potential as a storytelling medium, The Darkness II is emphatic.
Apple's controversial Chinese supplier Foxconn was battling on Thursday to contain a security breach after hackers joined the mounting protest over iPhone factory conditions by leaking the login details of its entire staff.A group calling itself Swagg Security taunted Terry Gou, the chief executive of Foxconn's parent company Hon Hai Industries, by posting his username and password along with a mass of other sensitive information on The Pirate Bay and Pastebin websites.The hack, publicised in a series of Twitter alerts, came as campaigners delivered petitions demanding an ethically-made iPhone 5 – the new model is expected later this year – at Apple stores in London, New York, San Francisco, Sydney and Bangalore. The controversy could also marr the release of Apple's iPad 3, now expected in March.More than 250,000 people have signed two petitions, organised by campaign platforms SumOfUs and Change.org."Everyone here is an avid Apple user, we just want to ensure those products are made in working conditions that are ethical and fair and safe," said the UK campaigns director of Change.org, Brie Rogers Lowery, who delivered four boxes of signatures to Apple's Regent Street store."Finding out about the conditions under which iPhones and iPads are produced makes me disturbed to own one. We are hoping to push Apple to set a precedent for other technology companies."Media exposure of suicides, deaths from explosions, maimings and 16-hour shifts at the factories assembling Apple's electronics goods mean pressure is mounting for the world's most valuable listed company to improve conditions for workers at Foxconn and other suppliers.Swagg Security took aim at Foxconn in an anonymous letter: "They say you got your employees all worked up, committing suicide 'n stuff … Your not gonna' know what hit you by the time you finish this release. Your company gonna' crumble, and you deserve it."The website 9to5Mac verified the leak, and said the passwords provided access to several Foxconn servers, most of them hosting intranet sites for company clients. "The passwords inside these files could allow individuals to make fraudulent orders under big companies like Microsoft, Apple, IBM, Intel, and Dell," Swagg Security claimed on its Pastebin page.Foxconn responded by shutting down the compromised server and taking down a website detailing the services it provides to Apple and other clients including HP, Cisco, Acer and Sony.Apple's chief executive, Tim Cook, who masterminded the company's supply chain before succeeding Steve Jobs at the head of the company, said last month he had never turned a blind eye to working conditions. Apple produced annual audits of its factories but last month appointed an independent group, the Fair Labour Association, to take over inspections.
The FBI has released its files on Steve Jobs, Apple co-founder and icon of the business world, painting a picture of a complex man who is described both as "a deceptive individual" and one of "high moral character and integrity".The documents, released in response to a Freedom of Information Act request, were compiled by the FBI when Jobs was being considered for political office in the president's export council under George Bush Sr's administration.Some of the titbits revealed in the 191 pages of documents include that that he was a negligent father who would "twist the truth and distort reality in order to achieve his goals," according to documents released by the FBI.The FBI interviewed Jobs and at least 29 people who knew him as part of a background check. Their investigations took place in the 1990s, after Jobs had been fired from Apple and before his triumphant return to the company."Several individuals questioned Mr Jobs' honesty stating that Mr Jobs will twist the truth and distort reality in order to achieve his goals. They also commented that, in the past, Mr Jobs was not supportive of [redacted] and their daughter; however, recently has become supportive," according to the documents.Another source characterised Jobs as "a deceptive individual who is not completely forthright and honest".The files paint a picture of a complicated man, full of contradictions. One man interviewed by the FBI, who identifies himself as a former "good friend" of Jobs, said that while the Apple boss was "basically an honest and trustworthy person, he is a very complex individual and his moral character is suspect." He said that Jobs "alienated a large number of people at Apple as a result of his ambition".But none of the witnesses seem to have questioned Jobs' business abilities.'A deceptive individual who is not completely forthright'Two other witnesses said he was "strong-willed, stubborn, hard-working and driven, which is why they believe he is so successful." He was a man of "indefatigable energy" and "vision" according to others and would make  "a positive contribution on the national scene." Another said he "believed the appointee has what it takes to assume a high level political position within the government, which in his opinion, honesty and integrity are not prerequisites to assume such a position".Jobs travelled to India in the mid-1970s and became fascinated by Zen Buddhism, he practised mediation for the rest of his life. One FBI source said Jobs "had undergone a change in philosophy by participating in eastern and/or Indian mysticism and religion. This change apparently influenced the appointee's personal life for the better."The portrait tallies with that given in Steve Jobs, Water Isaacson's recent biography of the Apple founder. Jobs had a "reality distortion field", according to Isaacson, that allowed him to believe, and convince others, that whatever he said was true. "Zen awareness was not accompanied by an excess of calm, peace of mind or interpersonal mellowness," Isaacson wrote.At the time of the interview Jobs said he had not used any illegal drugs for five years. He said he had used marijuana, hashhish and LSD between 1970-1974.Jobs told the FBI that he was not a member of the communist party or any organisation looking to overthrow the government. He said he belonged to no organisations other than the New York Athletic Club, an exclusive Manhattan  gym, but that he knew nothing about their membership policies as he had never been there.The documents also contain memos about a $1m bomb threat that was made against Apple on February 7, 1985, several months before Apple fired Jobs."An unidentified male caller made a series of telephone calls to [redacted] of Apple computer Inc […] and advised that 'devices' had been placed in homes of captioned individuals [redacted] and one million dollars must be paid," the FBI wrote. The caller said he had left instructions about how to defuse the bomns under a table "next to a candy machine" in the Hilton Hotel in San Francisco. No bombs or notes were found.According to the source, Jobs' religious leanings led him to live "more of a spartanlike and at times even monastic existence" that had "apparently influenced the appointee's personal life for the better".The FBI can make its records public after a person's death. Jobs died in October after a long battle with a rare form of cancer.Apple, the maker of the iPhone, iPad, iPod and Mac, is now the world's most valuable company. After Jobs's death, fans flocked to Apple stores around the world, leaving "iShrines" to their hero.
Social photography startup Path has apologised to its users for uploading and storing their phone contacts on its servers, but the controversy looks set to spread far beyond that one company, as Silicon Valley wakes up to the fact that privacy is an issue that can derail even the slickest social apps.The backlash against Path started with ablog post by Arun Thampi, who discovered that the company's app was sending users' address books to its servers.The story was soon splashed across the blogosphere, leading Path's chief executive Dave Morin tomake a public apology– titled simply "We are sorry" – on the company's own blog."We made a mistake. Over the last couple of days users brought to light an issue concerning how we handle your personal information on Path, specifically the transmission and storage of your phone contacts," wrote Morin, before accepting that the backlash had found its mark."Through the feedback we've received from all of you, we now understand that the way we had designed our 'Add Friends' feature was wrong. We are deeply sorry if you were uncomfortable with how our application used your phone contacts."Morin went on to stress that Path has only been using the data to improve the quality of its friend suggestions, but added that the company has now deleted its entire stash of user-uploaded contacts, and has updated its apps to make the contact-sharing an opt-in affair.The story has been particularly damaging for Path, as from its launch in November 2010, privacy was a central feature for the app: initially, it was about sharing photos with your 50 closest friends and family members rather than wider social networks or the entire web.An app that promises to "share life with the ones you love", yet which stores your phone's address book on its servers without telling you? Not good. Morin's apology was prompt and refreshingly un-weaselly, but it remains to be seen how many of Path's 2m users ditch the service in protest – or simply because they don't trust it any more.The important thing here, though, is that Path is not one bad apple riding roughshod over its users' privacy. This is a more widespread cultural problem with the way social media and/or mobile apps startups are thinking about these issues.Shortly after the Path controversy erupted, another social photos app, Hipster, was found to be uploading parts of users' address books to its server, although it later emerged that unlike Path, the data wasn't being stored there permanently.Another blogger, Mark Chang,broke that news, sparking aresponse from Hipster chief executive Doug Ludlowon TechCrunch:"Mark's criticisms were spot on, and needless to say we're pretty embarrassed by the situation.  Embarrassed not because we had malicious goals in mind (we don't store the contact data we pull – we just match it to existing users), but embarrassed by the fact that we pushed a feature that doesn't meet our standards for the protection of our user's data."Two bad apples? Now readthis blog post from Dustin Curtis, which widens the apps/privacy debate considerably."It's not really a secret, per se, but there's a quiet understanding among many iOS app developers that it is acceptable to send a user's entire address book, without their permission, to remote servers and then store it for future reference," he wrote."It's common practice, and many companies likely have your address book stored in their database… I did a quick survey of 15 developers of popular iOS apps, and 13 of them told me they have a contacts database with millons of records."This lack of comprehension that people will be freaked out by an app uploading their phone contacts to a server without telling them – or worse, comprehending it but doing it anyway – is starting to look like an endemic problem for social apps startups, and the wider social media industry.It's not wrong to store someone's phone contacts on a server. It's wrong to do it without telling them. And if you can't explain clearly and persuasively why doing it will improve someone's experience with your app or service, it's a sign that your priorities are misaligned. This is before you even get into the even thornier discussions about whether those contacts would consent to having their details stored in this way.Hipster is holding an "Application Privacy Summit" at its San Francisco office on 17 February to discuss "best practices and privacy standards" and brainstorm a "privacy pledge" that might be adopted by all apps.Perhaps that will help, if it gets widespread support. Curtis notes that platform owners cannot shirk responsibility either:"Why does Apple allow iOS apps to access a user's entire address book, at any time, without permission? Even Android requires that apps ask for explicit permission to access local contacts," he asks.Apple recently warned developers about using marketing services that promise to manipulate the App Store chart rankings. Perhaps a separate warning about privacy and transparency is overdue.Really, though, the social app startups have strong incentives to be transparent about what they're doing with their users' data. After all, there are two key currencies for social apps: data and trust.They need as much data as possible from their users in order to provide better recommendations – look at Foursquare'stransitionfrom gamified check-ins to a location-based recommendations engine – and they also need that data to make money, whether through advertising or other means.To get that data, these startups rely on the trust of their users. Without trust, the business models collapse.
If any company can take one of the most widely available casual games on the planet and make it even more popular it's probably Popcap.The creator of compulsive time-killing legends such as Peggle, Zuma and Bejeweled (which alone, has now shifted more than 50m units) has just announced its next Facebook game, Solitaire Blitz – a fast-paced variation on the classic Klondike solitaire derivatives available on just about every PC and Mac released since the early eighties.As usual with Popcap titles, the simple premise is effectively a smiley-faced Trojan horse, delivering deep scoring and purchasing mechanics.The game has a standard set up of seven feeder piles, from which gamers draw cards to create sequences in the four foundation slots at the top of the playing area. Here, though, the numerical sequences can go up or down in card value, so you're able to put either a four or six on top of a five.It's possible to start a game with the feeder piles already populated with cards, too – everything is manufacturered to produce a speedy, ultra-fluid game, in which experienced players zip cards about the screen like a Las Vegas croupier.And this being a Popcap title, there are lots of little extras. At the start of a round, players can choose from a selection of boost options, allowing you to, say, start with a joker, or to place a mine under one of the feeder piles, which explodes all the cards when you reach it.Also, the foundation slots can sometimes be locked, so you need to uncover a card with a key symbol on it, in order to open up and start that stack.The whole thing works on a timer – the quicker you complete the round, the higher your score. Clearing a feeder line adds extra seconds to the clock, like reaching a check point in an arcade racing game.Interestingly, this isn't the only arcade technique the designers have employed. If players manage to create a sequence of similar cards across the foundation slots (like having all royals) they get a score boost, giving the game a sort of fruit machine dynamic.At the end of a round, successful players are given a range of cute little items that convert into silver which can then be used to buy new boosts and other goodies. Popcap accutaely understands the psychology of the casual gamer – trinkets, and the ability to share those trinkets – is the life force of the social game.Solitaire Blitz is, as you'd expect, ridiculously compelling. The boosts and timer additions, which could easily have been intrusive, seem perfectly judged and carefully balanced to allow proper tactical play to develop.The timer element adds a sense of frenetic action, and the streamlined card selecting process (you can just click on cards and they'll zoom up to the foundation area, or shake if they're unplayable) is slick and satisfying.Monetisation is pretty subtle, but don't be fooled, it's there alright. Players can pay for extra boosts, for silver or for energy, which depletes as you play more rounds – a standard set of Facebook gaming systems.There are also a range of differently designed decks to unlock or purchase, ranging from the aquatically themed "Captain's Wheel" to an Eiffel Tower option with Gallic flourishes.Players are able to share items, and can easily compare scores with friends so there are co-op and competitive elements. I also love the fact that the score has been recorded by the Seattle Symphony Orchestra – surely a musical first for a Facebook game soundtrack?I've played for barely an hour, but already it's clear the Popcap formula of taking reasonably well-known gaming genres, boosting them with lovely presentation and adding in a deeper scoring mechanic, is in full swing.It'll be interesting to see how the title fares against Zynga's lasting favourite Texas Hold 'Em Poker, which boasts more than 32 million monthly active users.With Popcap's other Facebook titles, Bejeweled Blitz and Zuma Blitz, hovering around at the modest 3m monthly users mark, the EA-owned developer will no doubt be looking to make more of an impact with this one – especially aseveryonewith a computer knows how to play.• Solitaire Blitz will be launched on facebook in March
Do you have any recommendations for equipment and programs to record telephone interviews for radio packages, please? I'm a trainee broadcast assistant working for a community radio station. Schedules don't always facilitate face-to-face interviews, but people will usually respond via email or talk on the phone.DarrylAlthough I've done quite a lot of radio, it's been as a guest, so the hardware side of a broadcast desk is still a mystery to me. However, I'm told that you need a telephone balance unit or TBU, especially if you want to put callers live on air. The TBU connects the incoming phone call to the mixing desk, so that you can talk to (and listen to) the caller using the mixing desk's microphone and headphones instead of the telephone handset. The TBU splits the incoming and outgoing audio streams, which allows you to clean and balance them (so the presenter doesn't swamp the caller, or vice versa), and also fade the caller in and out.A TBU such as, for example, theSonifex HY-03costs £619 plus VAT. If your radio station needs one, you could search for a cheaper model or try to pick one up on eBay.Of course, most radio packages and podcasts are produced without using a TBU, and there are several different approaches.The problem is that it's very difficult to record broadcast-quality audio over a standard phone line, and I've spent decades demonstrating this. I've mostly used a cheap telephone line splitter (aka telephone recording splitter) which plugs into a standard RJ45 phone socket. I've then plugged the output jack into a Sony WM-D6C Professional Walkman or, more recently, aRoland R-09HR(aka Edirol) digital recorder. It works, but I always end up sounding too loud and too close while the caller sounds too quiet and too distant, as well as being in crackly mono instead of crystal-clear stereo.You may be able to get more acceptable results if you put the caller on a decent speakerphone and record your interviews using a Roland R-09HR, Zoom H4N orsimilar digital recorder. You will have to experiment to find the best positions for you, the speakerphone and the recorder. The main drawback is that you may also capture outside noises (dogs barking, fire engines etc), unless you can do the recording in a studio. But, sadly, the days of decent-sounding wood-veneered executive speakerphones have probably gone…You can get much better results if you can record both ends of the conversation at the same time, which is called a "simulrec". I've done this withScott Cawley, the expert soundman who produced the Guardian's TechWeekly Podcast for the past couple of years, but is just going freelance. Basically, he recorded our telephone conversations at his mixing desk while I recorded my replies on the Edirol, then emailed him the resulting MP3 file (or other format of choice). He could then replace the phone parts of his recording with my high-quality Edirol parts. Since the two files are in sync, this isn't too hard to do in multi-track digital editing software.Scott says he's now doing simulrecs with people who have smartphones, because most of them have a voice recording application. After the interview has finished, the caller simply emails him the file.If your callers have access to a PC, then Skype is probably the simplest way to record an interview, using software such as High Criteria'sTotal Recorderon Windows or Rogue Amoeba'sAudio Hijack Proon Mac OS X. There are several alternatives designed for recording Skype calls, includingPamelaand (free)Call Graphfor Windows andCall Recorderfor Mac OS X.Scott points out that you can record a Skype conversation even if the caller doesn't have a PC. In this case, you'd probably use the SkypeOut service from a PC running Skype to call a normal voice phone. SkypeOut isn't free but you can buy minutes, like any pay-as-you-go service.In the UK and some other countries, you can also buy a SkypeIn phone number and circulate it like any other phone number. Callers dial in from their normal phone but you receive the calls on your PC.Skype's audio quality is somewhat variable and can suffer from bad echoes, jitter, and latency problems. It can also sound much better than a normal analogue phone connection. Try running some tests with up-to-date versions of the Skype and see how it goes.An alternative to Skype isAudio TX Pots, which is claimed to offer "ISDN quality over a standard analogue telephone line". As you may know, many broadcasters (including the BBC) started using ISDN digital lines to connect to remote studios before the internet became popular, and these used pre-internet codecs. However, since Audio TX Pots software is for Windows only and costs £500, it's probably not worth downloading the free trial version.When it comes to audio software, many people start with the free, open sourceAudacityfor recording and editing sounds. It's very capable but can be a bit of a struggle for beginners. There are also many well known commercial programs, such asAdobe Audition, Avid'sPro Tools 10, and Sony'sACID Pro 7andSound Forge Pro 10. Sony also sellsSound Forge Audio Studio 10as a low-cost option for home studios.Scott recommendsReaperdigital audio workstation software, which is similar to theSADiEsystems used at the BBC and in many recording studios. The website describes Reaper as "a complete multitrack audio and MIDI recording, editing, processing, mixing, and mastering environment." It costs $60 for personal use or $225 for a commercial license, but you can download a full copy to try before you buy.However, the cost of pro software is ultimately irrelevant. Ask around to find out which one is most likely to get you a job in the future, and learn it well.
The decisive moment for smartphones overtaking point-and-shoot cameras occurred last summer when the iPhone 4 became the most popular device for picture uploads to the image-sharing site Flickr. At the 2012 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, camera makers were scrambling to adapt to this new order, adding internet connections and more powerful zoom lenses to even basic models.But it is not only photographers who have been quick to realise the potential of the camera in devices such as the iPhone 4 and 4S, and Nokia N8; film-makers have also been working with smartphones to produce not only quality shorts, but in some cases full-length feature films – shot completely on a mobile phone.Acclaimed South Korean director Park Chan-wook is perhaps the most famous film-maker to adopt the iPhone when he shot his 33-minute featureNight Fishing(original title Paranmanjang) on the device. OK, he "cheated" and attached a 35mm lens to his own iPhone to use as a principle camera, but he had the crew shoot with their iPhones so he had plenty of ready-to-use footage from various angles that he could incorporate into his film.And it is this kind of flexibility that is attracting film-makers to the smartphone as a work tool. If you know what you are doing you can whip out your phone, shoot a scene pretty much anywhere and Bam! It's in the can and ready to be edited.Leeds-based writer and directorDanny Laceyshoots with HD cameras such as the Sony EX1, Sony F3 and DSLR's like the Canon 5D MKII and 7D for his corporate work, but sees the potential of the smartphone."It's incredibly handy and fun to be able to film using my iPhone 4," he said. "Shooting at 720p, 30fps on that tiny piece of technology that fits in the palm of your hand, very exciting. I recently shot an experimental video on my iPhone 4 usingan 8mm app called Super 8. On top of that I used a macro lens attachment made specifically for the iPhone. The idea was to film lots of random images with the main focus being on the interesting shapes and flares you can get from various light sources."The results were impressive. I ended up with an interesting, abstract video that I called 'Darkness and Light in 8mm'. Even though the app would only let me record at 480x360 pixels, it was still a good example of what you can achieve with this technology."It is also possible to edit a film on the iPhone, asMajek Picturesdemonstrated when they not only shot their four-minute shortApple of My Eyeon the iPhone 4, but also edited the footage on the device.Apple of My Eye is widely credited as the first film to be made on an iPhone 4 and was made soon after the its launch in June 2010.Michael Koerbel and Anna Elizabeth James are the founders of Majek Pictures. The couple already had the story idea, but no money to make Apple of My Eye, which is a warm, sentimental story of a man's relationship with his granddaughter that evokes images of his own childhood.While playing around with his new iPhone 4 Koerbel noticed it had a HD camera, "so I said to Anna 'you know we could shoot a movie – let's try it out'," he said.To make their film, Koerbel and James simply used what resources they had – Koerbel's dad's train set was a main feature in the film, for example – and they were lucky enough to work with talented actors and crew who gave up their talents for nothing.In the making-of video for Apple of My Eye, we see James editing the film on the iPhone iMovie app as they drive home in their car. Koerbel said that while they proved it is also possible to edit on the iPhone 4, it was strictly a "one off" and wouldn't recommend it for bigger projects."After the success of Apple of My Eye, companies started shipping us stuff," said Koerbel, "equipment like dollies, gear, sliders and lenses for example."This led to Majek's next project, theGoldilocks, which has been described as "Bourne Ultimatum on an iPhone" and the first mobile film series shot and distributed entirely via an iOS device.In one episode there is a scene where wine is being poured into a glass. Koerbel got the shot by placing the iPhone 4 in a ziplock bag in the bottom of the glass. The scene cost a couple of dollars, max (for the bag) – in a Hollywood production it would have cost at least a couple of grand, if not more.Goldilocks won first prize in the firstiPhone Film Festival, and was included on a longlist in the Interactive Media category at last year's Emmy awards.While the iPhone has undoubtedly been at the forefront of this new wave of film-making, other smartphones are also being used.The Nokia N8, with its 12 megapixel camera and Carl Zeiss optics, has not only proved a highly popular and cheaper option to the iPhone, but packs a much better camera than it too – resolution: 16:9 nHD (640 x 360 pixels) OLED.The new iPhone 4S includes an 8 megapixel backlit camerawith CMOS sensor that records 1080p video at 30 FPS – with an f/2.4 aperture and a gyro for video stabilisation.Even if you don't like the idea of actually filming on the iPhone, there is a bunch ofcinematography apps– to use for everything from calculating sunrise and sunset to storyboarding and camera angles – available to help you get the best shot.Very recently Olive, starring Gene Rowlands, became the first full feature film to be shot entirely on a smartphone – the Nokia N8.The producers also want it to be the first independently financed feature film to be distributed across 2,000+ theatres in the US without the backing of a major studio. After raising an initial $500,000 (£315,000) privately to cover production costs on the 22-day shoot, the producers are looking to raise a further $300,000 for advertising and distribution of Olive.The film was made by adapting the Nokia N8 and crafting a 35mm lens adapter onto the smartphone in order to achieve a shallow depth of field. The N8 is also taped to a motorbike and a remote-controlled helicopter for overhead shots in other scenes.With the demise of 35mm film, digital devices and smartphones are fast becoming an option for film-makers as traditional cameras cease production.Koerbel says that as the next generation of smartphones is developed with larger HD camera sensor chips, filming on a mobile is going to become even more popular."The key to success is to exercise your imagination … and the most important thing is to get your ideas down either by writing or shooting a video. Shoot with the camera you have with you, it has been a springboard for us," is his advice to film-makers.• Tony Myers is the editor ofsmartmoviemaking.com
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWe're very sorry, BlackBerry users &gt;&gt; Kayak blogFrom the travel app people:It is with a heavy heart (and thumbs) that we must announce this: KAYAK Mobile is dropping active support and maintenance for our BlackBerry application. We are sincerely sorry to BlackBerry users, but we have regrettably come to this practical decision. When we started KAYAK in 2004, we issued BlackBerries to the entire engineering team so we could communicate instantly 24/7. Today we've all switched, and it seems our users are doing the same. Our audience of BlackBerry users has been declining precipitously, and we can't justify the cost any longer. RIM was a smartphone pioneer and we thank them for what they've done, and wish them renewed success. BlackBerry was (and is) an amazing messaging platform. But it's not working out to be a great channel for consumer mobile applications, which is what leads us to this sad post.Does the platform erosion lead or follow market share erosion?Stealing Your Address Book &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisSo iOS basically lets apps upload your address book:I did a quick survey of 15 developers of popular iOS apps, and 13 of them told me they have a contacts database with millons of records. One company's database has Mark Zuckerberg's cell phone number, Larry Ellison's home phone number and Bill Gates' cell phone number. This data is not meant to be public, and people have an expectation of privacy with respect to their contacts.Those are some databases, though. Off Steve Jobs's iPhone?Apple's subsidy makes iPhone a nightmare for carriers &gt;&gt; CNNSelling iPhones dents carriers' service margins (essentially, their profitability. OK then..So why do carriers insist on selling the iPhone? Verizon, AT&amp;T and Sprint all declined to comment directly on that question for this article, but the companies have said in the past that having the iPhone is a major selling point for their brands. In an interview with CNNMoney in October, just after Sprint announced it would begin selling the iPhone, Sprint CEO Hesse said the No. 1 reason why customers had left Sprint prior to October was because it had no iPhone.Facebook Forced To Update Its IPO Filing To Confirm Its Special Relationship With Zynga &gt;&gt; Business InsiderExtract:"The parties acknowledge that FB desires to enable Zynga to build the Zynga Platform on top of the Facebook Platform, and the parties desire to, amongst other goals set forth herein, work together to increase the number of users of each party's products and services. The parties further acknowledge that Zynga is making a significant commitment to the Facebook Platform (i.e., using Facebook as the exclusive Social Platform on the Zynga Properties and granting FB certain title exclusivities to Zynga games on the Facebook Platform).Apple iMatch: The First Royalties Are In &gt;&gt; TuneCorner Music BlogThe first royalty payments from iMatch are in, and they got me excited - the total amount is over $10,000 for the first two months.Google Screenwise: New Program Pays You To Give Up Privacy &amp; Surf The Web With Chrome &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandA $5 Amazon gift card every three months for this. Would you do it?Groupon Falls 13%: Q4 Rev Beats, Q1 View Tops Estimates &gt;&gt; Barrons.comOnline coupon distributor Groupon (GRPN), in its first report since going public, this afternoon reported Q4 revenue ahead of analysts' expectations but reported a surprise net loss instead of the expected profit.Groupon Announces Fourth Quarter 2011 Results &gt;&gt; GrouponPath's Privacy Issues and the UK's Data Protection Act &gt;&gt; ForbesBut Path might still be in breach of UK data laws, says ForbesWe are sorry &gt;&gt; PathWe care deeply about your privacy and about creating a trusted place for you to share life with your close friends and family. As we continue to expand and grow we will make some mistakes along the way. We commit to you that we will continue to be transparent and always serve you, our users, first.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A selection of 17 apps for you today:Tweetbot for iPadTweetbot has become many Twitter users' app of choice on iPhone, even above the official client. Now it's been beefed up for iPad, helping users switch between multiple timelines using gestures, while hiding navigation tabs that they don't use.iPadRagdoll Blaster 3Backflip Studios' two Ragdoll Blaster games have been great showcases for physics-puzzling on iOS. Now a third version has flip-flopped onto the App Store, with more than 100 levels and five ragdolls to blast.iPhone / iPadVonage MobileVoIP service Vonage has a new app for iPhone and Android, promising free voice calls and texts to other users, "high-definition audio" for the former, and low-cost international calls to non-Vonage users.Android / iPhoneDrop Catcher FreeUK studio FatBobGames' puzzler involves feeding neon bars with numbers to help them reach the top of the screen. Addictive and hypnotic, it also has a charitable aim: extra levels are sold in-app, with 50% of the proceeds going to charity SpecialEffect, which helps young people with disabilities enjoy computer games.iPhone / iPadDoDonPachi Blissful DeathJapanese company Cave's latest shoot 'em up for iOS is based on a game that came out 10 years ago. If the thought of a screen full of bullets doesn't terrify you, it promises to be marvellous fun.iPhoneNatWest Business BankingMonitise has launched a new business banking group for NatWest – aseparate versionis available for the Royal Bank of Scotland too – enabling business customers to check their accounts and make transfers on the go.iPhoneReal Football 2012Gameloft's football simulation has a long history on mobile, and the latest iteration has just made the leap to Android. Licensed players, motion-captured animation and a variety of game modes aim to give FIFA a run for its money.AndroidChee.rsSocial app Chee.rs aims to be "the Like button for the world around you", helping people express appreciation for, well, anything: people, places and things. Yes, it's gamified: you earn "Cheerfluence points" as other people spread your cheers on.iPhoneRaid LeaderCrescent Moon Games' latest iOS title sees you leading a party of warriors through a fantasy land, slaying monsters, trousering loot and unlocking new abilities.iPhone / iPadLonely Planet Images Photo Gallery AppThe title says it all, really. This is a collection of images from Lonely Planet's archives, presented so people can browse them and save favourites to be used as wallpapers. Pics can also be bought as posters.iPhoneTick Bait's UniverseThis educational iPad book-app is aimed at "7-70" year-olds, aiming to explain science and the universe, from DNA, bacteria and viruses to the Milky Way galaxy.iPadEufloria HDWoozy ambient-strategy PC game Eufloria has made the leap to iPad. The aim remains to take over space asteroids while growing plants and creatures to beat opponents doing the same thing.iPadFotopedia Women of the WorldThe World Bank and Fotopedia have teamed up for this "tribute to the diversity, beauty and strength of women around the world": photographs from 75 countries by pro snapper Olivier Martel.iPhone / iPadViz Strip TeaserDennis Publishing has a new iPhone app for its Viz magazine, promising fans a way to "read the latest cartoon strips from in a format fully optimised for your phone".iPhoneJack and the Land of ColoursMore iPad fun for children here, with a story that aims to teach kids the colours red, green, yellow and blue as they bring them back to a monochrome kingdom.iPadA Frog ThingDr. Seuss developer Oceanhouse Media has other strings to its bow: this app based on Eric Drachman's story tells the tale of a frog who wants to fly.Android / iPhoneCorpse Party BloodCovered: ...Repeated FearGory Japanese horror-adventure Corpse Party involves ghostly schoolchildren haunting a school, promising 20 hours of gameplay. The developers are charging £17.49 for it on the App Store though. Good luck with that...iPhone
I know what you're thinking ... after five updates already, how much more can they possibly squeeze out of the moneypit/sandbox that is The Sims 3? In fairness, though, this one does seem to have a few features that fans may soon find indispensable as well as a theme clearly designed to appeal to whole new audience. As such, Sims 3: Showtime is looking like the franchise's most extensive re-tweak in a long while and possibly the last before Sims 4.Showtime's theme reflects the current reality talent show zeitgeist; it's all about turning wanabes into divas, literally one stage at a time. In addition to your usual pursuits of socialising, cruising and accessorising your world, Showtime gives you three new careers – that of a Magician, Acrobat or Singer, with an additional DJ career for moonlighters.The three main paths start by performing for peanuts, usually in your own home for the amusement of friends, before earning enough experience to hit ever larger venues. Naturally, as you grow in expertise, you get bigger tips, your reputation (and personal relationships) improve and your act gets to incorporate bigger, more crowd pleasing features.Acrobats, for instance, begin as mime artists, mastering basic balance ball tricks and flips before moving onto fully customised stadium shows. Magicians get to invest in new props like the Box of Mystery or Swords of Destiny. Singers meanwhile unlock new props, costumes and tracks – something expanded on in the limited edition box that features licensed material from Katy Perry, no doubt the first in a string of celebrity endorsements.Whatever your chosen talent, you soon outgrow the need to audition for gigs or take part in Sim Fests (where you just show up and try your luck against other players or NPCs.) There are eight levels of career progression, ending up with headline shows in bigger venues. Although these do look good – don't be expecting too much in the way of pyrotechnics –  this is The Sims, after all, and the emphasis firmly remains on micromanagement. With a host of new props, fashions and features to enhance your act, you'll be tinkering away at these for weeks. And for the first time, you can accumulate enough Happiness points to unlock a Midlife Crisis, allowing you to fundamentally change your personality.However, although existing fans may appreciate these additions to the core game, it's new fans that the developers are really after – and these too are based around your improving performance abilities. Once your act is at a state to feel proud of, Showtime's other two key features kick in.First there's the Simport, which allows you to send your acts to another player's port; they get to see your performance, you get to keep the credits and experience points when they return. Simport is exclusive to this add-on but at the time of writing could not be play-tested, so it remains to be seen how useful this particular feature will be.Showtime's second feature, however, applies to all Sims 3 add-ons and is a fully integrated part of the UI. Social Networking was, according to developers, introduced due to strong community demand and it's very easy to use. It allows you to display badges, achievements and milestones, invite an audience to a particular venue or send and receive instant messages to specific friends or the whole Sims community – so if you're fussy about privacy, better customise those preferences early.In fairness, though, this is unlikely to bother a community already well used to the wheeling, dealing and socialising that goes on in Sims 3 – all of which is about to get a whole lot easier.Overall, Showtime features all the things you would expect. Although I did not get long enough to explore the new town of Starlight Shore, it seemed to have all the requisite landmarks and places of interest, obviously, with a heavy bias towards performance opportunities.There's also 250 new objects (including karaoke machines, jukeboxes and light systems) new traits, milestones, achievements and medals as well as the tantalising potential of killing a fellow Sim (but you'll have to be a magician to find out how).Combined with the new social networking and Simport features, and the potential for  bigger celebrity and programme tie-ins in future and The Sims' journey towards becoming a fully formed personality cult, now complete with delusions of grandeur,  seems almost complete. If that idea floats your boat, then The Sims 3: Showtime could well tide you over till the next series of 'Britain's Got Talent'.• The Sims 3: Showtime will be released for PC on 9 March
Just two days away from the Guardian indie games and Chatterbox awards extravaganza!
Groupon, the daily deals website, has disappointed Wall Street expectations of a return to profit by reporting a $43m (£27m) fourth-quarter loss in its first set of results since joining the stock market late last year.The Chicago-based company watched its shares crash 8.5% to $22.50 in after-hours trading after it emerged that a drive to cut costs prior to going public last November had failed to eliminate losses.Analysts had hoped for a profit of three cents a share after Groupon cut marketing budgets, but it reported a net loss of 8 cents a share for the final quarter of 2011.However, revenues beat forecasts, up 194% to $506.5m in the three months to 31&nbsp;December, from $172m in the same period the year before. An uplift in trading, propelled by international expansion, meant Groupon comfortably beat Wall Street's revenue predictions of $475m.International revenues of $981m for the full year now account for 60% of total income, and the company did succeed in making its first operating profit since international operations began in the second quarter of 2010, registering a modest $15m gain compared with $336m of losses a year ago.Chief executive and cofounder Andrew Mason said Groupon had saved its customers billions of dollars and would continue to invest in new services.Annual revenues now total $1.6bn, up from $313m in 2010, and Groupon had 33 million active customers – those who have bought from the website in the past 12 months – at the last count, up 20% quarter on quarter. Some 26 million people have downloaded its mobile phone app.But after Wednesday's maiden results, Groupon shares are in danger of crashing once more below their $20 IPO price. The company raised $700m in what was the largest internet company IPO since Google's $1.7bn debut in 2004, although the record was overtaken by games group Zynga which sold $1bn of stock in its December offering.
The past two years have been a wild ride for Groupon, and on Wednesday's earnings call the online disount company faces its biggest test to date as investors get their first look at Groupon as a publicly traded company.Two years ago Groupon was being hailed as the"fastest growing company ever"by Forbes magazine. Google offered $6bn for the firm in December 2010, but Andrew Mason, the company's founder, rejected it.Last November the firm went public in the biggest, most hyped initial public offering (IPO) since Google. It's now valued at $15bn but, according to critics, the cracks are showing.Groupon's shares were priced at $20 a piece when the firm went public. Thanks to investor appetite, and the small number of shares sold, they soared to $28 on their first day of trading but have drifted down ever since.Now operating in 45 countries, the company will report its fourth-quarter results, and analysts expect sales of $473m, up nearly threefold from a year ago. For the full year, Groupon is expected to have revenues of $1.6bn. All big numbers, but profits have been in short supply and with the firm valued at just under $15bn, growth may not be enough to support its current share price.Rick Summer, an analyst at Morning Star, believes Groupon's shares should be trading closer to $8. "Given the company's phenomenal growth it's understandable people would get excited about the company," he said, adding that the firm was being valued as an internet company when it doesn't make internet profit margins.Facebook, which filed its own IPO papers last week, recently revealed it had pre-tax operating margins of 47%. Summer calculates that in the long term, Groupon's margins will be in the low single figures. All this as competition increases from coupon competitors, including Google and the Amazon-backed Living Social."The only advantage of scale in this business is the ability to stay in business as opposed to going out of business," Summer said.
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone maker, is to cut 4,000 factory jobs in Finland, Hungary and Mexico as it shifts the assembly of its smartphones to Asia.The move, designed to speed up production in the fast-moving smartphone market, will mean the loss of more than half of the 7,100 jobs at the three factories affected. The company has nine manufacturing plants in all.The redundancies take the total number of planned job cuts at the group to more than 30,000 since Stephen Elop took over as chief executive in September 2010."Shifting device assembly to Asia is targeted at improving our time to market," said Niklas Savander, Nokia's executive vice president for markets. "By working more closely with our suppliers, we believe that we will be able to introduce innovations into the market more quickly and ultimately be more competitive."In Hungary, the Komarom plant will cut 2,300 out of 4,400 jobs. Reynosa in Mexico will be hit proportionally hardest, losing 700 out of 1,000 jobs. At the factory in Salo, Finland, 1,000 out of 1,700 production jobs will disappear.The work of assembling phones will be handed to Nokia's existing workforces in Masam, South Korea, and the Chinese capital, Beijing. The remaining European and Mexican workers will focus on customising phone software according to language requirements or the specifications of individual mobile networks.The 3,500-strong design, research and development workforce at Salo is unaffected by the changes."We recognise the planned changes are difficult for our employees and we are committed to supporting our personnel and their local communities during the transition," said Savander.
Luluvisedescribes itself as "a social network for women". It's loved by the technology media, racking up plenty offriendlyarticlessince its launch late last year. Its founder, Alexandra Chong, even hasa regular column in the Sunday Timesabout life in a startup.Luluvise's PR team frequently spotlights one particular feature: WikiDate, in which women on the Luluvise network – who must sign in using their Facebook account – can rate the men that they've dated.Facebook's privacy page has the innocuous statement: "People who can see your info can bring it with them when they use apps." This means that when your friend signs into an application, they don't just share their own data – they can share some of your data as well.And if you haven't looked through the deep parts ofFacebook's privacy settings, that could be a lot of personal information: by default, it includes your status updates, photos, birthday, family details, and biography. A truly malicious application could happily store all those details – and while Facebook has policies in place to cut off rogue applications, detecting abuse isn't the easiest of tasks.Luluvise's site was in violation of Facebook's policies for at least a month. When a Facebook user joins Luluvise, it pulls in the names of the men that they know; if a user decides to rate any of them, it then generates a public-facing page announcing that the man has been reviewed. Originally, that page featured more than just a name: it included the man's photograph, pulled from his Facebook account.I asked Joelle Hadfield, Luluvise's head of PR, how that complied with Facebook's Platform Policies, which prohibit using users' friends' data for anything public. She said: "We are pleased to work closely with Facebook, and so naturally we are committed to abiding by their Platform Policy."However, after I contacted Facebook for comment, Luluvise altered its site. At Facebook's request, it's no longer showing the profile photos of the men in its system. However, it is still showing name and location details publicly – along with a "dating score" for those logged into the site.It's questionable whether the Data Protection Act allows Luluvise to keep that information. Sensitive personal data – including details of someone's sex life – is handled under Schedule 3 of the Data Protection Act, and can only be processedunder certain strict conditions or with the subject's explicit consent.I asked the Information Commissioner's Office if WikiDate violated the act; they were unable to answer immediately, but said they'd get in touch with Luluvise to "better understand how their service works and to ensure compliance with the law".That process may take several weeks. Even if it does end up with significant changes to this one particular site, the act doesn't apply to any companies outside the UK.Facebook, however, has confirmed to me that Luluvise is now compliant with its policies. That's startling – because it means that maintaininga public page, accessible to search engines, announcing that a Facebook user has "WikiDate reviews"on a site that they've never joined and will never be allowed to, is permitted by Facebook.There are some big issues here I'm not qualified to comment on. WikiDate doesn't care about anyone who's gay, or anyone who doesn't fit strictly into "male" or "female". There's also Luluvise's stereotyping of women ("We know what girls talk about when they discuss their latest crush"), and the fact that switching WikiDate's two genders around would make the site a pariah rather than a media darling. Other writers can talk about those issues with more insight and experience than I ever could.I can, however, talk about privacy.Here's the bottom line: if you use Facebook, and your friends sign up for social applications, your name and details could appear in unexpected places. Of course, you could always not have a Facebook account – that's the catch-all answer frequently trotted out by the site's detractors.For many people, though, that's not an easy option. When your friends run their social lives through the service, not having a Facebook account is like not having a mobile phone or an email address. Yes, you can live without it, but it's a serious inconvenience that means you're very much out of the loop.So checkyour privacy settings, under "Apps and Websites". You may be surprised what data your friends are giving away – and where it's ending up.• Tom Scott's website istomscott.com; he's on Twitter at@tomscott
A selection of 14 apps for you today:Chrome for AndroidGoogle has ported its Chrome web browser to Android smartphones and tablets: initially those running the latest Ice Cream Sandwich software. It loads top search results in the background for speedier surfing, sports redesigned tabs, and lets users sign in so their mobile and desktop tabs and bookmarks are in sync.AndroidThe Walking Dead – Walkers Kill CountFox has launched a second-screen iOS app for the second series of The Walking Dead, in time for its airing in the UK. Designed to be used while watching – whether live or a recorded episode – it gets fans to predict how many kills there'll be, and with which weapons.iPhone / iPadOneNote MobileMicrosoft has launched a new app based on its OneNote service for Android, joining existing iOS and Windows Phone versions. It provides note-taking on the go, with the abiilty to sync with the desktop version via Microsoft's SkyDrive cloud service.AndroidLadyhawkeMusician Ladyhawke has a new album on the way, and an app out in advance to promote it. Besides news, tweets and videos, there's clever integration of photo-sharing service Instagram, with the promise of "Ladyhawke Virtual Reality" and a full album stream soon. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhoneBullet AsylumThe latest release in Microsoft's "Must Have Games" Windows Phone promotion is Bullet Asylum, a fast-paced shoot 'em up that promises an "all-you-can-shoot buffet of alien hordes to destroy". It ties into the Xbox Live community with leaderboards and achievements.Windows PhonemiCoach BasketballAdidas' new sports app makes use of its miCoach Speed Cell, a device that clips onto shoes to measure your movements on the pitch, running track and now on the basketball court. This new app includes an NBA-grade training schedule to improve your skills, as well as sharing features to brag about your progress.iPhonePerfect Cafetiere CoffeeCoffee brand Douwe Egberts has launched an official iPhone app, providing timings and techniques to make the perfect cup of coffee, or at least the perfect cup of coffee for your particular tastes. Offers and coupons are promised too.iPhoneAA Eco DriveThe AA has launched an app to teach people to drive more efficiently, and save on fuel costs. The app analyses GPS data, suggests improvements, and even gamifies the whole shebang with awards for your improvement. The link above is for Android, but the iPhone versioncan be found here.Android / iPhoneDriveGainYou wait ages for an efficient-driving app to come along, then two turn up at once..., DriveGain has been out in Holland for a while, but is now live in the UK App Store too. The app tracks your car's location while you drive, and provides tips on how to drive more efficiently and save fuel. In-app purchases provide extra features.iPhonePicture Your UpgradeAirline network Star Alliance's new app is tapping into the trend for photo-sharing. It wants to get people taking photos of "airport items" and sharing them, with prizes on offer including upgrades, business class tickets and designer chairs. It's the work of DDB UK.iPhoneJane AustenPublished by the Jane Austen Centre in Bath, this app provides a daily quote from her books, as well as 10 articles a month about Austen and the Regency period. It also promotes the Centre's online gift shop.iPhoneMint 2012HT Media's Mint 2012 app promises "a series of exclusive insights into issues that continue to dog our world" from jobbing hacks like, ahem, Tony Blair and George Soros.iPadFinnegans Beer It ForwardAlcohol firm Finnegans is the latest brand exploring the world of social location. "Beer it Forward loads your friends' recent Foursquare check-ins, and lets you send money to them via PayPal to buy a Finnegans in an instant..."iPhoneMagnetypeiPad app Magnetype turns your iPad into a virtual fridge door, complete with virtual magnetic letters to spell out messages with. The resulting images can be shared with friends via email or Facebook.iPad
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamYahoo loses chairman as board is shaken again &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIn case you missed last night...Chrome For Android: The Browser For The 1% &gt;&gt; parislemonFirst of all, yes, Chrome for Android is here. Second, it's only compatible with Ice Cream Sandwich which is currently on -- wait for it -- 1% of Android devices. But in an attempt to add some silver-lining to the 1% joke, I will say that Chrome for Android is of a much higher class than the previous Android browser, the aptly-named and horribly icon'd: Browser.Path 2 Uploads Address Book, But Says It Will Be Opt-In SoonThe background:Developer Arun Thampi was doing a bit of hacking around with Path 2, trying to get a version of it running on OS X as an experiment, when he discovered that the app actually uploads your entire address book when it is launched. This obviously raised concerns about what the app is doing with that information and, in fact, why it needs it at all.Path uploads your entire iPhone address book to its servers &gt;&gt; Mclov.inAnd the founder of Path has responded...Hokum watch: Safer Internet Day &gt;&gt; PC Pro blogWe're going to wait for "Less Safe Internet Day" too, but this is a nice gathering of the rubbish that gets promulgated by those who would like safer internets.u can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Wednesday already! Have you fitted in any gaming so far this week?
In a few months, we're going to be seeing Windows 8 running on ARM-based tablets. But if a paper released (from embargo) by the Delft University of Technology in Holland is anything to go by, we might soon be seeing Apple laptops running Mac OS X - the desktop operting system, not the iOS of the iPhone and iPad - also running on ARM.What would those laptops be like? For one, they would either have colossal battery lives (if they had the same build as standard MacBooks) because the ARM architecture uses far less power than Intel; or they would be comparatively low-powered but weigh next to nothing (if the battery was slimmed down to give them the same sort of life as existing machines).Thepaper, which waspicked up by iMore, details how Apple's Platform Technologies Group in 2010 got down to working on how to get Darwin, the kernel of Mac OS X, running on the ARM architecture.(An interesting thing about the timing: at around the same time, Microsoft got really busy porting and compiling Windows 8 for ARM.)Written by Tristan Schaap, the paper describes working in the PTG for 12 weeks, porting Darwin to the MV88F6281 - an ARMv5-compatible processor that's a couple of generations old now. They were then porting Snow Leopard, aka 10.6; Mac OS X is now onto 10.7 ("Lion"), released last year."The goal of this project was to get Darwin building and booting into a full multi-user prompt," Schaap wrote in the introduction that's generally visible on the DUT page.But in the paper he goes significantly further: "The goal of this project is to get Darwin into a workable state on the MV88F6281 processorso that other teams can continue their work on this platform." Emphasis added. That tells you: Apple is working on porting Mac OS X to ARM, and thus giving itself fresh options if the ARM architecture - known for its low power demands, but equally not until now seen as a competitor in processing heft to Intel - starts offering the horsepower users need.And there have been indications that ARM is moving up the horsepower ratings, even while Intel tries to lower the floor on its chips' power consumption.Of course Apple has famously kept its options open with Mac OS X ever since its inception, when it was introduced to the PowerPC platform (a reduced instruction-set model, like ARM) back in 2001. In 2005 Apple announced that it would be shifting to Intel, because Motorola wasn't able to keep up with Intel when it came to performance per watt. And it became clear that ithad had a secret project (named Marklar) which kept Darwin and Mac OS X running in parallel on Intel as the PowerPC version was updated.The embargo on the file was lifted in August 2011, but for some reason there aren't that many people combing through TUDelft's repository that often for clues to Apple's chip strategy. But now it's out there.What's more, Schaap achieved his aim: he got a boot into the multi-user setup before the end of his 12-week tenure. That may have helped him to get a job - back where he was, working with the Core OS team back in Cupertino.Schaap does point out some of the downsides of Apple's secrecy:"Even though the secrecy that is inherent to working for Apple shapes the company and allows it to create some of the most innovative products on the market, it has a downside in that you arenʼt allowed to talk about possible difficulties youʼre facing with people that do not have clearance on your project. People that might have valuable insights or even solutions."Because a large portion of my project was about porting old code, I had to interact a lot with people who had written this code. Luckily, most of these people knew about my project and I had little problem talking to them. However on a few occasions I had to be very cryptic about what I wanted or needed, impeding my progress."That last comment is telling: Apple was keeping it secret inside the company that it was working on the port. That, too, is like Marklar - which only surfaced publicly from time to time, such as in March 2000 when Wifredo Sanchez, an Apple software developer, posted a little note on the Apple Darwin bulletin board saying: "Wednesday – the whole thing compiled for the first time for both PowerPC and Intel." And that was about it until it was unveiled in 2005.The fact that the OSX on ARM project has been embargoed and that the embargo was lifted - who knows the negotiations that went on overthat- is indicative of something changing; Apple allowing it to be known. There's also this: Apple has a licence to build its own ARM chips, so it need not wait for others to design them, and plenty of fabrication facilities exist. Such as the oneit built with Samsung in Texas.But then you get down to the question. What would Apple want with Mac OS X on ARM? Well, ask the question about Microsoft, as it has gone to the same trouble - compiling Windows 8 for both the Intel and ARM platforms. What's in it for Microsoft? It can get Windows onto a burgeoning platform - what the analysts call "media tablets", which principally consists of Apple's iPad running iOS, plus dozens (possibly scores) of manufacturers making ARM tablets running Android.Microsoft's problem is that the desktop PC market is stumbling. The market in the west is shrinking, and that in the east isn't quite making up for it. So for Microsoft to keep up its Windows revenue (and associated Office revenue), it needs to grab some of this new platform.What does Apple potentially get out of Mac OS X on ARM, though? It's already got iOS there on the iPad - of which last quarter 15m were sold, so there's certainly no sign of weakness.OK, but Apple is all about keeping out ahead of the pack and introducing a different wrinkle to the market. In computing, there was the all-in-one iMac, in all its incarnations, which each time managed to be slightly different than what else was out there. The iBook introduced Wi-Fi (thus giving it something to distract from its dire screen). The MacBook Air had its radical thinness and lightness - which also included underpowered-ness at the time it was introduced in 2008, but also sparked lots of attempts to emulate or exceed it (for example by Lenovo).Now the MacBook Air is a solid player in Apple's laptop lineup (its laptops outsell its desktops by about 3:1) - but it's going to be challenged in the market by "ultrabooks" which will make the MacBook Air look quite ordinary.Unless, that is, it introduces, say, a MacBook Air running Mac OS X on ARM. It might not be the fastest machine in the world - you'd choose an Intel chip for that - but it would have huge battery life. For comparison, the iPad 2 has a 25 watt-hour battery; the 11in MacBook Air model has a 35Wh battery, going up to 40Wh in the 13in model. That's a 40% bigger battery for the 11in model than the iPad 2, and 60% for the 13in. And in the 11in version, the screen being powered is about the same size.The result? Far longer battery life, or the same battery life but in an even lighter product. And Apple has, we hear, been talking to Samsung about the next generation of SSDs (which are very fast and light). Apple has, of late, been all about the mobility and battery life - portability and lifespan. So those rumours of ARM-based Macbooks - and the pronouncement of analysts, why, last May - that "moving Macbooks to ARM is feasible, but not practicable over the next few years because of technical and performance issues" will be put to the test. For example, Real World Technologiesreckoned thenthatThe downside risk is pretty substantial; a botched transition could tank sales of their notebooks for two years or more. If Apple's new MacBooks are slower than the older x86 generation, it would be incredibly embarrassing and nearly impossible for Apple to justify a premium for their products.Another business consideration is the rest of the ecosystem for notebooks, in particular the GPU. Apple relies on four companies for graphics – AMD, Imagination Technologies, Intel and Nvidia. Imagination is primarily focused on smartphones, tablets and embedded systems where power efficiency and battery life matters more than performance. Aiming for notebook level performance with an unproven CPU and unproven GPU at the same time is sheer madness, and Apple is unlikely to take such a risk.The analysis, by David Kanter, makes good points - but glosses over the fact that Apple is already supporting multiple chip platforms, versions and so on. If I had to bet on Schaap's little 12-week effort coming to something over the next few years, I'd expect it to happen. If Microsoft is going to ARM, Apple is bound to want to as well.Update:@pytey, aBudapest-basedmember of the jailbreaking team atDev-Team, has a very different interpretation. Schaap, he says, was porting the low-level Darwin code to Apple's Time Capsule (the combined Wi-Fi and hard drive backup system), pointing toreferences in the paper. The idea, he suggests, is to replace the NetBSD Unix on those devices with Apple's own BSD-based Darwin. And OSNewssays"OSX on ARM? You've already got it - it's called iOS."All true - but I think Schaap's paper hints at bigger projects going on overhead ("my project affects many other people, and it is encapsulated by a larger project"). Even OS News, while decrying the idea that Schaap has done all the work of porting the whole Mac OS X platform over to ARM (which isn't what's said; it's clear he's porting Darwin), then goes on to say"It's pretty obvious to anyone that Apple already has Mac OS X running on ARM, and there are probably several ARM-powered MacBooks, and maybe even iMacs, shuffling around the Cupertino campus."This is the point. Apple is keeping its options open, just as it did with PowerPC and Intel. By no means is iOS the same as Mac OSX. And the MacBook Air, when it appeared in 2008, was underpowered compared to all of the then-current other Mac products. But what it had was terrific mobility and good battery life. Once ARM gets further up the horsepower scale, it could make sense for Apple to offer a Mac OSX (as opposed to iOS) computer running on ARM. Schaap's work points towards Apple broadening its expertise in this field and amalgamating around Intel and ARM. And - I repeat again - if this year we're going to see the full Windows 8 OS on ARM, what's the obstacle to full Mac OS X? Probably not a programming one.
Yahoo's chairman Roy Bostock has become the latest executive to leave the internet company as it struggles to turn around its fortunes.Bostock announced on Tuesday that he and three other directors will not stand for re-election. The other board members to leave are Vyomesh Joshi, Gary Wilson and Arthur Kern.The decision comes less than a month after Yahoo founder Jerry Yang quit the company and Bostock announced Yahoo was undertaking a strategic review. The move sparked a flurry of takeover rumours.Two private equity firms, Silver Lake and TPG Capital, have made tentative offers for Yahoo, but shareholders were unhappy with the price. Microsoft, which offered $44.6bn for Yahoo in 2008, has also been in talk with the firm. Yahoo is now worth $19.75bn. Bostock helped Yang reject that offer.In a statement, Bostock said the latest talks had not borne fruit. He said the company had "pursued a wide range of discussions with potential partners", but that no proposals had been received by the committee that were deemed attractive.The company is also in active discussions to sell it Asian assets, including a stake in Alibaba, the Chinese internet firm that has also been sounding out Yahoo. "The complexity and unique nature of these transactions is significant. While we continue to devote significant resources to these discussions, we are not in a position at this time to provide further detail or to provide assurance that any transaction will be achieved," said Bostock.Colin Gillis, an internet analyst at BGC Partners in New York, said: "The Bostock era is not going to be one that investors look back at fondly. These guys are floundering."Last month, Bostock announced that Yahoo had appointedScott Thompson, former head of eBay's PayPal division, to run the internet firm. "Scott is a capable and dynamic leader who brings the experience and expertise the Company needs to achieve robust growth and success in the marketplace. Over the coming months and years, Scott will lead an outstanding team of Yahoos to deliver engaging user experiences driven by innovative products," said Bostock.Bostock was instrumental in the controversial firing of Yahoo's former chief executive Carol Bartz.Bartz savaged Bostockand the other directors in an interview with Fortune magazine. She called the director "doofuses" and said Bostock had read from a script when firing her. "Why don't you have the balls to tell me yourself?" she said she told Bostock.Following these departures, the majority of Yahoo's directors will be new to the board this year, and all directors will have joined since 2010.
Google is to replace the web browser in Android smartphones with a revamped version named after its Chrome desktop product, as the search giant redoubles its efforts to knock Microsoft off the top perch in the battle of the browsers.Chrome for phone, which is faster, links to the user's desktop and allows an unlimited number of pages to remain open simultaneously, begins its public "beta" trial on Tuesday, and may move to a full launch this spring.The upgrade reinforces Google's push to eat into Microsoft's dominance of web browsers. Since Chrome for desktop computers was launched in October 2008, Microsoft's Internet Explorer has dropped from a 67% to 37% market share, according to analysis byStatCounter.Chrome, which has 200 million users worldwide, overtook Firefox, an independent open source browser funded by a trust, as the second most popular in December 2011 and now has a 29% market share, with Firefox at 25%.In a move designed to tie users more closely to Google products and services, Chrome desktop users will be able to call up on their phone, at the touch of one button, the last set of web pages opened on their desktop.The feature should be useful for those leaving the office in a hurry: look up the location of a meeting but forget to print out the map, and the phone can open the map page without having to carry out a new search. Start work on an online document at the office and continue adding to it on the move without having to spend time retrieving it.Bookmarks saved on Chrome for desktop are also automatically available on the browser of any smartphone, tablet or laptop also using Chrome. A user's various Chrome browsers will synchronise with each other every two minutes.Google claims Chrome is faster than many other browsers because of technology that anticipates which page a user is going to click on next so that it can start pre-loading it, and in a demonstration at Google's London headquarters on Tuesday, Chrome completed the loading of pages containing rich media such as photos and videos more quickly than Apple's Safari browser on an iPhone.Chrome for phone will work only on the latest version 4.0 or Ice Cream Sandwich version of Google's Android phone operating system. The browser will only be available to Android phones during the trial period, but a Google spokesperson said it hoped eventually to release versions for all operating systems including Apple's iOS for iPhones.Chrome will come pre-installed on Android phones as the default browser, although users will be free to select a rival such as Firefox, Dolphin and Opera. The advent of an improved browser is likely to slow the adoption on smartphones of independent alternatives, which have attracted praise in comparison with Android's current offering.Google calls this seamless link between devices the "personal web", and it is clearly designed to ensure that it retains control of the gateways to the internet on all devices.The development is yet another sign that Google is deploying a strategy very similar to Apple's – tying customers into the brand on whatever screen they happen to be using. Unlike Apple, Google does not manufacture hardware, and wants its software to be available on any device its users choose to buy.Chrome's presence as an operating system on desktop computers is also negligible. But with most activities moving off the desktop and on to the internet, a suite of tools such as email, Chrome and Google Docs, plus sharing services like Google+ and YouTube, have given the company a daily visibility on Apple and Microsoft machines that no advertising spend could buy.So much so that it no longer feels appropriate to refer to Google as a search giant. Although without search dollars, none of these market share building but so far loss-making activities would be possible.
Here's an odd thing about superhero stories: the older and more mature the audience they seem to be aimed at, the more angst-ridden their protagonist is likely to be.When I was a lad, I used to dream of having superpowers. Now that I'm older and wiser, I'm relieved they exist only in the realms of fiction. By all accounts, superpowers aren't fun and they don't make you popular. Instead, they make you miserable by turning you into a monster and wrecking your entire life.The Darkness II is an obvious example of this, although you could also apply the same rule of thumb to any half-dozen superhero games.Based on a cult series of comics published by Top Cow, The Darkness II (along with its predecessor) follows the misfortunes of one Jackie Estacado, a mob hitman with a penchant for long black hair and long black trenchcoats. He joined the ranks of the depressed and superpowered on his 21st birthday, when a demonic spirit called The Darkness possessed him and granted him the supernatural ability to wreak all manner of havoc.This power came at a cost, however; The Darkness conspired to prevent Jackie from saving his soulmate, Sarah, thus severing his last link with humanity. It also drove him to use his powers as destructively as possible, as in doing so, he would push his soul ever closer to oblivion, allowing The Darkness to assume control of him.This explains why, in the two years since the events of the last game, Jackie has kept his personal demon bottled up completely. As The Darkness II opens, the player discovers that Jackie has buried the hellish parasite deep down by resisting the urge to use its powers.He's also apparently become to the head of a New York crime family, so what that does to the players' sympathies towards him is anyone's guess.In first few moments of the game, the player watches as Jackie wanders through a rather swanky restaurant, seats himself in front of a couple of giggling women and then has his whole world go to hell as a firebomb rips through the building. He's dragged into the kitchen with one of his legs burnt to a crisp, while fending off attackers with a pair of pistols.As this happens, The Darkness intones, quite accurately (and rather smugly) that if Jackie wants to survive, he'll have to use the nefarious spirit's power. Jackie agrees, uncorks The Darkness, and then heads into the grim New York night to find out who attacked him and why.The revenge plot may strike a couple of returning players as familiar, being as it was, the basic outline for the first game. However, as The Darkness II's plot unfolds, Jackie goes from being the hunter to the hunted.It turns out a local mafia crew was hired to push Jackie into using The Darkness at the behest of a shadowy organisation called The Brotherhood, which seems to know an awful lot about the demon and has its own plans for its long-haired host.The developers say they took the hyper-violent final stage of the first game as a starting point for the sequel's overall gameplay – and it shows, as Jackie's superpowers are now more geared towards wanton destruction.The tendrils are mapped to the left and right bumpers, with the right serving primarily as a melee weapon. By flicking the right analogue stick at the same time as hitting the right bumper, players can direct the right tendril in a vertical or horizontal slash, which can be used to smash structures, slash through power lines and daze opponents.The left tendril is used to pick up objects and players can use it to hurl items at enemies, rip off car doors that provide Jackie with a shield, or pull open barriers.Players can also pick up opponents with the left tendril, after stunning them with the right, and then tap a face button to activate a rather grisly execution move. Enemies are ripped in half, decapitated and impaled on Jackie's tendrils in a rather gruesome series of animations.Along with his tendrils, Jackie has a companion in the form of a Darkling imp who scuttles along ahead of him, belting out one-liners in a dodgy British accent.This single Darkling replaces the four different types of imp foot-soldier players had at their disposal in the first game. It also replaces the Creeping Death power, which players could use to explore the way ahead using a tendril. Instead, Jackie takes possession of the Darkling and uses him to scuttle through vents, take out enemies and open doors.On top of all of his Darkness powers, Jackie can carry four weapons, which are mapped to the D-pad. Players can dual-wield most weapons, except for assault rifles and the odd shotgun.The Darkness II also contains a rather decent RPG element in which players can spend the points they earn for headshots, executions and gobbling up hearts on a series of new abilities.These include standard FPS upgrades like increased magazine sizes and fire-rates, but also powers like a swarm of flies that disorient opponents, improved health from executions, and the ability to hurl a vortex at enemies that sucks them into another dimension. These upgrades are found at glowing Darkness portals dotted throughout each level.So Jackie is essentially a walking slaughterhouse, and for at least the early stages of the game, players will probably feel remarkably unchallenged (unless they crank the difficulty level up).The first few levels hurl canon fodder at the player in order to familiarise them with the game's controls, but once The Brotherhood become involved, The Darkness II is a whole different ball game.Unlike their mob flunkies, The Brotherhood's soldiers are aware of Jackie's weaknesses and tend to attack him using magical weapons and floodlights (which strip him of his Darkness power). Players can sometimes find themselves stripped of both their firearms and their powers (briefly) if they charge in to a battle blindly.Along with the new enemies, series veterans will note a couple of other changes. The open-world structure of the first game has been replaced with a far more linear framework.There's a central hub of sorts in the form of a rooftop mansion, in which players can wander about chatting with Jackie's gang and browse the Darkness collectibles they've picked up. However, the game doesn't offer any open-ended progression or any side missions at all; players clear a level, return to the mansion, and then clear another level. Rinse. Repeat.The single-player campaign will take players around six to eight hours to complete. Once they've finished that, there's the co-op multiplayer mode to tackle, Vendettas, which contains its own story that runs in tandem to the game's main plot.Players take on the role of one of four protagonists wielding Darkness-powered weapons – a modern samurai with a katana, an ex-Mossad soldier with a sawn-off, a Scottish bruiser with an axe and a voodoo priest, wielding a magical staff. The quartet is tasked with tracking down artefacts for Jackie that contain Darkness essence.The mode is built for up to four players, but it can be tackled solo. The basic gameplay follows the template for the single-player.All the protagonists can dual-wield handguns, all have a specific, Darkness-themed power, and all of them can pull off eye-popping executions. All can also level up their powers and open up new abilities.Vendettas is split into two modes, Campaign and Hit List, with the former running the story sequentially and the latter offering a drop-in/drop-out experience where players can replay levels they've already conquered.The murky, dour and atmospheric presentation of the first game has been ejected in favour of cel-shaded graphics that lend the game a more comic book feel. This not only allows players a clearer view of the action than in the first game, it also takes the edge off The Darkness II's more gore-soaked moments.The new look, however, does nothing to blunt the nasty gratuitousness of what is perhaps the campaign's only major misstep, in which Jackie walks through a rather hellish brothel in search of some information.It should also be pointed out that The Darkness II also happens to contains one of the most irritating characters in gaming in recent memory: Johnny Powell. He's a stuttering high-pitched neurotic who serves as a font of information about The Darkness.He's also a character whom the developers are clearly enamoured with, as he has almost as many lines of dialogue as Jackie, and he features prominently in both the single-player and multiplayer campaign.These instances aside, there's plenty to recommend The Darkness II. The mechanics are fun, the campaign's story is pretty decent and the co-op mode is a great way to round out the overall package.There are a lot of players who'll miss the structure, the atmosphere and unique quirks of the original. But Digital Extremes deserves credit for delivering an action-packed shooter that balances its mixture of gunplay and superpowers far better than its predecessor ever did – even if those powers will inevitably conspire to turn the game's protagonist into a monster and wreck his entire life …• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Ferocious competition on the App Store means many iOS developers eagerly embrace any tool or service promising to send their apps soaring up the charts. However, Apple has reminded app-makers that using some services may lead to them being stripped of the right to release apps for its store.The idea of appayola – paying to artificially inflate an app's chart ranking – isn't new. A previous Apple crackdown saw developers barred from using the platform of US startup TapJoy, which involved offering free virtual currency or rewards in one game if a player installed another.The latest controversy focuses on an unnamed startup, first referenced by a developerposting on the forumof mobile games site Touch Arcade. In it, they claimed to have been contacted by a company charging $5,000 to guarantee a Top 25 App Store placement for a free app."He said he had outsourced someone to build him a bot farm and the bots will automatically download his clients' apps and drive up their rankings," claimed the developer."He even told me that even though I might see my app climb up the app store, they aren't "REAL" at first until it gets to the top and that's when REAL HUMAN players will start seeing my app and play it."The post named one iOS games publisher, CrowdStar, as being one of the heaviest users of the unnamed bot farm, although its co-founder Suren Markosianposted a defenceon the same forum thread, suggesting that "I don't think this post is based on any deep knowledge on how top players are marketing their games in the app store".He pointed to the use by his company and rivals of "legitimate" advertising services including Flurry, ChartBoost and Apple's own iAds."While I sympathize with the smaller developers who may not have as much funding as we do and feel that we are getting a free ride the fact is we are spending significant marketing dollars to achieve top ratings," wrote Markosian.What does Apple think of this marketing dollars investment, though? The company has responded swiftly to the forum thread and subsequent coverage online,posting a messageon its website for iOS developers warning them off artificial inflation of their apps' chart rankings."Once you build a great app, you want everyone to know about it. However, when you promote your app, you should avoid using services that advertise or guarantee top placement in App Store charts," says the message."Even if you are not personally engaged in manipulating App Store chart rankings or user reviews, employing services that do so on your behalf may result in the loss of your Apple Developer Program membership. Get helpful tips and resources on marketing your apps the right way from the App Store Resource Center."Well, indeed. The problem here is that the freemium apps market on iOS – particularly games – is so crowded and yet so lucrative for the apps that manage to cut through the crowd. It's been that way for a while, too.In July 2011, analytics company Flurryclaimedthat 65% of the revenues generated by the 100 Top Grossing games on iOS were from freemium titles, up from 39% in January 2011. Apple's ownRewind chart in December 2011showed that seven out of the ten Top Grossing iOS apps that year were freemium games.The potential rewards mean developers and publishers will continue to hustle by any means necessary to boost their apps and games into the upper reaches of the App Store chart, dancing around Apple's guidelines as much as they can.That said, long-term business models are not built on bot farms. The bots aren't buying virtual items or currency, they're not using these apps after the initial download, and they're not telling their friends about them.A bad freemium game might crack the Top 25 due to appayola firms, but as those "REAL HUMAN PLAYERS" start to bite, it will sink quickly. Chart algorithm tweaks emphasising active usage rather than simply downloads may speed that process.Even so, it's dispiriting to think of the App Store's Top 25 chart as a ranking of publisher marketing-spend rather than app quality, and as a place where even the great games face having to resort to bots simply to get a fair shot at finding an audience.Dispiriting, but no surprise to most iOS developers. The interesting question right now is not how Apple can squash the bots, but how developers can focus on building sustainable businesses outside the Top 25.
TalkTalk has reported a fifth consecutive quarter of customer defections, with 50,000 lost in the three months to the end of December as the company continues to trail larger rivals BT Group and BSkyB.The broadband and TV provider has lost 170,000 customers since November 2010, bringing its total down to 4.079 million, as BT and Sky continued to attract the lion's share of new broadband customers and poach business from rivals.However, TalkTalk's share price raced up 9% to 130p in morning trading on Tuesday, as investors cheered a raised profit forecast from chief executive Dido Harding.Full-year underlying earnings are now expected to be between 18% and 19% of revenues, up from previous guidance of 17% to 18% and an improvement on last year's 15.6% margin.Revenues in the third quarter remained stable, rising £1m from the second quarter to £422m, but were down 5% on the same period the previous year. However, the business is becoming more profitable as the number of customers using its network of lines "unbundled" from BT's exchanges continues to grow.Average revenue per user for TalkTalk broadband customers increased to £25.30, compared with £24.70 in the previous quarter."We are growing the number of customers on our network every week and that is what is driving the performance of our business," Harding said."We have continued to improve our customers' experience with further falls in customer service call volumes and an increase in the rate of online self-service. As a result, churn has stabilised and we remain confident of a return to positive total net adds in the first half of 2012."TalkTalk had originally hoped to start growing customer numbers in the final months of 2011, but a mounting subscriber exodus delayed that target.Formed through the rapid mergers of broadband companies including Tiscali, Pipex and Carphone Warehouse, TalkTalk has been struggling to integrate its billing platforms.It was fined £3.1m by Ofcom after wrongly billing thousands of Tiscali customers for services they did not receive.The group has lost 43,000 broadband customers in the past two quarters, including 7,000 of the 200,000 former Pipex subscribers in the most recent period.Levels of customer churn were not disclosed, but TalkTalk said it remained stable on the previous quarter despite the Pipex defections, with call volumes to its customer service centre down 26% year-on-year and 60% of customer contacts now taking place online.TalkTalk unbundled – installed its own equipment – in 130 new BT exchanges during the quarter, bringing the total to 2,338, with a further 119 expected in the final quarter.The work is designed to improve customer numbers and profitability, because TalkTalk can offer lower prices but still make a bigger profit margin on unbundled lines.The group said 80% of its customers are now on fully unbundled lines.HomesafeTM, an optional product which blocks pornography and self-harm sites, has been activated by a further 60,000 customers, bringing the total to 270,000, despite concerns raised by internet privacy groups over its ability to track every website visited by a user.The company is about to begin consumer trials of on-demand internet TV service YouView, a joint venture with other backers including the BBC and BT.YouView and is on track for its scheduled launch this spring, TalkTalk confirmed.The arrival of YouView could boost the numbers buying super-fast fibre optic broadband from TalkTalk, which remain low at just 5,000."At the moment there are very few households who genuinely really need fibre but that will change over time as demand for multiple live video viewing within a single household grows," Harding said.
A quiet day! Just five apps for you today:Sport Relief In Your PocketBritish charity jamboree Sport Relief is taking place on 23-25 March, but the campaign is starting now, including an official app. It includes a mini-game, inspirational stories, and news about what sporting celebrities are doing for the cause. At the time of writing only the iPhone app is live (link above), but Android is imminent too – both should be availablefrom this link.Android / iPhoneRecorder MasterThere's a mini-wave of music education apps coming to Apple's iPad, using its microphone to hear what the user is playing and provide feedback. Recorder Master is the latest example, wrapping a game around learning to play the recorder. A windy counterpart to Ovelin's guitar-focused WildChords.iPadTransparent ScreenStrolling down the street texting on your Android smartphone while smartly avoiding lamp-posts, milk floats and old ladies? There's an app for that. Transparent Screen makes apps go transparent and overlays them on the camera feed, so you can see dangers ahead.AndroidDeezerStreaming music service Deezer's new version of its BlackBerry app includes BBM features, enabling users to share details of songs or artists with their BBM contacts, or simply filter their activity into their BBM news stream.BlackBerryA Fact Every Day!The title says it all: this iOS app delivers a new fact every day for a year, aimed at "curious and inquisitive children" as well as adults. Each fact comes with an illustration and text that's read aloud.iPhone / iPad
After a recent preview, I was looking forward to getting my hands on this one and I'm pleased to report that it was well worth the wait.In a genre where words such as "epic" are frequently overused, Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning hits you with a the kind of mammoth role-playing experience that is increasingly rare outside MMOs. As such, it deserves to find a home with RPG fans as well as those who may have found the genre too deep or time consuming in the past.Things kick off in a deceptively conventional fashion, starting with a choice of four races and a host of options to customise your hero's appearance. None of these exactly break the mould; in fact, neither does the first 15 minutes or so of play.With an intro very much influenced by Lord of the Rings, right down to a Cate Blanchett-sounding narrator, Reckoning is something of a slow burner.Graphically, Amalur starts off looking a bit blurry and formulaic, again typified by a visual style that often evokes Peter Jackson's vision of Lothlorien or Mordor. However, once your exploration begins in earnest some stunningly original locations and set pieces emerge.Whether it's the waterfalls of Caer Byralim, the Crying Eyes of Sinsea or the exploding ice caves as you approach Amerthyn, Reckoning's learning curve is brilliantly paced, refusing to shoot all its arrows at once and ensuring that its model of questing, combat and exploration is usually rewarded by a pleasant surprise, twist or discovery every few minutes.And once you get into the gameplay, you quickly appreciate how extensively Reckoning has strayed from the RPG rule-book.Why restrict your character to a path that was decided on in the first five minutes of the game? Reckoning does away with this by allowing you to change your destiny at any point, reallocating all your point for a few thousand credits-by meeting characters known as Fateweavers.Even without this, you can still customise your hero in ways that most RPG's would never allow. Mine was a Thief/Warrior combo who still managed to reel off some impressive spells – all easily accessed from the UI. And, by allying myself with Nomads (one of six playable factions) I even opened up a lucrative side career in pickpocketing.Not that there's much of a need for extra income – Amular is positively bursting with booty which can be sold (stolen items are spurned by most traders), used, salvaged or upgraded via the three highly-detailed crafting systems on offer.Reckoning's combat uses a hybrid of styles, combining the simple, arcade fluidity of Dungeon Siege with the Quicktime events of God of War.It works brilliantly, allowing you to swap weapons in mid battle and reel off moves in a way many beat-em-ups would be proud of, albeit without the need to ever memorise more than two button presses.It may lack the precision of, say Witcher 2's combat, but it makes for a style that can be picked up in seconds, customised to your own particular style of play and crowned with impressive arcade-style finishes.The best of these are activated in Reckoning Mode, which triggers a slow-motion sequence that racks up extra points and Fate energies to use on improving your character later.Right – so far, so impressive but naturally, there are a few niggles.As with all RPG's, the longer you hang around, the more repetitive the sidequests become. This is compounded by the inability to cancel quests once accepted or the fact that some will remain unresolved even when you've completed their objectives.There are some silly design flaws too; bulletin boards, for example, may tell you where you can pick up tasty contracts but you won't discover their reward until completion, making them pointless distractions rather than calculated choices.Most significantly, after such a brilliant build up, the boss battles can feel a bit formulaic (avoid the spawning enemies before finishing with a Reckoning move) as well as occasionally playing havoc with the engine's camera angles and perspectives.Honestly, though – these quibbles are more than outweighed by the sheer scale and depth of Reckoning's ambition. There have been very few original IPs in recent years that hit the ground running this impressively.Amalur's mythology has been painstakingly constructed, the storytelling is well paced and the gameplay just the right blend of skillful and instinctive.If you want to play it for depth and longevity, you'll be wallowing in these glades, mountains, deserts and  dungeons for months; if you want to hack and slash  through the game for set pieces alone, that's OK too.Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning is a triumph that makes the prospect of a future MMO based on the same world and engine all the more enticing.• Game reviewed on PC
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHalliburton to ditch BlackBerrys in corporate transition to Apple's iOS platform &gt;&gt; Apple Insider"Over the next year, we will begin expanding the use of our mobile technology by transitioning from the BlackBerry (RIM) platform that we currently use to smartphone technology via the iPhone," the Houston, Texas-based firm told employees in an internal newsletter this month.Wolfram Alpha Pro democratizes data analysis: an in-depth look at the $4.99 a month service &gt;&gt; The VergeOn Wednesday, February 8th, Wolfram Alpha will be adding a new, "Pro" option to its already existing services. Priced at a very reasonable $4.99 a month ($2.99 for students), the new services includes the ability to use images, files, and even your own data as inputs instead of simple text entry.HUD Google Glasses are real and they are coming soon &gt;&gt; 9to5GoogleOh, ok.IAmA Former FullTime Zynga Engineer quit 6 months ago. Not a contractor, (Z treats em like shit). &gt;&gt; RedditThis apparently former Zynga employee is letting loose on the games firm. (He posted a picture of a Zynga termination letter as proof of ID). He says:No, this isn't payback, or about a grudge. This is just word from someone who's seen what this industry is capable of doing. Good, and Bad. No, I was not under contract, I was full time, offered stock (common shares, not that options bullcrap). I sympathized with contractors on how they were treated, most of the time. No, I was not some IT mangler. I worked for one of their "game studios", basically the front lines where content made it to the masses.An Ex-Zynga Engineer Is Ripping The Company Apart In Plain Sight &gt;&gt; Business InsiderWe can't be sure (at the time of bookmarking - Mon 06/02/12 2122GMT) that this 'engineer' is who he says he is, but his comments are worth a read.Obscure guitarist becomes YouTube megastar &gt;&gt; Ultimate-Guitar.ComA taster of amazingness. You can buy his music for any price, including free. He tours too. Do watch the video - eight minutes of virtuosity unlike other guitar playing you'll have seen.HTC disappoints with financial results, forecast &gt;&gt; CNET NewsRevenues and profits down. What's to blame? A lull as it moves to new products, says the company. Others might suspect it's in the mid-tier place where Android will get skewered. Will HTC take refuge with Windows Phone instead?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
This week, Aleks Krotoski meets web pioneer Ted Nelson. Way back in 1960, Nelson conceived a world-wide electronic publishing system capable of acting as a repository for all human knowledge, with links that allowed users to navigate between documents – which he dubbed "hypertext".But the ill-fated Project Xanadu, as it was called, was in development for 40 years. Aleks talks to Nelson about Xanadu, his opinions of the world wide web, and what he's working on now.And Charles Arthur speaks with John Cameron from Orbitsound, the maker of TV soundbars, about transforming home entertainment systems.Finally, we hear the latest news from the world of technology
Phew, Tuesday. How is your week faring so far?
Apple took the lead in the smartphone market in the fourth quarter of 2011 as the sector saw explosive growth of 54.7% year-on-year to 157.8m units, and now makes up around one of every three mobile phones shipped worldwide.The launch of the iPhone 4S early in October meant that Apple pushed out Samsung, shipping 37m units to the estimated 36m from the south Korean company, according to the research company IDC.Thepreliminary figuresdid not show market shares for the different operating systems, but trends in the market have suggested that Google's Android, used by the majority of Samsung and HTC smartphones, has been heading for a 50% or greater share of shipments."The launch of Apple's iPhone 4S played a key role in smartphone growth to capture pent-up demand, and smartphone launches from other vendors also provided a broad selection to meet varying preferences and budgets," said Ramon Llamas, senior research analyst with IDC's Mobile Phone Technology and Trends team.Apple's 37m figure was a 128% increase on the 16.2m of the same time in 2010. But it was Samsung which saw the most dramatic growth, almost quadrupling from 9.6m a year ago.HTC, another major Android manufacturer - though it also produces some Windows Phone devices - recorded growth, to 10.2m from 8.7m. But that was less than the market as a whole, and HTC on Monday announced disappointing financial results for the quarter, with revenues and profits both falling year-on-year by 2.5% and 12% respectively. The Taiwanese company admitted that products it launched in the quarter "are not selling as well as we expected", according to chief financial officer Winston Yung - but forecast a further fall in the first quarter of 2012.Nokia, once the dominant force in the market, saw its share fall to 12.4% as it shipped 19.6m handsets - down from 28.1m in the period a year ago. The figures do not break out how many of them were running Microsoft's new Windows Phone software, which it began selling in November with the Lumia 800, and how many its deprecated Symbian platform. The company's financial figures in January implied that it shipped fewer than a million before the end of December.RIM, which is struggling to keep its BlackBerry platform relevant to business in the face of onslaughts from Apple and Android, managed to grow its shipments, to 10.2m from 8.7m, but saw its market share dip from 8.5% to 6.5%. The company has since replaced its chief executives and chairmen.For the year as a whole, just over 491m smartphones were shipped, with Samsung dominating, followed by Apple, with 94m and 93.2m respectively - 19.1% and 19% of the total market overall. Nokia (15.7%) and RIM (10.4%) both managed to eke out more than 10%, but much of the rest of the growth has come from Chinese handset makers such as ZTE and Huawei and others aiming at their home markets, where smartphone sales were larger than any other country."So-called 'hero' devices, such as Samsung's Galaxy Nexus and Apple's iPhone 4S, garner the bulk of the attention heaped on the device type," said Kevin Restivo, senior research analyst with IDC's Worldwide Mobile Phone Tracker program. "But a growing number of sub-$250 device offerings, based on the Android operating system, have allowed Google's hardware partners to grow smartphone volumes and expand the market concurrently."Overall, the smartphone market grew by 61.3% between 2010 and 2011 - suggesting a slight slowdown in growth in the fourth quarter. Some analysts think that those two years have seen the biggest surge in shipments, with 2010 showing 75% growth. The dominance of the smartphone over the PC has also been cemented, outselling them in every quarter - a trend that first occurred in the fourth quarter of 2010.Analysts think 2012 will see less rapid smartphone shipment growth - which also implies problems for Microsoft and Nokia in trying to establish Windows Phone as a "third ecosystem" in the market, with Android and Apple's iOS consuming around 75% of the market, and Symbian and RIM the rest. That has so far left little room for Windows Phone except, so far, in replacement of some Symbian sales in Europe.
Hackers associated with the Anonymous activist group have leaked a trove of emails hacked from the law firm representing staff sergeant Frank Wuterich, accused of leading a group of Marines responsible for the deaths of 24 unarmed Iraqi civilians at Haditha.The group has published files taken from Puckett &amp; Faraj, the law firm that represented Wuterich on Pirate Bay, a file-sharing site popular with hackers, and published extracts on another site, Pastebin, although some of those postings now appear to have been removed.Last month Wuterich plead guilty in a military court to dereliction of duty, telling the judge that he regretted ordering his men to "shoot first, ask questions later."He was demoted to private and technically sentenced to 90 days confinement but, by the terms of the plea deal, he will not serve any time. The sentence means none of the marines accused in the incident will face time in prison.In the emails, Neal Puckett, the law firm's founder and a former marine, writes to one of Wuterich's supporters: "Frank Wuterich represents the best this country has to offer and deserved nothing less. I was inspired by his insistence that he take responsibility for all that his Marines did or failed to do that day. He refused to have it any other way."The website of Puckett &amp; Faraj was unavailable Monday and the firm declined to comment about the alleged security breach.In other emails released by Anonymous, members of the firm appear to worry that hack may "completely destroy the Law Firm."The hack was the latest in high profile release by Anonymous members in less than a week. Last week the collective released an 18-minute recording of the FBI and British police discussing delays in court proceedings against two alleged members of the LulzSec hacking group.
Ministers need to speed up work on cyber-security because the public and a vast swathe of business have yet to appreciate the threats posed by online crime, a government adviser has said.Dame Pauline Neville-Jones said the strategy was heading in the right direction but needed a push to raise awareness because people were still doing "silly things"."I think the direction is right but the speed is not nearly enough … it needs much more momentum behind this," said Neville-Jones.She suggested the need for some advertising that would stick in everyone's minds, like the "clunk-click" campaign to encourage people to wear seatbelts. The government could not do the work by itself, she said, but it did need to take a proper lead."People are entitled to look to government to take a lead and impress upon people the importance of this. It has a responsibility to strengthen its own systems, and … it needs to strengthen rather modest police capability."I do think that the Cabinet Office, which is in the lead on this, needs to plot some metrics, have a timetable of various stages that need to be achieved, and audit the progress."Neville-Jones is a former security minister who is now the government's special representative to business on cyber-security. In a speech for theGlobal Strategy Forumthinktank, she said people were struggling to understand the threats confronting them, and not nearly enough businesses take the issue seriously.The government had to be prepared to use the "bully pulpit" to raise consciousness and understanding, she said."There is a vast swathe of corporates who have valuable intellectual property, much more valuable than they understand, which is inadequately protected," she said."They don't even realise it has been stolen. They don't even know they have been the subject of attack. They usually have to be told about it by a third party, most of them do not discover it for themselves. The level of awareness is nothing like it needs to be. This is a very, very serious state of affairs."She added: "Despite all the scare stories, all the horror stories in the press, people go on doing silly things and careless things. Human nature is a problem."Neville-Jones said she supported the recent decision by Michael Gove, the education secretary, toscrap the teaching of computer science in schools, and said universities needed to design relevant courses that attracted British graduates, "and not just Chinese graduates".The lessons in school were "no more than jumped up PA studies that are being deserted by children who understand the subject better than their teachers". She said the skills base in this country was "totally inadequate" and that addressing this was "urgent and vital".Hackers were becoming more sophisticated in the ways they attacked systems, she added, citing the case last year when 2m tonnes of carbon credits were stolen from the EU in the Czech Republic. Neville-Jones said the attack was preceded by a bomb scare that led to back-up computer systems being brought into use. The attack then took place on this back-up system, which was more vulnerable.
Apple sold 15.4m iPads in the final quarter of 2011, but there is more to the market than one manufacturer and OS. Strategy Analytics estimates that 39% of the 26.8m tablets that shipped that quarter were running Google's Android operating system.Yes, that's shipments as opposed to sales: it's anyone's guess how many of those devices remain on shelves and in warehouses. Even so, more Android tablets are emerging, with some – Amazon's Kindle Fire in the US and Samsung's Galaxy Tabs elsewhere in the world – building some momentum.One of the key selling points for Apple's iPad is the more-than 140,000 native apps available for the device. Android devices have a way to go to catch up in terms of overall quantity, but the number of quality apps for Android tablets has been improving steadily.Hence this roundup, following our separate rundown of the50 best iPad appsin September 2011. Shortly after that was published, webegan gathering suggestionsfor inclusion in an Android follow-up, and have spent the months since then drawing up our own longlist of possibles.Some caveats. First, this is aimed more at people unboxing an Android tablet for the first time, so some of the suggestions may seem obvious to experienced owners. Second, any selection of this kind will be tinged by the personal preferences of the writer.In both cases, your criticisms and alternative suggestions are welcomed in the comments section. We have also opted against restricting the list to apps optimised for Honeycomb-only software, given the existence of a number of tablets running earlier versions of Android.A third caveat: Android being what it is, we can't guarantee that all 50 apps will be available or run well on all the devices out there, particularly at the cheaper end of the market.Proceed with caution, but please do report back on your experiences with specific devices. On with the show...News360 is a news aggregation app for Android tabletsSOCIAL MEDIA / WEBFEEDLYfree. Looking for an Android alternative to Flipboard? Feedly is worth a look, promising a personalised magazine pulling in stories from Google Reader, Tumblr, Twitter, Facebook and other services.FIREFOXfree. Now optimised for tablets as well as smartphones, Firefox offers a useful alternative to the default Android browser, including the ability to sync bookmarks and history with the desktop version.IM+ PRO£2.99. This catch-all messaging app combines Skype, Facebook Chat and a host of instant messaging services into one, with the option to ping text, photos and voice notes to contacts.NEWS360 FOR TABLETSfree. Another news aggregator, News360 gets content from more than 10,000 news sites, promising to learn from your social and RSS accounts what you like to read about, in order to filter accordingly.TABLIFIED MARKET HD£0.94. If this article is a starting point for discovering new Android tablet apps, Tablified Market should be your next port of call. It's a discovery app that promises to 'find Tablified apps so you don't have to'. A good database with regular updates.TAPTU – DJ YOUR NEWSfree. Another social news-reading app, this, which accesses stories from sites using their RSS feeds. At its most useful when you dive into its tools to "remix" different feeds into single streams about whatever topic you like.TWEETCOMBfree. Keen Twitter users should appreciate TweetComb, which is a Twitter client focused on tablets running the Android Honeycomb software. It makes good use of the larger screens, and its notifications can be tweaked to your preferences.The BBC updated its Android news app for larger devicesCULTUREBBC NEWSfree. The Beeb's official news app was updated with an Android-focused edition in January 2012, with a choice of landscape and portrait modes, swipe-based navigation through stories, and – later in the year – a live stream of the BBC News channel itself.CNN APP FOR ANDROID TABLETfree. News network CNN's Android app is a very polished way to get the latest stories, including text and video reports. Its tablet-optimised design stands out, while its iReport feature aims to get users filing their own stories.COMICSfree. ComiXology's combined comics store and reader app boasts of being the only one offering titles from both Marvel Comics and DC Comics. A wide catalogue of titles is available to buy in-app, while the reader's "Guided View" technology works well for finding your way through cells.GOOGLE BOOKSfree. Google Books is a tablet window to Google's cloud-based e-books service, where you can shop for e-books to read across multiple devices, or choose from a wide selection of free titles.GOOGLE READERfree. The existence of apps like Taptu and News360 is sometimes used as an argument for RSS being old hat – even though they rely on the technology to pull in content. If you're more old-school in your RSS habits though, Google Reader is very good.IMDB MOVIES &amp; TVfree. The world's biggest database of film and TV information is really impressive on Android tablets, enabling you to browse the database and watch trailers. There's a US focus, but it's still useful.KINDLEfree. A firm favourite on iPad as an alternative to Apple's own iBooks, the Kindle app is also a must-have on Android tablets. Buy from Amazon's e-store and then read the e-books on your slate, syncing with any other devices you use too.NETFLIXfree. Netflix launched in the UK in January 2012, meaning that its impressive tablet apps now have an audience on this side of the Atlantic too. Browse its catalogue of films and TV shows, then watch them on the device.THE CAT IN THE HAT£1.90. The Dr. Seuss classic has been turned into a faithful book-app that looks as good on tablets as on smartphones. The illustrations are familiar, while there's voice narration and zooming words to aid young readers.TUNEIN RADIO PRO£0.61. The TuneIn Radio app has been a huge success on various platforms, and while it doesn't make major use of tablet bells'n'whistles, we'd still recommend it for Android slate owners. Find radio stations from around the world and, well, tune in.ZINIOfree. An increasing number of magazines are launching bespoke apps for iPad, if not Android tablets. One good way to plug the gap is Zinio, which sells digital replicas of a large range of mags from its in-app store.Grand Theft Auto III's controls work well on tabletsGAMESANGRY BIRDSfree. Okay, somewhat obvious. But amid all the big-number milestones and commercial spin-offs, it's easy to forget that at its core, Angry Birds is a very,verygood game. It's just as suited to tablets as smartphones too.BACKBREAKER THD£3.09. The Super Bowl may be over for another year, but NaturalMotion's casual gridiron game is fun all year round, as you dodge and spin past hordes of defenders. This version showcases the Nvidia Tegra processors inside some Android tabs.BLOOD &amp; GLORY (NR)free. Glu Mobile's take on the Infinity Blade beat 'em up is notable for two reasons: first it's on Android, unlike its inspiration. And second, it's a freemium title, so you don't have to pay to initially play it.DUNGEON DEFENDERS SECOND WAVEfree. This is another game that'll show off the graphical grunt of your (high-end) Android tablet. The gameplay is a mixture of action-RPG and tower defence, as you set your defences then run around swinging at attackers as they pile in.GRAND THEFT AUTO III£2.99. 10 years after it was first released for consoles, GTA III returns for tablets (and smartphones). It has dated wonderfully, with its mix of crime and, well, more crime still feeling fresh. What's more, it has survived the transition to touchscreen tablets, with well thought-out controls.MINECRAFT: POCKET EDITION£4.29. Tablets lend themselves to relaxed usage while loafing about on a sofa. The perfect game for this scenario is Minecraft, as you wander a blocky landscape digging, building and admiring the views.ONLIVEfree. Streaming games service OnLive turns your Android tablet into a fully-fledged games console, complete with (if you buy it) a joypad peripheral. Assuming your Wi-Fi connection is up to the task, this is technically impressive, with an increasing catalogue of games to have fun with.OSMOS HD£3.18. Currently part of the excellent Humble Bundle for Android, Osmos is a trippy puzzle game that involves absorbing glowing "motes", complete with an atmospheric electronica soundtrack.SHADOWGUN£3.49. First-person shooter Shadowgun is a visual feast, as you battle an army of cyborgs and droids inside "maniacal genius" Dr. Edgar Simon's mountain base. It's shooting to become the mobile and tablet world's Halo, and on this evidence, that's not a crazy ambition.SLEEPY JACK£1.99. 3D shooter Sleepy Jack runs as a universal game across Android tablets and smartphones, and is addictive enough that you'll want to play it on both. 40 beautiful worlds to fly through provide plenty of depth.ANOMALY WARZONE EARTH HD£2.49. A simple twist on the tower defence genre makes Anomaly Warzone Earth instantly stand out from the herd: you play the attackers rather than the defenders. A deep campaign mode and attractive visuals makes it even more of a treat.WORLD OF GOO£2.99. Just as much of a joy on Android as it is on iPad, World of Goo gets you dragging and stretching virtual goo-balls into objects to get you through puzzle-packed levels. Wonderfully tactile, and challenging without ever making you throw your tablet through the window. A good thing, really.Catch takes your documents and notes to the cloudPRODUCTIVITY / TOOLSCATCHfree. Early Honeycomb tablet owners were buzzing about this cloud app, and justifiably so. Not a million miles away from Evernote, it's about scribbling notes, recording voice memos and taking photos, then storing them in the cloud – with a Streams feature particularly useful for collaborative work.DROPBOXfree. An increasingly essential service no matter what device you own, Dropbox gathers your photos, documents and videos – among other files – for access on the go. As on other platforms, the interface is clean and efficient, for speedy use.EVERNOTEfree. As with Catch and Dropbox, Evernote's strength comes when you use it across several devices, not just one tablet. Sync text notes, lists, voice memos and photos across them all, with sharing features built in too.FILE MANAGER HDfree. Another app from the early days of Honeycomb, which offers a simple-yet-slick way to manage files on your tablet, browing by lists or grids. One of those apps that might not be sexy on the surface, but which will be used regularly.GOOGLE DOCSfree. Another of Google's own apps, this, which aims to provide a neat native way to access Google Docs – including offline – on Android tablets. Again, simplicity and speed is the focus, to make it quick to edit and share documents.HD WIDGETS£1.29. Widgets are one of the ways Android obviously differs from iOS, and HD Widgets offers a bunch of examples, from clocks to weather reports. Tablet tweakers will love it.MINDJET FOR ANDROIDfree. If Evernote and Catch are more about notes, Mindjet is more about richer brainstorming sessions, making good use of the large tablet screen to organise your thoughts and make them understandable for future reference.QUICKOFFICE PRO HD£12.97. If you're not ready to move into Google's cloud, what about this app for creating, editing and sharing Microsoft Office documents? Support for documents, spreadsheets and presentations makes it flexible, and it also plays nice with Evernote and Catch.SKITCHfree. Evernote's second app in this list is more for fun, letting you scribble on photos and images to annotate them. It's very easy to use, and while doodling rude things on friends' mugshots is the obvious use, there are work applications too.SLIDEIT KEYBOARD£3.79. Android tab owners are spoiled for choice when it comes to alternative on-screen keyboards, so we've chosen two of the best here. SlideIT delivers on its promise of speedier typing with finger-tracing rather than tapping.SPLASHTOP REMOTE DESKTOP HD£4.56. Remote access used to be a corporate thing, but nowadays even consumers are keen on the idea of accessing their main PC or Mac from their tablet. Well, some consumers. SplashTop Remote is one of the best known ways to do it, and one of the friendliest too.STICKY NOTES HD TABLET WIDGET£1.22. You could argue that shoehorning virtual sticky notes onto a digital device is pure nostalgia. You might have a case. Even so, Sticky Notes HD does it well, stacking the virtual Post-Its neatly so you don't lose your reminders.SWIFTKEY TABLET X KEYBOARD£3.49. The second soft-keyboard app in this roundup comes from SwiftKey, with its clever prediction algorithm to guess what word you might be typing next. Cleverer still is the way it can learn your most common words by tying into Facebook, Twitter and Gmail.Adobe's Photoshop Touch app brings powerful image-editing to AndroidLIFESTYLE / SCIENCEADOBE COLLAGE£6.99. At a time when social media startup Pinterest is gathering a head of steam, Adobe's Collage app looks onto a good thing. It's about making moodboards with a mixture of photos, scribbles and text, importing several file-types and content from Google and Flickr.ADOBE PHOTOSHOP TOUCH£6.99. Another Adobe app here, but one that'll be more familiar to veterans. It's a touchscreen-optimised reboot of the Photoshop editing software, with some powerful features if you know what you're doing, and syncing back to the desktop version if necessary.ACCUWEATHER FOR HONEYCOMBfree. Whether sunshine, rain or the kind of snow that brings Britain's infrastructure to a halt (i.e. two inches), AccuWeather offers a tablet-friendly window on the weather around the world.GOOGLE SKY MAPfree. It's currently being cut loose – sorry, open sourced – by Google, but its in-house Sky Map app remains a joy. Hold your tablet in the air at night, and get an instant guide to what all those stars are called. A handy search mode is good for planet-spotting too.GOOGLE EARTHfree. Zooming around the planet is as fun a tablet experience on Android as on iPad, with 3D buildings and some nifty tweaks for larger-screened devices.OPENTABLEfree. Restaurant reservations service OpenTable does a very good job of finding nearby eateries, plotting them on a map, and helping you decide whether they're worth booking.SKETCHBOOK PROfree. Autodesk's painting and drawing app has been tuned for Honeycomb-toting tablets, helping you sketch on-screen. Professionals may get most out of it, but the app is fun and rewarding even for less artistic Android owners.
Video games have been toying with the notion of 'emergent narratives' for many years. Stories that arise from the combination of player actions and the unpredictable behaviours of AI characters are a common element in 'open world' titles like Fallout, Far Cry and Dwarf Fortress. But can these techniques be used to create new forms of TV and movie entertainment?Channel 4 Education certainly thinks so – it has just launched a new online drama namedSuperMes, about a shy loner moving into a shared house with three lively, but rather challenging strangers. The series uses virtual actors and settings from popular PC game The Sims, a sort of interactive soap opera which has sold over 150 million copies since its launch in 2000.But this wasn't a case of simply hijacking the character models and moving them around like automatons to act out pre-set story. Instead, developer Somethin' Else programmed the game's AI characters with a set of disparate behaviours and characteristics and then let them loose, filming the resulting interactions and building a narrative around them. The team hired indie games coderRobin Burkinshaw(who previously made his own Sims drama, Alice and Kev) to effectively 'direct' the action by playing the simulation, but he kept his interactions to a minimum, allowing the characters to decide on their own courses of action."This is not machinima," says producer Sean Coleman, referring to the burgeoning artform in which game engines and characters are used to act out narrative stories. "The scripts always followed gameplay and never dictated what should happen. The basic rules we set were never to recreate anything that hadn't happened and never to force the characters into situations their in-game wishes wouldn't put them in."We spent a number of weeks working out the personality traits that would work best to give us the most interesting characters, the most dramatic conflicts and the most quirky entertainment. The game is very sophisticated in the grey areas that it provides - the kind of ambiguities of personality that make really fascinating characters, and we were constantly surprised by our Sims. Like the time the two boys decided to go skinny-dipping. Nothing we had done told them to do that."In effect, SuperMes is a convergence of game design and traditional story-telling – it is an experiment in allowing computer programmed characters to create their own plotlines on the fly. There are certainly parallels to be found, as Coleman points out, "There are elements of Dogme, Ken Loach and TOWIE in this project.  It was always vital for us that we made a genuine collaboration between the film-makers and the AI of the game, and that's what we did."The Ken Loach comparison is, perhaps, the most interesting. Like Mike Leigh, the veteran director often uses improvisation to discover and enrich elements of each scene, with a script following afterwards – and this is essentially the formula behind SuperMes; except the actors are replaced by artificially intelligent virtual beings.Fascinatingly, the Somethin' Else team talks about the similarities between AI algorithms and emotions – both are sets of systems that, when combined with different agents, can lead to unpredictable and dramatic outcomes. "We tried to create internal conflicts," explains Coleman. "Clare was shy and a loner, but her life goal was to be super popular. Because of her shy trait, she doesn't like being among strangers, and finds it difficult to talk to people. If Anita then talks about herself to Clare, the combination of Clare's discomfort with strangers and her hot-headedness would make her angrier with Anita's self-obsessed blathering. The idea was to look at archetypal sitcom characters, and try to arrange the traits we gave our Sims to create similar characters, who would rub each other up in all possible ways."The results are surprisingly watchable, touching and at times really funny. The morbidly self-conscious Clare loafs about the house, often sitting alone in the garden contemplating the narcissism of household attention-seeker Anita, while slacker Robert and musician Ryan mess about, eventually forming a quite heart-warming relationship. Meanwhile, a jokey voice over from Waterloo Road actor Jason Done adds a sort of Come Dine With Me meta-narrative.The series is a spin-off from Channel 4 Education's award-winningSuperMeproject, an online social game designed to help teenagers through difficult experiences and emotions. But it also hints towards interesting new narrative experiments, in which AIs rather than scriptwriters shape future linear dramas."Myself and co-deviser Jo Roach came up with the phrase 'emergent drama'," says Somethin' Else's chief creative officer, Paul Bennun "Emergence is a core concept of the science of complexity—hugely sophisticated behaviours can emerge for free from simple systems interacting. It's almost like the universe wants to tell stories."The human mind is always looking for patterns, and is always giving personality to inanimate objects or seeing narrative even when events are random. We're using universal tendencies to tell stories, but it's through the agency of talented storytellers that we interpret the sims. We called Robin Burkinshaw our 'Sims whisperer,' because he was able to do this with such style."Bennun compares the approach to generative music, a term popularised by Brian Eno to describe a process in which the musician enters a set of criteria into a computer and allows the software to improvise. There are various applications, such asMixtikland Eno's own Bloom and Trope apps for the iPhone that allow users to create music in this way.I wonder how long it will be before soap opera writers and movie producers are using AI improvisations to create content. After all, the three act structure that governs most mainstream film releases is so intricately shaped, it is almost a computer program in itself; start combining the data from successful movies, and allowing AI characters to experiment within the resulting confines, and you have the sort of crazed hybrid of Hollywood formula and Marxist dialectics that canonlyresult in hit romantic comedies.Coleman is more grounded in the possibilities of emergent drama. "For me, you will always need an experienced storytelling team to guide the output to make the best programme, but in terms of making a reality-drama from a virtual environment - this was inspirational to work on. As long as games engines can create characters which surprise you as much as a real-life person, you can have fun creating stories inside them."Frankly, anything that you can usefully compare to both Ken LoachandTOWIE is worth exploring. And if that means a future of dramas based around AI programs and improvisational avatars, so be it.
Featuring boss characters the size of planets and a hero with enough insane combo attacks to take down a moderately sized army,Asura's Wrathis the latest slice of incendiary hack-n-slash action from Capcom.Due out at the end of February, the game follows eponymous assassin Asura who wakes from a 12,000-year coma to take vengeance on the galactic warlords who murdered his wife and kidnapped his daughter.From here, it looks to be a hyper-kinetic third-person brawler, with epic narrative sequences and an episodic structure echoing an anime TV series. If you've played the recent Xbox Live demo you'll know what to expect, including a battle with a stone giant the size of a skyscraper, and the aforementioned face-off with a planet-sized demi-god who tries to squash Asura with one gigantic finger.A big part of the game is its extravagant anime/manga styling, and Capcom is holding a manga drawing master class at Orbital Comics on Great Newport Street between 9.30am and 11am on Wednesday.The session will be taken by established UK manga artist Hayden Scott-Barrett fromSweatdrop Studios, and the game will also be playable on the day. It's mostly for the games media, but Capcom has been kind enough to make 10 tickets available to Guardian readers.If you want to come along, all you have to do is send an email toCapcom. The first 10 to arrive in Capcom's intray will get an invite.
The Pirate Party UK will join an international day of action against controversial copyright agreement Acta on Saturday with protests planned for London, Glasgow and Nottingham.Acta, or the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, sparked opposition from internet users who fear it will lead to online censorship.Pirate Party UK leader Loz Kaye said: "We saw what the combination of protest and political pressure achieved with the dropping of Sopa [the Stop Online Piracy Act]."But the threats to digital rights and civil liberties aren't over. It's vital that we send a clear message that the people of Europe don't want Acta."A far-reaching agreement that aims to harmonise international standards in areas that often fall victim to intellectual property theft, such as music, film and fashion, Acta has been signed off by the UK and more than 20 other EU member states.Opponents fear that it will also lead authorities to block content on the internet.It has already been signed by the US and is to be debated by the European parliament in June.Acta prompted widespread protests in Poland and led to attacks on Polish government websites by hacking collective Anonymous.Finlay Archibald, spokesman for Pirate Party Scotland, added: "I hope to see many of my fellow citizens out next Saturday to demand that free speech and privacy online be eroded no further, and to let the political establishment know that they cannot simply bypass democracy like this without people noticing."
One of the most popular bittorrent sites, BTjunkie, has been "voluntarily" shut down in the wake of last month's closure of Megaupload.The operators of BTjunkie, which launched in 2005, said in a message on the site: "This is the end of the line my friends. The decision has not come easy, but we've decided to voluntarily shut down."We've been fighting for years for your right to communicate but it's time to move on. It's been the experience of a lifetime, we wish you all the best!"The founder of the site told TorrentFreakthat legal action against other filesharing sites, such as Megaupload and The Pirate Bay, had played an important part in his decision.The move follows the closure of other sites such as QuickSilverScreen, with more expected to follow.Megaupload was taken offline on 19 Januaryafter US prosecutors accused seven men behind the site of cheating copyright holders out of $500m (£317m) in revenue over five years.The site offered users a "one-click" upload for content and claimed 50 million daily visitors shortly before it closed.Prosecutors have described it as "among the largest criminal copyright cases" ever brought by the US government.BTjunkie was one of the search terms censored by Google because it was related to piracy.One visitor to thereddit.com feedabout the site's closure wrote: "This is like seeing a library that was burned down with all its books inside … This was my go-to for torrents.""Damn," said a reader on theTechCrunch site. "Guess we're just going to have to start paying for shit now."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 4 FebruaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Final Fantasy XIII-2(16+)PS3 (54)Xbox 360 (42)12 (–)Metal Gear Solid HD Collection(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)13 (5)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (44)PC (9)154 (1)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (34)Wii (7)PS2 (5)195 (–)SoulCalibur V(16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (41)16 (9)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (45)PC (1)127 (2)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (38)Wii (3)138 (3)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (36)PC (11)139 (4)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (83)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (2)1710 (8)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (37)1211 (7)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (77)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (4)4512 (11)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (36)1213 (10)Zumba Fitness 2(PG)Wii (100)614 (14)Football Manager 2012(3+)PC (91)PSP (9)915 (–)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (40)Wii (9)3DS (4)1116 (16)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)1217 (13)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)1018 (12)Rayman Origins(7+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (29)Wii (26)719 (6)Resident Evil: Revelations(16+)3DS (100)220 (19)Cars 2(3+)Wii (41)DS (39)Xbox 360 (12)PS3 (8)15UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 13 apps for you today:GreggsAh, those moments when you MUST have a piping-hot sausage roll or three, but don't know where to go. The official iPhone app for UK bakery chain Greggs can help, with its GPS-enabled Shop Finder feature. It also promotes discounts, includes the complete menu, and social sharing features.iPhoneTime DucksFrogger meets Braid meets slot machines. Intrigued? Danish developer Tough Guy Studios has released this lovingly-created line-drawing game that involves getting animals across the road, while rewinding and fast-forwarding time at will.iPhone / iPadParent BingoParenting can be a stressful experience. iPhone app Parent Bingo aims to help by boosting "a parent's first line of defence – their sense of humour". The idea: mark off parental experiences on a digital bingo card, and share with friends.iPhoneSeesmic PingSocial startup Seesmic's latest Android app wants to help people schedule their posts to Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn, choosing when and where status updates should be made available.AndroidFourFourTwo GalleryMagazine publisher Haymarket has a new appy spin-off from FourFourTwo magazine. This Gallery app for iPad offers football photography, from action shots to the sillier side of the game – as well as more than 200 covers from the mag itself.iPadInfectedOut on iOS since December 2011, Glu's freemium action game Infected is now on Android. It sees you roaming the streets of New York killing zombies. Well, it's more the zombies who are roaming, given that this is a tower defence-style game.AndroidiDaTankAfter for a quirky yet lovely-looking Japanese robo-exploration game? Look no further than iDataTank, which has enough character to perhaps become a breakout indie hit on Android.AndroidMr LegsIt must be the week for intriguing indie Android games. Mr Legs is the work of a new studio called James Games, and sees its long-legged hero plucking cherries on the streets of Londonium, with a characterful visual style.AndroidRogue RacingAnother freemium game from Glu, but this time iOS-only – for now at least. Rogue Racing is a Need For Speed-style street-racing game, but reviewers on the App Store are already complaining about the gameplay and in-app purchases implementation.iPhone / iPadDisney Second Screen: Lady And the Tramp EditionIt's US-only, but Disney's latets second-screen iPad app is designed to be used during or after watching Lady and the Tramp, accessing galleries, flipbooks and playing challenges.iPadPet Shop Story: Valentine's DayThe new fashion for iOS freemium social games seems to be launching calendar-focused spin-offs. Lots had Christmas editions, but now TeamLava's Pet Shop Story has got in first with a Valentine's Day version. A pet shop with a "Kitty Kissing Booth"? Sounds illegal.iPhone / iPadMy Country: Sports EditionThere's also the genre-based spin-off, as seen in this new Android game from Cooper Media: a sporty offshoot from its My Country freemium game. The idea: build the perfect sports village, with tennis courts, stadia and swimming pools. Bonuses feed back into the main game too.AndroidARWedding JapanAnd finally, (virtual) hats off to the Japanese couple who have released an augmented reality Android app just for guests coming to their wedding reception: "Just hold the camera up to the QR code to see your gift!"Android
Vincent's having a tough time of it. A man content to while away his early 30s in a jazz bar, the Stray Sheep, he's in a long-term relationship with Katherine, who's starting to grumble about marriage and kids. Then he starts having nightmares; other men are there, too, all of them in ovine form. Young guys start dying in their sleep, and he cheats on Katherine with Catherine, a nubile blonde who appears at the bar one night. Then Katherine reveals she's pregnant.With its focus on dreams, sheep and relationships,Catherine's story could have been lifted straight from the pages of a Haruki Murakami novel. It's compelling stuff, but the game itself is too hard for its own good. Vincent's nightmares play out as 3D sliding block puzzles, but what at first seem like tests of logic soon become ones of memory, as sparse checkpoints require you to memorise several minutes' worth of pushing, pulling and climbing at a time. Playing it on easy is a necessity; there are multiple endings, and you can always bump up the difficulty in subsequent play-throughs if you're the masochistic sort, but whileCatherineis a lot of things – smart, sexy and genuinely intriguing – it's not a very good video game.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOver 3 years later, "deleted" Facebook photos are still online &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWorth a full read.Facebook is still working on deleting photos from its servers in a timely manner nearly three years after Ars first brought attention to the topic. The company admitted on Friday that its older systems for storing uploaded content "did not always delete images from content delivery networks in a reasonable period of time even though they were immediately removed from the site," but said it's currently finishing up a newer system that makes the process much quicker. In the meantime, photos that users thought they "deleted" from the social network months or even years ago remain accessible via direct link.Facebook's mobility challenge &gt;&gt; New York TimesThe Financial Timesreportsthat Facebook will introduce mobile ads within weeks – just in time for its Wall Street debut.How China Ate Android &gt;&gt; ForbesIf Android isn't growing in the US, what's happening elsewhere? It's exploding in China:ZTE is now targeting 80 Million handset volume in 2012 - and 100% smartphone volume growth. ZTE Blade became the second-best selling W-CDMA phone in China last summer and is now cruising towards 10 million units sold globally. The ZTE Skate is off to an even faster start. And ZTE is actually behind Huawei in China - these two combined are likely to hit 25% share of China's handset market by summer. By elbowing out old champs like Motorola and LG in China, Huawei and ZTE are building production scale they can leverage to undercut rivals even more aggressively in the rest of the Asia.And they're killing mid-tier operators like HTC, LG, Sony Ericsson and Motorola. For 2012, they're coming to the US:It would not be surprising if Google opts to wind down Motorola's handset operations sometime over the next two years and Sony bails out entirely.Note that.Motorola wants 2.25% of Apple's sales in return for license to standard-essential wireless patents &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsMotorola has said it will license its essential patents to Apple, but for what is quite a large slice of revenue. Apple, in response, has put in requests for find out how much Nokia, Qualcomm, HTC, LG and Ericsson are required to pay. If Motorola has trying to screw more money out of Apple for essential ("FRAND") patents, that may go badly for it. Samsung is accused of the same tactic against Apple, by the way.I switched to Bing on the iPhone and it didn't kill me &gt;&gt; The Next WebMatt PAnzarino examines whether Apple could dump Google from iOS devices:Apple is already working on what is, at least judging from acquisitions, a technically superior version of Maps built specifically for iOS devices. But you can't build a search engine in a day, or even in a couple of years. So the only viable option is to change the default iPhone search engine from Google to Bing. So I decided to take Bing for a spin, changing it to my default search engine for a month or two. What I found was that it actually could be a very solid alternative to Google for a large portion of iPhone users, and that it might even be a better fit for the majority of those than Google is.However, that's not really a reflection of what he did find. Bing was good on local but less good on maps, news, gossip and some "geeky" searches. But of course, nobody changes defaults.U.S. government, military to get secure Android phones - CNN.comBad news for RIM?Some US officials this year are expected to get smartphones capable of handling classified government documents over cellular networks, according to people involved in the project. The phones will run a modified version of Google's Android software, which is being developed as part of an initiative that spans multiple federal agencies and government contractors, these people said.So, another Android fork. It's not quite a win for Google - more a win for the US government. But for RIM, which has for ages had so much of the US government business, it's not good news.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice
Steve Appleton –  the chief executive of Micron Technology, which makes products under the Lexar and Crucial brands – has died in the crash of an experimental plane he was piloting.The image that Appleton, 51, cultivated as a stunt pilot and off-road rally driver became the perfect metaphor for his wild, 18-year ride as the leader of the company, where stomach-churning swings from billion-dollar profit to billion-dollar loss required the constitution of a business daredevil to survive.Appleton died on Friday morning when his plane crashed at the Boise Airport, west of Micron's desert campus. The company one of the largest and most influential employers in the state of Idaho.Micron makes semiconductor chips for computers, mobile devices, cameras and other devices. In its latest fiscal year, which ended on 1 September, Micron earned $167m (£106m) and had revenue of $8.8bn.Appleton was no stranger to plane crashes, surviving at least two earlier wrecks including one in 2004 that left him seriously injured. He was the only person aboard on Friday when the small Lancair crashed shortly after its second takeoff attempt in Boise, according to safety investigators.Appleton was known as a driven competitor in a volatile industry. Away from the office, he channeled that energy into high-octane hobbies, pursuing his passions as a stunt pilot, off-road racer and scuba diver."He lived life to the fullest, and while he enjoyed great success in business and in life, he never lost his intensity or his drive," Idaho governor Clement Otter said in a statement.In the wake of Appleton's death, Micron's board of directors headed to Boise for a weekend meeting to discuss the company's next steps. Micron spokesman Dan Francisco said company president and chief operating officer Mark Durcan would take on Appleton's responsibilities until the board appoint his successor.Corporate governance experts raised questions in the past about whether Appleton, as CEO, should be engaging in a hobby as risky as stunt piloting, but Micron's board accepted it as simply part of Appleton's work-hard and play-hard personality.The company's shares have traded between $3.97 and $11.95 over the past year, and shares were up 23c at $7.95 Friday before trading was halted for the announcement."Steve's passion and energy left an indelible mark on Micron, the Idaho community and the technology industry at large," Micron's board of directors said.Betsy Van Hees, an analyst from San Francisco's Wedbush Securities, always figured Appleton had the ideal persona to lead an upstart from the wilds of Idaho in the turbulent global memory industry. People must be thrill-seekers to be in the computer memory business, especially in recent years, Van Hees said."You look at what's happened in the industry over the years, its many ups and downs more downs than ups lately and Steve had stayed committed to that, and to staying in Boise," she said. "It's not a business for the faint of heart."Crash investigators say Appleton hadn't filed a flight plan and by all indications planned to stay in the area for a recreational flight on a clear, sunny morning.Air safety investigator Zoe Keliher,  from the National Transportation Safety Board, said the crash happened during Appleton's second attempt to fly that morning.She said Appleton's first takeoff ended abruptly witnesses said the plane only got about 1.5m off the ground when he landed and returned to a hangar for about five minutes.Keliher said witnesses reported that the plane then returned to the runway to take off again, but Appleton almost immediately told the tower he needed to turn around and re-land. His plane was about 30m or 60m in the air before witnesses say it crashed and caught fire.Investigators planned to look for any evidence of equipment failure, pilot error or other problems. Airport spokeswoman Patti Miller said the aircraft was a fixed-wing prop plane Lancair, which is built from kits.Planes like the Lancair have caught the attention of the National Transportation Safety Board, which is in the midst of a study of their safety. Last year, the agency investigated 222 experimental and amateur-built plane accidents in which 67 people were killed. More than half involved planes that were bought used rather than having been built by the current owner.In 2004, Appleton sustained a punctured lung, head injuries, ruptured disk and broken bones after his stunt plane crashed in the desert east of Boise.He didn't immediately reveal the severity of injuries he sustained in that crash, and at the time a Micron spokesman described Appleton as only sustaining some "bumps and bruises." But in 2006 a corporate governance expert began questioning disclosures about the crash.Appleton's death came one week after Durcan announced plans to retire in August. Mark  Adams, Micron's vice president of worldwide sales, was named to succeed Durcan.News of Appleton's death sparked an outpouring of homage from Idaho leaders, with Otter lauding him as a champion and visionary businessman who "understood the value as well as the cost of excellence".Appleton had his business administration degree from Boise State fresh in hand in 1983 when he took a low-level job at the new high-tech startup, Micron. His starting wage on the chip fabrication line was just $4.46 an hour, but it wasn't long before Appleton was promoted, and promoted again 11 times in all.By 1991 he was the youngest-ever chief of a Fortune 500 company, serving as president and chief operating officer of Micron. In 1994, he was appointed to the position of chairman, chief executive and president, though he dropped the president title in 2007. He is survived by his wife, Dalynn, and four children.Appleton owned several different types of aircraft and frequently flew in air shows. He had a penchant for other adventures, too.In 2006, he won the 20-car Baja Challenge Class of the SCORE Tecate Baja 1000, completing the 1,685km run from Enseneda to La Paz in 25 hours and 25 minutes, 30 minutes ahead of his nearest competitor.At the time, Appleton said he wasn't worried about putting himself and his executive team behind the wheels for the pounding, often brutal race over rough and remote terrain."I don't know what could be worse than being in the memory business for risk-taking," he said. "If we were in some stable, monopolistic business, I'd probably get objections from my executive staff about doing this, but they're all dying to go."
It's Monday, then. Were you snowed in over the weekend? Did it give you an unexpected chance to play more games? Tell us all about it!
Once upon a time, a very long time ago, in 1995 to be precise, a scholar named Eli Noam published an article in the prestigious journalScienceunder the title "Electronics and the Dim Future of the University". In it, Professor Noam argued that the basic model of a university – which had been stable for hundreds of years – would be threatened by networked communications technologies.Under the classical model, universities were institutions that created, stored and disseminated knowledge. If students or scholars wished to access that knowledge, they had to come to the university. But, Noam argued, the internet would threaten that model by raising the question memorably posed by Howard Rheingold in the 1980s: "Where is the Library of Congress when it's on my desktop?" If all the world's stored knowledge can be accessed from any networked device, and if the teaching materials and lectures of the best scholars are likewise available online, why should students pay fees and incur debts to live in cramped accommodation for three years? What would be the USP of the traditional university when its monopolies on storage and dissemination eroded?If that was a good question in 1995, it's an even better one today. The answers offered by traditional universities over the years varied according to status and mission. Some universities went into denial and pretended that Noam's "dim future" wouldn't happen to them. Some decided that their USPs – their elite brands – would protect them from the gathering storm. Others decided that they would become primarily research-driven outfits with undergraduate teaching being regarded as a tiresome chore that could be outsourced to graduate instructors. A few experimented with distance teaching and the delusion that putting their educational "content" online would solve the problem. But, different though these responses were, all universities were agreed on one thing: in the end, students would have to come to them because only universities could give them the appropriate credentials. QED.In behaving thus, universities put themselves in the role of the mythical frog in a saucepan of water that is being slowly heated on a hob. As time passes, the frog notices gradual changes in the temperature, but each increment seems relatively tolerable, so the creature adapts to it. But then there comes&nbsp;a&nbsp;moment when the water boils...Some things have happened recently that make one think that perhaps the water might be reaching boiling point for traditional universities. The key development is a set of three courses created by Stanford University academics and colleagues in three subject areas: machine learning, database design and artificial intelligence. What makes these significant is that they are: intellectually demanding; free; presented entirely online; taught by world-class academics; and inclusive of assessment as well as tuition.Take the"Introduction to AI" course, for example. It's based on a course taught to conventional Stanford undergraduates and introduces students to the basics of artificial intelligence – which includes machine learning, probabilistic reasoning, robotics, and natural language processing. It's taught by Sebastian Thrun, who in addition to being a professor at Stanford and an expert in robotics is also a vice president at Google, and Peter Norvig, Google's director of research. And it's very serious academically – an undergraduate- or early graduate-level course that requires around 10 hours a week, has weekly assignments and mid‑term and final exams. In order to receive a "statement of accomplishment", students have to take&nbsp;both exams.The statistics for the venture are intriguing: 160,000 students signed up, from more than 190 countries, with a median age of around 30. But the really staggering thing is that about23,000 of them stayed the courseand finished it. A friend of mine, Seb Schmoller, took it and reports that it was worthwhile but pretty tough going. The project has been so successful that Professor Thrun has set up aspin-off companywhich plans to enrol 500,000 students on its first two courses: "Building a search engine" and "Programming a robotic car".Now you could argue that Thrun (and Stanford) are just treading a path that was already laid down by MIT and our own Open University – free content and sophisticated online pedagogy – and that's true. But up to now, universities have held back from offering qualifications for their free online offerings. That too is about to change: starting this spring, students taking MIT's free online courses will, for a small fee,give them academic credentialsif they pass the assessment.The game's on, folks. Who says that a watched pot never boils?
In a former retail space, just yards from Soho's sex shops and market stalls, Britain's next wave of technology entrepreneurs are checking in for one of the biggest days of their lives. Clutching coffees and smartphones or iPads, the mostly young men in shirts, sweaters and jeans mingle awkwardly with the 120 investors and industry experts, who have come to hear them pitch their business ideas, offering advice in intensive mentoring sessions afterwards. A lucky few might also walk away with the prospect of financial backing.SeedcampLondon – to give this nerve-jangling day its formal title – has become a landmark occasion in the tech scene's calendar. At least 250 hopeful startups, from as far afield as Portugal and Finland, applied to this year's event, with just 22 (albeit a record number) invited to take part. Launched in 2007, Seedcamp is arguably Europe's leading early-stage mentoring and investment programme for tech startups and has backed a total of 60 companies.While that number is modest (compared with its Silicon Valley equivalentY Combinator, which invests in around 60 every year), the fund's investment is viewed as a golden ticket. Not only do "Seedcamp companies" receive an investment of €50,000 but, more importantly, they gain access to a network of more than 1,200 mentors, including many of the industry's leading players, and are taken on a meet-and-greet tour of investors and founders in every US tech hub from Boston to San Diego.No wonder, then, that the smiles and&nbsp;hushed small talk at the event mask an atmosphere that at times resembles a shark pool. "The competition really is tough," says Seedcamp partner Reshma Sohoni. "Not only is it really hard to get in, but of the 22 teams here today, Seedcamp may potentially invest in two or three – or none of them."By the time the pitches (a strict three minutes) are under way, the space is packed with startup teams and mentors. Some are tapping notes into keyboards, some are filming the proceedings, more are live tweeting. It's hard to miss the glaring lack of women both in the audience and among those addressing it. Only three pitches are led by women and just one (out of 22) is delivered by someone over the age of 50. What's more, there are just two black men in the room; one of them is a security guard.Although it's changing slowly, the event is a reminder that the tech world&nbsp;is predominantly peopled by young, white, male geeks. "That's because a lot of the guys starting out in the business are coders; they come from a technology background," explains Sohoni.While it's easy to see why the entrepreneurs apply to Seedcamp in their droves, the reason that investors prowl the room, scouting for talent and dispensing advice in huddled, urgent mentoring sessions, is harder to explain. Most of these businesses are not so much young, or even pre-pre-revenue, as nonexistent. Some are little&nbsp;more than a bright idea, a fast-talking founder and a holding homepage. But that doesn't put off venture-capital fund Eden Ventures, which now has investments in six Seedcamp-backed startups. Partner Ben Tompkins says he met three more teams at Seedcamp London 2012, which he is "taking seriously and following up on".Eden makes very early stage investments of between £200,000 and £1m, with further stakes to follow as and when the business grows. "The key thing we're looking for is a really good group of people behind the business," says Tompkins. "Not just one individual, but a team who have come together to work on an idea. Second, have they got a good understanding of the market opportunities? Do they understand who's going to use their product or service? Third, do you think there's something they can create that's intrinsically valuable?"Revealingly, Tompkins says that venture-capital funds have to develop diverse portfolios of companies to spread their risks. "The industry numbers for VCs in the US and Europe&nbsp;are that in 60% of companies in&nbsp;which you invest, you will lose money," he says. "In 30%, you will either break even or return some money to the fund. So you're down to&nbsp;10% that's going to make a difference&nbsp;and effectively put the fund&nbsp;into a profit-making position." Which makes for grim odds for the startups. Fewer than 10% of applicants to Seedcamp London were selected to take part in the day. Of those, on average, around 10% will receive funding. And just 10% of that 10% will be a breakout hit. But funding – which is available in other accelerator programmes, from "angel" investors, seed funds and other sources such as friends and family (or "fools and family", as one investor quipped) – is not the primary reason that many startups apply.The true value of being backed by a fund such as Seedcamp is the stamp of approval it confers. "When you come out the other end and say I was a Seedcamp 2011 company, that says something," says Tine Thygesen, CEO of digital travel site Everplaces, co-founder of start-up hotbedFounders Housein Copenhagen and a mentor at Seedcamp. "If you're a good entrepreneur, you'll be able to figure out the business stuff yourself. What you can't do yourself is that borrowed credibility, which means that when you're calling up an investor, he'll probably call you back."Seedcamp's credibility has been hard-earned. Of the first 22 companies they've had meaningful data from, just three have failed. Three more have been acquired, including Mobclix, which was bought by mobile marketing&nbsp;company Velti for around&nbsp;$50m. By 2012, the programme&nbsp;predicts that 11 out of the first 16 Seedcamp-backed companies still trading will generate at least $1m in revenue, creating hundreds of jobs in the process. ""Some of our companies have 50 plus people working for them just three or four years after starting up," says Sohoni. "If we didn't exist, all that would either not have happened or taken these companies a heck of a lot longer. That's where we can really measure our impact."Bertie &amp; BeanJames Tabor and Stephen Trott. Photograph: Katherine Rose for the ObserverWho?James Tabor, 29, a former media salesman, and Stephen Trott, 29, a graphic designer from Birmingham.Pitch?"We're a website that helps parents save money, space and time, clothing their children by connecting families whose clothes their children have grown out of with families whose children the clothes will fit," says Tabor.Come again?It's a service that allows families to send kids' clothes to each other. &nbsp;It costs £15 to accept a bag and&nbsp;nothing to send one on.Finances?Held an (early stage) seed funding investment round last December. With "cheques in the bank", a UK launch is planned for March.Why Seedcamp London?"For the roomful of experienced, successful people," says Trott. "You can never have enough advice as a startup."TheObserver's verdict:Snappy pitch, workable idea, so no surprise it's attracting  investment. www.bertieandbean.comSendsyJulie Allen and Jess Hitchman. Photograph: Katherine Rose for the ObserverWho?CEO Julie Allen, 30, and COO Jess Hitchman, 33, from London.Pitch?"Sendsy is a network of international personal shoppers enabling you to get anything from anywhere," says Allen. "People have had this problem of not being able to get items they really want – maybe some limited-edition Nikes from Tokyo or a backpack that's only available in Berlin – in their own country. So we want to hook people up with shoppers in other countries, who can find those items."This is all about the trust economy. Users will rely on the trustworthiness of strangers?"We are vetting shoppers scrupulously because we want to make sure the trust levels are high," Allen says.Finances?Self-funding and both founders are still in their full-time jobs.Not many women here today?"By calling it the 'tech scene' it can sometimes put women off," says Hitchman.TheObserver's verdict:Great premise, but needs road-testing.sendsy.comPlaybankNancy Vega. Photograph: Katherine Rose for the ObserverWho?American-born Nancy Vega, who's 38 and "a passionate gamer".Pitch?"Playbank is a virtual universe for kids aged six-12, where they can chat with their friends, play games and buy merchandise from the catalogue," says Vega. Part of her goal is to build a competitor to Club Penguin that allows kids whose parents cannot afford a membership to earn membership to Playbank by taking "fun, educational quizzes".Can a startup take on Club Penguin?"The gaming market is not winner takes all," she insists.Where are you with the business?"We haven't looked for investment yet. But now that we've found our sweet spot we will be looking for funding."TheObserver's verdict:Moshi Monstershas grown into a $200million business with 50 million users. But the content had better be good, as kids are hard to please. www.playbank.comYossarian Lives!J Paul Neeley and Dan Foster-Smith. Photograph: Katherine Rose for the ObserverWho?Co-founders J Paul Neeley, 33, Dan Foster-Smith, 26, and Katia Shutova, 28.Pitch?"We're creating a search engine that can generate metaphors," says Neeley. "Current search optimisation returns results that are closely related to your query, which is useful if you're looking for what the world already knows. But if you're on the edge of your knowledge field, it's not actually helpful. In those cases, metaphors become really&nbsp;valuable."Finances?"We won a Deutsche Bank award in 2011. We've been kind of bootstrapping since then."But what's the business model?"We want the product to be available to the public for free, but we've also had a lot of interest from people about applying the algorithms to corporate data sets."TheObserver's verdict:The most "out there" idea at Seedcamp London. A one-off and, if it works, potentially disruptive. www.yossarianlives.comStylechiEmmanuel Eribo and Zanda Donaldson. Photograph: Katherine Rose for the ObserverWho?London-based Emmanuel Eribo and Zanda Donaldson, who are both 29.Elevator pitch?"StyleChi is a loyalty-based fashion retailer," explains Donaldson. "We're trying to stimulate repeat purchases and to give people an incentive to keep coming back to our site with real time, immediate rewards."Eh?Think Nectar points for people in the habit of purchasing D&amp;G jeans online. The more you spend, the less you pay.Target customers?The modern shopper – people who shop online and are avid social network users, claim the duo.Finances?"It's all been self-funded so far," says Donaldson. "We're at an early stage. We've had investment meetings and we've now got a Beta website to show investors."Any investment in the pipeline?"Nothing concrete at the moment."TheObserver's verdict:Neat idea, but an untested model in a very crowded marketplace. www.stylechi.com• This article was amended on 7 February 2012 to make it clear that Katia Shutova is a co-founder of Yossarian Lives!
Puzzle game Puddle asks nothing more&nbsp;of the player than to guide a small&nbsp;body of fluid into a goal by tilting each 2D level left and right and allowing gravity to do its thing. In reality, navigating&nbsp;Puddle's winding mazes and obstacles is remarkably tricky.It's a testament to the work put into a title that won an award in the student section at the independent games festival; it&nbsp;has some brilliant touches, with the streamlined&nbsp;control system and variety&nbsp;of ideas keeping it fresh and rewarding throughout.However, any player familiar with gaming innovations of the past few years will have seen a lot of what's on offer here already, much of it delivered&nbsp;with a little more flair elsewhere (Sony's&nbsp;LocoRoco, for example). And yet, while occasionally falling&nbsp;foul of some of the cliches of hip&nbsp;game design, it's visually splendid&nbsp;and, at just under £7, represents good value for money.
Developed by the UK studio Rebellion,NeverDeadis something of a welcome surprise – a fun third-person shoot-'em-up with a novel gameplay twist. Player-character Bryce, a world-weary and wisecracking demon hunter with a history of hatred for the undead, is immortal. His limbs fly off, but he will keep fighting, though with incrementally less ability as he takes more damage. Desperate scrambles for errant body parts add an extra layer of tension to the numerous, and usually impressive, setpieces.Apart from this one smart idea, however, the game tends to sag. Badly implemented level design can lead to frequent breaks in tension, and clumsy weapon physics reduce a number of fights to blind luck. The voice acting starts out lovably rough around the edges, but after a while, the one-dimensional characterisation begins to grate. A shame as just a little more care could have produced something really quite special.
Perpetual motion games have proved a big hit on mobiles – thriving on bursts of intensely pressured gameplay in the object-hurtles-towards-dangerous-obstacle mould, with only the player's hand-eye co-ordination to prolong the agony.My Army(iPhone, Distinctive Developments, 69p) pushes this further. With a top-down perspective reminiscent ofCannon Fodder, a squadron of four soldiers heads into enemy territory.To start, you tilt the iPhone to manoeuvre around obstacles, barbed wire and mines, before hails of gunfire are added, then rockets and bombs that must be swept from the screen. Returning fire is vital for buying time – but ammo is limited and crates must be collected to replenish supplies. Dead soldiers can be replaced with rescued PoWs but once all the men are down it's game over.Repeated attempts to top that high score inevitably follow, along with much tilting, swiping, gnashing of teeth and tearing of hair – hallmarks of the just-one-more-go greats.
The number to watch is not the putative $100bn valuation but the 845 million users that Facebook now claims to have. The observation that if Facebook were a country then it would be the third most populous on the planet has become a cliche, but underpinning it is an intriguing question: how did an idea cooked up in a Harvard dorm become so powerful?Thanks to a compelling movie,The Social Network, we think we know the story. A ferociously gifted Harvard sophomore named Zuckerberg has difficulties with women and vents his frustration by creating an offensive web application that invites users to compare pairs of female students and indicate which is "hottest". He puts this up on the Harvard network where it gets him into trouble with the authorities. Then he lifts an idea from a pair of nice-but-dim Wasp contemporaries who need a programmer and, in a frenzied burst of inspired hacking, implements the idea in computer code, thereby creating an online version of the printed "facebooks" common to elite US universities. This he then launches on an unsuspecting world. The Wasps sue him but lose (though get a settlement). Zuckerberg goes on to become Master of the Universe. Cue music, fade to black.It's all true, sort of, but the dramatic imperatives of the narrative obscure the really significant bit of the story. So let's rewind. Zuckerberg creates his noxious application, called "Facemash", which appears to be modelled onhotornot.com– and uploads it to the servers on Harvard's internal network. In no time at all there is such a hoo-ha that he has to take it down. (In the film the Harvard authorities take it down, but that's a detail). Zuckerberg is hauled over the coals by the university authorities and labelled a bad boy. Facemash is history.Next time, though, when The Facebook (as the service was originally called) is ready to go, Zuckerberg doesn't put it on the internal network. Instead, with $1,000 borrowed from a friend he buys space on a hosting service and puts it on the internet. As with Facemash, The Facebook goes viral within Harvard. But this time there's nobody who can shut it down. The bird has flown, and Zuck is on his way to his first billion.This subtext isn't highlighted in the film, of course, but it's the most significant thing in it, because it explains why the internet is such a disruptive force — and why it's so important for our futures. "What is important in Zuckerberg's story," wrote the Harvard professor Lawrence Lessig in hisreview of the film, "is not that he's a boy genius. He plainly is, but many are. It's not that he's a socially clumsy (relative to the Harvard elite) boy genius. Every one of them is. And it's not that he invented an amazing product through hard work and insight that millions love. The history of American entrepreneurism is just that history, told with different technologies at different times and places.What's important here is that Zuckerberg's genius could be embraced by half a billion people within six years of its first being launched, without (and here is the critical bit) asking permission of anyone. The real story is not the invention. It is the platform that makes the invention sing. Zuckerberg didn't invent that platform. He was a hacker (a term of praise) who built for it. And as much as Zuckerberg deserves endless respect from every decent soul for his success, the real hero in this story doesn't even get a credit."Lessig's right: the really significant thing about the internet is that it's an enabler of "permissionless innovation". And this is no accident: it's a consequence of the way the network was designed. Way back in the 1970s, when Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn were pondering the problem of how to create the internet, they came up with two basic principles: there should be no central ownership or control; and the network should be indifferent to the uses to which it was put. If you had an idea and it could be realised by shipping data across the internet, then the network would do it for you, no questions asked.Because software is pure "thought stuff" all you need is imagination and programming talent. And you don't need much money, which explains why many of the dominant internet enterprises did not require major investment at the beginning. Tim Berners-Lee launched the web with no funding. Jeff Bezos started Amazon with his savings. Pierre Omidyar did the same with eBay. Shawn Fanning was penniless when he launched Napster, the orginal file-sharing service. Zuckerberg launched Facebook with $1,000 – borrowed from friend Eduardo Saverin.Facebook is just the latest demonstration of how permissionless innovation is embedded in the internet. For the network, disruption is – as programmers say – "a feature, not a bug": it's what the network was designed to do. That's why established industries and authority structures fear it so much. And it's why we need to make sure that they don't wreck it with clueless regulation.
