Very few game developers have a philosophy about design, a philosophy that's clearly and completely applied in everything they do. You get companies like Ubisoft, which have rigid and rigorous approvals processes, ensuring a certain amount of innovation, but you really have to look to Japanese veterans like Nintendo or Treasure, to see a truly over-arching creative theory at work.Or you can look toDenki, the small Dundee-based studio that's spent the last couple of years firing out brilliant casual games for Sky's interactive TV service. By the end of 2008, the team - all 20 of them - had released 180 titles, most in the last two years. Sure, these aren't PS3 first-person shooters, they're usually cute puzzlers with cool ideas and solid interfaces. But 180. 20 people. The mind boggles.Until you visit the office, which takes up two floors of a cavernous Victorian building, owned by the University of Abertay. Here, through the sketches, photos and artwork cluttering every wall, you get the sense of a singular purpose. Ever since the company's first title, the inventive mobile puzzle title, Denki Blocks, there has been a definite approach to development here. Nintendo is a good touch point, with maybe a dash of old skool Hudson Soft or current heroes likeThatGameCompany. The games are cheerful and immediate, clever, yet intuitive. There are pastel colours and cute characterisations. Whatever it is, you just want to play.It turns out the company's development manager, Gary Penn - ex-ZZap 64 writer and DMA creative director - has built something of a Hollywood-style studio system here. "It is something that was born of having a magazine background," he explains. "You don't have slippage, you're doing the same thing 12, 13, 14 times a year, so you get more practiced. It's like the notion of repertoire in the theatre, you have these tools, these methods of doing things, whereas in the game development business we always seem to be re-inventing the wheel."During the Sky production line, Penn started writing lists of what made a good game; he went round the office getting ideas from the artists and coders. This was all compiled, filtered and condensed. He came up with ten rules of design - they are called The Denki Difference and they are applied to everything the studio works on. There will be more on the theory next week. For now, the practice...The studio currently has a smattering of projects on the go: a Wii game, a couple of early experiments - one perhaps for iPhone. The only 100% definite development I'm allowed to talk about is Quarrel, a compelling word game for Xbox Live Arcade that smartly mixes Scrabble with Risk.Some of the concept art for Quarrel. This takes up several walls.It works like this. The action takes place on a landscape, split into a series of territories. You're up against three AI or online players, and the aim is to occupy all the blocks on the map by defeating your neighbouring opponents in a series of word-building face-offs. When it's your go, you simply move some of your soldiers onto a block occupied by a foe - this activates the quiz/battle part; you each have to create a word with the random selection of letters, all of which are assigned a Scrabble-style points value. The more soldiers you have, the more letters you get to play with - the winner of the fight is the one with the highest scoring word.When you occupy a new territory, you only leave one solder behind to defend your previous square, so there's a huge tactical element - for every advance there's a weakened area in your wake that's open to attack, so every offense must be carefully weighed up. It sounds complicated, but it's very simple to get into, and - like all good word games - incredibly addictive. There's no definite release date yet, but David Thomson, who's official job title is 'Number One Fan' says, "there are still several months of work left on the project". Quarrel may also make it across to other platforms after the XBLA launch.From here, Thomson shows me into a small brainstorming room - called the Tink Tank - where three staff are busy conceptualising new projects. They've got several on the go: an animal-based racing game that looks like Mario Kart crossed with Chorlton and the Wheelies; I also like the look of a card-based RPG fighting game, Battle Atekko, which, department head Richard Ralfe tells me is, "Warlords meets Play Your Cards Right".On the wall are Penn's ten game design rules, and it's these that form the structure of the brainstorming process. There's no sense that the team is just picking genres and trying to come up with new spins on old ideas. Instead, there's a sort of organic, industrial design approach - they start by considering actions and interfaces - what's fun to use, what isn't? Today, they're playing with iPhone, just fiddling about with different uses of the touchscreen, finding out what feels satisfying.  "We always start with the idea of toys," says Ralfe. "They're the quickest way into finding fun. Rules aren't fun, so we never begin with them." There's also a fluidity to the design process - Battle Atekko starting out as a racing game, but the fighting element looked like becoming the really fun bit, so they switched to a combat game. Fun is key.But ideas are the creative currency, and Denki seems to be a hothouse for them. Indeed, the company runs a regular Dragon's Denki competition, where staff members come along and pitch ideas to the board of directors. Instead of asking for investment cash, they're pleading for development time in order to work on prototypes; each dragon has a set amount of time they can award to the concept, but if the staff member gets two or more dragons on board, they get longer to work on their idea. So far, five games have gone into prototyping through this process and two are in full production.Concept photos and sketches for an unannounced Denki project...In many ways, Denki seems to be the spiritual successor to DMA Design, another Dundee-based developer, formed by Lemmings creator Dave Jones in the late-eighties. There, a similar approach to game development thrived - the idea of games as toys, with interface and interaction at the summit of the design process, rather than visuals or narrative concepts. But while DMA was chaotic, with many more interesting misses (Space Station Silicon Valley, Body Harvest, Tanktics..) than big hits, Denki is focused and professional; it's unlikely they'll produce a GTA, but then, that sort of thing is not on the agenda. It's all about fun, remember - even the company'srecruitment siteis a toy of sorts.And really, it's UK developers like this that'll survive in the increasingly uncertain games business. Denki are concentrating on smaller platforms - iPhone, XBLA, even Facebook apps. Like nearby companies Tag and Proper, the aim is to build a fanbase, to gain a reputation, to work on solid ideas. It is like the late-eighties again - like having Sensible Software, DMA and the Bitmap Brothers back in business. It is, in short, a good time to put some faith in homegrown development.
That time of the week already? Apparently so. Time to sit back, relax and answer aFriday Afternoon Question.Last week's FAQ quizzed you about your favourite Mac stories. I'll be honest - there weren't many that set the world on fire. Our Jackgave his reminiscences, whileBigE65intrigued me with what hedidn'tsay in his tale. But it wasYesmaster, with apure bit of unadulterated happinesswho made me smile most. Yesmaster - drop me an email with your address; a signed copy of Andy Hertzfeld's book is on its way to you.This week, there's been plenty to keep us occupied, so I'm sure we'll be forgiven for not paying too much attention to the World Economic Forum in Davos, the world's premiere gathering of rich, self-important windbags (there goes my chance of an invite).But I did take note of a clash between two of my favourite megalomaniacs, whenVladimir Putin dealt out a smackdown to Michael Dell. In my mind, I was imagining them squaring off like WWF wrestlers. Just too funny to ignore.That, and theOscar-nominated moviestarted me wondering why we haven't seen much in the way of proper geek wrestlers. Yeah, theNatural Disastershad the physique of a cube jockey, but were more hick than hi-tech.So...What would a geek wrestler be called? What would their special move be?Yes, it took a while to get there. But just imagine - if you've made it this far, you're in with a good chance already.
What's your favourite piece of technology?Probably my BlackBerry – I love it, you have emails and everything right at your fingertips.How has it improved your life?I think it allows you to be very mobile and astill very productive – you can take your office with you.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Right now – we're on it as we speakWhat additional features would you add if you could?If it could walk my dogs for me, it would just be the greatest.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Probably, with tech moving so rapidly – every other month they're coming out with a new touchscreen this or that. I remember when mobile phones first came out and they were these great big bricks of things.What one tip would you give to people who don't use a BlackBerry?Who doesn't have a BlackBerry these days?Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm not scared of tech, but I'm not nerdy – i'm in between. I still have to go to my brothers for help with some things, but I'm not a total dumb-dumb.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I would say a car, because now you can talk to them and they talk to you and give you directions – they do everything.Mac or PC?Mac. I just like them, it's easy and like a great computer for the not-so-geeky people because they're so user friendly.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?I have the lamest iPod, actually – I don't even think I have any new songs in it, like Luther Vandross or Li'l Kim. I have to send it to my brother to update – that's on my list of things to do,.Will robots rule the world?I hope not, but technology is moving so fast – you can never say never.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would love a piece of technology where I could be invisible and just walk into rooms and evesdrop, be a fly on the wall. That or be able to fly – one of the two.•Keshia Knight Pulliamplayed the youngest daughter, Rudy, onThe Cosby Showin the 80s. Season Four of the show is out on DVD Monday
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Sony says it sold 4.46 million PlayStation 3 games console in the Christmas quarter (October-December), which was down 9% from 4.9 million units in the same period last year. That's pretty unusual or, I suspect, totally unknown for a successful games machine.But Sony scored a hat-trick of declines. PSP sales of 5.08 million units were down by 68,000, while sales of the old faithful PS2 more than halved: they were down by 2.88 million units to 2.52 million.Sales of PSP game sales fell by 2.8 million units to 15.5 million, while sales of PS2 games plunged by 31.2 million to 29.7 million units. The only bright spot was that sales of PS3 games climbed by 14.8 million units to 40.8 million.Not surprisingly, the games division's sales fell by a third to ¥393.8 billion ($4.36bn), while operating profits fell by 97% to ¥400 million ($4.42m).The whole company didn't do much better. Sony's revenues fell by 25% to ¥2.15 trillion, and profits by 95% to ¥10.4 billion ($115.6m).AP reportsthat Sony "also reiterated its forecast for a net loss of 150 billion yen ($1.67 billion) for the full fiscal year through March — its first loss in 14 years.""From the second half of September last year, there has been a sudden deterioration in the economy, and with the effects of foreign exchange it has had severe consequences on our business," Chief Financial Officer Nobuyuki Oneda said.The strength of the yen against the dollar had a devastating impact. Whether it should have been quite that bad is an interesting question.FinanceAsia.comsays:if you delve deeper into the figures, it does not seem possible that currency shifts were the principal cause of the company's losses. Sony's initial guidance for FY08 was ¥450 billion in operating profit, based on an exchange rate of ¥100 to the dollar. According to brokerage CLSA, yen appreciation would have had an impact of around ¥100 billion, meaning a profit of ¥350 billion. Instead, the company is now forecasting an operating loss of ¥260 billion, or a swing of ¥610 billion on top of the currency losses.People who share this view may want Sony boss Sir Howard Stringer to be replaced.
Internet users who illegally share copyrighted material such as music and films face prosecution under government proposals which will require service providers to spy on surfers.The communications minister Lord Stephen Carter also called yesterday for every home to have access to a broadband service by 2012, either through a mobile phone connection or phone line that is fast enough to watch the BBC iPlayer."There is no sector with the possible exception of energy that the rest of the economy relies upon more than this one," Carter said as he published his interim Digital Britain report. "The digital economy is the driving force of much of what we do and probably even more of what we will go on to do."In its 22 proposals, Carter's report spans the communications landscape from the future of digital radio and local newspapers to the possible merger of Channel 4 with the commercial arm of the BBC or a private company such as Channel Five.It also recommends the creation of a rights agency, funded by the ISPs and the media industry, that would set out a strategy for defeating illegal internet file-sharers, including the use of technologies such as digital watermarking of copyrighted content.Since last summer the ISPs have been sending out warning letters to persistent illegal file sharers under a pilot scheme brokered by the government, but ministers believe more needs to be done to stem the tide of internet piracy and protect creative industries. A recent study by the University of Hertfordshire showed that only 10% of young people are deterred from file-sharing by a fear of being caught.Legislation will be introduced, after the summer, that will standardise the current notification process and force the ISPs to collect information about "serious repeat offenders". The companies will then be able to prosecute offenders in court.The rights agency will decide what level of illegal activity is required before an internet user can be spied upon. Carter, who will thrash out the full details of the agency with the industry before producing his final report in June, has ruled out making sharing of copyrighted material a criminal offence."I don't think this is as undoable as people have suggested," he said of a crackdown on file-sharers. "I don't think anyone thinks that you are ever going to get this to zero but the question is can you get it from an epidemic to manageable proportions."Last year a leaked letter from Lady Vadera, the business minister, made it clear that the notification process should help to "significantly reduce" illegal filesharing in two to three years. "I would regard a reduction as 'significant' if it had reduced the number by well over 50%, and we hope in the region of 70%-80%," she wrote.Carter's report also makes it plain that a long-term solution also involves the creation of "innovative legitimate services to meet consumer demand".Feargal Sharkey, the former Undertones frontman who now leads industry body UK Music, welcomed the fact that Carter's report "recognises the scale of the challenges faced by the music and other creative industries in regards to unlawful file sharing. However, we do not believe that the form of intervention proposed - suing consumers - is the best way forward".Carter's plans for universal broadband  at about 2Mb per second also came under attack as being too timid. "Given that the national average access speed is 3.6Mbps, isn't the scale of the government's ambitions pitifully low," said Jeremy Hunt, the shadow culture secretary.Independent analysts were also surprised by Carter's plans. "We were very surprised that the government is only advocating a broadband network speed of 2Mb per second by 2012," said Richard Heap, head of telecoms, at BDO Stoy Hayward. "Given that a number of other ISPs offer speeds of up to 50Mb per second, this is akin to a snail's pace and lacks ambition."Carter, however, said that many of the 1.75m rural homes that do not have broadband may get it through new wireless networks rather than a traditional phone line and it is harder to set a minimum speed requirement because of the way mobile phone networks operate at peak times."At the moment there is no universal service obligation for minimum broadband," he pointed out. "We are saying there should be."Main pointsBroadband for allCarter wants high-speed internet access for every home, over a fixed-line network or wireless connection, by 2012. The minimum speed would be 2MB, enough to download a film overnight or watch the London Olympics on BBC i-player. Telecoms firms will be legally required to build and fund a broadband network, though they could receive some public money.Piracy crackdownIllegal downloads cost the entertainment industry millions of pounds. New laws will force broadband suppliers to hand over their customers' details to music and film companies, making it easier for them to sue persistent offenders.Channel 4's futureA second public service broadcaster will be created with Channel 4 at its heart, possibly by merging it with parts of the BBC's commercial arm, BBC Worldwide. It will be required to show local and international news, documentaries and films - but it is still not clear if it will receive public money.ContentCarter accepted the findings of the Bryon review, which said a ratings system based on age guidelines should be introduced to make it easier to police the internet. It could mean that internet giants such as YouTube would be required to carry warnings so parents can block access to unsuitable material.Radio revolutionDigital radio as a technology is struggling to grow, but Carter rejected calls to switch off the analogue signal to encourage take-up. The FM services which have national reach will run alongside new digital stations until digital covers 90% of the UK or accounts for 50% of all radio listening.Local newsCarter asked the Office of Fair Trading to look at whether ownership rules should change to allow regional press and commercial radio to merge. Economies of scale would help meet the cost of covering local news, which is highly valued by the public.
Summed up in four headlines, when it comes to the internet, Lord Carter wants Britain to have four things: high-speed internet access, whether indoors or mobile; lots of UK content that we create and consume; a "universal service obligation" for broadband; and some way to stop people pirating content that they might otherwise pay for.Laudable enough. After all, who would argue against any of those? They're all self-evidently a good idea. And that's the problem with Carter's (interim) report. So much seems to be taken as self-evident that the rigour of arguing how you'll actually achieve it is left out.And in this game, it's not the ends, it's the means that matter. The real problem with Carter's ideas? There's no indication of how the industry will pay for them, nor how he'll coerce those who don't want to pay – or play – to go along.First, high-speed networks. Great idea; and yes, if we had them, we'd certainly have much more digital business. We'd benefit. However, who's going to pay? Building high-speed networks is really expensive. Putting in "fibre to the home" (FTTH) costs a minimum of €500 per subscriber in an urban area, rising to €3,000 (again, minimum) per rural subscriber – asthis analysisshows (see the graphs at the bottom of the page). That compares to a cost of zero to put in copper telephone lines – because we already have them. FTTH only begins to be viable for new-build homes. And that's a sector that's in intensive care.So how does Carter propose – even vaguely – to let networks pay for those networks? There's one allusion that will alarm some. Page 22 of the report mentions "net neutrality" – the idea that the network provider should not favour data from one source over another. "Net neutrality is sometimes cited by various parties in defence of internet freedom, innovation and consumer choice," the report says. The implication: it doesn't matter, because "the government has yet to see a case for legislation in favour of net neutrality."Carter and Ofcom call it "new business models": essentially, it would let your ISP demand payment from, say, a video or internet telephony or music download site if it wanted its data to reach you in a timely fashion. Yes, it recalls the mafia: "nice video streaming service you've got there. Be a shame if anything happened to its packets on the way to the consumer." That's what Carter is urging: let ISPs demand money with vague (or real) menaces from content providers.The trouble with that is that only the bigger content providers will be able to pay to get their high-speed services sent over the system; the small (dare I suggest British?) ones won't. That stunts the startups, the bright ideas with new ways to do things.It's brutal economics, but it's hard not to think that Carter has picked the worst option. There are two others: let the customer pay; and let the government offer some sort of writeoff for companies that spend on fibre installation, which has a high labour and capital cost. You know at least that the labour must be home-grown (that's jobs, minister).Next, the idea of lots of UK content – which is allied to the fourth call, for ways to stop us ripping off digital content. One suspects a certain feeling in Lord Carter's department that getting this right is like herding cats. Others are better qualified than me to roll their eyes and shake their heads at the idea of lots more "impartial news" sources, but the ideas on digital rights (on page 43) boggle the mind. As a time when themusic industry has been moving away from digital rights management(DRM), Carter seems to be pushing them back towards it. Possibly his suggestions are more aimed at video content. Even so, DRM hasn't helped anyone sell an extra copy of anything. It's always an obstacle.And as for generating that content – while he's very keen on talking about our creative industries, what guarantee is there that we'll really be more creative? At the risk of banging a drum, I'd suggest that the very cheap way would be to make all the non-personal data that the government collects available to British businesses, entrepreneurs and others to create new content would be a fantastic stimulus. That's the objective of theFree Our Data campaign. If Lord Carter really wants more British-grown content, he might consider getting the government to kick-start the process.And then, the universal service obligation for broadband – that's "everyone" in the sense, perhaps, of TV coverage, where "everyone" means "reaches 98.5% of the population" – is both an open goal and a terribly unambitious target. As Carter acknowledges, by the 98.5% criterion, we already have "universal" 512kbps broadband – a quarter as fast as the 2012 target. WithBT rolling out its ADSL2+ systems, many people will be pushed up towards that 2Mbps target (though nothing like as many as he believes; asthis graphshows, if you're not already getting 4Mbps, ADSL2+ won't make any difference). BT can get there easily. But what will it get in return? That's not made clear. In return for universal phone service, it got to be a monopoly. What's the benefit in hitting 2Mbps? A letter of thanks?Finally, Carter only briefly acknowledges the real change that's happening - and which this report almost entirely slides past. Mobile phones are taking over from fixed-line ones. "Already 20% or more of consumers in some socio-economic groups have 'cut the wire', especially in often younger and/or lower income groups in urban areas," the report notes. That's people who live entirely on their mobiles. They're the future, and it should give Carter pause. The thinking on mobile broadband is hazy – which is unsurprising, because it's a really new field that's evolving very quickly; 3G dongles are exploding in popularity, as are smartphones. In five years' time we might think that fixed-line broadband is soooo noughties. Our 2012 selves might prefer to watch the Olympics sitting in a park, beamed live to our mobile tablets, or just our computers, in high definition.Assuming that scenario begs the question, though. Someone's got to pay, and someone's got to build the infrastructure. What Carter didn't address is where and who the money is going to come from. And when it comes to the internet, people may think the content is free. But the  cables, computers, mobile phone tower, electricity, support staff and programmers most certainly aren't. There's no free lunch, Lord Carter. In your next report, you need to figure out who's going to pay.
Every household in Britain should be guaranteed access to broadband by 2012, probably at a speed of 2Mb per second, the government said today in its Digital Britain report.Broadband connections should be available to all under a "Universal Service Commitment" similar to BT's obligation to make fixed-line telephone services available to everyone, the government added, in communications minister Lord Carter's interim Digital Britain report, published today.However, the government has yet to decide exactly how this will be funded and does not appear to commit any public funds to securing this goal, although Ofcom admitted that the BBC's £130m a year "digital switchover surplus" could be put to this endin its public service broadcasting report last week.Nor does the government say whether any households would be able to get broadband services for free or at a guaranteed low rate. It seems unlikely that this would be the case: under BT's existing obligation in fixed-line services, all households are ensured access to a phone but that does not mean any customers get free or subsidised calls."We will develop plans for a digital Universal Service Commitment to be effective by 2012, delivered by a mixture of fixed and mobile, wired and wireless means," the Digital Britain report said. "Subject to further study of the costs and benefits, we will set out our plans for the level of service which we believe should be universal."The government indicated that users should be guaranteed a 2Mb per second connection, a speed that gives access to the BBC's iPlayer service and allows music albums to be downloaded in five minutes."A 2Mb/s service would carry further initial costs, but would enable a substantially higher number of households to upgrade to what by 2012 will be in step with standard broadband usage," the report said. "It might also be future-proofed in that the prospect of requirements for a future upgrade is lower than if the universal service commitment was set at a more basic level."At the moment there are 1.75 million households – 7% of the country – without access to an internet connection at this speed over BT's network.The government estimates that by 2012 a third of those households not served today will have access to 2Mb broadband thanks to upgrades to BT's network.The cost of providing access for all is likely to be shared between "a range of communications providers, and those who provide communication services over the network".The government rejected the idea of making BT alone pay for the commitment, as its broadband customers represent just 25% of households.Consumers are likely to have to pay some of the costs too, though the government did not specify at what point they would be charged."We expect that ... the end consumer should, beyond a certain point, make a contribution to the cost of providing connectivity," the report said.The government wants to encourage the take-up of broadband services among the 17 million people over the age of 15 estimated not to be using computers or the internet.As well as launching its own initiatives, led by the new digital inclusion minister, Paul Murphy, and an independent "digital inclusion champion" and taskforce, the government wants to get the BBC involved."We are inviting the BBC to play a leading role, just as it has in digital broadcast, through marketing, cross-promotion and provision of content to drive interest in taking up broadband," Carter's report stated."With other public service organisations, the BBC can drive the development of platforms with open standards available to all content providers and device manufacturers alike."Online public services should be designed for ease of use to "encourage the shift to online channels in delivery and service support".The government also wants to improve media literacy, asking media watchdog Ofcom and the BBC to participate in defining a new national plan.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Half the UK's digerati are currently poring overDigital Britain: The Interim Report, and if you want to join in the fun, you can download the full1.5MB PDF.For the Guardian's numerous reports on the report, see* Digital Britain: Lord Carter joins calls for BBC Worldwide/Channel 4 tie-upby Leigh Holmwood* Digital Britain: Lord Carter vows to force ISPs to crack down on web piracyby Mark Sweney* Digital Britain: Government to make DAB 'primary network' for radioby John Plunkett* Digital Britain: Government invites press to join local TV news debateby Oliver Luft* Digital Britain: 'Rights agency' planned to fight online piracyby Jemima Kiss* Digital Britain: Government criticised over commitment to 2Mbps broadbandby Patrick Wintour* Digital Britain: 'Report is a rope bridge to the future'by Emily Bell* Digital Britain: who's going to pay?by Charles Arthur* Digital Britain: where are the startups in this vision of the future?by Jemima Kiss* Digital Britain: the industry reactionby Leigh Holmwood* Editorial: A universal right* Why Clay Shirky should take over the writing of the Digital Britain reportby Charles ArthurMore to come.The truly devoted may also want to read the prime minister'sSpeech to the New Local Government Network annual conference. No, forget that: you can just skim this passage:Today's interim report from Lord Carter sets out the scale of our ambition to compete in the digital economy, a market currently worth over £50 billion a year in Britain alone and expected to grow rapidly in the future. Our digital networks will be the backbone of our economy in the decades ahead. We know that every aspect of our lives - every school, every hospital, every workplace and even every home - will depend on the services the digital network provides. It is as essential to our future prosperity in the 21st century as roads, bridges, trains and electricity were in the 20th century.  And building these bridges to the future will need a clear lead from government combined with a strategic partnership between the private and public sectors.
Thursday's editionof Chatterbox
TheIndependent Game Festival's mobile finalistswere announced earlier this week, and the results suggest evidence of a popular shift: the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms have dominated each category, leaving scant room for traditionally-built Java and Flash mobile offerings.What does this mean for the mobile gaming industry? Has the popularity of the iPhonereaddressedthe issues with this genre, offering developers the opportunity to generate games that are above and beyond what we have seen before?And what will happen next year, once the Google Android platform lands on the shelves in their forthcomingG-Phone? Already, UK mobile content developers are creating games for the open source operating system, which has already found its way on aspectrum of hardware.Will the open source movement wrestle the stronghold the boys and girls from Cupertino have established in this space?
There's been so much written about Obama's relationship with technology that it's easy to think he's some sort of half-man, half-BlackBerry political cyborg... Robama, if you will.The geekgasm surrounding hisuse of the internet, stance onnet neutralityand noises aboutopen governmentmean he is almost ready to assume the role of a hi-tech prophet who can lead the geeks to the promised land.But, it turns out, Robama isn't some tech-crazed fiend. One of the first steps he took after winning the election was to attempt to delay America's switch to digital TV  - an attempt which hasjust been defeated by Congress.In Britain, digital-only TV has been around for a while and it'sslowly being phased inas the replacement for analogue. We should all be fully digital by 2012.Americans, however, don't like hanging around. The first parts of the US started going totally digital last year and the whole country is supposed to switch in three weeks. At that speed, not everybody feels ready for the change - apparently 6.5m people would be left without their telly.The Republicans say it's too confusing to change now (and the delay was only going to push things to June). The Democrats' reasoning was that poor, rural Americans - who can't get cable and can't afford satellite - are going to be the ones left without TV.Hey, if they've got the right to bear arms, I wouldn't argue with them either.
Judging by the latestglobal sales figuresthen it certainly looks likely.  In 2008 the Market Value in the UK was 4.03bn UKP (+18.5% on 2007). Japan was worth 4.55bn UKP (down 15% on 2007). The US was way out in front at 14.89 bn (up 19% on 2007). So the way the trend is going 2009 could be the first time the UK has outsold Japan.However, whilst the Japanese market was worth over £500m more than the UK in 2008, it also suffered a worrying 15.3 per cent decrease compared to 2007. The UK market, in contrast, enjoyed growth of 18.5 per cent, just a shade behind the US market. In fact, if the same rates of growth and decline occur in 2009, the UK market will be worth £4.77bn – almost a whole billion more than the Japanese market (£3.86bn). Could 2009 be the year the UK becomes the second most valuable games market in the world?The data also highlights the gaming cultural differences across the 3 countries by listing the top 5 games sales for each. The UK and US are dominated by FIFA and Madden respectively while Pokemon and Monster Hunter are huge in Japan. The Wii though is cross border, with Mario Kart showing in all three lists and Wii Fit selling well in the UK and Japan.Anyone surprised by the figures then? Ever thought you would see the day that the UK overtook Japan in gaming sales?
What's the Downadup/Conficker worm all about? Should I be worried about it?Peter BowyerDownadup/Conficker has becomesomewhat famousas the biggest worm to hit Windows for several years: F-Secure has estimated that more than 9m PCs have been infected. It exploits a hole thatMicrosoft patched last October, but if you think you might have missed it, check that you have a folder called KB958644 in C:\Windows in the $hf_mig$ directory. If you suspect you have caught Downadup/Conficker, run Microsoft's freeMalicious Software Removal Tool.Downadup/Conficker can also attack in other ways, and uses Windows' AutoRun feature to infect computers via USB memory sticks. You can always stop Windows autorunning things by holding down the shift key, but it's probably better to disable this functionality. In Windows XP go to Start, select Run, and type (or paste) gpedit.msc into the box. When the Group Policy console appears, click Administrative Templates, go to System, and look towards the bottom right for the entry called "Turn off AutoPlay". Double-click this to bring up the Properties sheet, select the radio button for Disable, and click OK. In Vista, after gpedit.msc, go to Windows Components and select AutoPlay Policies.Apart from Downadup/Conficker,Symantechas reported "an increase in malicious applications that use USB flash drive devices as a propagation method" (symantec.com).
I want to replace an old eMachines PC from 2002. I would prefer a desktop with a flatscreen like the one I used to have at work, but have seen some all-in-one machines that seem very tidy. Are there any downsides for a golden oldie who really only uses his computer for email and internet browsing?Bill HowatAll-in-one PCs have been around for a long time but only the Apple iMac versions have ever sold in any volume, possibly because Apple doesn't offer the sort of cheap mini-tower systems that are popular with Windows PC buyers. An all-in-one design will do what you need, and certainly looks tidier, especially if used with a wireless keyboard and mouse. The drawbacks are that all-in-one PCs are harder to expand, and USB ports and CD/DVD drives tend not to be as accessible as they are on the front of a mini-tower. All-in-one designs are also more expensive, especially if you want a big screen, and you can't replace the computer separately from replacing the screen: it all goes to recycling - or landfill - together.In general, then, I think you are better off buying a mini-tower and spending any extra funds on a bigger, sharper LCD screen. Even if you'll never upgrade the system's sound or graphics card or add a bigger hard drive yourself, you can get someone else to do it for you. And when your mini-tower system finally needs replacing, you'll have the option to re-use your old screen, or use your new PC with two screens.
I wrote a book on an Acorn Risc PC 600, and a friend produced a PDF and put it on CD for me. What are the disadvantages of the format? Is it possible to make a Word version for my Dell Inspiron laptop running Windows XP?Chris RileyPDF stands for portable document format. The idea behind this Adobe system is that you can capture a whole document, including the layout and any pictures, so that it looks the same regardless of the computer used. PDF files can also be password-protected to prevent copying, and even include DRM (digital rights management) restrictions. This can make PDFs less useful than other documents, depending on the permissions used.There are lots of free programs that will try to convert PDF files into Word files, including Free PDF to Word Doc Converter (hellopdf.com). However, if the file is under 100MB, theZamzar.comwebsite is often the quickest way to do a one-off conversion.At worst, you can usually print out a PDF document, scan the printed version with OCR (optical character recognition) software, then run it through a spell-checker. This can work reasonably well with clean text, such as a book, but may not be much good with fancy, printed brochures.
It's not too hard to think up grandiose ideas to change the world, but very few people attempt to put them into effect - and even fewer succeed. Nicholas Negroponte, founder and chairman emeritus of MIT's Media Lab, made the attempt with the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project, and he isn't beaten yet.OLPC is distributing more than 1m XO-1 laptops, and they're robust enough to survive in the most remote parts of the world. He happily performs his party trick, and pitches the little green laptop across the hotel room floor. It still works.Although the OLPC idea was discussed at MIT, it didn't become widely known until January 2005, when Negroponte announced the project at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. It got a further boost that November, when Negroponte and the UN's Kofi Annan showed a prototype of the machine at the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis.Negroponte hoped to sell machines by the million to world leaders, with volume production driving down prices. But large contracts failed to materialise, and when the XO laptop went into production towards the end of 2007, the price was still around $188 (pounds 133) per machine. Quite a few of those were sold to US buyers on a "Give One, Get One" programme: you paid for two and the other went to a child.Sugaring the pillBut the project has taken a battering. In 2007, OLPC's chief technology officer, Mary Lou Jepsen, resigned to start a new company, Pixel Qi, to develop XO ideas separately. Last April, software boss Walter Bender also left, founding Sugar Labs to develop the XO's Linux-based Sugar software separately. This year, the OLPC has shed half its staff, with the remaining 32 members taking pay cuts.But Negroponte does not sound downhearted. "OLPC should have trimmed sooner," he says. "We have since grown stronger. Almost all the cutbacks were in engineering staff related to the in-house support of Sugar, which is far better done in the community. In fact, paying people to do it from within created a degree of control that was unsuitable for real open-source development."He has also been round the world and seen XO laptops making an impact. Adding up the score, he says: "There are 600,000 laptops in the field, 250,000 in transit and another 380,000 about to be made, so the total adds up to about 1.2m. Thirty-one countries in 19 languages are the exact statistics. It's less than I anticipated, but still gratifying."Things could improve when OLPC starts shipping laptops with Microsoft Windows XP, which may happen in April. This has upset some supporters in the open-source community, but Negroponte sees it as removing one of the obstacles to adoption: many countries won't buy laptops that won't run Windows."It gets you into countries where the minister of education or whoever else is involved are themselves Windows users, and find something like Sugar or Linux so alien that they think their kids will be compromised in the future. They can't argue if the machine does both. It's just like the Apple laptops, which companies didn't buy because they didn't run Windows. Now they do run Windows, they're more widely purchased and used - it got them into the office."He adds: "I think everybody will want the dual-boot version," and he expects all XO laptops to ship in that format. "We've had nobody say 'we don't want the dual boot' so it will presumably be the default. We boot Windows on open firmware now, which is a major breakthrough. That doesn't mean you have to fire up and run Windows! There's a $3 charge per child for Windows, but that's an agreement between the state and Microsoft. Nobody has yet done it."There has been a bit of a backlash, I point out. "Yes, but that's the Linux fundamentalists," he says. "What they're missing is that this is the best way to get Linux into the field. They're all being silly about it. Linux is its own worst enemy: it's splintered, it has different distributions, it's too complex to run for most people. If I were Bill Gates, I couldn't plan it better. You know, fundamentalism doesn't get you into the field."An open bookWith the XO-1 now being deployed in the field, interest is turning to a follow-on project: the XO-2. This will be a $75 dual-screen device that's held like a book. You can also turn it around and use one of the screens as the keyboard."The first generation is a laptop that can be a book; the next generation will a book that can be a laptop," he says. "That's the switch."One important thing about the XO-2 is that we're going to do it as an open source hardware programme. The XO-1 was really designed as if we were Apple. The XO-2 will be designed as if we were Google - we'll want people to copy it. We'll make the constituent parts available. We'll try and get it out there using the exact opposite approach that we did with the XO-1."We had to do the XO this way because everybody said it couldn't be done. We purposely designed a special-purpose, award-winning museum of modern art piece. The next one will be different: everything from the dual display to the touch-sensitive, force-feedback, haptic keyboard will be available."The XO-2 came as a result of feedback from the XO-1. Negroponte says he'd thought ebooks were the weakest argument for the OLPC, "but I found that for many people, the strongest case was books. Suddenly a village can have 10,000 books, which is more than we had in school."The other interesting thing about the XO-2 is that it looks like something western consumers would buy as an ebook reader, and there's potentially a mass market at the target $75 price. Or somebody like Asus or Acer could make them, without paying OLPC a royalty. A project that was started to help children in the developing world could end up helping children in the west as well. "I wouldn't complain," he says.
Ten years ago, everything looked up for the games industry - there were three brand new consoles on the shelves, a world of handheld machines to captivate us and the internet knocking on the door. It was bold, it was brash, and it was big money.Mascots ruled: Lara Croft was selling fizzy drinks and fast cars; Sonic the Hedgehog was peddling fast food; and Super Mario was kicking back after his movie debut. It was louche, it was the future. Grand Theft Auto was still played from a bird's-eye perspective, Guitar Hero was called GuitarFreaks (and released only in Japan) and booth babes were still allowed on the E3 showroom floor. The future promised revolution, it promised the world.Fast forward to now, and the only really new thing that's happened in the past 10 years has come from a company that started out making playing cards. Last year, Lara visited the Underworld in her ninth tomb-raiding adventure, GTA was once again a hot topic in the House of Commons and Guitar Hero went on its first World Tour.Meanwhile, the Nintendo DS pushed the limits of user-interaction with its touchscreen technology and the Wii, aptly code-named Revolution, turned the industry on its head. If this is how far it has come - sequels upon sequels generated by an industry concerned with how its intellectual property translates to the big screen and back again - is there hope for the next decade?We stand at the cusp of an interactive content revolution. A democratisation, if you will. Games developers, with their innate understanding of compelling entertainment, are better placed than anyone else to take the next 10 years of media by storm.By using the web-enabled consoles to go beyond multiplayer gaming, they can innovate with tools to inspire user-generated content, cross-platform interaction and emotional engagement. They can teach us through play.The next generation of creative talent will emerge from these communities and from the community of players - from the hardcore Fallout 3 addicts to grannies who play on their Wiis.By allowing them to express themselves via accessible tools, and to distribute their content openly and freely, things we haven't dreamt of will be born. The results of this head-shift are beginning to show through in mainstream output such as LittleBigPlanet and in indies such as Braid.The next decade of games development could spearhead the convergence of this industry with entertainment, business and policy. It could take a leadership role, rather than following the pack.Everything is in place for revolution, and, like the biggest coups, the power is in the hands of the players. Let's hope they put down their controllers for long enough to take up the challenge, or in 10 years, we'll be in the same place we are now.
Ask JackDealing with DownadupWhat's the Downadup/Conficker worm all about? Should I be worried about it?Peter BowyerJS:Downadup/Conficker has become somewhat famous as the biggest worm to hit Windows for several years: F-Secure has estimated that more than 9m PCs have been infected. It exploits a hole that Microsoft patched last October, but if you think you might have missed it, check that you have a folder called KB958644 in C:\Windows in the $hf_mig$ directory. If you suspect you have caught Downadup/Conficker, run Microsoft's free Malicious Software Removal Tool, athere. Downadup/Conficker can also attack in other ways, and uses Windows' AutoRun feature to infect computers via USB memory sticks.You can always stop Windows autorunning things by holding down the shift key, but it's probably better to disable this functionality. In Windows XP go to Start, select Run, and type (or paste) gpedit.msc into the box. When the Group Policy console appears, click Administrative Templates, go to System, and look towards the bottom right for the entry called "Turn off AutoPlay". Double-click this to bring up the Properties sheet, select the radio button for Disable, and click OK. In Vista, after gpedit.msc, go to Windows Components and select AutoPlay Policies.Apart from Downadup/Conficker, Symantec has reported "an increase in malicious applications that use USB flash drive devices as a propagation method" (symantec.com).All-in-one next?I want to replace an old eMachines PC from 2002. I would prefer a desktop with a flatscreen like the one I used to have at work, but have seen some all-in-one machines that seem very tidy. Are there any downsides for a golden oldie who really only uses his computer for email and internet browsing?Bill HowatJS:All-in-one PCs have been around for a long time but only the Apple iMac versions have ever sold in any volume, possibly because Apple doesn't offer the sort of cheap mini-tower systems that are popular with Windows PC buyers. An all-in-one design will do what you need, and certainly looks tidier, especially if used with a wireless keyboard and mouse. The drawbacks are that all-in-one PCs are harder to expand, and USB ports and CD/DVD drives tend not to be as accessible as they are on the front of a mini-tower. All-in-one designs are also more expensive, especially if you want a big screen, and you can't replace the computer separately from replacing the screen: it all goes to recycling - or landfill - together. In general, then, I think you are better off buying a mini-tower and spending any extra funds on a bigger, sharper LCD screen. Even if you'll never upgrade the system's sound or graphics card or add a bigger hard drive yourself, you can get someone else to do it for you. And when your mini-tower system finally needs replacing, you'll have the option to re- use your old screen, or use your new PC with two screens.From PDF to WordI wrote a book on an Acorn Risc PC 600, and a friend produced a PDF and put it on CD for me. What are the disadvantages of the format? Is it possible to make a Word version for my Dell Inspiron laptop running Windows XP?Chris RileyJS:PDF stands for portable document format. The idea behind this Adobe system is that you can capture a whole document, including the layout and any pictures, so that it looks the same regardless of the computer used. PDF files can also be password-protected to prevent copying, and even include DRM (digital rights management) restrictions. This can make PDFs less useful than other documents, depending on the permissions used. There are lots of free programs that will try to convert PDF files into Word files, including Free PDF to Word Doc Converter (hellopdf.com). However, if the file is under 100MB, theZamzar.comwebsite is often the quickest way to do a one-off conversion. At worst, you can usually print out a PDF document, scan the printed version with OCR (optical character recognition) software, then run it through a spell-checker. This can work reasonably well with clean text, such as a book, but may not be much good with fancy, printed brochures.BackchatLast week, William Hudson suggested Darik's Boot and Nuke for erasing hard drives before disposing of them. There are, of course, less brutal approaches. Another reader says: "I have used the free Eraser product from Heidi (heidi.ie) to erase data from hard drives without destroying the partitions."• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Remember, WALL-E was a filmThe US army has its own small, unmanned ground vehicle, which looks very much like the clean-up robot from the Pixar film. Except he was able to get himself out of the mud - unlike this one.So what's the 'one more thing'?It was 25 years ago that a fresh-faced Steve Jobs unveiled the computer he called "Macintosh" (no definite article). He seems to have kept the same excited-at-anything crowd during that time.Do you have it in dark brown?Going somewhere dangerous? Need a fashionable, bulletproof jacket? We'll even fire a bullet at you to check it.Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Once upon a time there was a peer-to-peer file-sharing service called Napster, and it caught the record labels completely unawares. For years people had been ripping their CDs into MP3s, but Napster showed them how to get tracks they didn't have (illicitly). And so the universal jukebox was born – though it was quickly extinguished by lawyers.NowSpotifyis here, a completely legal service which tries to get close to that universal jukebox idea, where all you have to do is either pay a monthly fee (&#163;10 in the UK) or listen to some ads at the start of a track (and see them on the application's interface) and you can get at a huge range of music. It's not quite every song ever made - give the folks a chance - but it's a big start.The application you download (for Windows or Mac; or in Wine on Linux) connects to the net and streams the songs. You can create your own playlists, listen to the "radio", or – perhaps most interesting – create collaborative playlists that anyone can add to (or subtract from) once they know the URL. (In the picture, the collaborative ones are green.) And when you're playing a track, there's a link - not yet implemented - to let you buy that song from Amazon or iTunes. Logically, Spotify would get a cut of any such transaction. The files are high-quality - Ogg Vorbis (the open-source codec) at roughly 160kbps; you need about 256kbps bandwidth to get it all working.It all sounds like Napster version 1 done right. So is there anything that doesn't work right? I asked on Twitter and found that what people wanted most was a mobile-phone version (I understand that's in the works, though it might be some way off); better recommendation; better collaborative information (so you can see who has added a track to a playlist, say); and streaming to other devices such as hi-fis. Oh, and more songs - though the classical repertoire is good - and better filtering in the searches, which tend to be overly broad - my search for King Crimson turned up tracks that ex-members had made.As competition, there's iTunes, of course, and eMusic, and Napster (now on life support from Best Buy) and so on. But those don't have the serendipity this offers. Closer might beLast.fm, which has an enormous following; orDeezer, which also offers free registration, and plays through your browser. The weakness of the latter is that it can suck up all your browser's memory. A separate application - as Last.fm offers - means you can kill that process alone.Finally? A promising service that needs to persuade people it will still be around in a year. That's a big challenge in 2009.Pros:low bandwidth; broad range; collaborative playlists; nice UICons:limited social networking; can suck up CPU and diskspotify.com
A new dimension?You can see that a new display somewhere, which was fresh rather than an upgrade, or a new games machine in an arcade, is a much more likely venue for 3D than a television screen near you any time soon (TV aims for the third dimension, 22 January). The expenditure is only the first of the reasons. The second is that the equipment needed to generate the 3D image is much more complex when it comes to filming real people than a logo, game animation or anything else that originates on a screen.daniweb.com/blogsSex, lies and GoogleWhat I appreciate about Seth's point of view (Read me first, 22 January) is that he's got deep expertise in the nuts and bolts of how these things work, he's not given to conspiracy theories, but doesn't give an inch to the powers that be. He's also a lucid and entertaining writer, with a sense of humour as dry as a leaf in winter.comstockfilms.com/blog/Library search foundI was surprised that you could have an article on this subject (Why you can't find a library book in your search engine, 22 January) without mentioningcopac.ac.uk, which covers all British academic libraries online - and some others as well.Colin CohenBarford St MichaelOf course you can, it's just not that easy - as the article says, the search results are dominated by commercial booksellers. Apart from the fact that restrictive contracts like OCLC's WorldCat prevent opening up catalogues for libraries, a key reason why you can't find books in online library catalogues is that retailers are better at getting their websites ranked higher in search engines than libraries - it's their job to promote their wares.suehill.typepad.comiWork, you workThank you for your piece on iWork (Technophile, 22 January). I fall into the "do I need the new features" existing user camp! One thing that might be worth adding is that Apple's education discount puts this package at a mere &#163;34.50 - far more palatable to Apple's large academic user base.David JarmanEdinburghIs downloading dead?Once the remote version [of Spotify] goes mainstream and proper favourites storage has been sorted out, we'll never have to mess about with music MP3s in portable devices again (Streaming music: even better than the real thing?22 January). If the service adds podcasts or talking books in the future, assuming the cost of using the web drops, that's the MP3 market dead, with some types of music radio looking depressed.feelinglistless.blogspot.comMacs reduxWhile Roger Larkinson is correct in saying that the Mac mini is a great piece of kit - it is - it should not be forgotten that it is also a standalone piece of kit (Letters, 22 January). By the time you have also bought a monitor, keyboard, mouse and an external hard drive (and you wouldn't want anything but Apple kit of course), you are well on the way to the price of an iMac, which has a higher spec anyway. Perhaps the Mac mini will go down as one of Apple's design exercises which was stunning, but in the end, no one quite worked out what to do with it.Alan GentCheadleiPhone game gets cheaperYou mentioned that Rolando is about as pricey as iPhone games get (Game reviews, 22 January). They justreducedthe price [from &#163;5.99] to &#163;3.49.Paul HaineLondonEmail us attech@guardian.co.uk. Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
What have Barack Obama, Andy Murray, Downing Street and Britney Spears got in common? Not a lot. Except they all usetwitter.comas a means of instant communication. Twittering is on a roll, even being mentioned on primetime television. Wherever I go in the social-networking community, it is rampant - everyone seems to be exchanging short messages about anything from breakfast, breaking news, a new website, to participating in a conference remotely. Israel used it as part of its Gaza war propaganda machine. For my colleagues in Technology Guardian, it has become almost a life-support machine. Yet when I move out into the rest of the world, hardly anyone has even heard of it. So what's going on?The main reason is that, despite growing exponentially, it is still a minority sport - even though, highly unusually, the government and MPs (seetweetminster.co.uk) have embraced the new technology early on in the cycle. Companies are latching on to the search facilities at Twitter to find out what people think of them. Twitter doesn't give figures. The twitter.grader.com monitoring site says there were almost 1.1 million users at the time of writing, including those like me with multiple accounts. Other estimates put it at well over 5 million.When I first signed up nearly two years ago, it felt a bit like early reaction to the Flickr photo site: an innocent pleasure, but not really me. You could enter up to 140 characters about what you were doing at that moment, such as drinking coffee. Others could click a button to "follow" all your tweets and you could follow theirs. Since then, like Flickr, Twitter has evolved into a sophisticated community with specialised segments. It is one of the easiest websites to get started on. Simply type your name, user name, password and email, and retype some hieroglyphics for security. You are ready to go. Then the complications start. You can follow as many people as you want. It looks like a jungle, but a process of evolution is at work so that groups of like-minded people coalesce together commenting on new websites, breaking news and asking for help when needed. If followers play rough you can eject (block) them. You can't post photos, but you can link to them (twitpic.com).An ecosystem has already grown up around Twitter (see our top 100 websiteshere), enabling you to search for subjects or people or news (eg Gaza) or to ensure the latest tweets on chosen subjects appear on your screen throughmonitter.comortweetdeck.com. It differs from texting as it is a broadcast medium, not a one-to-one. It is free - as long as you have an unlimited data plan if using a mobile - and it enables networking in a way that SMS never could. There are already complaints that, like early criticism of Facebook, it could affect productivity if employees are on it half the day. But many find it helps them with work even though it stretches into private time.There has already been a drift away from SMS and Facebook by early Twitter adopters. Those who criticise use of Twitter at work haven't seen the tectonic plates moving. Social networks such as these are the way businesses will be run in the future. The trouble is that most firms, probably the ones that objected to email in its early stages, don't get this at all. I hear of some applicants who play down their social-networking skills to interviewers because they think it would count against them.Will it go mainstream? Almost certainly, yes. As Wi-Fi, smartphones and unlimited-data tariffs become standard, Twitter will at least provide a free texting service. At best it, or a successor, could over time become a social network for practically everyone on the planet. This is the sort of service that could go ballistic in a recession.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Free Our Data debateThe thinktank Policy Exchange will host a debate called Free Our Data? Government Agencies and Copyright, in Westminster at 5pm on 10 February. Speakers will include the TechnologyGuardian editor, Charles Arthur; Adam Afriyie, shadow minister for innovation; and Ed Parsons, geospatial technologist at Google. If you would like to attend, emailevents@policyexchange.org.uk.freeourdata.orgInternet Explorer approaches 8Microsoft has posted a late beta (Release Candidate 1) of Internet Explorer 8.microsoft.comSt Bill's first epistleMicrosoft co-founder Bill Gates has published his first annual letter on the work of his charitable foundation.gatesfoundation.orgNetbooks will boomABI Research is predicting that 35m netbooks will be shipped this year.abiresearch.com3D at homeNvidia is promoting its 3D Vision for GeForce to bring 3D to home gaming.nvidia.comObama gigaramaDavid Bergman made a 59,783 x 24,658-pixel image from 220 pictures of President Obama's inaugural address.gigaplan.orgFirefox backs TheoraMozilla has given the Wikimedia Foundation a $100,000 grant "to advance open video" in the form of Theora.blogmozilla.comFaire in the northThe first Maker Faire UK will be held in Newcastle on 14-15 March.makezine.com
It regularly comes as a surprise to people that our own infrastructure can be used against us. And in the wake of terrorist attacks or plots, there are fear-induced calls to ban, disrupt or control that infrastructure. According to officials investigating the Mumbai attacks, the terrorists used images from Google Earth to help learn their way around. This isn't the first time Google Earth has been charged with helping terrorists: in 2007, Google Earth images of British military bases were found in the homes ofIraqi insurgents. Incidents such as these have led many governments to demand that Google removes or blurs images of sensitive locations: military bases, nuclear reactors, government buildings, and so on. AnIndian courthas been asked to ban Google Earth entirely.This isn't the only way our information technology helps terrorists. Last year, a US army intelligencereportworried that terrorists could plan their attacks using Twitter, and there are unconfirmed reports that the Mumbai terrorists read theTwitterfeeds about their attacks to get real-time information they could use. British intelligence is worried that terrorists might use voice over IP services such asSkypeto communicate. Terrorists may train onSecond Life and World of Warcraft. We already know they use websites to spread their message and possibly even to recruit.Of course, all of this is exacerbated by open-wireless access, which has been repeatedly labelled a terrorist tool and which has been the object of attemptedbans.Mobile phone networks help terrorists, too. The Mumbai terrorists used them to communicate with each other. This has led some cities, including London, to propose turning off mobile phone coverage in the event of aterrorist attack.Let's all stop and take a deep breath. By its very nature, communications infrastructure is general. It can be used to plan both legal and illegal activities, and it's generally impossible to tell which is which. When I send and receive email, it looks exactly the same as a terrorist doing the same thing. To the mobile phone network, a call from one terrorist to another looks exactly the same as a mobile phone call from one victim to another. Any attempt to ban or limit infrastructure affects everybody. IfIndiabans Google Earth, a future terrorist won't be able to use it to plan; nor will anybody else.Open Wi-Fi networksare useful for many reasons, the large majority of them positive, and closing them down affects all those reasons. Terrorist attacks are very rare, and it is almost always a bad trade-off to deny society the benefits of a communications technology just because the bad guys might use it too.Communications infrastructure is especially valuable during a terrorist attack. Twitter was the best way for people to get real-time information about the attacks in Mumbai. If the Indian government shut Twitter down - or London blocked mobile phone coverage - during a terrorist attack, the lack of communications for everyone, not just the terrorists, would increase the level of terror and could even increase the body count. Information lessens fear and makes people safer.None of this is new. Criminals have used telephones and mobile phones since they were invented. Drug smugglers use airplanes and boats, radios and satellite phones. Bank robbers have long used cars and motorcycles as getaway vehicles, and horses before then. I haven't seen it talked about yet, but the Mumbai terrorists used boats as well. They also wore boots. They ate lunch at restaurants, drank bottled water, and breathed the air. Society survives all of this because the good uses of infrastructure far outweigh the bad uses, even though the good uses are - by and large - small and pedestrian and the bad uses are rare and spectacular. And while terrorism turns society's very infrastructure against itself, we only harm ourselves by dismantling that infrastructure in response - just as we would if we banned cars becausebank robbersused them too.• Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer:schneier.com
Pretty bad, judging by everything that's going on. Intel is closing factories in the Far East and two production facilities in the US. IBM is cutting 2,800 people from its sales and software side. Microsoft is slimming down by 5,000 permanent and 5,000 temporary staff - though it is going to be hiring, too.Steve Ballmer, addressing the staff at one of its "town hall" meetings, told the perhaps slightly stunned staff that "we may find a bottom in a year" and added: "I'm thinking the bottom is deep, but less deep than the 1929 bottom, for example."We think that's known as calling the glass quarter-full.CNet, which has been tracking the layoffs in the sector, notes that in the past week alone Philips, Texas Instruments, Sprint, Ericsson, Logitech and AMD have announced total cuts of more than 25,000 jobs (news.cnet.com/tech-layoffs). That's quite apart from the implosion at Nortel, and what looks like another chunk of firings at Yahoo once its new chief executive, Carol Bartz, who is rapidly acquiring the nickname "Buzzsaw" for her ability to cut through layers of management, gets into her stride.What's clearly happening is that companies are "cutting for the bottom" - that is, trying to reduce their spending (which includes staffing costs) to the level that will leave them profitable even when economic conditions hit their worst (which almost everyone agrees they haven't done yet; the average recession lasts 15 months, and the UK's has only been going, formally, for six months).This, however, has the adverse effect of making everyone else think that things are worsening dramatically, even if they're only sliding slowly.It is hard though to find any light amid the gloom. Informa Telecoms and Media, an analysis company, says that growth in mobile phone subscriptions is slowing, and will worsen: from 18.5% annual growth in 2008 (down from 22.5% growth in 2007), it forecasts only a 12.7% increase this year.And then the FT decided to take a look at the cash balances of the bigger quoted technology companies, and found that even IBM and Oracle - the latter one of the most reliable technology stocks ever - don't have as much cash in the bank as you might think. IBM has "only" $3.3bn of net cash and short-term investments (once you subtract debt). For Oracle, the picture is actually worse: subtract the debts from its ready cash, and it has a deficit of $700m.So what's to be done? For the big companies, there's nothing to do except weather the storm. For the small ones, though, there may be venture capital for those with the right attitudes. Twitter, in particular, is seeking - and, it's rumoured, getting - further venture funding at a higher valuation than at its last round. There are, it seems, some green shoots amid the blasted earth of the technology sector.
To some in the downtrodden kingdom of the geek, he is a messiah. To others, he is the devil incarnate. No one, it seems, divides opinion among the tribes of of cyberspace quite like Patchou. The software creator, real name Cyril Paciullo, is the man behind Messenger Plus! Live – which, he claims, has been downloaded 60m times and is particularly popular among teen­agers. An updated version is due out at the end of this month; the forum on his site boasts 80,000 members.Patchou's creation is an add-on to Microsoft's hugely popular Windows Live Messenger, or MSN, the instant messaging and social networking program used by 17.5 million people in Britain alone. Patchou's software adds dozens of extra features, such as custom sounds, colours, clever ways to manage contacts and, for the uber-geeky, the ability to program your own tweaks.And for that Patchou's grateful young disciples sing his praises in thousands of web forums and chatrooms. "You rock," they gush. Such is their adulation that one admirer boasts of making a 100mph dash to Disneyland just to spend a few minutes in Patchou's company. The acolyte proclaims: "It was really cool to meet Patchou, he's awesome."But this is a man who has also outraged millions. His sin? A Faustian pact with dark forces responsible for distributing adware, those pop-up windows that torture PC users the world over. Messenger Plus! Live comes bundled with a "sponsor's program", which the unwary install unwittingly on their machines. They are then subjected to messages urging them to buy insurance, take out credit cards, play poker or download ringtones. To his opponents this breaks a sacred code of geek ethics and the two sides engage in furious online debates. Supporters say Patchou has provided a brilliant piece of software free to millions of people and the adware is harmless; critics call him "a scam artist making money off gullible young Live Messenger users".Devilin the detailIn the middle of this maelstrom sits Microsoft, which appears to have been impressed by Patchou's work. In 2006, the software giant was moved to honour him with a Most Valuable Professional award – but the howls of protest about his links to adware led the company to withdraw it. Although the dust has settled and the adware is easier to spot and remove, online forums remain littered with the pitiful pleas of the infected driven to distraction by the unslayable sponsor program.So who is this demi-god/devil? In fact, he is a French-born, self-confessed geek and Star Trek aficionado living in Montreal, Canada. Even his harshest critics admire his skill and industry. After all, he's been at it since he was 14, when he first got a computer and started dabbling with programming. "I've always been passionate about computers," he says.Messenger Plus! Live started eight years ago; it's now a full-time job. "Back then, I was working on it part-time, during the night, while working as a software developer for a company during the day. The popularity of the software was growing so I decided it was time to do the jump."Much of the success is down to attention to detail, the 27-year-old insists. "Thousands of programs are created and put online every day. Unfortunately, a majority of them are never 'finished', never polished. If you do something, do it well," he says."I now have around 60 million active users and a lot of people working for me, directly or not. About 50 people are working to translate each new version of the software into 21 different languages and 100 more give a hand for the beta tests. You have the official helpers on the main forums and people on various websites doing the promotion of the add-on."In a given month I may be working only 20 hours a week and the following month, I'll get up only to put myself in front of my computer screens until I go to sleep 16 hours later. The good news is I have a very nice and forgiving girlfriend."And he doesn't find it easy coping with the worldwide adulation. "Software developers tend to be geeks and, yes, geeks tend to be shy," he says. "Still, I've always enjoyed our gatherings, what we call Plus! Mmeetings, quite a lot. It's a nice feeling to see many people coming from many different countries and who have never met before have some fun together, speak in real life.""The software is just a pretext to socialise. It's good to see people from time to time when you spend your days and nights in front of a screen." The devotion surprises his critics. Another Microsoft MVP award holder, the internet security campaigner Chris Boyd, who spoke out against Patchou in 2006, says he was taken aback by the amount of vitriol poured in his direction by the software designer's youthful army of fans. Boyd acknowledges some of Patchou's changes have helped soothe some, if not all, of the critics, but adds: "It's a very peculiar business model."There are perhaps a dozen other Live Messenger add-ons available, although none of them have Patchou's audience. MessengerDiscovery Live, started four years ago by the New Zealand-based software developer Matt Holwood, adds 150 features to Live Messenger, has racked up millions of users and has a forum with more than 8,000 members. Like Patchou, it started as a part-time project but has also become a full-time job, paid for by more traditional ads on his website.But Holwood, 21, is scathing about Patchou's use of adware. He says: "Personally, I think it's wrong and greedy. You have a moral obligation not to get greedy and infect such a large amount of unsuspecting people with malware." I'm sure he lives a very luxurious lifestyle but you have to look at the big picture. Developers should fight against that sort of trash rather than distribute it. He could live very well simply from the advertising on the website. I do, and he has seven times the visitors."Not into temptationIn Holland, another 21-year-old, Frans-Willem Hardijzer, known as The Blasphemer, has been running StuffPlug for the past five years. He also uses ads on his site to to fund his program, which has about 250,000 users. Although he has had to fit his project around his school and university studies, and now a full-time job, he also refuses to be tempted by adware."Apart from the server to host the website, there isn't that much cost to keep it running," says Hardijzer. "In the past I've made enough money through the Google AdSense program to live pretty comfortably as a student. I've considered selling out but I simply don't like the idea of bundling mal/spy/adware with my program like [Patchou] does. People trust me to give them quality software and I don't like abusing that trust."Adware is undoubtedly profitable. Because it inhabits a murky corner of the internet linked to more malevolent forms of computer infection, no one knows exactly how much money it generates, although estimates of up to $2bn (£1.4bn) a year are bandied about. Distributors pay those who help get their software on to them a few cents each time their adware is installed or, more rarely, each time a pop-up ad is clicked.One notorious US adware company netted a reported $149million in four years. Another, which was eventually brought to book by US regulators, raked in a reported $80million in three years.Messenger Plus! is connected to a little-­known company called Circle Development Ltd – which appears to be based in the Ukraine – also known as C2Media or CiD, and linked to the website Lop.com.Installing beliefFor people like Patchou there is plenty of potential to get rich. Challenged in forums by claims that at 6 cents an install, with 800,000 downloads a month, he could potentially net $48,000 (£34,000) a month, he responded: "In case there would be some doubts, I'm still not paid by install. And so you know, C2Media doesn't give 6 cents per install for the kind of package I have. For the record: I'm being paid by searches (and only for some of them), so I wouldn't win a cent even if a billion users installed my sponsor tomorrow."C2Media (lop.com) is probably one of the best adware companies on the market today and that's exactly why I continue to do my business with them: because they can be trusted."Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant at Sophos, says adware is a "huge business" and some "very well-known companies" were trying to exploit the fact no one really considers what they are installing on their PCs ."If you are a youngster, then you just press the button until the thing you want is installed," he says. "You agree to the terms and conditions, so it's legal. It's human nature not to read the terms and conditions." At best, he adds, adware is a nuisance. At worst, it can be bad for online business. "It's not the way you want to behave on the internet. It does inflame the internet community."For all that, Paciullo is unreptentant. "People who accuse me generally do not understand – or accept – that software development is not something you can finance easily these days. People don't tend to buy software, they just download it. The idea behind an optional sponsor program is to offer a way to support the work while offering at the same time a product that's completely free of any obligation."He says he may adopt the same approach for future software launches."It's a win-win situation that works out pretty well."
In an echo of his predecessor John F Kennedy, Barack Obama has set his nation a massive technological challenge. In his first weekly presidential broadcast, he pledged: "We'll computerise the nation's health record in five years, saving billions of dollars and countless lives."Compared with Kennedy's 1961 ambition to send a man to the moon "before the decade is out", the goal of computerising health data may seem unheroic. However, in many ways it is a more daunting challenge. The moon programme was a triumph of human endeavour, but it was based on rock-solid principles: in 1961, scientists knew exactly where the moon would be nine years hence and roughly how they would go about getting there.Moving targetExperts planning the computerised health record enjoy no such certainty. The "nation's health record" does not even exist as an entity today and it would be foolhardy to predict what it will look like in five years' time.For a lesson in how to manage the programme, Obama might do well to look across the Atlantic. Not to the NHS in England, where a &pound;13bn-programme is this year reeling from its latest parliamentary battering, but to Wales.Earlier this month, Edwina Hart, the Welsh assembly's health minister, approved a plan to extend a system called the Individual Health Record (IHR) across the country. The decision comes seven years after the equivalent announcement in England, but no one need apologise for the delay. The Welsh IT team says that, by eschewing political deadlines and working with the NHS rather than trying to impose technology, it has created an electronic medical record that is not only more useful than its English equivalent but will cost a fraction of the price.The secret, says Gwyn Thomas, chief executive of the agency Informing Healthcare, is to listen to users.The contrast with the gung-ho English programme, now enervated by contractual rows and political grandstanding, is graphic. In the latest report, the chairman of the Commons public accounts committee, Edward Leigh MP, said: "Essential systems are late, or, when deployed, do not meet expectations of clinical staff; estimates of local costs are still unreliable; and many NHS staff remain unenthusiastic."Wales and England started off with the same goal - to make computerised medical records available where they are needed. However, the two countries went about it in wildly different ways.In England, the NHS took it for granted that the right technology was available and that staff were enthusiastic about adopting it. The central challenge was seen to be procuring the technology on the best terms, and implementing it to timetable. This involved a series of billion-pound contracts to provide central services and to rip and replace hospital systems across five regions created solely for the IT programme. Tellingly, one of the programme's explicit aims was to double the proportion of the NHS budget spent on IT. In Wales, by contrast, there were no big procurements and virtually no new money. When Thomas took up his role in 2005, he decided to work with existing technology to make information available where doctors needed it. Everything would move incrementally, with the consent of all concerned.This involved several radical departures. In England, a central "spine" is designed to carry a summary record of every patient. The Welsh IHR draws data directly from GP records, with sensitive data such as terminations removed. Patients are asked for consent every time their record is viewed - unlike in England, which initally assumed patients to have given consent unless they explicitly opted out.Patient approachThe IHR was first tested at doctors' out-of-hours services in one county, Gwent, and then at one hospital, Royal Gwent. Crossing the gulf between GP and hospital is itself a breakthrough for NHS computing. It was made possible by technology from a specialist firm, Graphnet, which, because of its small size, was not eligible for any of the big English contracts.All this happened at a glacial pace - which, Thomas says, is a strength, not a weakness. "It gives us more opportunities to engage the users in testing. We've learned a huge amount about information governance, consent, patient safety."The next stage will be to place a contract for the software and support. Thomas says he is "agnostic" about the type of firm he wants to hire. However the available budget - &pound;4.7m - would be chicken feed to the big firms that fell over themselves for the English contracts.It would be simplistic to present the Welsh and English stories as a straightforward Welsh triumph. The English programme has notched up some firsts, notably universal electronic x-ray images. It has also had to tackle political challenges such as the "choose and book" scheme, which was never on the agenda in Wales.
The postponement of this year's budget has added to the uncertainty hanging over the future of the government's biggest data businesses. The delay means that much-awaited changes to the business plans of Ordnance Survey and other government-owned "trading funds" - self-contained businesses - are unlikely to be published before April.The shareholder executive, which answers to the business department and the Treasury, began a study of trading funds last summer as part of a series of responses to the 2007 Power of Information review. The purpose was to examine how "free data" policies proposed in the review would affect the businesses of trading funds. The study has not so far been published.Iain Wright, the minister responsible for Ordnance Survey, told parliament in December that the shareholder executive would "shortly publish some key principles" on the re-use of government data and "consider how these should be applied to ensure that government policy is reflected in practice".These principles were expected to appear in the March budget - but this week it emerged that the budget has been postponed to April.The Conservatives have accused the government of fudging the issue. In his first statement on free data, the shadow innovation and universities secretary, the IT entrepreneur Adam Afriyie MP, said: "There's strong evidence from the UK and the US of the economic benefits of freeing trading-fund data. But this is the fourth report the government has commissioned, it's late and we don't even know if it will be published. This shows a complete failure of leadership and there must now be renewed concern that Labour is again kicking the issue into the long grass."Despite the lack of any public decision, there is evidence that Ordnance Survey is bracing itself for a drop in income. The organisation's director general, Vanessa Lawrence, last week told staff that the agency would have to cut costs by up to &pound;5m a year to cope with giving mapping data away to non-profit groups. "Job cuts are not being ruled out," a local newspaper quoted her as saying.Meanwhile, the Power of Information taskforce, set up by the cabinet office last year, is still working on its first policy proposals. Richard Allan, its chairman, said he had hoped to publish recommendations in December, "but we have needed a little longer to do justice to the subject". The plan will be published "shortly, in an online, commentable form", he said.• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Apple. Microsoft. Google. Intel. Sony. Nokia. Can you spot the odd one out? They've all announced or hinted at financial results in the past fortnight. Let's see, Apple and Google both improved (allowing for writeoffs at Google). Microsoft and Intel are both firing people. Those are all pairs. No odd ones there.That leaves Nokia and Sony. Nokia said that the mobile market is probably going to shrink by 10% this year, as it announced a 69% collapse in profits. And then we have Sony - which said that it expects to record a 260bn yen ($2.9bn, &pound;2.02bn) operating loss for the financial year, almost four times analysts' estimates.Yup, we've found the odd one out. Sony is the only one of those companies, which are all broadly in the technology and consumer electronics space, to announce a full-year loss, its first in 14 years. But why? What's wrong at Sony? One source of blame is the rise in the value of the yen against the euro and the dollar. That's a result of the credit crunch, which led to an unwinding of the yen carry trade - where in boom times, speculators borrowed huge amounts of yen in Japan, at about 0%, and converted it to dollars, pounds and euros and invested it at 5% in banks in the US and Europe. Now they're paying it back, selling dollars and pounds and euros and buying yen, making the yen more expensive. Which means revenues from abroad don't contribute so much to Sony's Japan-based headquarters, and it becomes harder to make a profit on yen-produced goods sold at a constant dollar price.But Howard Stringer, the Briton now in charge of the company, also told the New York Times that "the playing field has changed" - Sony is no longer competing solely with traditional Japanese electronics companies."At the same time," Stringer told the New York Times, "Apple, Microsoft and even Cisco are aggressively positioning themselves to anchor the digital home."Oh yeah, the digital home. How's that coming, Sony? Because I don't see it coming via Microsoft's Windows. You might (actually, might not) recall that about seven years ago Microsoft touted the new Windows Media Center to turn your PC into an interactive home hub: you'd push content through to your TV, use a remote control to scroll through your photos, movies and songs, and the TV and computer would thus merge. Mainly into the computer.I really don't know many people who have taken advantage of that capability. When it comes to watching internet or other non-TV content on a TV, more people are likely to do it via an Xbox 360 or Nintendo Wii; and, of course, with a PlayStation 3. But the PS3 still lags behind those rivals, and even though the Wii comes from a yen-priced company, it doesn't have the baggage of a high-precision technology (Blu-ray) that needs to hit high volume before its costs come down.The rise of the yen, plus falling consumer spending power in the US and Europe, mean PS3 volumes aren't going to take off in 2009. Don't expect a price cut: Japanese electronics goods are going to get pricier. Canon cameras and printers have hoiked in price in the UK by between 5% and 10%, all because of that unwinding carry trade. Back in February 2007 Mervyn King, head of the Bank of England, warned that "there aren't any one-way bets in the foreign exchange markets". The irony is that both we and Sony are losing out as a result. Sometimes you've got to hate the credit crunch.But it's good news for US-priced rivals - Apple, Microsoft, Cisco. Sony can only watch as its dream of the digital home slips away, adrift on an ocean of yen.
Last week, I attended theMobile Games Forum, an annual conference where developers, publishers and network operators get together to discuss the latest industry developments – which this year meant iPhone, iPhone and, oh yes, iPhone. Apple's hugely successful entry into the market (there are now around 20,000 applications on App Store, almost 2,000 of which are games) has sent out palpable shockwaves. Everyone's feeling unsettled.And here's why.Until Apple entered the scene, the mobile games market was dominated by the network operators, because a huge majority of mobile titles are sold through network portals like Vodafone Live or O2 Games Arcade – relatively few are sold 'direct to consumer', either through aggregation sites or a publisher's own online service. The network operators not only take 50% of the revenue from every game download, they also effectively control which games their customers get to see and play – only a small number of titles are 'featured' on the front pages of the portals, and these spaces are often paid for by publishers. The rest of the games are usually hidden away in difficult-to-navigate menu sections.This has typically meant that original games have faired poorly – no-one wants to risk giving prominent deck space to an unknown quantity, especially as there's so little room on the mobile screen. At the same time, the customers themselves tend to be conservative, making few purchases and mainly concentrating on recognisable retro or TV brands – hence the huge popularity of Pac-Man, Tetris and Deal or No Deal. This caution is partly to do with the fact that these are 'casual' gamers, but also because the whole download process is often shrouded in doubt and uncertainty. Unless you're on an 'all you can eat' monthly data tariff, you'll pay for the game itself, then pay data charges to download it. The costs aren't always clear and can lead to horrible surprises when your bill shows up. No wonder only 5% of Java phone users ever download a game; many of those never do it again.For developers and publishers the situation is further complicated by having to develop for an enormous array of devices. Although Java is ostensibly a one-size-fits-all platform, every game needs to be tweaked for every different handset. Many game publishers these days have to support up to 900 different models, which means up to half of the development time and budget goes on merely making a game work on all the target handsets.So in comes Apple. Straightaway, two of the key problems are taken out of the equation. There's only one device architecture to deal with, so no more porting nightmares. Plus, publishers deal only with Apple to get their games on the App Store, immediately ejecting the network operators from the 'pipeline'.There are enormous benefits for the gamer, too. Most iPhone owners are familiar with the App Store model thanks to iTunes – they trust Apple, they know how much they're going to be charged and they know that when they download the game it's going to actually work. What's more, the App Store offers ratings, proper charts, recommendations, and everything else we love from iTunes. It's a familiar, enjoyable browsing experience. It doesn't suck the very soul out of you.So over the last couple of months, lots of developers and publishers have been eyeing up this new market with considerable interest. Sure, there's a lot of competition out there, plus, as publishers can name their own prices, there's been a lot of pressure to compete at the lower end of the scale, which naturally plays havoc with the revenues. But it's a level playing field, and Apple is taking a smaller cut of the revenue. The iPhone demographic is also more technologically astute and willing to experiment – hence, the regular presence of original titles like Slotz Racer and iShoot at the top of the download charts.IPhone also solves another bizarrely disingenuous problem with mobile games – the lack of connectivity. In Europe, there's so much device and infrastructure fragmentation, that providing online gaming modes – or even bluetooth two-player – was a logistical headf**k of such astounding proportions, almost no-one was prepared to attempt it. Indeed, not only was it technologically complex, but most of the key network operators were not prepared to support online multiplayer features. So you had this situation where communication devices – you know, devices created and sold specifically to allow communication between people – would not allow multiplayer gaming. The best we could hope for was online high scores, or 'massively single player' gaming experiences like Digital Chocolate's excellentCafé seriesof games, which provided little social additions to basic one-player games.And guess what – iPhone simplifies the whole multiplayer situation; partly because there's only one device spec to worry about, but also because the data transfer isn't controlled by the network operator. There are already dozens of multiplayer titles available on the service.Chatting to developers and publishers at MGF, there was a real feeling that a lot of smaller companies are going to ditch Java gaming altogether and concentrate on iPhone, with a few sidelines into other 'native platforms' such as Google Android, Symbian and Windows Mobile. Most are now exploring new ways to develop, market and cross-promote their own IP – so you've got companies like Real Arcade and Digital Chocolate putting their titles on Facebook to build buzz, before transferring them onto more straightforwardly 'monitsed' platforms like iPhone or the PC.Another victim of the iPhone frenzy is N-Gage. Nokia's Xbox Live-Lite service kicked off last Spring and now has around 700,000 registered users, which is not particularly impressive. The Finnish mobile giant counters by claiming this has been a 'soft launch' and that they're expecting to attract a larger user base when the N-Gage app gets embedded on more handsets - all the latest N-series phones have it onboard straight out of the box, whereas older phones required a download.But there may be other, deeper problems with the N-Gage set-up. I spoke to one industry veteran who told me that people are having trouble subscribing, often taking up to 45mins to go through the online registration process. Also, allegedly some games require you to actually play several levels of a demo before you get the option to buy. I've not encountered this, but it seems like a weird barrier to what should be a straightforward purchase. The same source reckons N-Gage is getting around one million downloads a month – I couldn't check because there don't seem to be official figures. In comparison, App Store did 60 million downloads in its first four weeks.N-Gage is a great idea, that needs a lot of work – as EAmemorably pointed outat Nokia's own games event last year. Whatever its current shortcomings are, any platform that can produce the excellent Reset Generation or Creatures of the Deep is worth backing. Plus, Nokia's director of games, Mark Ollila, seems to be working on some interesting stuff, which I'll blog about soon.But the industry spotlight is most certainly on Apple and everyone else must now respond. The network operators, for example, are all scrambling to update their portals to be more App Store-esque, making the process of buying games easier, making the billing process more transparent, adding social elements. The problem is, although the heads of gaming I spoke to are passionate about providing a decent service, games represent a tiny portion of annual revenue for companies like Vodafone, T-Mobile, etc, so there's little impetus further up the management chain to put resources into a really exciting gaming proposition. Also, it's all a little late - operators have had five years to improve their games offerings. There's a sense that the old business model has missed its opportunity.The important thing is, stuff is happening. It's a weird, uncertain time for mobile games, but for a lot of the developers I spoke to it's also exciting and liberating. Check out this month's Edge Magazine, for example, and you'll see that a mobile game – the iPhone title, Rolando – is the lead review. Okay, so there wasn't much else out this month, but it's a vindication of sorts. It's a start.
Yesterday, asTechcrunch's Michael Arrington was leaving theDLDconference venue in Munich, one of the conference attendees walked up to him and spat in his face.I'll say that again. One of the attendees. Walked up to him. And spat. In. His. Face. And then without a word, the attacker turned on his patent leather heel and vanished back into the crowd.Arringtonbloggedabout the incident later, revealing that this is far from the first time that someone – usually an entrepreneur who objects to his coverage of their startup – has attacked him verbally or physically. On one occasion police considered a threat so serious that he had to pay for private security for himself, his family and the Techcrunch staff.The reaction to the revelation among most bloggers and online commentators has been amixtureof shock and revulsion. And yet, while I shared their outrage, I couldn't bring myself to echo their surprise, for reasons that began at the same venue 24 hours earlier..."Oh man, I have to shake your hand." Barely had I set foot in the conference centre and put my name tag around my neck when I was accosted by an enthusiastic Spaniard. "As you wish," I replied, extending my hand to meet his. "it's very nice to meet you." A total stranger insisting on welcoming me! What a friendly conference DLD is! But no. The Spaniard continued: "Yeah, I lovedhow you trashed Le Webin your column the other week."A British man standing a few feet away from us had overheard the conversation and, as it turned out, he wanted to shake my hand too. "You wrote that Le Web column? Ha! Nice one. I hope you don't run in to Loic LeMeur here.""Er, thanks," I said, "but I didn't trash it. I was just complaining about the wireless.""And the cold," added the Spaniard, helpfully."Ok, and the cold. But...""And the food."I tried to explain that because my deadline for filing the column had fallen at the end of the first day of Le Web, I hadn't had a chance to say how much better day two had been, both in terms of temperature and in the quality of panels and speakers. Yes, the lack of Wi-Fi was pretty unforgivable and I still don't understand what speakers like Paulo Coelhobrought to the technology party, but at the same time I would have thought it was pretty obvious that my rambling words weren't supposed to be a complete journalistic review of the event. That would be the job of an actual, you know,journalist. And yet my new pan-European friends were having none of it. "I can't wait to see what you say about DLD! It's going to suck, right?"Yeah, I felt like replying, I flew back from San Francisco to be here and am paying for my own hotel room – fingers crossed it's a total waste of fucking time.It seems recently that I've developed a reputation for hating things. In San Francisco at least four people I met complimented me for writing abouthating Second Life. In Las Vegas a man high-fived me for having co-organisedSmack My Pitch Up, a snarky event on the fringe of September'sTechcrunch 50conference. And nearly a year on, I still get total strangers coming up to me at events congratulating me for the parody I wrote ofSarah Lacy'sinterviewwith Mark Zuckerberg atSouth By South West. A parody, by the way, that was the single biggest driver of traffic to my site last year. Forgotten is the fact that I later took down the post (hence the lack of a link), disgusted by how quickly online criticism turned from harsh but justifiable coverage of a professional performance to sickeningly personal attacks on a damn good journalist who had one bad gig for reasons that weren't her fault. Forgotten is the fact that Sarah and I have since become good friends and I've written countlessglowing reviewsof herbook, as well as co-hosting hertrip to Londonlast year. Forgotten, basically, is everything except for the nastiness.Back at DLD, the day after my curious encounter with the Spanish and Brit fanboys, I ran in Loic LeMeur and his wife, Geraldine. I'd never actually met Loic, but after Le Web we'd "enjoyed" some semi-good-natured banter on Twitter, culminating in us agreeing that at some point we should probably have a coffee. Clearly he had taken the Le Web review in the spirit I'd intended and DLD was as good a time as any for us to bury the professional hatchet, right? Perhaps not. As I sat down in the seat next to him, I noticed he had his laptop open. He was Googling my name. "I'm just searching for your column this week where you trash DLD before it's even finished."Touché.Fortunately our awkward encounter was cut short when Loic had to go on stage for a panel about "Telling Stories". One of his fellow panelists was Julia Allison, the infamous lifecaster and co-founder ofnonsociety.com. I've only met Julia a couple of times, but on both occasions have been struck by the difference between how she is in person and how she's portrayed online (Radar Magazineonce called her the fourth most-hated person on the internet and a quick Google of her name will bring up page after page of snarky abuse about almost every aspect of her personality and career). Sure she's pretty, and sure she can be incredibly – and annoyingly – girly at times, but she's also smart, tech-savvy and funny – traits which, as she pointed out on the panel (to a smattering of applause) needn't be mutually exclusive.It was an impressive performance both from Julia and from Loic, who showed how his company, Seesmic, uses video to make anonymous commenting almost impossible. And yet no sooner had I Twittered that Julia was on the panel than I received a public reply from a stranger asking "is JA as annoying as we think she is?". They clearly expected me to respond in the affirmative. After all, being a prick is what I *do*.Now, of course, I realise I'm being incredibly disingenuous. My reputation for being a prick is far from unfounded. And the truth is I really enjoy being mean. It's much, much easier to make jokes about how bad something is than how good it is. Compare the Daily Show's coverage of George Bush with it's puzzlement over how to handle Barack Obama. Compare how funny the Guardian's ownCharlie Brookeris when he's hating on a reality show than when he's gushing over The (bloody) Wire. But, as in all things, balance – and perspective – is vital.And that is precicely where the internet has a problem. What we read on the web is shaped almost entirely by what our friends recommend to us or what other people have decided is popular. And because what's popular is meanness, that almost all that we read – page after page of cynicism, meanness, ranting and rage. Don't believe me? My negative Second Life column attracted 42 comments. My bitchy Le Web one, 28. Last week, by contrast, Iwrote abouthow inspired I was by Barack Obama's inauguration. Number of comments: none. Both the Second Life and Le Web columns made it to the top of the "top technology stories of the last 24 hours" list on guardian.co.uk. I'd be surprised if the Obama column even troubled the top 50. In cyberspace, no one wants to hear you unless you scream.Which brings me back to Arrington and my lack of surprise at the vile incident at DLD, or at some of the other hideous threats he's received.Having been repeatedly hailed for being a bastard and entirely ignored for being nice; having read the vile abuse aimed at Sarah and Julia and countless other women who dare to showcase their abilities online; having seen the glee with which sites likeValleywagtear apart the personal lives of internet personalities – and having seen no popular positive counterbalance to any of it – I am absolutely unsurprised that the hate has finally spilled over into real life.You simply can't have a system which rewards nastiness over niceness and which offers no consequences for those who commit cowardly anonymous attacks and then act surprised when people don't know where to draw the line. And if it carries on, someone is going to get seriously hurt, unless we all say – as Arrington has on Techcrunch today – enough is enough.So let's all say it right now. Let's all of us who consider ourselves human beings and who want the internet to continue as a forum for free and frank debate get together and decide on a few rules of engagement. It strikes me that there are a few we can all agree on...There's a brilliant episode of The West Wing where Sam Seaborn discovers that two of his staff have anonymously attacked a Republican aide working at the White House. Furious, Seaborn confronts the culprits, saying: "You know what, fellas, when I say something, I sign my name." Sure enough, he grabs a pen and paper and scribbles the message "you're fired – Sam Seaborn". Surely that's rule number one – the Seaborn Rule of internet commenting: If you've got something to say online, say it in your own name or fuck off.Second – enough with the ad hominems. Yes it's funny to get personal – even yesterday I couldn't resistTwitteringthat Mark Zuckerberg, the surprise guest at DLD, looked a bit like Kermit The Frog as he perched on the edge of his chair. He did. But you know what, I wouldn't have said that if I'd ever met him, which makes me at best a hypocrite, and at worst a coward. I'm going to stop that kind of bullshit. If I want to get personal about someone I don't know, I'll save it for private emails and chat.Third – balance. Look at your blog posts, your Twitter updates and anything else you post publicly. Even if you're as big a cynic as me, if the ratio of mean to nice/neutral is much worse than 3:1 then you're part of the problem.Fourth – make your own judgements. Just because you read online that someone is annoying, or stupid, or boring doesn't make it true of them. But believing it without doing some independent research does make it true of you.Fifth – and this one isn't a suggestion. If you've ever considered spitting on someone because you don't like something they've said online, kill yourself. Seriously. Do it now. The world will be a better place without you.So, there you go. The beginnings of a line in the sand and a chance to prove that just because what you say is sometimes positive, doesn't mean it can't also be popular.Now, who's with me?Anyone?Hello?Wait, where did everyone go?• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
Electronics retailer Comet has wll charge suppliers for shelf-space in its stores. Games publishers, as part of the panoply of content that's sold, are likely to be affected.The news came to light on Monday, withReutersand the Financial Times reporting that Kesa Electricals, the company that owns Comet,has told suppliers to pay up to 15,400 pounds ($21,500) to display products in its Comet stores in Britain ... Bob Darke, Comet's commercial director, wrote to suppliers in early December to tell them he would be imposing the new charges from Jan. 1, as the group tries to ease the effects of an economic downturnThis tactic has been attempted by other retailers in the past;supermarkets were criticised in 1999for intimating that food brands could have better shelf positions in the chains received cash.What does this mean for the games that are sold in Comet's (admittedly, limited) interactive section? If this plan is to take effect, the surge of new, independent games would likely be priced out, and mainstream publishers would dominate the shelves. As MarketZero comments onMCV:This stinks and means that only mainstream suppliers with muchos £££s will be able to afford to sell their wares in Comet. Smaller suppliers with superior products will be priced out by the faceless giants.While this tends to be the case in other game emporia to date, some of the high street stores are keen to ensure that off-beat titles get placement next to the heavy-hitters, with their large marketing budgets.Moves by big retailers to reduce their losses during recession like this mean that console game distribution pipelines such as XBLA and PSN are even more important to maintain variety in the industry. We'd like to keep it alive and well. Let us know your favourite indie titles on these channels and we'll champion them in future.
Here's what we've been thinking about this week.• Japan: Only One Xbox 360 Game Made Top 100 Sellers of 2008 &gt;&gt;kotaku.com• Everything you know about ARGs is WRONG &gt;&gt;sixtostart.com• Video Game Regulation: Where We Are Now &gt;&gt;gamasutra.com• Games for Change (G4C) toolkit &gt;&gt;gamesforchange.org• The Pac-Man Dungeons &gt;&gt;masswerk.at• Free Download: World of Goo Soundtrack &gt;&gt;indiegames.com• A Gallery of 12 Real Life Video Game Weapons &gt;&gt;unrealitymag.com• Get In The Game &gt;&gt;getinthegame.squarespace.com• Tiga to support games developers attending trade shows in 2009-10 Gaming Industry &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Interactive Games Make Museums A Place To Play &gt;&gt;npr.org• Game Mechanics for Interaction Design: An Interview with Amy Jo Kim &gt;&gt;bokardo.com• Events Calendar &gt;&gt;gamesindustry.biz• Guitar Hero: You Are Standing In Front Of Guitar Hero West Of A White House... &gt;&gt;kotaku.com• Road To The IGF: Hemisphere's Osmosindiegames.comSubscribe to ourdelicious feedto chew on our web pulse.
It's very easy to get caught up in the speed of the web. Everything's fast. Everything's connected. Things change so fast we forget what happened yesterday.Fast has its benefits, of course. We can be more informed. Ideas can spread quickly. Facts can disseminate at breakneck speed. On the other hand, so can disinformation - plus, as anyone who has ever been bitchslapped in a messageboard can tell you, living in the quickfire web world can promote snap judgments and rash behaviour.Although it is usually fast, however, the web doesn't have to be that way - and sometimes it's worth taking a moment to slow things down. Why? Because it's only then that you can start to understand the intimacy that the internet can bring.Take this video, byCrush + Lovely, for example. It's a simple concept, crisply shot and well executed. And while it would be powerful on television, there's something even more immediate and touching about watching it on the web because you're only sitting a few inches away from the screen:Imagine the ability to transcend your daily commute by watching this on an iPod or your phone. There's a quality to this detailed, slow approach that you wouldn't necessarily get from watching a man get hit in the face with a ball on YouTube.Some of it is an aesthetic choice of course. And some ofthatis encouraged by the gear that's used for filming these days. See Dan Chung'srecent basketball video, filmed as a test using one of the new Canon 5D MkII cameras that combines SLR photography with video. You get a similar feeling of slowness, precision and intimacy - encouraged, of course, by Dan's eye... but also by the scope and limitations of the camera itself:It feels a little to me like the aesthetic of theFlickr long portrait, something that Clive Thompsonwrote about a couple of months go in Wired. That, too, was partially the result of technical limitations - in this case, Flickr's background as a photography site and the 90-second limit on videos.These are short videos in which the subjects simply stare into the camera. The first time you see one, it's unsettlingly intense. The subject's gaze—staring at you—totally discombobulates the normal voyeuristic payload of a photo. It's also a lovely comment on the hyperkinetic style of today's world: Slow down and look at something, will you!Perhaps we should revel in these slow motion moments. Fast has its place; but I find these little slow, intimate insights absolutely delightful.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Ok, it's not as reliable – in my experience - or as fully featured as Xbox Live, but the Playstation Network is at least free. It's also improving all the time. But while Microsoft are fairly open aboutstats for Live– Call of Duty: World at War is currently the most played multiplayer game on the service – PSN details are rare. Until now. Kotaku has dug up someSony statswhich show most downloaded game, movie and other assorted goodies.These figures are for the US service but were provided by Sony.* All time top download – Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Variety Map* All time top downloaded Game – PAINo Top three downloaded Games last week+ Super Street Fighter II: Turbo HD Remix+ Mortal Kombat II+ Suikoden* Top downloaded LittleBigPlanet Costume – LittleBigPlanet™ Sack in the Box Costume* Top downloaded Game Demo – Star Wars®: The Force Unleashed Demo* Top downloaded Game Add-on – Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare Variety Map* Downloads made in PlayStation Home (clothes, furniture, etc)–o Top three PlayStation Home downloads+ Hooded Top+ Resident Evil Degeneration g-Virus T-Shirt+ Summer House* All time top downloaded Movie – The Dark Knighto Top three downloaded Movies last week+ Mirrors (Unrated)+ Babylon AD (Uncut)+ Max Payne (Unrated)* All time top downloaded TV Show – Family Guyo Top three downloaded TV Shows last week+ 24 Season 7+ Watchmen Motion Comic Season 1+ Family Guy Season 7So anything surprise you here? Maybe PAIN doing so well? And best not tell the Daily Mail that a hoodie was the top download for Home.
Amazon could be preparing to launch a new version of its Kindle ebook reader, according to reports.The Kindle – which allows users to store up to 200 books and read them on a digital screen - originally launched in November 2007, in what was seen as a surprise move from a company better known for being an online retailer of books, music and DVDs.However, speculation about a second-generation version has swirled around the internet since last year - largely based on pictures claiming to show a new model that sports a sleeker, more eye-catching design.Rather than denying the reports, Amazon added fuel to the fire yesterday by announcing that it would beholding a press conferenceon Monday, February 9 at the Morgan Library &amp; Museum in New York.Chief executive Jeff Bezos will oversee the event, which is being held less than a mile from the hotel where the company unveiled the original Kindle.The company did not respond to a request for comment.The Kindle, which is only available in the US, has been a moderate success – allowing Amazon to quickly take command of the small but much-heralded electronic book market. The current $359 (£253) model sports a six-inch screen and 256MB of memory, although its Whispernet wireless download system only works in the United States.Some observers say they expect a thinner and more robust body and more user-friendly approach – but it remains unclear whether the gadget will ever be available to buy in Europe."We're fairly sure that it will be a new Kindle, one that will feature a colour screen and better battery life," electronics analyst Richard Doherty, of Envisioneering Group, told theLA Times.Although sales figures for the first-generation Kindle remain unclear, industry analysts have regarded it as a good first step: the gadget sold out at launch, and demand has continued to outstrip the company's inventory. Prospective buyers currently face waits of four to six weeks to get their hands on one.The Kindle is just one part of the company's plan to diversify and become less reliant on retail sales – and Wall Street is hoping that such moves can help insulate it from the financial turmoil that has struck the rest of the economy.What started as an online book shop in 1994 now covers a vast array of goods, as well as an MP3 download store, hi-tech hardware and web infrastructure services.Amazon is due to unveil its quarterly financial results on Thursday, with investors keen to see how it fared over Christmas. In December the company claimed its "best ever" holiday season, without revealing any of the precise financial details – and some have expressed concern that the figures may not live up to their billing."I think there's very reasonable risk that numbers come in a little light and their guidance is more muted than people think," Citigroup analyst Mark Mahaneytold Reuters last week. "We are in the teeth of the worst consumer recession in our collective lifetimes."
The new boss of Yahoo brushed aside talk of selling the business as the struggling Silicon Valley internet empire slumped $303m into the red for the final quarter of 2008.Just two weeks into the job, chief executive Carol Bartz admitted that Yahoo needed a sharper strategy, quicker decision-making and further streamlining. But she said: "I didn't come here to sell the company."Yahoo ran up one-off costs of more than $600m during the quarter as it shed 1,600 jobs, equivalent to 10% of its workforce, and took a hefty accounting charge on its international operations.For the full-year, the company remained in the black with profits of $424m, compared to $660m in 2007. But Yahoo spent $79m on advisory fees as it fended off a takeover offer from Microsoft, struck an aborted co-operation partnership with Google and wrestled with a shareholder rebellion.Bartz, a former boss of software company Autodesk, replaced Yahoo's founder Jerry Yang to take day-to-day charge of the company. She praised the "wonderful energy" and "can-do attitude" of staff but conceded that Yahoo needed organisational change."This organisation is extremely complex and it's hard for people to get speedy answers and to get decisions made," said Bartz.Yahoo's revenue fell 1% during the fourth quarter as the global advertising industry slowed in response to weakening economic conditions. But the firm took heart from a stabilising share of internet searches, suggesting that Google is no longer extending its lead as the number one player.Last week's inauguration of President Obama produced the busiest day ever for Yahoo's news site with 12m visitors accessing 300m page views.The figures were not as bad as Wall Street had anticipated and Yahoo's shares rose 4% during after-hours trading to $11.83 – still little more than a third of the $33-a-share offered by Microsoft a year ago.
No, you haven't shot forward in time, losing several days of your life - this reallyisthe second Best Of in the space of two days. Yesterday's was a week late, you see, whereas this one's right about on time.Today's collection of Chatterbox wisdom has been collated by CheddarFrenzy. He's made the arbitrary decision to revert to my original Best Of format, which has meant more subbing for me, but what the heck - all contributors can play fast and loose with the rules as they see fit. Also, our cheese-scoffing aggregator gets extra points for quoting from Edgar Allan Poeandusing the word cicatrice.So, yes, break open the custard creams, sit back, relax, and re-experience last week in the form of Chatterbox postings...In the first part of the week I was as shocked as anyone when the blog actually contained some discussion about games. Despite this being hugely off topic for Chatterbox, the subject stretched on throughout the next four days, as the Bloggers finally began to catch up with titles launched at the end of last year. Dead Space in particular proved a popular topic for debate."I can see where the criticisms of it being utterly derivative of other games comes from (Doom 3, Resi 4 and Half-Life 2 are all clearly in the mix) but when it brings all those great games together in a single, really immersive, polished package, you'd be crazy to complain, right?" suggestedKillerBee.Unintentionally raising questions about his own sanity,Crispycrumbretaliated thus:  "Now I've got to a bit with an unkillable monster and no indication what to do. Really? Who comes up with these ideas? I loved DS when I started it but it's irritating crap like that that tarnishes a game. I don't want things handed out on a plate but I'd like some sort of pointer as to what I'm supposed to do rather than just get killed repeatedly."MidniteCowboyhad been listening carefully, and chipped in with his belief that it has, "the best  and most sinister audio I have heard on any game so far."  A statement like that is asking to be shot down, and right on cue, here comesBillyBrush– "it's just LOUD, I prefer Monolith's game audio by far - you can hear a pin drop, and their games jump you through the eyes and ears without just drowning your ears with WARRGHHH and some shambling mess darting at you... Space has some lovely graphics but is still a bit d-list in many ways."  So that's that then.  Maybe.Onwards and upwards – this time to the rejuvenated Prince of Persia. This received short shrift fromDarg, who found it "bum numbingly repetitive… the Prince seemed to have a suicidal mind of his own and leapt in the wrong direction to his imminent death … was glad to see the back of it." It was also dismissed byTonyHayersas just, "repetitive and pretty QTE's."  Proving that there is nothing constant in this blog but inconsistency,Jimbob78hit back with a report of a, "thoroughly lovely experience" andAutomaticagreed: "it's a nice mindless game and some of the dialogue can be quite amusing. It is pretty, and personally I quite like the graphics, but I'm female and thus easily amused by flashing lights."  Not exactly a ringing endorsement there.Let's see if the new Tomb Raider did any better. Things started promisingly, withdavefalseclaiming that it is, "quite entertaining and worth the £25 I spent on it… there were places where I just stood still and looked at the scenery!"Chubster2010agreed that it was, "beautiful in places." In case all this enthusiasm is getting a bit much,Smikebrought us crashing back down to earth: "I found the game very good-looking but ultimately a bit unsatisfying. I didn't really feel a sense of achievement at finishing it, more a case of 'that's that done then.'"Late in the day, the inauguration of the new USAian president and official saviour of the Universe offered a rare opportunity for some unity.  "This is history happening right in front of our eyes," gaspedalimantado.  Never one to take things too seriously,Black outasked, "is it the 'Lets Get Ready to Rumble' chap doing the PA announcements?!?"  I'm not sure if he meant PJ or Duncan though…HDStantonwas just relieved when it was over – "I had a worry it may have ended up like when the Sherriff arrives in Blazing Saddles."Tuesday's blog, full of grace, began with a brief discussion of Heston Blumenthal's doomed efforts to rejuvenate Little Chef."Being able to pull over at a Little Chef for some wolf-nipple chips, otter noses and ocelots spleens would be nice" opinedChubster2010.  Naturally,TonyHayersdisagreed: "Can't believe any sane person would pull off a motorway to sit and eat that rancid muck in those surroundings. No amount of blue sky thinking will solve that."Having perhaps been made aware of Edgar Alan Poe's claim that, "the larger portion of the truth arises from the seemingly irrelevant",APicrevealed his belief that the potential success of these roadside diners would be influenced by theSimulation Argument, and this outlandish claim sparked a day long debate touching on Fermi, Goedel, Wittgenstein, Wachowski, Descartes, and (inevitably) Python… All good fun in an ultimately pointless kind of way, but I'm well aware that hard philosophy isn't everyone's cup of hemlock so I shall pass over the detail in silence…Much more suited to these hallowed walls wasMendozaLive's tale of woe from the weekend: "managed to headbutt a wrought iron railing on Saturday evening, meaning five hours sitting in A&amp;E near a tramp who had soiled himself to the extreme. He smelt far, far worse than any festival toilet. Apparently, I'll have a scar, I'm really hoping it will look cool."Killerbeejoined in: "Having a cool looking scar is one thing but you need a good story to back it up. Headbutting an iron railing could probably do with some work. I have a scar about 2/3 of an inch through my right eyebrow. It's only really noticable when I point it out to people, but needless to say, I tell them about the ninjas who broke into my home and had to be fought off with just a table lamp and a duvet."Conjuring up the spirits of Robert Shaw in Jaws (or perhaps Rene Russo and blog hero Mel Gibson in Lethal Weapon 4), the rest of the bloggers got all showy about their cicatrices:Smikehas a, "long scar (60 stitches) on my right arm that I managed to persuade someone was from a shark attack", andCraggyisland's nephew had, "a cracker when he was a toddler… He tripped over and fell, knocking his head on an old-style plug that had 'Fused' written across it. Poor little blighter was running around with, first a scab and then a scar that clearly said "Fused" backwards."Winners of the coveted "most scarred" award though have to beDizzyisaneggwith an, "exclamation mark shaped scar on the back of one hand… one above the corner of an eye… a circular one on a hip…", andBeardofBeeswith, "a Harry Potter number in the middle of the forehead and… a knee torn to shreds… from jumping off the Hoover dam on a bungee cord and hand-to-hand combat with a bear on crack." Obviously.Continuing the theme of physical injury, a discussion of playground games ensued.APicawoke from his dalliance with deep thought and laid down the rules of his favourite:"Divide into two teams of around equal numbers. Team 1 then has to come up with a word for which each person on the team is given a letter. Team 2 then has to catch each member of team 1 and beat them into giving up their letter. Team 2 wins when you the word is guessed, then you swap teams.  Educational and violent."  And who could ask for more than that?Quotes of the week"/GWX/enjoy your games folks on w/e platform/s/09 should be a fun year like i said already/;)"Disturbingly this was the most lucid statement GWX managed on ending his self-imposed exile."I now ride a bike, have a beard and am practically vegetarian ... I hate myself."Lazybones indulges in a spot of self-loathing."I'd quite like a tricycle - can you get these for grown men?"Alfienoakes looks forward to his next birthday."Also - and I will def regret this – I used to use straighteners (sparingly) when going out out. Can't take that back."No you can't Uncle3en."Uncle Ben uses straighteners. Can we just acknowledge, and never forget this. A gross act of personal vandalism."The inevitable riposte from TonyHayers."If conversation is about chainsaws and headshots and guarding the objective, it's probably directed at the internet people inside my xbox"BeardofBees tries to straighten out a few domestic misunderstandings.Link of the week:This piece on Tony Hartby LittleBigPlanet creators Media Molecule:Thanks to Chubster2010 for posting this tribute to a genuinely brilliant man.Bookblog:1974 by David Peace, Point Blank by Richard Stark, A Short History of Nearly Everything by Bill Bryson, A Study in Scarlet by Arthur Conan Doyle, Chasm City by Alastair Reynolds, Homicide - A year on the killing streets by David Simon, The Unblemished by Conrad WilliamsGamesblog:Oblivion, Fallout, Little Big Planet ("It's a pretty good 2D platformer with a nice art style and a decent online component" - Zelos), Valkyria Chronicles, Killzone 2 ("I reckon it'll get a 7 though as it does seem to be quite generic" – NickT), Fable 2, Final Fantasy: Crisis Core, Wipeout, Mirror's Edge,  Castle Crashers, Left for Dead, Pro Evolution Soccer, Kid Icarus Wii, GTA4, FIFA, Resistance 2 ("Can't go wrong with it, unless you dislike FPS" - Whynotfatboy), Noby Noby Boy, Aliens: Colonial Marines ("could be amazing. Or balls. I really hope it's good" - Limni), WOW, fLower, Bioshock ("you really get sucked in to the world and it feels very tense" – makar27), Street Fighter, Dawn of War 2 beta and Skate 2. Blimey.A rather bizarre Musicblog:oceansize, 65daysofstatic, the Top Gun soundtrack ("reassuringly shite. Nothing like a spot of Kenny Loggins to lift one's Monday afternoon" – DMT2), David Holmes' Essential Mix 98/01 ("still sounds unbelievably good" – dizzyisanegg)Filmblog:Death Race 2000, Blade Runner – the Final Cut, The Wrestler, Apocalypse Now, Sunshine, Chinatown, My Bloody Valentine, Slumdog Millionaire, and The Machinist ("like a skellington he was" – BeardofBees)Televisionblog:Spaced, Big Train, BattleStar Galactica ("rambling and convoluted quasi-philosophical claptrap" – BeardofBees), Frasier ("the dad is terrible - utterly unfunny" – Lazybones), Flight of the Conchords, Oz and James ("this is my favourite thing on the telly right now" – Owlyross), and the West Wing.
A film about a Viking enthusiast whose passion for all things Norse gets him dumped by his wife may not sound like your typical romantic comedy, but the plot ofFaintheartis probably its most conventional aspect.The movie, launched today with a series of free screenings, was produced with contributions from users of the social networking website MySpace.While it features a number of seasoned actors, including Trainspotting's Ewen Bremner and Tim Healy from Auf Wiedersehen, Pet, MySpacers were invited to post short films to pitch for the job of director.The entries were scrutinised by a panel of judges including the actor Sienna Miller to produce a shortlist, from which MySpacers chose first-time director Vito Rocco.Site users were also asked to post videos auditioning for eight lead and supporting roles, and parts of the script were put up on the site for discussion and suggestions.The movie, which received £325,000 of lottery funding, is launched at 6.30 this evening with free simultaneous screenings at 46 cinemas around the country, and will be available to watch on the MySpace website (http://www.myspace.com/) for one day only.The free screenings have been financed by the UK Film Council.Sally Caplan, the head of the council's premiere fund, said: "This whole project has been a great experiment for film in the digital age right from the very beginning so I am delighted to see this followed through with an exciting and novel distribution plan to reach out to audiences far and wide."Despite the film's laudably democratic aims, however, not all the critics have been won over.The Guardian'sXan Brooks described itas "a middling sitcom that could have crawled fully formed from the head of a jaded TV executive". Brooks added: "This is not a bad movie exactly but it aims curiously low and is faintly pointless. While the actors cope well with the material, they are finally just cardboard characters in a balsa-wood plot."• For more information on where to see the film, and to download a voucher for a free ticket, go to http://www.ukfilmcouncil.org/faintheart.
A big gaming franchise in the 80s, King's Bounty has made a successful return. This is a game that mixes strategy – amass armies – with more traditional role-playing elements – quests and exploration – to great effect.The combat is where you spend most of the game. This chess-style tactical action sees you maneuvering your troops across a hex grid. But chatting to the natives and wandering the landscape is just as important. The Russian to English translation is unintentionally hilarious, but adds to the charm. And King's Bounty has charm in abundance, albeit slightly unhinged. Ever wanted to marry a zombie? Well, you can here.The graphics are a facsimile of WoW's colourful fantasy look and a pleasant relief from grey and brown first-person shooter games. Only the tough difficulty level – easy is the best place to start – and an unhelpful camera let the side down. Tactical, charming and full of character, this is a hugely unexpected treat.
On the consoles, Mirror's Edge proved a striking but critically divisive release – and it's much the same on PC. Still superbly paced, it's a manic adrenaline rush of sprinting, leaping and diving across a convincingly futuristic city.The context-sensitive controls work better here than on other versions, with plenty of Manga-style eye candy if your system can handle Nvidia PhysX effects at high resolution. But the gameplay is still largely on-rails, rewarding a good memory as much as quick reflexes. Neither does the FPS perspective show off your heroine's wall-jumps and slide tackles as well as they should or make the shoot-em-up elements any less frustrating. Mirror's Edge may be a heroic near miss, but it's a miss nonetheless.
With the increasingly bloated and tired Tony Hawk's Pro Skater franchise taking a year off, the second iteration of EA's new pretender in the skateboarding-game arena makes the most of its opportunity.The original Skate won a following with its clever control system, eschewing button-bashing in favour of more realistic and logical manipulation of the analogue sticks – and that control system is smoother and more controllable than before. This time around, you can get off your board and move objects such as ramps around, which is handy, and the graphics are notably state-of-the-art. New tricks have been added, although not to the ridiculously physics-defying extent of THPS, and there's a system which rewards you with money for wiping out spectacularly and breaking virtual bones. Which rather betrays the game's shameless targeting of a late-teen audience.With more emphasis on exploration than THPS, and a wider, more real-life range of challenges, it should win further respect from real-life skaters, and Skate has now clearly usurped THPS's crown.
The personal details of millions of jobseekers have been stolen by hackers in one of the biggest cases of data theft in Britain.The online recruitment company Monster said hackers had taken confidential information from its database, including usernames, passwords, telephone numbers, email addresses and "some basic demographic data". The company said the stolen information did not include CVs, national insurance numbers or personal financial data.It is thought 4.5 million people are registered with monster.co.uk and could be affected by the breach, which, if confirmed, will be the largest data loss since the details of 25 million child benefit recipients went missing in 2007.In astatement on its websiteissued on Friday and signed by Monster's senior vice-president, Patrick Manzo, customers were told to change their passwords when they next logged on to the website. They were warned that hackers could use email addresses to "phish" for further information.The statement said Monster would never send an unsolicited email asking clients to confirm their username and password.The company said it had launched an investigation and taken "corrective steps".Experts have warned that hackers could access users' bank accounts as some people use the same password and email address for online banking.The incident is the second serious data breach to hit the company in 18 months. In August 2007, according to the security firm Symantec, hackers stole personal information belonging to several hundred thousand candidates, mainly based in the US, who had posted their CVs on the monster.com website.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Cameraphone perverts of the world beware: the American government is after you.Well, not the entire government - yet, anyway. According to theCamera Phone Predator Alert Act- a piece of legislation submitted to Congress by New York Republican Peter King - all camphones could be required by law to make a clicking sound when a picture is taken.It's understandable, I suppose, given people's fear of sex crime and concerns about being spied on. At least if somebody's perving on you, there's a noise that you can pick up on and give them a slap (or at least a stern talking to).But there's also something that feels terribly anachronistic about this whole process: after all, they're effectively saying "let's make a way to create the fake sound of an artificial process that acts as a social cue".This isn't quite the same as creating a synthetic reality by spraying a pine-scented air freshener around the house, even if the last time you actually went strolling through the lofty pines was back in Scouts.It's an acceptance of the social norm is more important than the reality. A fake camera noise - itself the result of a basically irrelevant, abstracted technological process - is more socially acceptable than no noise at all.It's a similar thing with electric cars, whichmany people think should make 'car-like' noisesto stop people getting run over.What if cameras and cars had never made a noise in the first place? We'd have different social norms. Should we be stuck with these ones?(viaGadget Lab)
You have to feel a little sorry for the PSP. When it launched in 2005 it seemed certain to be a sure fire hit. It looked great, in a masculine kind of way, and came packed with all the features we wanted at the time – gorgeous screen, wi-fi, movie playback etc. Who honestly could have predicted that Nintendo's chunky and ugly DS, released around the same time, would go on to so comprehensively win the sales battle?Since then the PSP has gone on to sell solidly and built up a decent, though now stalling, back catalogue, particularly in Japanese role playing games. And some decent, if typically fiddly to set up, connection features with the PS3 have kept us interested. But the growth of mobile gaming – ok, the iPhone – and the looming launch of the DSi do the PSP no favours. Because of this thelatest rumoursabout a PSP2 don't feel too far off the mark.IGN has learned from several credible sources that the PSP 2 is indeed on the horizon, and will be packing multi-touch technology. According to our sources, the PSP 2 will feature a widescreen multi-touch interface comparable to that of the iPhone for both in-game control and menu navigation.This makes sense, although obviously the iPhone's growing gaming relevance is mostly down to iTunes making it easy to buy and try new games. But with the DSi on the horizon, and mobile options like the iPhone offering a real alternative, what does a PSP2 have to offer to get you interested?
Wikipedia faces a revolt among thousands of its contributors over proposals to change the way the online encyclopedia is run.Until now, Wikipedia has allowed anybody to make instant changes to almost all of its 2.7m entries, with only a handful of  entries protected from being altered.But under proposals put forward by the website's co-founder Jimmy Wales, many future changes to the site would need to be approved by a group of editors before going live.Wales argues the scheme will bring greater accuracy, particularly in articles referring to living people. But the possibility has caused a furore among Wikipedia users, since many see it as a fundamental change to the egalitarian nature of the site.A user poll on the website suggests 60% are in favour of trials, which could take place within the next few weeks. But some think the split could ultimately threaten the future of the site."The big issue is that while we have majority support, we don't have consensus, and that's the way we have always made our decisions," said Jake Wartenberg. "A lot of editors are becoming disenchanted with the project; we are losing them all the time."Such changes have been considered before, but were brought into  focus last week when Wikipedia falsely announced that two prominent US politicians had died.On the day of Barack Obama's inauguration, the site reported the deaths of West Virginia's Robert Byrd - the longest-serving senator in American history - and Ted Kennedy, who has been diagnosed with a brain tumour and collapsed during the inaugural lunch.Both reports were false, and Wikipedia quickly changed the site back to reflect the truth, but the situation drove Wales to push strongly for change."This nonsense would have been 100% prevented by flagged revisions," he wrote on the site. "This was a breaking news story and we want people to be able to participate [but] we have a tool available now that is consistent with higher quality."The technical system that allows Wikipedia to run in this way was released last summer and has already been put into place on the German version of the website. But German editors have decided that changes will not be approved for around three weeks - a timescale which Wales suggests would be "unacceptable" for the English-language site.It would not be the first major change in the way the site, ranked as the world's seventh largest by traffic analysis tool Alexa, operates. In 2005, Wikipedia said it was going to prevent anonymous users from creating entries as a way of stopping cyber-bullying and vandalism.That change was also spurred by a political controversy, in which prominent journalist and Democratic party aide John Siegenthaler discovered that an anonymous user had written a biography of him which alleged that he was involved in the assassinations of John and Robert Kennedy in the 1960s.Wikipedia has also locked down a number of controversial articles in order to prevent long-running "edit wars".If the site grants new powers to editors, it would bring Wikipedia even closer to traditional encyclopedia websites such as Britannica, which last week announced that it would be launching a new online version that would allow readers to submit their own updates to entries. That change came after a bitter war of words, following a 2005 study by science journal Nature that found Wikipedia and Britannica were often comparable for accuracy - and in some cases, Wikipedia won.
Russell Brand, my fellow Guardian columnist (ho ho), has just been signed up to Twitter by his friend Jonathan Ross (@wossy), who posted aTwitpicof him with Mrs Ross (Jane Goldman) to prove it. His first micropost:i have come to join you pleas be gentle with me as ive been feeling vulnerable... yet implausibly, sexyIn Twitter, interesting people are "followed" so to some extent you can be judged by how many followers you have. In which case, Russell must be considered a hit. His@rustyrocketshandle went past 2,000 followers in about 20 minutes, is already over 3,000, and still climbing fast.Jonathan Ross is stuck on 13,933 followers, which is clearly a Twitter error. I think the real number is over 15,000. Still, Russell looks like hitting 30,000 or so within the month, and might even challengeStephen Fry, who is currently on 63,634.But that might depend on him coming back and saying something interesting...Update: I notice @DrewB has beaten me to the punch withRussell Brand aka RustyRockets reinvents Twitter!
