Tuesday's edtion of Chatterbox
&bull; Facebook's not due to launch on the stock market any time soon, but employees arebeing given a way to cash out their equityin the startup. Russian company Digital Sky Technologies, whichalready invested $200m in the social network, is offering up to $100m more to buy shares from current and former employees.&bull; Here's a strange one for you: the backers of so-called Disruption Tolerant Networking are suggesting that theinternet could stretch to other planets in less than two yearsaccording toNational Geographic. Nasa is planning to adopt the system, which can send messages back from around the universe, by 2011.&bull; I intended to share this exchange with you yesterday, but it gets even better after re-reading: First blogging stalwartAnil Dashwrote a very insightful post onwhy Google should think very carefully about what it does- which has now been picked up by the search giant's ownMatt Cutts, who saysall Googlers should read it. Great brain food.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Facebook's Russian investors are increasing their holding in the social networking site - by buying shares from the company's employees.Moscow-based Digital Sky Technologies,which invested $200m in Facebook in May, has announced a deal to extend its stake by another $100m by offering the company's past and present employees a chance to sell their stock.With the company not yet prepared to launch on the stock market, the deal could provide some staff the opportunity to cash in on their involvement with the five-year-old site.The agreement pegs Facebook's common shares at $14.77 each, putting the value of the overall company at around $6.5bn. That is significantly lower than the$15bn indicated by Microsoft's investment in 2007, but nearly twice as high as an internal valuation of $3.7bn that wasrevealed during a court case last year.The site's co-founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said the deal was a positive move for the site."This is recognition of Facebook's growth and progress towards making the world more open and connected," he said in a statement.He had previously said the group – run by entrepreneur Yuri Milner – had a "unique profile", particularly since it owned stakes in many European social networking sites that could hook into Facebook.The news of the agreement had been flagged before: at the time of DST's initial deal earlier this year, the organisation had indicated that it was prepared to buy more equity as part of a share buyback.Some analysts had been sceptical of such a move, however, after similar schemes in the past had failed to materialise.Although the company's financials are not public, the latest agreement could take the amount of investment it has raised to more than $800m. Board member Marc Andreessen has indicated that the site could now produce revenues of around $500m each year, but it remains unclear how much money the company is spending on maintaining the world's biggest social network.Earlier this year chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg said that raising money was not a question of desperation."We could not be doing better financially," she said. "We might take money—but it doesn't mean we need to."
Here are a few headlines for you:"Six in 10 companies in a survey plan to skip Windows 7", said Reuters;"Majority of IT execs have no plans for Windows 7", said IDG. PC World, meanwhile,saidthat "most IT pros say 'no'".It's certainly great, incendiary stuff: after all, Microsoft is the world's biggest software company, and it is pinning an awful lot on the launch of Windows 7. And if 60% of IT departments are giving the new system the finger, then that's a big deal.But the truth revealed by the survey in question - commissioned by ScriptLogic, and largely about how companies are cutting costs during the recession - is a little more prosaic than that.Certainly, the basic numbers have been reported correctly: just 5.4% of respondents said they were planning to have Windows 7 in use by the end of 2009, with a further 34% suggesting that they would be there by the end of 2010. A total of 59.3% of respondents said they had no immediate plans for Windows 7.What missing though, as ScriptLogicalsopoints out, is the context. Those numbers are actually pretty good in historical terms: the planned adoption rate for Windows Vista wasabout the same, while for Windows XP actual takeup was no more than 14%.I'm not batting for Microsoft here - I've wondered out loud plenty of times about Windows 7's chances - but it's worth taking a look at reality and wondering why there's such triumphalism with analysis that isn't supported by the numbers. We all know that Microsoft takes a lot of kicking, butover at ZDNet, the ever-sensible Ed Bott suggests that "for today's jaded technical press and pundits, anything less than 100% adoption, overnight, is a colossal failure".Given this data, one would think the technical press would be reporting the obvious conclusion to be drawn from this survey: Even in the midst of the worst worldwide recession in recent memory, Windows 7 is shaping up to be one of Microsoft's biggest success stories ever. Right?Plenty of this is a problem of Microsoft's own doing - Vista, after all, had such a torrid time that plenty of people are watching for another misstep. But Vista's problem wasn't that people didn'twantto upgrade - it was that when they entered a world of painwhen they took the leap.I suppose it's fair enough to call out the headlines - our own Ben Goldacre likes toskewer this sort of stuff in science reporting. But the real truth behind all this, though, is that actually these numbers mean very little anyway - however you interpret them.What companies say they will do is often very different to what they actually do. It would be worth coming back to the same survey group at the end of 2010 and finding out who had upgraded and who had not: that's more crucial than what they say they plan to do in 18 months.
War. What is it good for? Absolutely nothing less than seven profitable FPS titles and counting, according to DICE, the EA-owned development company behind the Battlefield series.Their latest simulated skirmish is a download-only, multiplayer shooter set in the second world war's Pacific Theater of Operations. You play as a US marine or a member of the Japanese Imperial Navy in a team of up to 12 players, using planes, boats, jeeps and tanks to engage the enemy in a game of capture the flag on one of four fictional islands.And what islands they are too. For an Xbox Live title, Battlefield 1943 looks and sounds incredible. It presents the player with a shimmering, out-of-a-brochure vision of the Pacific – all sun-dappled beaches and swaying palm trees – before promptly inviting you to blow the living Sierra out of it. In fact, like its predecessor, Battlefield: Bad Company, the real joy of 1943 is in the destruction. Buildings and fauna can be reduced to rubble and splinters in the press of a button – an instant thrill, but one with long-term tactical repercussions should you require cover later in the match.Indeed, 1943 needs you to think as much as you thump. Communication with your team-mates is vital if you're going to secure hard to come by resources such as planes and tanks, which are awarded for successfully capturing an enemy flag. Even then the presence of anti-aircraft guns and the option to play as a Scout (specialising in the demolition of heavy vehicles) keeps most matches evenly balanced. It's by no means a perfect war – server problems marred its first few days online and FPS diehards might find 1943's bright and bloodless combat a little too kindergarten. There's also no way it can match up to the best of the disc-based titles in its field – it's not as fun as Bad Company, nor as exciting as COD 4 – but it's not designed to.Judged as a download, Battlefield 1943 is a huge step forward in the development of online titles. Say it again, brother: War. What is it good for? A fair bit, as it turns out.
Microsoft started to publicise details ofMicrosoft Office 2010, aka Office 14*, at its Worldwide Partner Conference in New Orleans today. The main news is that Microsoft Office 2010, SharePoint Server 2010, Visio 2010 and Project 2010 "have reached the technical preview engineering milestone". These are pre-beta versions, not suitable for production use. There should be a public beta later this year, with the final release "in the first half of 2010".For the first time, there will be separate 32-bit and 64-bit versions, which should encourage people planning to move to 64-bit computing with Windows 7.For consumers, Microsoft says it will make versions of some programs free online in web-based versions, probably as part of Windows Live. Office Web Applications are not the full applications, but they feature the ribbon user interface, and look leagues ahead of Google Docs. The catch is that the Office Web apps use Microsoft's SharePoint server (which is used today for the Office Live site). However, Microsoft has been demonstrating them running in Firefox and Safari, not just in IE.Companies that subscribe to Office -- Microsoft says it has 90 million "Office annuity customers" -- will be able to host it on their own servers. Another option is Microsoft Online Services, sold on a subscription basis as part of a hosted offering.Office 2007 made a dramatic leap forward with the introduction of the ribbon user interface but the transition was far from complete. The new versions of Outlook, OneNote, Publisher and SharePoint now have ribbons, too. In addition, users can customise what now seems to be called theMicrosoft Office Fluent user interface.Microsoft has reduced the number of Office packages from eight to five, and the new low-end options give users an extra application. The cheap Office Home and Student edition now includes Word, PowerPoint, Excel and OneNote, Office Home and Business edition adds Outlook, and the Standard version now includes Publisher.There are some new features, too, but the preview versions are not all feature-complete. However, "paste preview" looks like being one of the most popular.There arevideo demonstrationson the Office 2010 site.All round, Office 2010 does little more than complete the job of transitioning to Office 2007's innovative system, while adding a bit of polish. The new stuff is in the Office Web Applications online suite, and it's too soon to say how that will turn out. However, Microsoft was probably the first company to do this sort of thing with Outlook Web Access (OWA) for Microsoft Exchange 2000 Server and, later, Outlook Mobile Access (OMA) for Exchange 2003. It shows a spectacular amount of foot-dragging that more office apps are only following a decade later.Finally, why announce Office 2010 at a Worldwide Partner Conference? The answer is that -- unlike, say, Apple or Google -- Microsoft gets more than 95% of its revenues via its 640,000 or sobusiness partners. These form the rich and varied ecosystem whereby millions of people earn their living by selling, installing, customising, migrating, supporting and building applications on top of Microsoft products. The accessory applications and the customisation features of Office enable it to be integrated into business processes… and hard to remove without a lot of expensive programming and retraining and, perhaps, a reduction in functionality.The Microsoft Business Division, which includes Office, generated $19bn in revenues infiscal 2008, while the Server and Tools division generated another $13bn. Together these represented more than half of Microsoft's revenues, and $17bn in operating profits. It's not all from Office, of course, but there's still a lot riding on Office 2010.* Office 13 went strangely missing, but they still unveiled Office 14 on the 13th.
The original Wii Sports is technically the biggest selling game of all time. OK, it was bundled with the console and so shouldn't really count but for many, Wii Sports was the reason they bought a Wii. So the arrival of the sequel – Wii Sports Resort - is a big deal.It's also expensive, though that is partly explained by the inclusion of the MotionPlus. This nifty bit of kit attaches to the end of your Wii and adds increased sensitivity and accuracy to the Wiimote. It is essential to play Wii Sports Resort and by and large it works too, especially in events like Archery. In fact, after a few goes you won't want to go back to the original Wii Sports. There are 12 sports included, two of which you may be familiar with from the original. Yes, Golf and Bowling are back but both are noticeably improved. Golf is no Tiger Woods 10, but there is a lot more too it this time, with wrist flicks crucial and more skill required. While Bowling – the family favorite of the original game – is now much more dependent on spin and subtlety.Like the game as whole there is a lot more depth and long-term replay potential. Of the new events, Archery and Swordplay are obvious hits. The former uses the nunchuck and MotionPlus to great effect and offers a real long-term challenge. No chance your mum will fluke a win over you on this one. Swordplay too demands some skill even if the MotionPlus enhanced action is not quite as accurate as you hope for. Wakeboarding is fun too, as you turn the Wiimote sideways to mimic the rope handle and crash through the waves. In fact this might be the first event you show to new players.Other highlights include Table Tennis – simplistic yes, but it feels right – and the Pilotwings style serenity of the Skydiving and Island Flyover events. Frisbee is fun in short doses too, with deft flicks of the wrist having a noticeable effect on direction. Some of the events feel undercooked though. Basketball is a little too random and the cycling is actually rather tedious. The game is full of neat touches throughout, which remind you that Nintendo does "casual" console gaming like no other. The start of the game, for example, sees you skydiving down to the island, complete with all your Miis joining you on the jump.Wii Sports Resort includes many standard videogame features such as unlockable games and does actually reward skill. There is even a rudimentary Xbox Live style Achievement system – called Stamps – which encourages you to get better. Wii Sports Resort is bigger, better and deeper than the original Wii Sports. Don't bet against it being the biggest selling game this year.
There's nothing more depressing than a game that sells well on the back of its subject matter rather than any intrinsic merit, and the first four Harry Potter games fell squarely into that category. But Electronic Arts, to a large extent, has finally cracked it with Half-Blood Prince. At least on the Wii and DS, which are bound to be the biggest-selling versions.At last, EA has worked out how to replicate the fun of spell-casting and potion-making using the Wii Remote and clever gestures with the DS's stylus; the whole process makes much less sense when using a gamepad studded with buttons, though, even though the next-gen versions have significantly better graphics. Previous Harry Potter games simply weren't much fun to play – they concentrated too hard on exploring virtual recreations of Hogwarts at the expense of everything else. In Half-Blood Prince, there's still plenty of exploration to be done, but at least you can summon Nearly Headless Nick to show you where to go.Essentially, gameplay involves tramping around Hogwarts and its grounds, performing mini-missions, the vast majority of which involve duelling with your wand, making potions or playing Quidditch. The first two pastimes are great fun but, sadly, the Quidditch is a bit lame – it has been dumbed down to precision-flying through a course delineated by stars (rather like Sega's game NiGHTS). Which is fairly plausible in the context of playing a Seeker following a Snitch, but still rather lame.Potion-making involves all manner of gestures when, say, picking up potions and pouring them, or heating your cauldron, while duelling is great, employing both Wii Remote and Nunchuk as you launch different spells and defences. Storyline-wise, Half-Blood Prince restricts itself to the book's key moments so would seem rather disjointed if you hadn't read the book. But then, who hasn't?Overall, this is the first HP game to even get near to living up to the quality of JK Rowling's books and the accompanying films. It's good enough that adults will enjoy playing it with their offspring and may, indeed, find themselves sneaking back to it when the kids are sleeping. It won't go down as a great paragon of game design, but it does the trick perfectly adequately.
Like all EA's sports updates, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 10 is more about tweaks than major new features. However, when these are largely for the better you can't really complain.Featuring 16 impeccably drawn courses with four levels of difficulty, the big question is whether there's enough to justify buying it if you already own TW9. You start by defining your player, which can be customised to look more like your own face by uploading digital photos before playing a few holes to determine starting abilities. After this, it's a matter of playing and beating the AI opponents to improve your attributes, something you'll certainly need as you approach bigger tournaments and better players. So what of the innovations? Well, there's much more realistic and changeable weather conditions, which can have a dramatic effect when a rainstorm begins in the middle of play. Another change is the addition of a precision putting system; probably best demonstrated with a Wii MotionPlus but still noticeable on the 360.The main difference is that instead of having several putters you now get just the one, with a helpful preview function to help determine the strength of your swing. On other strokes it's the same as in previous games, with the left stick controlling swing and the right one handling loft. As you ramp up the difficulty level, precise timing and motion is required to avoid hooking or slicing the shot and you can no longer add spin to the ball or benefit from the putting preview.Multiplayers should enjoy Live Tournament mode, where you can compete against other gamers or real scores set by pros in designated weekly tournaments. It's a nice touch that paves the way for testing your skills against your heroes in a whole range of sports in future.For single players, there's a career mode that goes through the full PGA Tour, including the US Open, plus a challenge mode that lets you replay famous matches albeit mainly from US golfing history. And speaking of which, there's the commentaries, which are both poorly scripted and implemented in a way that often misrepresents what's happening on the leaderboard or in the match itself.Despite this, Tiger Woods 10 looks great and plays both realistic golf and the occasional arcade-style mini-game. Fans of the sport should be at it for weeks.
We may well have covered this in the past on Gamesblog, but there's no harm in tracking over old territory, especially when it includes videogames, social awkwardness and, possibly, sex.Over on Film Blog, they've been having an interesting discussion about good - and extremely bad - date movies. Guardian film critic Xan Brooks was inspired to pose the question by the cinematic release of Lars Von Trier's grueling Antichrist, which I'm thinking probably just edges into the 'really nightmarishly bad idea' category.So anyway, I thought we could apply the same question to games. Say you've bought a prospective new 'partner' home after a successful date. You don't want to hit them straight away with the Marvin Gaye and dimmed lights, so you suggest some interactive entertainment of the digital kind. What game do you go for? And if you've actually been in this situation, let's hear about your previous choices, good or bad...*If your answer is 'you shouldn't play videogames with a prospective lover', you are absolutely reading the wrong blog. Videogames are acceptable forms of entertainment now. This is the 21st century.The obvious option would be something like SingStar or Rock Band. They're intuitive, social and you get a sneaky hint at your date's music tastes. Beware though, they could well make their excuses and leave if you insist on loading up SingStar Abba and belting out Waterloo with all the vocal skill of a horny mountain goat.Wii Sports may also be a good ice breaker, though suggesting a few minutes on Wii Fit may be frostily misinterpreted. Street Fighter IV is a possibility - it's visually impressive, the bouts are quick and entertainingly manic, and uninitiated newcomers can button bash with some reasonable results. Survival horror might also be a good idea; games like Resident Evil 5 and Silent Hill 4 are fun to watch as well as play and you can snuggle up on the sofa together, taking it in turns to grab the controls.Definite bad ideas for a date videogame? Well, loading a copy of Pokemon or Monster Hunter will instantly undo the 'sophisticated urban adult' act you were pulling all the way through your pan fried pigeon breast at that hideously over-priced bistro. On the other hand, it's probably better to avoid anything with an 18 certificate. Rockstar's interactive snuff flick, Manhunt, may send out absolutely the wrong sort of message - unless you've accidentally pulled Marilyn Manson.So anyway, your suggestions and experiences please...
Gears of War 3 and Halo 4 may be what most Xbox 360 owners are waiting for but1 vs 100may just be the most important long-term release for Microsoft. The "interactive adaptation" of the TV show has just launched as beta on Xbox Live. Microsoft showed it off to the press last week – complete with mulleted 80s DJ/TV presenterPat Sharp– and despite some technical hiccups I saw enough to suggest this will be a huge hit.So how does it work? There are a couple of 2-hour live shows a week – most probably on Friday and Saturday – hosted by James McCourt. These will offer the big prizes like cars and holidays, but probably not PS3s.  And then throughout the week there will be 1 vs 100 Extended Play which will have no "One" or "Crowd" but just a "Mob". Ok at this point you may need to check out therules of the show, but it's fairly basic stuff.  There is no skill involved bar general knowledge and the ability to push the right button on the 360 pad.The demo we played saw McCourt hosting live out of Seattle as we ploughed through some of the rounds. As you'd expect the games journalists in the audience were quicker finding the correct button on the pad than their lifestyle equivalents but the questions were more varied than I expected. Yes, there were gamer friendly questions about World of Warcraft but politics (MPs expenses), showbiz (Mamma Mia, Robbie Williams) all came up. Chances are the big winners will still be hardcore gamers but 1 vs 100 will certainly have a more diverse leaderboard than 99% of other 360 games.How the scheduling works will be crucial though. Gaming has always been self scheduling – bar, perhaps some demanding guilds in massively multiplayer games like WoW – and TV is increasingly going this way too – think iplayer. So how your average Xbox 360 gamer will feel about having to tune in at specific time to play a game remains to be seen. Will the feeling of an "event" overcome any inconveniences?  Time will tell but with the potential to seriously widen the market for the console 1 vs 100 could end up being the most important Xbox 360 so far.What do you think then? Excited by 1vs100? Tempted to try the beta?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Microsoft is expected to outline its plans for further online expansion today - announcements that could have been a factor behindGoogle's announcement of Chrome OS last week. We'll be bringing you more on this later - but in the meantime there's some interesting comment from notorious bloggerMini Microsoft, who suggests that Redmond could benefitas the shine is taken off Google.&bull; France's so-called "three strikes" law to target illegal filesharers -rejected recently for not allowing judicial oversight- has beenresubmitted - with the final say being offered to judges, saysArs Technica.&bull; Your post-weekend reading: TheBBCexplainswhat happened when Sir Tim Berners-Lee talkedat a corporation event on Friday;Techdirton why a recent deal for webcasting royalty rates in the US (reported in an earlier briefing)marks a 'death sentence'; and finally, theNew York Timescarries on a recent tear against bloggers with an article pointing out thatsome bloggers run posts that are the result of payment from sponsors(no mention of the fact thatthis may also be the case with traditional media).You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Looking for gigs  - or for other fans going to the same show? Or perhaps you need help remembering what concerts you made it to in the course of your gig-going life. Social media site Songkick claims to have the "largest database of live music history that has ever existed" and looks itself like an essential destination.
When it comes to DIY, most unskilled people go through several stages: 1) an attempt to follow instructions and do the job neatly and correctly, 2) upon failing just wedge it together with nails, glue and tape and walk away. It is the second step that is celebrated here in a stunning collection of people just getting things done, no matter how terrible it looks - why bother with a roof rack for example when you can simply fix all your luggage to your car with duct tape? Most homeowners have stuck towels in leaks instead of actually fixing them, but many solutions here are of a higher level of ingenuity: microwave popcorn in place of a smoke alarm, plates pegged on a washing line because the dishwasher's crocked, torches cunningly positioned where car headlamps once were and the possibly unsafe system of a kettle with a hole drilled in the side in lieu of a hot water tap.
Once music magazines and DJs helped shaped what we listened to, but today it's music bloggers who are dictating what's hot and what's not. Well, that's the theory anyway. This site trawls through blogs, forums and social networks to work out the 99 most popular tracks based on what's being listened to, talked about and linked to online. The results bare little relation to the traditional top 40 (La Roux being the exception), in that most of the music here is unreleased or album tracks, but give YouTube links or streams of the relevant song. The "Twitter mentions" chart seems far more traditional - and older - with Lady Gaga's Poker Face and even Creep by Radiohead in its upper reaches.
Many years ago when Sarah Ferguson was married to Andrew Windsor, she gave birth to some children. At the time every mid-market and red-top newspaper splashed the news all over their front pages.The Independent, however, which at the time had a policy of not reporting on the Royals, put the birth announcement as its second-from-last "nib" (those very short leftover bits of news) on an inside page. Not the last: people might read it there. (The decision on the second-from-last was made by Jan Thompson, the news editor on the day, now on the staff at Guardian Media Group.)In the spirit of that, we'll point out that the latest to join Twitter is@BritishMonarchy. Those whose interests extend to links to galleries of the Queen meeting people, knighting people and so on will find it agreeable.OK. Next?
You wouldn't bet against anything Nintendo release these days. Okay Wii Music flopped but since the Wii launched it's been success after Wii Fit-shaped success. But theWii Vitality Sensor? Does anyone honestly expect this to be more than a passing curio in gaming's recent obsession with peripherals? Unsurprisingly Nintendo US bossReggie Fils-Aime is a believer.If I told you that you would be standing on an oversized bathroom scale, and having fun doing it, you probably would have said, "Reggie, I don't get it." And yet here we are with the balance board arguably as the third largest development platform across the globe.Of course,  with a little bit of hindsight Wii Fit was always going to be a success. The health and fitness market is booming, especially for anything that promises a quick fix – fitflops seem to be the latest must-have. But you can't imagine the Vitality Sensor doing the same. Or maybe it's just me. Fils-Aime thinks the software will be the clincher.Nintendo will continue to push the envelope on what a gaming experience is. Now, we're doing that, because as we showed, there are a 150 million consumers in the markets that we do business, that say they'd be interested in video games if they had the right content, but today don't play. Those are the consumers that we believe something like the Vitality Sensor with the right software could compel to get in the game.So what do you think then? Will the Vitality Sensor offer something so exciting that you simply can't refuse? Or will end up in your overflowing peripheral cupboard?
Happy birthday, Nikola Tesla - although you aren't alive today, having died in poverty on 7 January 1943 (having been born on 10 July 1856). Perhaps you're spinning in your grave - which might be possible if some of the inventions inspired by your work on electromagnetism and forces are being used.Many children are familiar with the Tesla coil - used at science demonstrations and lectures to demonstrate what happens when you discharge a high voltage (but low current: it's current that kills, not voltage) over a small space. Films of Frankenstein often show, somewhat anachronistically, Tesla coils discharging lightning-like bolts like billy-o.Tesla, an ethnic Serb from Smiljan, then part of the Austro-Hungarian empire, started out his engineering life working for a telephone company in Budapest in 1881, aged 24. He'd already studied physics and maths; While there - while walking in a park, in fact - he had an inspiration and solved the equations relating to a revolving magnetic field. Which he then drew in the ground with a stick and explained to a friend. Quite a patient friend, one suspects.Not much to you, perhaps, but those equations govern the induction motor, which is now the most common form of electric motor: put three coils around an outside former, and put a rotating element inside. If you run a current through the outside coils, and get the timing just right, then you create a current (and hence magnetic force) in the coils in the inside. So the inside rotor turns, but it doesn't have to touch the outer part: less friction means less energy used. (Compare that method to the carbon brushes needed in standard DC motors, which wear away where they touch the inner rotor.)But it's in the development of mains electricity - the underpinning of our modern age - that Tesla really rules. When Americans tell the story of Thomas Edison, the famous inventor of the gramophone, and whose name is usually attached to the invention of the light bulb, Tesla's name is frequently left out.However Tesla, who became an American citizen in 1891, worked with Edison for years, improving many of the early inventions and turning them into something workable. (The two were introduced in 1884, when Tesla came to the US, by a letter from a mutual friend to Edison which read "I know of two great men. One is you and the other is this young man.")Yet it's thanks to Tesla, not Edison, that we have electricity coming out of plugs, and that we even have power stations able to generate serious amounts of energy. He won "the war of the currents" with Edison, who was convinced that direct current (DC) - the sort that comes out of an ordinary battery - was the way forward for power generation and distribution. Tesla was able to show that alternating current (AC) - which swaps its polarity at a regular rate, 50 times a second in UK mains electricity - was far more efficient (you don't lose anything like as much energy in transmitting it over long distances).Even though Edison took to electrocuting dogs in public displays to show just how dangerous AC was (no, really), Tesla won the day. Where DC could only be transmitted for a couple of miles before the resistance of the lines reduced it to nothing, AC can be transmitted at high voltages for many times that distance. (A side note: did you know that the distribution equipment - transformers, transmission lines - is 80% of the cost of running an electricity company? The power generation is only 20%. Which is why even if we had free electricity generation - say from nuclear fusion - the upkeep of the distribution network would still mean you'd get a bill every quarter. Quite probably it would still be for the house next door which isn't on the same provider, too.)And to quotehis biography,Among his discoveries are the fluorescent light , laser beam, wireless communications, wireless transmission of electrical energy, remote control, robotics, Tesla's turbines and vertical take off aircraft. Tesla is the father of the radio and the modern electrical transmissions systems. He registered over 700 patents worldwide. His vision included exploration of solar energy and the power of the sea. He foresaw interplanetary communications and satellites.Then again, he also had ideas for the "death ray" - what we might now recognise as adirected energy weapon- and an ion-propelled aircraft (which was proven to be feasible).However his life ended sadly: he spent the last ten years of his life in the two-room suite 3327 of the New Yorker Hotel, having sold his patents and racked up substantial debts. After his death, the New York Supreme court ruled that he - rather than Marconi - invented the radio.Even Google has noticed - given that New York State some time ago proclaimed today as Tesla's birthday, and that the corner of 40th Street and 6th Avenue in Manhattan has a street sign saying "Nikola Tesla corner".If they were sensible, it would be a rotating sign, But you can't have everything.
Sony is introducing a netbook for people who really want a netbook, and are willing to pay a bit extra to make it a Sony Vaio: the estimated street price is £399. It will be the cheapest machine in Sony's range, but of course, you can get full-size, full-spec notebooks from other firms for less than £300."It's a market that's got big potential," says Vaio product manager Robert Duncan. "We expect [the Mini W] to appeal to people we're not currently talking to: people who maybe are on a budget but aspire to having a Vaio."The Mini W is a light (1.19kg) netbook with a 1.66GHz Atom processor running Microsoft Windows XP in 1GB of memory, with a 160GB hard drive. Connectivity includes two USB ports, Ethernet, and both SD and MagicGate card sots. If you're a Sony Memory Stick user, this may be the only netbook for you.You also get a Sony isolated keyboard, which is a bit small (roughly 86%, says Sony) but quite usable. But the real difference is the native resolution of the 10.1-inch screen: 1366 x 768 pixels. This is the same as many notebooks with 13in or larger screens. Of course, it does mean on-screen text is rather small, but it seems a bit better than the sort-of-pocketable Sony P-series.It also has one of the new textured touchpads, two buttons for mouse-clicks (better than a rocker bar) and a useful Wi-Fi on/off switch on the front left. Things it doesn't have include a SIM slot for mobile phone networks, and an HDMI slot.Sony is quoting three hours for the battery life, using the standard 3-cell battery.  That's probably an underestimate, but it's not a long-life machine. There will, however, be a larger 6-cell battery available as an accessory.Three colours are promised -- white, pink, and dark brown -- and the Mini W should be available in the middle of August.The Mini W does feel good, like a Sony product, and the screen and keyboard lift it a notch above average for the class -- as long as you are comfortable reading small type. Whether that's enough to justify the extra £100 is a personal decision, of course, but it's not obviously better value than, say, the well established Samsung NC10.On the other hand, many people clearly are prepared to pay extra for name brands, and Sony may reach a wider distribution network, including Sony Centres. If the netbook market continues to grow strongly, it could do well. But Sony might have done better if it had launched the Mini W six or eight months ago.
A woman signing the wood 'good'. Photograph: Turbo/zefa/CorbisHere's something for anyone whose parents ever told them they would never learn anything if they watched too much TV: a team from Oxford and Leeds hastrained a computer to learn sign languageby letting it analyse hours of television. The research, reported inNew Scientist, saw the computer learn to understandBSLby watching an on-screen signer and comparing the movements to the subtitles. At the moment it's correctly learned 65% of the words offered to it; and could potentially be used to create virtual signers on the fly for any programme.There's a handy videothat shows the process.Photograph: Turbo/zefa/Corbis
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Google boss Eric Schmidt says he will have to discuss his role as director of Silicon Valley rival Apple in the wake of his company's decision to launch its own computer operating system.Schmidt, who has been on the board of Apple since 2006, said he would be talking to Steve Jobs and others after some critics voiced concerns over a possible conflict of interest."I'll talk to the Apple people," he told reporters on Thursday. "At the moment, there's no issue."Google said on Tuesday that it wasplanning to launch a new operating system next year, called Google Chrome OS. News of the system - which will be aimed at the users of small laptop computers - created enormous buzz, as the clearest signal yet that Google intends to directly challenge Microsoft's Windows and its continuing dominance of the computer industry.However the announcement - which waspossibly timed to spoil a similar announcement due next week from Microsoft- also meant that Google is more directly competing with Apple, which makes its own operating system.Schmidt's role at the trendy maker of the iPod and iPhone has already been under fire for the two company's interests in mobile phone systems and web browsers, and the Google chief executive recuses himself from the discussion of Apple's iPhone during board meetings to avoid conflicts.Despitescrutiny from US regulatorsover so-called "interlocking directorships" - who are concerned that the link could promote collusion, Schmidt hassaid in the pastthat he had never considered quitting his board role.His latest comments came at the Sun Valley conference in Idaho, where an exclusive guest list of the world's most powerful media executives are gathered for a retreat. Earlier in the day he had enjoyed lunch with Bill Gates, despite their rivalry, though it is believed the two did not discuss recent events.This year, alongside moguls including Rupert Murdoch, Barry Diller and Warren Buffett, the event is also playing host to senior technology industry figures - including Schmidt, Gates, Amazon's Jeff Bezos and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg.The Sun Valley conference, organised by investment bank Allen &amp; Co, famously acts as a relaxed retreat where the press are barred and powerful media executives can talk business while engaging in activities such as biking, hiking and playing golf.
&bull; British dotcom entrepeneurs Michael Birch and Brent Hoberman finally launched theirown fundfor European startups at the Europa awards last night, according toTechcrunch.&bull; There's a selection of other stories about venture capital doing the rounds worth reading - first theWall Street Journal's report thatfund raising by US venture firms has dropped by 50%for the first half of 2009. No wonder there arearguments over America's $2.2bn small business investment scheme- courtesy of theWashington Post. On a different note,Dealscapetalks to VC David Hornick - who raised this year's biggest fund -about the future of the industry.&bull; I'll leave you with this one: havingrailed against Microsoft's confusing advertising strategyjust a few days ago, I was intrigued to see fromCNetthat the company has decided to runanother online campaign for its forthcoming Office 2010 software. This one, I'll admit, got me chuckling: it's anoverblown action spooffeaturing the death of a famous Microsoft character. RIP Clippy; it's like nobody ever wanted you around in the first place.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Amiga fans rejoice! Veteran UK studio Team 17 has announced that it's releasing a new version of 1991 classic Alien Breed as a downloadable title. The original was a top-down shooter, 'inspired' by the Aliens movie, in which players had to shoot their way through a series of space station levels, clearing out all the extraterrestrial scum on each floor before descending to the next.It looks like Alien Breed Evolution will be maintaining the core gameplay of the original, enhanced with up-to-date visuals courtesy of the omnipresent Unreal Engine 3. The dev team are promising both single player and, crucially, co-op online multiplayer modes, though they haven't confirmed any specific platforms. They have of course, produced versions of Worms for Xbox Live and PSN, so these are surely in the mix.So yes, great news, which will hopefully lead to an influx of similarly cultish Amiga faves in the downloadable gaming space. We've already seen Speedball, but the Bitmap Brothers' steam punk favouriteThe Chaos Enginewould be more than welcome (as wouldGodsfor that matter). What else?
It's been a while since this question did the rounds - we touched on ita couple of years ago, when the answer appeared to be somewhere between 2 micrograms and 60 grams (a bit of a wide range, depending onwhich methodyouused). But, courtesy ofSlashdot, the question has arisen again in a slightly different form: how much does a petabyte weigh? Aquick and dirty graphic suggests 365kg. That means, ifrecent estimates that the net contains around 500bn gigabytesare correct, that while the data is almost weightless, the storage itself would weigh in at something around 182,500 tonnes.Photograph: Koji Sasahara/AP
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
I thought summer was supposed to be a quiet time for gaming? Not for me. My to-play pile is practically at November levels at the moment. Harry Potter, Fight Night 4, Final Fantasy VII (PSP) and Overlord 2 are just some of them. And now Wii Sports Resort has arrived and is already taking up far too much time. Review up early next week for that one (early indications are good-ish).  But as well as the pile of boxed games there is the constant stream of download games on Xbox Live and PSN that are nibbling away at my precious gaming time.Pegglein particular has taken up far too much time that should probably have been spent playing blockbusters like Fight Night or Potter.  The same happened last night. The plan had been to plough on with Overlord 2 but then the same thing happened again. Yes, a quick look at Live Arcade and before I knew itBattlefield 1943was on its way.At this point I'd love to write about how Battlefield 1943 captures the spirit of the Pacific campaign and is a peerless multiplayer shooter. Unfortunately I could hardly get onto a game, with numerous login and technical issues.  Kotaku arereportingthe issue is to do with EA's servers. So anyone here got on yet? If so how was for it you?
&bull; Electronic attackstargeting America and South Koreahave made headlines - but, contrary to some speculation, there'sno evidence that it is backed by North Korea, saysComputerworld.&bull; After suggestions that Rupert Murdochcould have his beady eye trained on Twitter, the digger has told reporters at the Sun Valley conference in Idaho thathe has no such intentions. Will he be selling MySpace? "Hell no," said the 78-year-old.&bull; This week's Technology Guardian is in shops now, bringing you a host of delights including:Google's Marissa Mayer on real-time search, how organised crimeis targeting waste recycling in the UK, and whetherretro games could prove a blockbuster for Hollywood. All this and morehere.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I want to listen to the radio – FM/AM and shortwave – using my Eee PC. Is there software to do this? I don't want to plug in anything more than an aerial.Richard ScraseLots of people listen to the radio on their PCs, but this is almost always "internet radio". In other words, the sound is streamed digitally, via your broadband connection. Several formats are in common use including MP3, WMA (Windows Media Audio), RealAudio and HE-AAC. They can all be played using a free media player. You can find many thousands of radio stations atShoutcast, or useiPlayerfor the BBC's national and 40 local stations.You can't use a PC for listening to broadcast (over the air) radio stations without plugging in a tuner, which can be a USB stick. There are not many radio-specific tuners, with the Radio Shark USB Radio Tuner (£43 at Amazon.co.uk) being an obvious example; this could be useful if you want to record programmes to your hard drive. There are many more dual TV/radio tuners. However, you may run into aerial and interference problems, and you may be able to get easier operation and better sound quality by buying a separate radio. Go for something like the Roberts R9962 World Radio (£30) and you'll get shortwave, too. There are moreshort wave setsaround than you may think.
I've been trying for weeks to put Mau Mau into my computer's dictionary so Word's spellcheck doesn't keep asking if I have doubled up on the word "Mau".Tim SymondsIf you're running Word 2007 you can click the globe, select Word Options and then Proofing, and untick the box where it says "Flag repeated words". Of course, this will no longer catch errors where you repeat words by mistake.Another workaroundis to join the two words with a non-breaking space (that is, Ctrl+Shift+Space): Word will treat the combination as a single word and not flag it up. The drawback is that the two words will no longer separate over a line break. A third way is to type the two words as one word (MauMau) and add that to the dictionary. Before saving the file for the final time, do a search-and-replace to convert MauMau to Mau Mau.
You have mentioned the advantages of keeping copies of files online. I recently thought it would be useful to keep copies of files of a newsletter, prepared on Microsoft Publisher. When I winged it to Google, it replied that they did not support .pub files.Tony HoltGoogle offers online applications, not general purpose online storage, though it has long been expected to launch aGdrive. Applications will only store files they can recognise.Sites that let you store any sort of file include Mozy, iDrive, Carbonite, Box.net and Microsoft's free SkyDrive. Have a look and see which approach suits you best. Bear in mind that, historically, free online drives do not have a particularly good survival record.
Is it possible to get a Bluetooth headset to use with an iPod Touch so I can use Skype wirelessly?TimNo. Bluetooth can be enabled on a second-generation iPod Touch by installing Apple'siPhone 3.0 Software Update for iPod Touch. This supports A2DP (Advanced Audio Distribution Profile) for transmitting audio, but not HSP (Headset Profile). In sum, you can use it with Bluetooth stereo headphones but not with a headset (microphone and earpiece).Apple has a table.
I am trying to produce leaflets and posters with text from Microsoft Works, to help our son who sculpts in stainless steel. What software should I use? Price and ease of use are important.Colin WatersSerif has made itself the leader in this niche byrereleasing its old software in free versions. You can start with the free PagePlus SE and upgrade it to PagePlus 9 for a nominal fee. However, if you like SE, consider buying the latest version, PagePlus X3 Publisher Professional, which is almost half-price (£44) at Amazon.co.uk. Here'sa good guideto the different versions of Serif PagePlus.PagePlus does not support Microsoft Works, but it does support RTF (Rich Text Format) files, so save your texts in that format. Usually, you can also copy and paste texts directly into desktop publishing programs.There is a free open source alternative, Scribus, but it doesn't look as easy to use or as consumer-friendly. There's also Microsoft Publisher, but that's more expensive and only makes sense as part of the Microsoft Office suite.Backchat: Maurice Richardson supports my recommendation of Serif's PagePlus as a cheap way to produce leaflets and posters. He says the Liberal Democrats "use PagePlus exclusively, producing thousands of leaflets across the country. Here in Hatfield the local history society also uses it, as do many others, because of its low cost and ease of use."
I was alarmed to read, in your reply toFake update for Outlook Express, that Outlook Express is obsolete. I still use it – should I change to Windows Live Mail?Derry DiamondI should have said "obsolescent" or "becoming obsolete". If it does what you need, you don't need to change it. However, Microsoft stopped developing Outlook Express a long time ago – replacing it with Live Mail in Windows Vista. This now synchronises with Live Hotmail and other services, has a photo emailing feature, an RSS reader, a spam filter, calendar and other features. It also provides a common inbox so you can handle mail from several accounts. For XP users, it's part of theLive suite, which optionally includes Photo Gallery and new versions of Messenger.
There was a time when the press used to go gaga with coverage of anything Microsoft announced, regardless of merit. Google got the same kind of coverage today with its announcement of theGoogle Chrome OS.To be brief, this is the Google Chrome browser with a bit of the Linux kernel underneath, for x86 computers, and a Google Chrome browser for ARM-based computers, quite possibly with a bit of some other operating system underneath.This will have two noticeable effects. The first is to strip whatever hardware it runs on of most of its usefulness, without actually reducing the price by very much. The second will be to provide more traffic for Google Search and Gmail etc, against which the very rich Google can sell advertising and become even richer.Having said that, the project does have some good points, most of which have been publicly explored in a Microsoft Research project for a browser-based operating system called Gazelle. Indeed, Google's Chrome OS seems relatively unsophisticated in comparison.The Gazelle page says:Gazelle's Browser Kernel is an operating system that exclusively manages resource protection and sharing across web site principals. This construction exposes intricate design issues that no previous work has identified, such as legacy protection of cross-origin script source, and cross-principal, cross-process display and events protection. We elaborate on these issues and provide comprehensive solutions.Our prototype implementation and evaluation experience indicates that it is realistic to turn an existing browser into a multi-principal OS that yields significantly stronger security and robustness with acceptable performance and backward compatibility.But rather than being a Gazelle rip-off, Chrome OS sounds much more like Splashtop, which is already on the market. For example, Asus often installs it under the name of Express Gate. It runs from a Flash ROM chip on the motherboard, and boots in about 5 seconds.According to Wikipedia: "Splashtop features a graphical user interface, a web browser based on Mozilla Firefox 2.0, a Skype VoIP client and a chat client based on Pidgin." It's also based on "a specialized Linux distribution called a Virtual Appliance Environment (VAE)".That sounds just like Chrome OS, but the articles saying Splashtop "Drops A Nuclear Bomb On Microsoft" (insanity courtesy ofTechCrunch) have mysteriously escaped me.Either way, the idea that businesses aresoongoing to replace Windows with Chrome OS is beyond fanciful. Businesses whinge like mad when they have to adapt one of their tens of millions of "legacy" programs to run properly on IE8 rather than IE7, or IE7 rather than IE6, or whatever. The minor changes from XP to Vista were apparently beyond many of them. They're not going to rewrite 10-15 years worth of programs to run them via Chrome OS any time soon. Even if they want to, and can afford the attempt, it's going to take a decade.There is, of course, a similar level of cluelessness among people who think Windows can easily be replaced by Linux because, sometimes, it can.But look at Munich as being more typical of the enterprise problem. It started to convert from Windows to Linux in 2003 (after a two-year study) and reckons it will have 80% of its desktops running LiMux by 2012. ("The remaining computers are currently running Windows NT 4 or Windows 2000," according to acase study.) So the whole project is taking more than a decade, it's costing more than staying with Microsoft (if you include the cost of training), and Munich will end up with significantly worse software (ie OpenOffice) than if it had stuck with Microsoft.Well done Munich for taking the long-term view that, over a couple of decades, it will come out ahead. But for most businesses, who can't just pay for things out of taxes, the long-term view is rather shorter than that.Update: Dennis Howlett at ZD Net makes some further enterprise points in a post headedGoogle ChromeOS: Have people taken leave of their senses?Fake Steve Jobs adds his own spin withLet's all take a deep breath and get some perspective.
Hello helloI've been trying for weeks to put Mau Mau into my computer's dictionary so Word's spellcheck doesn't keep asking if I have doubled up on the word "Mau".Tim SymondsJS:If you're running Word 2007 you can click the globe, select Word Options and then Proofing, and untick the box where it says "Flag repeated words". Of course, this will no longer catch errors where you repeat words by mistake. Anotherworkaroundis to join the two words with a non-breaking space (that is, Ctrl+Shift+Space): Word will treat the combination as a single word and not flag it up . The drawback is that the two words will no longer separate over a line break. A third way is to type the two words as one word (MauMau) and add that to the dictionary. Before saving the file for the final time, do a search-and-replace to convert MauMau to Mau Mau.Radio daysI want to listen to the radio – FM/AM and shortwave – using my Eee PC. Is there software to do this? I don't want to plug in anything more than an aerial.Richard ScraseJS:Lots of people listen to the radio on their PCs, but this is almost always "internet radio". In other words, the sound is streamed digitally, via your broadband connection. Several formats are in common use including MP3, WMA (Windows Media Audio), RealAudio and HE-AAC. They can all be played using a free media player. You can find many thousands of radio stations atShoutcast, or useiPlayerfor the BBC's national and 40 local stations.You can't use a PC for listening to broadcast (over the air) radio stations without plugging in a tuner, which can be a USB stick. There are not many radio-specific tuners, with the Radio Shark USB Radio Tuner (£43 at Amazon.co.uk) being an obvious example; this could be useful if you want to record programmes to your hard drive. There are many more dual TV/radio tuners. However, you may run into aerial and interference problems, and you may be able to get easier operation and better sound quality by buying a separate radio. Go for something like the Roberts R9962 World Radio (£30) and you'll get shortwave, too. There aremore short wave setsaround than you may think.Online storageYou have mentioned the advantages of keeping copies of files online. I recently thought it would be useful to keep copies of files of a newsletter, prepared on Microsoft Publisher. When I winged it to Google, it replied that they did not support .pub files.Tony HoltJS:Google offers online applications, not general purpose online storage, though it has long been expected to launch a Gdrive. Applications will only store files they can recognise. Sites that let you store any sort of file include Mozy, iDrive, Carbonite, Box.net and Microsoft's free SkyDrive. Have a look and see which approach suits you best. Bear in mind that, historically, free online drives do not have a particularly good survival record.iPod Touch for Skype?Is it possible to get a Bluetooth headset to use with an iPod Touch so I can use Skype wirelessly?TimJS:No. Bluetooth can be enabled on a second-generation iPod Touch by installing Apple's iPhone 3.0 Software Update for iPod Touch. This supports A2DP (Advanced Audio Distribution Profile) for transmitting audio, but not HSP (Headset Profile). In sum, you can use it with Bluetooth stereo headphones but not with a headset. Apple hasa table.Desktop leafletsI am trying to produce leaflets and posters with text from Microsoft Works, to help our son who sculpts in stainless steel. What software should I use? Price and ease of use are important.Colin WatersJS:Serif has made itself the leader in this niche byrereleasing its old software in free versions. You can start with the free PagePlus SE and upgrade it to PagePlus 9 for a nominal fee. However, if you like SE, consider buying the latest version, PagePlus X3 Publisher Professional, which is almost half-price (£44) at Amazon.co.uk. Here'sa good guideto the different versions of Serif PagePlus.PagePlus does not support Microsoft Works, but it does support RTF (Rich Text Format) files, so save your texts in that format. Usually, you can also copy and paste texts directly into desktop publishing programs.There is a free open source alternative, Scribus, but it doesn't look as easy to use or as consumer-friendly. There's also Microsoft Publisher, but that's more expensive and only makes sense as part of the Microsoft Office suite.Obsolete Outlook ExpressI was alarmed to read, inyour reply to Fake update for Outlook Express, that Outlook Express is obsolete. I still use it–should I change to Windows Live Mail?Derry DiamondJS:I should have said "obsolescent" or "becoming obsolete". If it does what you need, you don't need to change it. However, Microsoft stopped developing Outlook Express a long time ago – replacing it with Live Mail in Windows Vista. This now synchronises with Live Hotmail and other services, has a photo emailing feature, an RSS reader, a spam filter and other features. It also provides a common inbox so you can handle mail from several accounts. For XP users, it's part of theLive suite, which optionally includes Photo Gallery and new versions of Messenger.Backchat•Pat Macneil wanted a laptop to work with an external monitor and keyboard. On the Ask Jack blog, warpzero said: "Samsung has a USB monitor,Lapfit, specifically for notebooks and netbooks, and has USB ports for your mouse and keyboard".
GoogleBeginningsStarted at Stanford University in Palo Alto, California by grad students Larry Page and Sergey Brin.GrowthWent public in 2004 at $85 a share. It's now worth $125bn, down from a peak of $235bn (or $747.24 a share) in 2007.DoesSearch, but its money comes from selling targeted advertising via an auction system. Writes software mainly for web use, including Gmail.What next?Expanding through mobile phone software (Android) and mobile devices (Google OS).Fans sayBy moving computing online, Google is making things easier to use. And for consumers, everything is free.Enemies sayGoogle watches you search, reads your email and wants to organise all the world's data. It's building a more dangerous monopoly than Microsoft.MicrosoftBeginningsStarted in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in 1975 after Harvard student Bill Gates and his friend Paul Allen wrote a Basic language interpreter for an early PC.GrowthWent public in 1986. It's now worth $200bn, down from a peak of $645bn in 2000 during the dotcom bubble.DoesSoftware, plus some hardware (Xbox, Zune). Most profits come from selling Windows and Office for business use.What next?Windows 7 in October, and expanding online offerings through Windows Live and a new web-based OS, Azure.Fans sayBy integrating offline (PC-based), mobile and online software, Microsoft is enabling users to choose.Enemies sayIts online offerings are not as good as Google's, and it charges too much for PC-based systems. It's doomed.
Marissa Mayeris vice president of search products and user experience at Google. She spoke to Charles Arthur in an interview in June 2009 at Cambridge University, UK.How would you describe your role at Google now and has it evolved in the past few years as the company has grown, and got more products?Marissa Mayer:It's certainly evolved since I arrived here 10 years ago as a software engineer, but definitely it's been much more evolutionary than a dramatic change. Now I actually manage, and then I went from doing that to actually formal product management of the site itself and most of our consumer-facing services and now I'm managing the people who manage the services.So, it's happening on a different scale and a different level, but that said what I still love day to day is sitting down with the team and talking about how does it work, how should it work, what do users need.What's the feedback system within Google, because I think a lot of people have the idea that Google presents something and calls it a beta but there's no easy way to feed back about it – if they don't like how Mail looks or how Mail works, there's not a very easy way to get the feedback – it's not invisible, but feedback has been perceived…MM:We usually do have some ways of getting feedback. For example, here at Google Labs we have ways for people to submit to us their opinions on things. That said what we usually do with our betas is look at the behaviours of users, honestly, and what it's like because in many cases they may not be able to articulate what they like or what they don't like, but we can see did they find that feature, did they ever use it, did they use it as much as we expected them to and by looking at those behaviours, you're also going to be able to understand really how to evolve the product.The last year, 18 months or so have been quite interesting in the whole search world and the whole Google/Microsoft/Yahoo – the information from search from stuff like Street View, privacy issues, monopoly issues even. What are the things within Google that concern you the most about how you're viewed and what are the things that you think are actually the issues that should be concerning people?MM:Well, we actually are really excited about the level of competition in the search space because we think that it benefits users. For search there's a very healthy eco system with a lot of different people trying to innovate and trying to do new things. So, we think that we're very excited about apps and stuff. I think that with Street View and some of the privacy issues, I think that overall there is a real commitment at Google to transparency, choice and control.With almost all features and functionality at Google and elsewhere, there's a tradeoff that needs to be made by users in terms of how much of their information they're comfortable with that service having access to, and usually the best way for a user to make that tradeoff is to be very informed of what they get in exchange for it.So, do you get much better search results through personalised search, and does it make sense for us to keep track of your queries and your clicks over time? We want our users to be able to make that decision in a very informed way. So, when you look at the principles of transparency, choice and control, you see that they are present in most of our products – in fact I think that all our products have that principle in place.When you look at, for instance, search history, which is what personalised search is based on, you can actually see all of the information that Google has about you and you can understand how it's being deployed and you also can decide to opt out of the service entirely, or you can even delete various parts of the data that you don't like or you'd rather we didn't have. So there's a lot of transparency and control available to the user there, and we want to operate with a lot of transparency, because we want our users to be informed about what's going on.Has the amount the information that people are prepared to let you have – do you think that's changed over the years with the launch of things like Facebook and MySpace?MM:I think that there is a generational change, where new generations that have grown up always having access to the internet have a somewhat different view in terms of personal information and what needs to be kept private. I think it's not uncommon for teenagers on Facebook or MySpace today to message each other on their Wall where all their friends can see, and if they're trying to meet up for coffee then it'll be 'Hey, do you want to meet up here' and that has a social benefit, where all their other friends can meet them there as well. But where you or I might send each other an email message or do a phone call, they'll communicate in a way that's much more public.So there is some generational change. That said, there will always be some information that should be kept private and we want to make sure that people have the ability to do that and to be able to make informed choices about it.There's a lot of change coming in search, yet Google keeps on saying there's lots more to be done in search. You were talking in an earlier interview today about how sensors in computers and phones and buildings and things offer more potential – can you expand on that?MM:We think that search is just being started. What we offer today is very different than, say, a friend of yours who might have access to a lot of facts or information, and so the interaction is a lot less.. human and prompt and responsive and while people also think that there's a lot of information on the web today and we have access to a lot of different things, not all information is available through search. I think that ultimately over time we really should strive for a place where most information is available online and is searchable.How will you implement that? Things like the sensors in the phones that say "here we are" and building that can say "this is my temperature" – how do you think it will start integrating into search?MM:I think that some of the smartphones of today are doing a lot of the work for us: by having cameras, they already have eyes; by having GPS, they know where they are; by having things like accelerometers, they know how you're holding them. If we go – I have an iPhone, and it's interesting when you call somewhere, if you're in a phone tree for example, they'll ask you to dial your extension. Of course, the phone goes black while you're talking on it, right, it goes into its resting period – if you notice, when you move the phone away from your head, the keyboard automatically shows up. It understands that the phone is on, and that when you motion away, it can feel, the accelerometer can feel when you move the phone and that can recognise that you probably want to type something onto it.What about real-time search – that's one of the things that's also been recognised as increasingly valuable to people. The rise of services like Twitter which offer something close to a real-time search of what people are talking about at the moment, with Twitter trends and so on.. how interesting is that to Google?MM:We think the real-time search is incredibly important, and the real-time data that's coming online can be super-useful in terms of finding out whether – something like, is this conference today any good? Is it warmer in San Francisco than it is in Silicon Valley? You can actually look at tweets and see those types of patterns emerge, so there's a lot of useful information about real-time interactions that we think ultimately will really affect search.So, is Google talking to Twitter about instant integration and what Twitter has through having bought Summize the other year and what you do?MM:I can't comment on any discussions that may or may not be happening between the companies. I can say that we think that real-time search is very interesting.You tried your own sort of real time service – it was the same sort of idea, wasn't it, some real-time messaging service which doesn't seem to have gone – I think you released the code now as open source…… have you in effect given up on that or what's the thinking behind it?MM:I think you may be referring to Jaiku. We think Jaiku is an excellent service and our team is really quite good. We do still have a real-time messaging service because we have Google Chat and Google Talk, that allow users to communicate with each other in real time. So there is some of that, but Jaiku itself, the team, has turned it over to open source, their servers, and they've moved over to helping with Google Chat and Google Talk.What about – your own specialism is obviously artificial intelligence because you did that at University. One thing that doesn't seem to get mentioned in all the talk about development in search is any sort of idea that computing power – even though it seems to be growing if not exponentially then still pretty fast – that it's ever going to get to a stage where the computer will basically understand what it is you want before you know yourself….MM:Yes and no. I think what's really amazing is that given the scale of the web and getting the compute power we have today, we're starting to see things that appear intelligent but actually aren't semantically intelligent. So, for example, if you type "GM" into Google, you'll probably get General Motors. But if you type "GM foods", we actually give you pages about genetically modified foods, and General Mills [food company].So, it feels when you're interacting with the search engine that we know what "GM" means in different contexts, what it means by itself, what it means when it's really different, and that's partially true, part of what it is, when you have such scale of data, you'll have some things that are very broadly about GM and you have something narrowly about GM foods, and you will see better relevance hits arising from those when those are orthogonal, so when you have a really broad set of data you can basically develop something that feels intelligent even though it's really just brute force computing.You spoke in an interview earlier about how Google has a lot of entrepreneurial elements within. There are lots of teams trying to come up with ideas and then try to push that through – as any company gets bigger, doesn't it get harder for those ideas to push their way through to actually get to be implemented? How do you prevent that sort of inertia just taking over and slowing everything down?MM:We definitely try to keep teams small, because I think that by keeping smaller you avoid a lot of that bureaucracy that can snuff out an idea early. I think that we will drive innovation at Google, and so we have a lot of practices to try to keep the innovation ecosystem healthy. So, for example, 20 per cent time that really allows people to tap into whatever they're most creative about, most excited about at the moment is a key element of it.But a big part of it is just really respecting the innovative process. We believe the best innovations come from technology, and technological observations of our own trends. So if you look at things like Google Books – that was founded on the basis that we thought that digital photography was finally becoming high-resolution enough that you could use optical character recognition to extract the words off a photographed page and search over it. There were some very interesting trends observed in terms of digital photography, its resolution and the power of optical character recognition, also known as OCR, over time: that you combine with the two technologies, look at what happens.When you look at Google Chrome, basically our engineers noted that browsers didn't seem to be evolving very much any more, even though the web was evolving a lot and when you looked at it, most people thought of a browser as an HTML renderer, and they made HTML renderers pretty good, in fact pretty much as good as they could become. But noone was paying any attention to Javascript, even though pages were using more and more Javascript, and could we build a Javascript rendering engine that was significantly better than was available elsewhere; in fact our Javascript engine is somewhere between eight to 20 times faster than what's available in other browsers.So, I'm looking at some of these trends overall technologically, you ultimately really get to the ability to build features that very much fill the user needs, but fulfil user needs in clearly new ways than they have been before.But actually getting to the stage where you can put the weight of Google behind them and launch them, surely that's different – and isn't the problem as the company gets bigger that there are more people saying "Well, we've got something else we can do this week…."MM:Not really, because I think that the sense of deep technical insights that lead to those innovations don't come around that often, and then it's easy to spot them when they're pointed out. So, when you have a team that has recognised that, they come forward and they say "we all think how many people aren't paying enough attention to how Javascript is ihandled in the browser" – it's an easy thing to agree with, it's easy to imagine a real leapfrog in browser technology that could build on that.Has Chrome lived up to your expectations that you had when it was launched?MM:Ah, very much so. Our user base is growing very quickly, and when you look at what it really does for the user, it makes the web page much faster. What's interesting for me when I look at the design of the site, I use Chrome almost exclusively. I have to test the website obviously, on other browsers to see how it works, and it's pretty painful to use other browsers that are just a lot slower and a lot clunkier.What were the expectations – I assume that you must have mapped some sort of expectations of where Chrome would be after six months….MM:We have our posts and goals in terms of number of users, number of versions.Has it met them?MM:Yes.Ahead of them?MM:It's been pretty much right on par. At this point we actually have become pretty good at predicting how users will respond to something – original installs, downloads.Does your plan include increasing the number of installations of Chrome by including it in the Google package that's sold to companies, or pre-installing it, paying to have it preinstalled on computers?[Note: this interview precededGoogle's announcement of the Chrome OS, which will include the Chrome browser preinstalled.]MM:Our goals are usually around number of active users, and there we don't really tell our teams how to achieve the goal, but rather what the goal is and they can look at – is it better to allow the installs to happen on the website, is it better to distribute them through OEM providers.. Obviously different user combinations, and then how you get that Chrome installed in place yields a different rate of active users, and active users is really what we care about.If you're going with the OEM route, that needs a budget… but you're going to get a large number of potentially active users pretty quickly…..MM:So, we are experimenting ourself with both, but it is mostly what we want to understand is the evolving yield. If a Chrome that's got from the website is more likely or less likely to result in an active user, we'll balance that off against distribution, in accordance with the metrics.I was intrigued by what you said one time, that Google Mail turned out to be the catalyst for AdSense that inventing that let Google achieve escape velocity… Are there other sorts of things to do with revenue generation, because – it's great to have the ideas but actually making the money is the nice thing…. .Are there other things?MM:I think one of the things that we're very excited about right now is looking at new ad formats. So it's interesting: just a few years ago we came up with universal search, and that is two years old now, where we introduced new types of search results into our results pages. So suddenly you could get images, and books, and news, and local information, and video, all on your results page. We've since added blogs and products – but our ads haven't evolved very much even though we really do value our ad as search results.So, now one of our next goals is to really look at how can we take the advertising formats and make them as rich as the results.There seems ironic that the company which is all about being the best search engine – when you want to find something you'll find it – is actually the one that's the most successful online in taking adverts, which are generally things you didn't really think you'll be searching for.MM:Interestingly, there's a lot of times I find that our ads that are actually better than our search results. For example, concert tickets – name any popular concert for the summer, and you can search for it, and you will see that our ads are as good, if not better, than our search results when it comes to helping you buy those tickets.For the matchup against Microsoft, and Bing – what's your perception of that in terms of what they're trying to achieve, whether the way they're approaching it is actually effective. Because the Google algorithm, how you decide what's the top page – because more pages point to it – it's out there[Mayer makes a face]everyone knows what it is in terms of…..MM:No (laughs), the Google algorithm is not out there. There are about 200 different factors that we look at when we're making search results, and we do think our relevance is unparalleled at this point in the search competition, and that's really what matters to users, getting the best possible answer.I think that there's a lot of new competition entering the search space of late and we're very excited about it because we think that this kind of increased focus and increased competition really does yield better results for end users, and I think that – I really would rather not comment on particular proposals. I'd just say that it's a very interesting space right now, we're certainly aware of our competition and what types of things they are doing, but we're trying not to focus on that too much because we really believe that by focusing on the relevance, and focusing on our users and really what they need, is where we get the best algorithms.It's quite interesting, isn't it, given your AI background, that there's still to a large extent this call on demand for humans to identify images – Google image search says "Help us.."MM:It is true. For example, people often ask me which is further ahead, voice or image recognition, and I think it's clear at this point that voice is very much ahead – and it's not surprising because if you look back at the academic research, the academic research on voice is further ahead than images say even 10 years ago, so it's very far ahead because now you can do things like voice search. Apple released a new phone on Monday which actually allows you to dial by voice and command your phone by voice – pretty powerful. So, voice recognition is certainly further along than image.Not that images aren't coming along – I think the hardest part is that the image space continues to evolve. For voice, language is language. Sometimes a new word crops up and then you have to figure out how to recognise that, but it's not like with language the problems involved have fundamentally changed.With images, the problem is fundamentally changed. Twenty years ago, all you needed to do was be able to recognise the million celebrities who are likely to show up on an evening newscast or in the newspaper. Now, with the dawn of YouTube and digital photography and 100 billion images being uploaded to the web every year, you actually need to be able to identify all six billion people. The problem is that in those six billion people there's an awful lot of people who look a lot like Tony Blair, or Cindy Crawford, or Julia Roberts.So, picking out of a still image where you don't have – what you and I would use to recognise each other: we use a lot of contextual clues – are we in the right place, how do they walk, how do they talk, is it that person or not. With a still image, you don't have any of that, all you have are the pixels, and those pixels might look a lot like a photograph of someone else; so I really do feel for the image recognition people because their problem has become significantly harder in the internet age. We're not even getting closer to a solution, the solution just moves very far away.Actually the ones that are the most successful are using lots of them – contextual clues, where was the photo taken; geotagging – where was the photo taken. They'll do things like in an album, they'll have you take one picture of your family at Christmas time and then they just notice that, oh, it seems like they tagged this little red spot as Meredith, and then they say OK, every time we see something that's that same shade of red intensity, in all of their pictures assume those are of Meredith. Clues like that. A lot of people think that's cheating, but I don't really think it is because that's what humans do.It's not like I'm re-recognising you – every second we're sitting here, I recognise you're still sitting in the same place you were, you're still wearing the same shirt you were wearing, like those contextual clues help me understand that you're still the same person. Image recognition is really trying to harness those things, and the sensor revolution that we're seeing, of being able to have GPS that's attached to your phone, attached to your camera, really can help us develop I think image technologies that work a lot better. It means we make the problem simpler, and it makes the problem also more similar to what the human eye actually does.Picasa has a face recognition system – so is there a bunch of really frustrated guys at Google…?MM:What we're able to do is similar images, so you can tell these images are very much like each other, but it's very hard to tell – we can tell that it's the same image as well because you can obviously just do a checksum. But if I take a photograph of this chair and you take a photograph of that chair and then we try to say is that the same chair, or if someone swapped the chairs in between our two photographs, it's much harder to tell. That sort of thing is difficult.[interview ends.]
It is the technology industry's equivalent of the irresistible force meeting the immovable object. Google, the web upstart founded 11 years ago, has announced it will go head-to-head with Microsoft with an operating system (OS) – the programs that make a computer work – for machines ranging from handhelds up to desktop computers.If Google can get enough people to buy computers running its new Chrome OS, it will cut into Microsoft's two biggest cash cows: Windows and its Office suite of programs, including Word, Excel and PowerPoint. Microsoft, which once spoke of "cutting off the air supply" of a web-based rival, Netscape, has woken up to find a new threat reaching for its throat.The confrontation has been expected for years – despite Google's insistence it had no such ambitions – but it still caught observers by surprise when a Google spokeswoman confirmed to IT news service IDG that it plans to announce this week the names of computer makers in Taiwan and China signed up to work with Chrome OS, and said that it will show off Chrome's user interface later this year.The challenge to Microsoft is implicit, yet also direct. In a blog post, Sundar Pichai, Google's vice-president of product management, and Linus Upson, engineering director, explained that "the operating systems that browsers [used to access pages on the web] run on were designed in an era when there was no web". That is a swipe at Windows, which dates back to the 1990s. Pichai and Upson also promise that with Chrome OS, "we are going back to the basics and completely redesigning the underlying security architecture of the OS" to ensure that "users don't have to deal with viruses, malware and security updates" – another swipe.An operating system is the set of programs that makes a computer act as it does: the same computer can run Windows, Apple's Mac OS X or the free Linux operating system. Each computer will then behave differently, and do different things; but connecting to the internet is key for all. So even if Google's dramatic attack fails, it still wins.The reason is its dominant position as a search engine – a key activity – and in selling adverts against search ("AdWords") and web pages ("AdSense"), which is how it makes money. As Nick Carr, an author and journalist who has studied Google for books such as The Big Switch, observes: "For Google, literally everything that happens on the internet complements its main business. The more things people and companies do online, the more ads they see and the more money Google makes.In addition, as internet activity increases, Google collects more data on consumers' needs and behaviour and can tailor its ads more precisely, strengthening its competitive advantage and further increasing its income."Chrome OS will be based around the Linux operating system, and will initially be offered on "netbooks" – the small, cheap laptops that have seen explosive growth in the past two years due to their size, weight and price. Data from IDC suggests that while the PC market as a whole shrank by 6.8% in the first quarter of 2009, netbook shipments kept growing (from a low base) to 9.5% of all computer shipments. If any significant share of the market moves to Chrome OS, Microsoft will lose the Windows revenue and revenue from its Office products, which won't run on Linux. That could slowly bleed the giant to death.Not everyone is convinced Google will succeed, however. Michael Gartenberg, a consumer devices analyst at Interpret, based in Los Angeles, was unimpressed. "Folks who have never seen it, used it or spent five minutes with it are claiming it's huge threat to Windows.(If that's the case, wouldn't it also be a threat to Apple and Mac OS, an argument I've not seen this morning?)" He added that history doesn't run in favour of Chrome OS's principles: "Consumers have overwhelmingly rejected Linux-flavoured netbooks for Windows-capable machines that they could actually accomplish things on, such as run PC applications."He thinks that the aim is to distract from Microsoft's next version of Windows,release of latest version of Windows 7, which will be released, due this October: "By creating of lot of fear, uncertainty and doubt this morning (after all, every PC runs web-apps really well and no one is looking for devices that web based only for the most pat). they hope to take the attention and lustre off Windows 7."It may in fact be rival Apple that determines whether Chrome OS succeeds. Its iTunes music playing, organisation and purchasing program is installed on around 100m computers, more than half of which are Windows machines. If Google can persuade Apple to provide a version that runs on Linux, people may move over to Chrome OS. Otherwise, leaving behind their music collections the dearest digital property many of them own, might be too much. Still, Google has a good chance of getting a hearing: Eric Schmidt, its chief executive, has been on Apple's board since 2006. Perhaps Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, should start worrying now.
I had hopes for the Digital Britain report. It had the chance to do some original thinking of the sort that could transform society, like Sir Rowland Hill's Penny Post, if not Aneurin Bevan's National Health Service. Sadly, Lord Carter lacked the imagination or the guts of a Birmingham teacher and a lad who left school at 13 to work down a mine.It's not as though we don't know what needs doing: which is to install fibre to the home. Ian Mackintosh pointed this out – and analysed the economic implications – in his book, Sunrise Europe, published in 1986. Yes, "we can't afford it," though it turns out we could afford to dig up half the country to exploit short-term North Sea gas, to fight foreign wars, and to bail out a morally and intellectually bankrupt financial system.More than 20 years later, European countries are well on the way to becoming what Mackintosh called OICs, "Once Industrialised Countries". And we still don't have the infrastructure needed to support the information society that is our only hope of a prosperous future.Carter surely appreciates this, but he offers no compelling strategies. Instead, he's trying to juggle a hotchpotch of overlapping systems of the sort that Mackintosh rejected. However, even those of us who like hotchpotchery may be disappointed by his report.Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB), for example, is a mess. It needs a complete overhaul that breaks the connection both with FM stations and FM broadcast areas. Simulcasting on FM and DAB doubles the costs of commercial stations without providing any extra listeners, or extra revenues, which seems to suit the BBC, but helps nobody else. It's like launching Sky to deliver BBC TV at a slightly lower quality than you already have. No wonder it's a flop.There's a similar lack of vision with regard to WiMax, which works as a sort of high-powered Wi-Fi. WiMax masts can provide 4-6Mbps broadband over a range of about five miles, and WiMax should be almost free in portable PCs, because Intel is combining Wi-Fi and WiMax in some of its radio chipsets. If not, a USB dongle will do the job.Sticking a WiMax transmitter on top of every BT exchange would probably fill in most of the holes where people cannot get 2Mbps broadband (and satellite will do much of the rest). WiMax would also provide a cheap way to multicast digital radio.Mobile WiMax could even be used to deliver broadband – and therefore digital radio – to cars, though that would require a much bigger investment.The report does include WiMax, but Carter bows before the desire of "the incumbent mobile radio operators for the mobile broadband networks to be based upon either 3G technology or LTE". Well, they would want that, wouldn't they? They'll be charging us for it.But given the mobile industry's inability to deliver 3G properly, we can only assume LTE (Long Term Evolution) is a very long way away.WiMax isn't completely lost, because the report includes the release of the "WiMax-suitable" 2.6GHz spectrum before 2010. But this isn't news:Ofcom confirmed it in April. And it may not be good news. The spectrum could go for an insane amount to someone who will have to sell WiMax at a similarly silly price, or who isn't interested in WiMax at all.There goes the chance to do a deal with BT to put WiMax masts on its exchanges in exchange for roaming, pricing and public access concessions.In general, I am in favour of letting commercial companies fight it out. When it comes to national infrastructure, however, there's a case for the nation to be involved, hence the report. But what's the point if it doesn't do the job?
Get connected118800 is a web directory of mobile numbers. It doesn't give out details but will connect you for &pound;1.Picture your passwordSafeLogin has opened a UK site for its picture-based password system, which is free for non-profit organisations.Here, there and everywhereGoogle Maps now lets you right-click and pick the last menu item, to ask "What's here?"PC desktop on your TVIogear has a wireless USB-to-VGA adaptor for sending your PC desktop to a TV.PhD for SaleThe Open University has given Tony Sale an honorary doctorate for rebuilding Colossus at Bletchley Park.Mixing it at MuzuDMC, the DJ organisation, has launched a TV channel at Muzu featuring sets from 1987 onwards.Bing goes TwitterMicrosoft's Bing search engine is indexing tweets from famous Twitter users.Suite for the policeDell has announced a forensics suite to help police handle digital evidence.Research on internet risksAn LSE professor has received a &euro;2.5m grant to research children's experiences of risks on the net.
Microsoft is right to warn about the danger of a serious monopoly in search because of Google's dominance. Its own revamped search engine, Bing, is a welcome addition and has some interesting features that should earn it more followers. Maybe it is time to apply Microsoft's enlightened approach to monopolies to what is happening in its own backyard where, amazingly, it still has almost 95% of the global market for PC operating systems (Windows), word processing (Word) and spreadsheets (Excel). Last year, a new generation of "netbooks" running the open-source Linux operating system seemed set to capture the bottom end of the market. I boughta $199 Asus, which I thought would be my dream machine as it weighed barely 1kg and came with the freeOpenOffice.orgword-processor, Linux operating system, Skype, educational and arts programs and Google documents. It didn't turn out so well: the screen was too small, wireless links flaky and battery life poor. But hell, the potential was there, so when Asus recently released its beautiful Eee Seashell with a bigger screen and six hours of battery life, I bought one on impulse.The problem was that Asus had not only adopted Windows and jettisoned Linux (which I knew), but the computer didn't even come with the free services that came with the $199 model. I know there are millions who love Windows. That is their human right. But it fails completely - for me - on usability. So, the Seashell ends up not as a next-generation netbook, but as a Microsoft-occupied computer and all the simplicity of the earlier Asus machines has gone out of the Windows. Every time I open it, I am assailed with stuff I don't want - Windows Live this, Norton that, Phishing this, Works that - with no obvious way of switching some of them off. When I simply wanted to write a note there was no Open Office and when I tried Word in Microsoft Works it kept asking me to sign up for another 45 days (or whatever) after inputting a key number I was supposed to have but didn't.How did this happen? There are various versions. One is that Microsoft suddenly woke up to a serious threat to its market share and became Microhard. It gave Asus a package it couldn't refuse - a cheap version of Windows as long as it tossed the upstart Linux overboard. True or not, Asus has changed from being a successful proponent of Linux to an evangelist for Windows. The second version is that Asus, seeking a cheap web book to sell globally, used free Linux as a lever to force Microsoft to give it a cheap deal it wouldn't otherwise have got. A third version is that Linux wasn't yet up to the job as there were so many different versions and users had difficulty linking with devices such as printers. This theory was given support when Wal-Mart dropped the Taiwanese $199 Green gPC because of poor sales. But it doesn't explain why the Linux Asus Eee PC was such a roaring success.What cannot be denied is that there is a huge potential demand for cheap devices of this kind - not just for those wanting to simplify their lives but for the billions who don't have a computer at all. Fortunately, help may be at hand, as there are numerous affordable models in the pipeline. Whether the successful ones will be Linux, Windows, Google's Android, Symbian or even ARM remains to be seen. I am told there is an impressive web book running the Linux-based Ubuntu in the pipeline. Microsoft has already disproved the axiom of the great management guru Peter Drucker, who claimed that no non-governmental monopoly had ever lasted more than 15 years. The prospect of serious competition in operating systems can only be good not just for consumers all over the world but for Microsoft as well. But whether it can be dislodged from its entrenched position remains an open question.•victorkeegan.com* This article was amended on 8 July 2009. The headline was changed.
You're walking through a virtual world, beautifully rendered with cutting-edge graphics. Birds flutter overhead, and sunlight glints off a nearby babbling brook. The sense of immersion is immense. But try talking to anyone and the illusion is shattered. Must conversation in computer games be so clumsy?"At present, computer-controlled game characters are very two dimensional - essentially just moving images," explains Kevin Warwick, professor of cybernetics at the University of Reading. He helps to run the annual Loebner prize, in which computers try to trick interrogators into thinking that they are talking to a human ("A tough task," he comments). Some "chatbots" manage to fool interrogators as often as one in four times. So why aren't game developers getting in on the act?"The technology is there for conversations in computer games to be a lot better," says Warwick. "But game developers haven't put much time or money into this aspect - the visual perspective has been the main driver."Freedom of speechSo while graphics have become almost photo-realistic, the way you "talk" in computer games has barely changed since the 1990s. If you do initiate an exchange, menus and pre-scripted conversation pathways destroy any illusion of freedom.But could this all be about to change? Some chatbot designers think so.Robert Medeksza won the Loebner prize in 2007 with his chatbot Ultra Hal."A general-purpose chatbot is expected to be able to converse about any topic the user can think of, which is virtually infinite. This presents quite a challenge for the AI," he explains."If the range of topics the user is likely to discuss is well defined, such as within a quest in a game, then suddenly the problem becomes finite and considerably easier to make a realistic AI personality."Medeksza is already planning on testing Ultra Hal in a computer game setting. "We will demonstrate the technology in a simple game where chatting with AI characters will be an important part of completing a quest," he says.At its core, Ultra Hal learns from previous conversations, and then ties this information to a huge database of words with layered relationships.His AI-driven characters can help the player on their quest, but they will not force users down any pre-determined paths, as menu-driven systems do. "The AI [will] try to lead the conversation and stay on topic in a way the game authors intend," he says. "But if a player chooses to speak off topic, [the] AI engine will be underneath ... and the character would be able to talk about anything at all," Medeksza says.Rollo Carpenter, creator of the Jabberwacky chatbotTo work in the context of a game's story, the chatbot needs to be integrated with the engine. "It's a matter of programming the game to communicate different states to the AI component. Like what part of the game's plot we are at, and the states of all the different objects you are interested in," he adds. Other chatbot designers are thinking along similar lines. Rollo Carpenter is a veteran developer who has been working on his Jabberwacky chat protocol since the 1980s. His bots won the Loebner prize in 2005 and 2006."I don't think that game creators have woken up to the social implications of an AI conversationalist that learns," says Carpenter. "Most approaches taken are orders of magnitude too simple."It's good to talkJabberwacky has been learning conversation patterns from online users for 10 years. Unlike more basic chatbots, his system actually replies in the context of the whole conversation. For some, the experience appears almost therapeutic. "The longest conversation observed is 11 hours, with just three 15 minute breaks!" he says.With such abilities, AIs could be trained to drive the distinct personalities of in-game characters."Character and personality are hugely important," says Carpenter. "In addition to learning from and imitating the general public en masse, our Jabberwacky system invites people to sign up to create their own bot within it - to teach it to act like them, to impersonate them."And perhaps games developers are starting to take notice. This year's Electronic Entertainment Expo - the world's premiere trade show for computer games - saw Microsoft showcase the Project Natal-powered demo Milo. A virtual boy in a sunny landscape, Milo can apparently hold a natural conversation.With game characters that talk, learn and have personalities, players could build a close affinity with them, says Warwick. "It's quite possible they will feel much closer to a character than they do to another human," he says.He adds: "I'm really surprised it hasn't been done commercially yet. I think this will push forward chatbot technology pretty quickly when it happens."With headsets fast becoming the norm in console-land, the conditions are perfect for developers to build chat technology into their games. Perhaps we're standing at the dawn of a new computer game genre: the First Person Talker.
If you're not sure whether you want a netbook or a notebook, Acer's Timeline range offers a compromise. With the 3810T you get a light (1.6kg),inch-thick portable PCwith a very long battery life – Acer claims up to 9 hours – which is what you want from a netbook. But you also get the 13.3in widescreen, large keyboard, 2GB of memory, faster processor and 320GB or 500GB hard drive of a notebook.The obvious drawback is that, at £700, the 3810T is roughly twice the price of a netbook with a 12in screen. The consolation is that, not long ago, you could have paid £1,500 or more for similar features.The Timeline is based on Intel's new CULV (consumer ultra low voltage) platform, like similar machines from Asus, MSI and others. This generates very little heat and helps the 3810T achieve long battery life. However, to get eight hours, you also need to have the screen at middle brightness, and turn the Wi-Fi off. Still, the 3810T should easily last a working day in normal use, and you can pack a spare battery for ultra-long flights.The 3810T's 1.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo SU9400 isn't the fastest on the block, but it scored 4.6 on Vista's Windows Experience Index, with the lowest score being 3.2 for the integrated Intel graphics. It's clearly not a games machine, but it can multitask Microsoft Office programs and run 720p videos. With a 16:9 widescreen resolution of 1,366 x 768 pixels, you also get a decent (but glossy) screen. It's not MacBook Air class, but it's not MacBook Air price.It's also not Air-thin, but it feels robust, having a brushed aluminium lid to help protect the screen. And it has easily accessible ports, including three USB slots, VGA and HDMI for video, microphone and headphone jacks, and a gigabit Ethernet port. There's also Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and a sim slot for mobile users. It doesn't have a built-in DVD drive, but there are 14in (4810T) and 15.6in (5810T) models that do.Less common features include a multi-touch pad, 5-in-1 card reader, and 5.1 surround sound. There's a nice illuminated button next to the touchpad so you can turn it off while typing.The operating system is Vista Home Premium, with a free copy of Windows 7 when it comes out. However, this will be a full copy, which doesn't support an "in place" upgrade.The 3810T's black and grey finish is stylish but businesslike. Although it has what used to be high-end ULV features, it's clearly intended to be a mainstream product. How many consumers will like its balance of features and compromises remains to be seen.Pros:Long battery life; looks stylish; SIM slot; cheap for an ultraportable notebook PCCons:Expensive by netbook standards; no optical driveacer.co.uk
It is "totally unacceptable" for Ordnance Survey not to provide maps suitable for the digital economy, said former Cabinet Office minister Tom Watson at the Guardian's Activate 09 summit - part-sponsored by Ordnance Survey - last week.Watson, the Labour MP for West Bromwich East - who appeared on the platform with Adam Afriyie, the Conservatives' shadow minister for science and innovation - said that as taxpayers, we have already paid for the information the organisation holds and sells to commercial companies. But he also said that privatisation would make matters worse.Afriyie, who has previously encouraged the idea of better access to government data, backed the idea of better access at the local government level and pushed for local versions of They Work For You - the MySociety-created website which mashes up Hansard into a more usable form.Meanwhile, Ed Parsons, geospatial technologist at Google UK, said government agencies should allow greater access to more of their data so the mobile industry could take full advantage. The early optimism about the possibilities from GPS (a US government-provided free data service) had been premature, but, said Parsons, "it's a reality now" and government needed to develop services "to allow the geeks out there to produce services and products in the near future".Parsons cited the National Rail Enquiries iPhone app, which offers localised UK train times but costs &pound;4.99 - having forced a free version of the same application from a different company to shut down."That's ... because developers have to pay National Rail for access to the times," Parsons said. However, National Rail is owned by the train operating companies, not the government, meaning its data would not fall under the Free Our Data remit.For Ordnance Survey, Liz Ratcliffe, the head of product marketing, admitted OS had been through a "painful period of self-reflection" but that had led it to launch its OpenSpace API more widely in April. She encouraged people to work with OS to create new online maps.• The search for Ordnance Survey's "internationally recognised expert" who read and approved its report on funding models goes on. Last week, one commenter on the Free Our Data blog wondered if it might have been Max Craglia, of the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission, a specialist in geographic information policies. But Dr Craglia told the Guardian: "I regret I am not the expert you are looking for." OS says it is awaiting the permission of the expert before releasing their name. Further information is due by 23 July under an FOI Act request.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
When the New York Times revealed it had engaged in a wide-ranging effort tosuppress news of its reporter David Rohde's capture by the Taliban, including having mentionsremoved from Wikipediawith theassistanceof the site'sco-founder Jimmy Wales, the incident had enough moral and ethical quandaries for a festival of punditry. Very briefly, when Rohde was kidnapped, the New York Times determined, after taking expert advice, that it was best to keep the matter out of the press.One can endlessly debate the profound philosophical questions involved in trying to censor information for humanitarian goals. But from a technical viewpoint, one of the most fascinating aspects of this case is that, by and large, the suppression worked.Its overall success contradicts a deeply cherished belief that such events are not supposed be possible, at least not in western democracies. Whenever someone tries to hide something and fails, it's sure to generate knee-jerk articles proclaiming the self-defeating nature of the attempt. It's typically presented as a morality play, where a censorious fool receives their proper comeuppance at the hands of mighty netizens and valiant bloggers.However, in what approaches a logical paradox, you don't often hear of the situations where the information remained hidden.Even more intriguing, the kidnapping was reported by an Italian and an Afghan news agency, for example, and those stories were further referenced on some blogs and discussion sites. So the facts were available on the web. Remember, we're often told by evangelists that the internet nullifies geographical restrictions, and anyone can break an embargo from anywhere in the world. Yet gatekeepers here were able to keep it relatively contained.Part of the solution can be found in one of Wales's quotes regarding how Wikipedia was able to maintain its David Rohde silence: "We were really helped by the fact that it hadn't appeared in a place we would regard as a reliable source ... I would have had a really hard time with it if it had."Wikipedia's policies are often a morass of vagueness and contradiction. So its administrators were able to cite its policy on "source reliability" as a reason for excluding the material, given that the foreign news agencies involved were fairly obscure, and obviously western news agencies going along with the NYT media blackout were not going to confirm the stories.Of course, there are limits to how far one can push that tactic. In a more candid comment during aWikipedia discussion, Wales remarked in partthat an editor who repeatedly tried to add the story "thankfully, didn't really know the right way to go about making a stink on an admin noticeboard. The kinds of trolls who monitor my every move to look for nefarious motives didn't know or notice."In other words, nobody with the skills and ability to oppose the removal (whether from noble or ignoble motives) was involved. There's a lesson in there.As one commentatorsaid in another discussion: "this was an edit war, just with the power all stacked up on one side of the fight".This issue of power circles back to the question of ethics, and the age-old problems of ends v means. Wikipedia'shandlingis instructive because, contrary to myth, it's not very different from big media in key political aspects. But its cult bureaucracy has extensive factional fighting on display. Thus, moral dilemmas are more readily dissected.In a mailing list discussion, a writer noted adouble standard: "In most cases (and in pretty much all cases which don't involve a well-connected person) [Wikipedia] wouldn't suppress the information to protect lives – we'd publish it."Perhaps the real lesson is not about whether some things shouldn't be repeated to possibly save someone's life. Rather, it's much more about who can have their concerns taken very seriously by authorities in charge, and who will be summarily dismissed.sethf.com/infothought/blog
It's the news we've all been waiting for: Universal Pictures has secured the film rights to the 80s vector-based space shooter Asteroids. Yes, that Asteroids - the white-on-black arcade classic. The news arrived via the pen of fellow Game Theorist Keith Stuart and the phrase "scraping the barrel" comes to mind. But rather than mock, I'm going to play devil's advocate for a moment and propose that getting into a bidding war for an outdated, nostalgia-laden computer game is a good thing for the film studios to do. No, a great thing. Believe it or not, I have three reasons. Hear me out.First, because there is - quite literally - nothing more to work with than a few lines on a background, the possibilities are endless. Add Ben Affleck and you've got an action movie. They could call it, I don't know, Armageddon 2. Add an exclamation mark to the title and you have a 70s-era disaster flick. Hire Sean Connery and make an homage to Meteor. Re-form National Lampoon and reanimate Leslie Nielsen and do a sci-fi spoof. Heck, you could even get James Cameron onboard - it's crying out for the 3D treatment.Second, studios would save Space Harriers full of cash on the marketing strategy. There is already excellent brand familiarity and the game tie-in has been a success for decades. Sure, there are opportunities for an updated interactive release - Lego Asteroids is the obvious choice - but why bother when the original is such a classic? In these cash-strapped times, this is music to the ears of movie accountants, who will see this as a win for the bottom line and the profit margin when film hits the box office.Third, this project is the perfect opportunity to redress the balance between creators and fanbois who have become far too big for their britches in recent years. The bane of any movie creative who takes on a much-loved interactive property, these righteous consumers feel ownership of everything from Tomb Raider to Halo because they've had the audacity to play them. Surely the Asteroids universe is safe. I can't imagine there are any rabid communities out there that directors would have to pander to. The downside, however, is there is less fan fiction to siphon, so the creatives would have to do a lot of the work for themselves.Picking up a property that is impossible to make into a film is the way forward for an industry that is suffering from cutbacks, piracy and creative drought. Really, it's a no-brainer. Why be limited by tacked-on plot that inspires devout commitment, when all you really need is action? Take the kernel of the retro classics and make it something beautiful. And leave the games industry to do the modern classics themselves.
Some people think it might be. Twitter users started using hashtags - a # followed by a unique bit of text - to help them follow conversations. Through some eerie demonstration of the hive mind, Twitter users usually come to a consensus on the tag or tags for an event or topic.As with email and blog trackbacks, anything that becomes successful on the web ultimately becomes the target of spammers. Users began to notice a few months ago that tweets on popular hashtags often contained marketing messages or links to porn.Upscale furniture maker Habitat was caught out last month when marketers working for the company used hashtags, even ones related to the disputed Iranian election, to promote its "totally desirable Spring collection". Twitter users cried foul, and Habitat apologised.That hasn't stopped less scrupulous companies from continuing to use hashtags for spam. Hashtags around the death of Michael Jackson often have unrelated commercial messages. Beyond spam, the internet pranksters of 4Chan recently "attacked" Twitter (in the words of some web watchers) by creating multiple accounts and pushing the hashtag #gorillapenis into the trending topics.This has led many to ask if the hashtag system is too prone to abuse. Twitter's openness has been praised as one of the key reasons behind its meteoric growth. But is it that openness also an achilles heel?Social media blog Mashable wrote: "Trending topics are a great way to find out what's hot in the Twitterverse, but they're also a haven for malicious hackers and spammers."Of course, not everything slightly off-colour is spam. Last week the hashtag #MrsSlocombesPussy trended (at the urging of Jonathan Ross) after the death of actress Mollie Sugden. British Twitter users and American fans of Are You Being Served? spotted it at once as a tribute to the actor; others, such as TechCrunch and Mashable thought it was just more pornographic spam, until set straight by their readers. Some accused Twitter of censoring the hashtag, but Twitter co-founder Biz Stone toldappscout.com: "We don't filter out offensive content from search. There's a bug involving hashtagged words with more than 16 characters." (MrsSlocombesPussy has 17.)But some companies think that Twitter should capitalise on their eagerness to use the sevice to promote their businesses. Moonfruit, a website building service, has been giving away MacBook Pro laptops in return for tweets with its hashtag. It trended - but then disappeared. The company wondered whether Twitter was suppressing it, but was unable to get any confirmation.Moonfruit's Wendy Tan White thinks that Twitter is missing a trick. "This is probably a commercial channel for Twitter in the future."
