Spring 2003: Skype is founded by Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis, two technology developers and entrepreneurs. The pair had already made their name by creating Kazaa, a peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing program which – rather like Napster – proved highly popular with PC users but provoked the wrath of the entertainment industry.Zennström and Friis used P2P technology developed during their Kazaa days to create a free piece of software that allowed people to make voice calls to each other over the internet – without charge. At this time, voice-over-Internet-Protocol (VoIP) services were already being bought by early adopters. Skype, though, grew rapidly in popularity because it was easy to set up and use, required only a microphone and headset, and often offered better quality for long-distance calls than a normal phone line.The pair were bullish about Skype's prospects as a disruptive technology from the start –Friis told News.com in an early interview: "The telephony market is characterised both by what we think is rip-off pricing and a reliance on heavily centralised infrastructure. We just couldn't resist the opportunity to help shake this up a bit."July 2004: Skype launches SkypeOut, a new service that allows Skype users to call a landline or mobile phone. Charges began at just two euro cents a minute to landlines within Europe, the US, Australia and New Zealand. The next month an Apple-compatible version of Skype was offered.January 2005: With Skype attracting 23 million registered users during its first 18 months, analysts calculate that its popularity will soon eat into the profitability of traditional telecoms companies.April 2005: Skype hits the 100-million downloads mark, fuelled by rapid take-up of broadband.August 2005: Google wades into the VoIP market with its own application, Google Talk. Skype hits back immediately through an alliance with Intel, which invested an undisclosed sum in the company. Microsoft was also investing in VoIP that month, snapping up a small internet calling start-up called Teleo in an attempt to improve its MSN Messenger app.September 2005: After weeks of rumours,eBay agrees to buy Skype for $2.6bn in cash and stock. The merger of an internet telephony company with an online auction house is hailed by some analysts as a breakthrough moment, with some arguing that eBay was well positioned to monetise Skype's userbase – which has doubled to 52 million since the start of the year. Others, though, suggest that the deal might prevent Skype from ever truly challenging the traditional telephone industry.December 2005: Skype launches video calling, a service already offered by several other VoIP companies.May 2006: SkypeCasts, which allow up to 100 people to join a single call, are created to capitalise on the boom in social networking.January 2007: US court rejects a $4bn (£2.4bn) lawsuit which claimed Skype's underlying technology violated various patents.October 2007: Two years on, and with little sign of integration between the pair,eBay admits that its acquisition of Skype has not been a runaway success. It takes a $900m impairment write-down – effectively admitting that it overpaid for the company. While the number of registered users has grown to 220 million, eBay chief  executive Meg Whitman admits that usage levels are not high enough. Zennström also steps down from Skype.April 2009: eBay announces plans to float Skype on the stock market. "Skype is a great standalone business, with strong fundamentals and accelerating momentum. But it's clear that Skype has limited synergies with eBay and PayPal," says John Donahoe, eBay's chief executive.June 2009: Plans for a Skype IPO are thrown into confusion as it emerges that Zennström and Friis still own some of the key technologies which Skype is built on, despite selling the company to eBay in 2005. Back in 2001, the pair had created a holding company called Joltid, which had owned the intellectual property used by Skype.Their threat to withdraw Skype's right to use this code could sink the flotation, analysts warn. Both sides begin legal action.September 2009: eBay abandons the planned IPO, and instead sells a 65% stake in Skype to a group of investors for $2bn. This includes a venture capital firm owned by Marc Andreessen, the technology pioneer who created the Netscape browser in the 1990s. But the legal problems linger, as Joltid launchesfresh legal action against both eBay and Skype claiming copyright violation.November 2009:Joltid takes a 14% stake in Skype, in return for dropping its lawsuits and injecting a substantial amount of capital into the firm. This left Skype's new owners holding 56%, with eBay still owning 30%.August 2010: Skype announcesplans to float on the US stock market. It also faces opposition from BSkyB over the trademark for 'Skype' in Europe.May 2011: Skype is rumoured to be changing hands again, withFacebook and Google both reportedly holding talkswith the company. Then, on 10 May,Microsoft announces its $8.5bn takeover.
Telecoms analysts believe thatMicrosoft could be a happier home for Skypethan Facebook, and could ratchet up the battle against Google Voice and Apple's FaceTime on mobile devices and the desktop. They also warn, though, that with a rumoured price tag of $8.5bn (£5bn), the deal is hardly cheap.Leif-Olof Wallin, research vice-president at GartnerWe think this is a positive thing for Microsoft. Skype is a very powerful brand with a huge install base. A lot of the features are complementary to what already exist in Windows Live (Hotmail, Messenger et al). There is a further potential to integrate this into Windows Phone as well as Xbox.Richard Edwards, principal analyst at OvumWith Apple FaceTime – a competitor to Skype – now available on the Mac, iPhone 4, iPad 2 and the new iPod touch, it is definitely now or never for Microsoft. There are other products and companies out there that offer a much better fit architecturally than Skype (and they come with a much cheaper price tag too), but Skype is undoubtedly the product Microsoft needs to stay in the game.Skype is arguably the most successful real-time social communication platform on the planet, and its $8bn price tag means that only companies such as Microsoft have any chance of acquiring it. But is it a good fit for Microsoft's business model? Answer: Yes. It's popular, it runs on Windows PCs, and later this year it will be available on Windows Phone 7. Perhaps more importantly for the rest of us, Skype also runs on other computers, such as Mac and Linux, and mobile phones too, such iPhone and Android-based devices.Skype is used by millions of consumers around the world to make free internet telephone calls and cheap calls to landlines, but we should not forget that Skype for Business also exists, making it an attractive, low-cost option for smaller companies looking for voice and video conferencing capabilities. For enterprises, Skype Connect lets organisations integrate Skype with their SIP-enabled PBXs (private telephone switchboards), and Skype Manager enables the business to track, trace and manage the use of this facility by employees.Dean Bubley of Disruptive AnalysisIf the deal goes ahead "as leaked" this is another major step for Microsoft's aggressive pursuit of Google and Apple, which also may have a secondary effect: further pain for the telcos and especiallymobile IMSand its flag-waving applicationsVoLTEandRCS [Rich Communication Suite].I'm pretty sure that a lot of the comment and analysis today will be around whether Microsoft can execute better than eBay, why the price is so high, whether this is "all about Google" and whether Skype would have been better off living inside Facebook. For me, this actually looks like a near-perfect fit for Skype. The other candidates I had in mind were Vodafone, AT&amp;T, Cisco and Ericsson. No, not the most intuitive choices indeed – but companies with deep pockets, an interest in innovative services models and a willingness to pick and choose.• A substantial part of Skype's current user base is from PCs. Although mobile devices get all the glory at the moment, Skype epitomises what's best about desktop VoIP. More importantly, a laptop is probably the perfect device for many video-calling use cases, as the keyboard+hinge and upright camera is much better ergonomically than a propped-up tablet or mobile phone. This would have been lost in a purely handset-focused company (eg Nokia in the past, RIM or perhaps Qualcomm). This may have ruled out Vodafone too, I guess.• Skype gets widely used in business – often only semi-officially, but it's a critical tool for many travellers, people doing conference calls and so forth. It is also increasingly working on corporate-grade solutions. This would have been lost inside a Facebook or similar company.More here.Horace Dediu, who runs the analysis company AsymcoI see this as a pattern of consolidation of voice business models. I don't think it's coincidental that Apple, Microsoft and Google are all trying to secure assets, IP, experts and businesses in VoIP and in voice control. Voice is the next frontier both in IP-based communications and in user interfaces. Skype happens to be a very large pool of users who can be engaged with multiple services beside voice. These additional services can be the root of new business models.Skype has been a hot potato for some time and nobody has quite figured out how to monetise the large user base. Exotic business models are always being debated but the winner will be something indirect which will come from experimentation and cross-fertilisation with other businesses. Microsoft has plenty of degrees of freedom to experiment (Windows Live, Bing, Windows Phone etc.) whereas neither Ebay nor Skype alone did. From that point of view, it's more valuable to Microsoft because it has more option value to Microsoft than it may have to other suitors.Giles Cottle, senior analyst at Informa Telecoms &amp; MediaDespite scepticism at Microsoft's ability to handle big acquisitions, Redmond is a better home for Skype than some of the company's other rumoured suitors. Google already has Google Voice, minimising the impact of such an acquisition. Facebook was another potential destination, but Informa believes the synergies between these two companies to be almost as over-estimated as those between Skype and eBay. If the oft-quoted mantra that most people are actually only friends with about 10% of their Facebook friends is true, then voice-calling within the service makes little sense.Microsoft, on the other hand, has numerous ways in which it can make use of Skype: video-calling for Windows 7 Phones (and a competitor to FaceTime), offering a true PC-based VoIP service with Windows Live Messenger, voice chat in Xbox Live and, of course, strengthening its enterprise communications proposition.Microsoft undoubtedly has overpaid for Skype in the short term but potentially not in the long term. Buying Skype gives Microsoft the ability to do whatever it wants with voice to an audience of 700 million users. This kind of scale does not come cheap.Michael Clendenin, managing director of RedTech AdvisorsIn this atmosphere of Internet Bubble 2.0, picking up an unprofitable online company for roughly 10 times sales probably seems downright cheap ... But if you consider [Skype] was just valued at about $2.5bn 18 months ago when a chunk was sold off, then $8.5bn seems generous and means Microsoft has a high wall to climb to prove to investors that Skype is a necessary linchpin for the company's online and mobile strategy.
Microsoft confirmed on Tuesday it has agreed an $8.5bn (£5bn) cash deal to buy internet telephony service Skype, the biggest deal in its 36-year history.The acquisition will see Skype established as a separate business division inside Microsoft, dubbed Microsoft Skype, alongside XBox Live, Kinect and Windows Phone.Tony Bates, the Skype chief executive, will become president of Microsoft Skype and report directly to the technology giant's chief executive, Steve Ballmer."Skype is a phenomenal service that is loved by millions of people around the world," said Ballmer. "Together we will create the future of real-time communications so people can easily stay connected to family, friends, clients and colleagues anywhere in the world."Tony Bates has a great track record as a leader and will strengthen the Microsoft management team. I'm looking forward to Skype's talented global workforce bringing its insights, ideas and experience to Microsoft."Bates added: "Microsoft and Skype share the vision of bringing software innovation and products to our customers. Together, we will be able to accelerate Skype's plans to extend our global community and introduce new ways for everyone to communicate and collaborate.The acquisition is Microsoft's largest to date – way ahead of the $6bn it paid for online advertising company aQuantive in 2007 – and is a sign of the wayward technology giant's ambition to become a bigger force in the smartphone market.The deal was approved separately by Microsoft and Skype's board of directors on Tuesday morning. The sellers include eBay – which had a 30% stake in the company – and private equity firms Silver Lake and Andreessen Horowitz, which together owned a 56% stake in the company. Skype founders Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis retained a 14% stake.Founded in 2003 by two Scandinavian software entrepreneurs, Skype is now used by more than 170 million people worldwide. Silver Lake took control of Skype in November 2009 after being acquired by eBay in 2005.Rumours about the future of Skype had been circulating widely in Silicon Valley since April, with reports of a delay in its then-planned initial public offering. Fellow internet giants Facebook, Google and Cisco – of which Bates used to be chief executive – werereportedlyinteresting in snapping up the Luxembourg-based company.Eight-year-old Skype has never turned a profit. In 2010 it recorded a loss of $7m on revenues of $859.8m. Microsoft will assume its $686m debt as part of the deal.The acquisition is subject to US regulatory approval, which the companies hope to secure later this year.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
After paying $8.5bn for Skype, what will Microsoft end up with? In a few years, I forecast it will be this: $8.5bn less in its bank accounts, a cats-in-a-bag fight between its Office division and its Online Services division over integration of the service, little – if any – kudos from consumers, and no appreciable effect on its bottom line.That's right: Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, might as well have put the money on a bonfire for all it's going to do for the company's share price, which has barely shifted in his 11-year tenure. In fact at present, the share price reckons that Microsoft is less valuable as a single entity than if it were broken up.So what's the Skype acquisition about? Ignore the talk of synergy that Ballmer and Skype's new chief executive, ex-Ciscoer John Bates, will spout. It's about Ballmer's long-term aim to make Microsoft back into a hit brand with consumers, a position that it last held with the launch of Windows 95 in August 1995.The trouble is that Skype is one of those great internet ideas that can't be integrated into as many places as you might think. That's partly because it uses its own protocols for the voice-over-internet system (which means it can't be integrated into other VoIP services). But it's also because even while all of our analogue conversations are being digitised, the phone system is one of those technologies so deeply embedded in our culture that you can't get it out. When I called Skype's people for comment on the talk of acquisition, it was a mobile phone number, not a Skype handle, that I looked for.So here are the bad, and the good things, about this deal:The bad• Mobile carriers will hate it. They will fight tooth and nail against Skype (or any sort of VoIP service, but especially Skype as I'll explain) becoming widespread on their networks. Skype turns each computer (or internet phone) using it into a "peer", part of a mesh of devices running the peer-to-peer software. Some become "superpeers", meaning they are routing data for lots of devices; if you leave Skype running on your computer but don't do anything with it, it will often turn into a "superpeer", and start sucking up your bandwidth and CPU.For mobile carriers, the idea that people will be sucking up lots of data and bandwidth just by leaving an app running isn't new, but they'd probably prefer Microsoft not to be contributing. And given that Microsoft's Windows Phone is going to become the mobile OS for Nokia, the world's biggest handset maker (by volume, if no longer in revenue) is going to have some carriers feeling distinctly edgy this morning.• It's really,reallyhard to monetise. I'm presently writing a book about Microsoft, Apple and Google, and their business rivalries (PCs, search, iPods, smartphones, and tablets; out next year), and doing so has involved speaking to people all over the place – especially in the US. Ten years ago, I'd have been making expensive transatlantic calls. Now, I make the calls for free, using Skype. I made hours of calls and haven't spent a cent. As for calls closer to home, it's cheaper to use the voice minutes bundled on my mobile, or a landline: it's less hassle than making a call over Skype. Finding people on Skype is a hassle. Just ask Skype:austidoodle96. Is he really Barack Obama, of Washington DC, as his profile says? Or is it one of the other 100 contacts in the Skype directory with that name?Skype's own numbers bear this out: it has 663 million registered users, and last year had revenues of $860m (that's $1.30 per user per year, or about 11 cents per user per month), and made a loss of $7m. It's a service that's going nowhere, monetisation-wise, because its peer-to-peer structure simply doesn't enable it. Skype makes its money from add-on centralised services – outgoing calls to landlines and mobiles, "landline" numbers (which resolve to a Skype handle), voicemail. None is essential.• Ballmer is going to have hell's own job getting it integrated into Microsoft's other offerings. Talking to people involved with Microsoft down the years, what emerges is a picture of a company where the giant profit centres – Windows and Office – determine their own agenda. Getting something done against the wishes of the Office team is like fighting a tank battle: you'd better bring one more division than your opponents. Microsoft had the idea of tablets long before Apple's iPad, but it was effectively knifed when the head of the Office division decided he didn't like them. The Office division killed the suggestion in 2005/6 by the Online Services division, then building the engine that would be come Bing, that internet search should be integrated into Office.The Office division presently houses a homegrown voice-over-internet service called Lync. Some analysts think this morning that Skype (which is almost certain to be folded into Online Services) will be integrated into future versions of Office. History suggests it won't. I'm betting on history.• Strategically, it's nonsense (with one proviso, which I'll deal with below). When you look at Google, you realise that it benefits when it gets more people using the internet for more of the time, because it dominates search and search advertising. Hence its bold moves – making maps free, offering enormous amounts of mail storage for free, giving away the operating system for internet-enabled smartphones. They're all aimed at undercutting anything that puts a price barrier in the way of people getting online.Look at Skype and at Microsoft, and you could only say that it looks like it's trying to kill off mobile carriers – a group with which it doesn't really have an argument (quite the opposite; it needs them for its new mobile partner Nokia, which willsell phones using its Windows Phone OS from some time after October).Or perhaps it's going after phone companies that sell services to businesses, so that Skype will be the default way that we make phone calls. So it's trying to kill BT, AT&amp;T and leased phone line businesses? That's not good strategy. Kill your rivals by undercutting their business model. Not your partners, or the companies you didn't have an argument with before.• It already has a fairly good consumer VoIP offering. Well, two consumer offerings actually: Microsoft Messenger (260m accounts), and Xbox Live (30m accounts). And never the twain shall meet. Now add in 660 million Skype users. Imagine being the manager given the task of integrating them so that each person has a single ID in your big database, which points to their MSN, XBL and Skype IDs, without duplication and without erasing any wrongly. Now go and lie down in a darkened room with a cold compress.• The people I've spoken to, and the history I've read, say that Ballmer is driven by the idea of making Microsoft a consumer brand, like it was back in the days of Windows 95. (Remember that?) That's why he's pushed Windows Phone, Xbox, Kinect, and now this "cool" brand. Ballmer is aware that the twin Microsoft monopolies, Windows and Office, won't survive for ever, and so new areas of focus are needed. Skype is a consumer brand. The problem is, if Microsoft tries to monetise it too hard, it will lose it to an upstart. Skype is a bird in the hand which, if it gets squeezed too hard, will simply die.• Skype's peer-to-peer nature makes it inherently unreliable. When superpeers fall down, the network degrades fast – as happened last December, withan outage that even Skype couldn't fixdue to a subtle bug, because it was on computers it didn't control. Microsoft might want to consider the implications of a brand whose performance it cannot guarantee.The good (potentially)• It's possible that Ballmer and his team have been incredibly farsighted here. (They are incredibly smart people – though not as smart as those at the top of Google or Apple, but close.) Take this scenario: smartphones with internet capability are rising rapidly as a proportion of handset sales, so that in thefirst three months of this year they made up 47% of sales in western Europe.Throw that forward a few years, and we're all effectively walking around with what are effectively mobile computers in our hands, connected to data networks. Computers? That means we could make a voice-over-internet call, for free, rather than using valuable (and costly) voice minutes. Even better, you could call another mobile (because that's a computer too), and it would be completely free. No roaming charges, no costs! It's the ultimate dream for the everything-must-be-free crew. And Microsoft will be monetising it all.If I knew the idea of buying Skype had come from Bill Gates, I'd trust that vision. Gates, everyone I've spoken to agrees, is fantastic at the long view for technology. But Ballmer? They all go quiet. Ballmer is very smart, but he's not a great technology seer. That's what Microsoft has been missing for the past few years.• Skype integrated into Office integrated into switchboards could be an awesome lock on businesses. Many small businesses are using Skype for outgoing calls, especially international ones, because it reduces their costs. But if the phone cartels decide to fight it and lower their prices, what's the benefit?ConclusionOverall? It's an audacious move. But Skype is more useful as a service you use rather than own. Peer-to-peer services have turned out to be the internet phenomenon that nobody can monetise profitably. The first was Napster (which could have generated huge revenues, if only the record companies had let it). The next was the music-sharing system KaZaA, made useful by Skype founder Niklas Zennstrom; that got sued to oblivion. (Zennstrom had sold out by then.) Then there was Joost, a P2P TV service – Zennstrom's work again. It submerged.So what then is Skype? It's a trophy. But Microsoft would be wise not to think it's won the match. The most interesting thing will be Google's reaction: it has its own VoIP service, Google Talk, and we'll know whether it thought Skype was a clever acquisition from what it says in the next few days. The numbers, though, suggest that Steve Ballmer has made headlines, but it's not going to help the stock. And isn't that what you're meant to spend your stockholders' money on – not trophies?
Google will unveil details of its long-awaited music service on Tuesday in the battle with Amazon and Apple for the next generation of portable listening.The cloud-based music player will allow users to upload and store their music on the internet and listen to it on Android phones or tablets and computers.A Google spokesman said: "We plan to announce Music Beta by Google at our Google I/O developer conference. Please tune in toGoogle I/O Liveon Tuesday and Wednesday for more details on all the news."It is similar to a"digital music locker" service launched by Amazon, the Amazon Cloud Player, in March, and will rival Apple's iTunes by giving Android users an easy way to store and listen to their music collections.But Google, like Amazon, is not thought to have done any deals with major record labels, offering a streaming listening service rather than one in which users can share songs or download the files themselves."A couple of major labels were not as collaborative and frankly were demanding a set of business terms that were unreasonable and did not allow us to build a product or a business on a sustainable business," Jamie Rosenberg, director for digital content for Android,told the New York Times."So we're not necessarily relying on the partnerships that have proven difficult."Rosenberg said Google hoped to continue negotiating with record labels to extend the offering, such as a music store that sells songs or a service that suggests new music to listeners.Apple is widely expected to introduce some form of music streaming service in the near futurefollowing its purchase of digital music provider Lala last year, and has the advantage of an existing relationship with labels through iTunes.Rosenberg described the Google service as "really a personal storage service in the same way that you would put songs on an iPad or you would put songs on a backup hard drive, so this service does not involve licences for the music industry".
YouTube has confirmedplans to expand its movie-rental service, with 3,000 new films including The King's Speech and Inception, in a direct challenge to Netflix and Apple's iTunes.The Google-owned video-sharing website has signed deals with Hollywood studios Warner Bros, Sony Pictures, Universal and Lionsgate. The new premium video-on-demand (VoD) service will only be available in the US initially.More than 3,000 classic and recent blockbusters, including Scarface and Taxi Driver, will be available under the plans, as YouTube steps up its challenge to the leading US VoD sites, Netflix and Hulu. Most movies will be available to stream for $2.99 each (£1.82). Paramount, Fox and Disney have not yet committed to the deal.YouTube recently stepped up its two-pronged assault on the premium VoD market in an attempt to position itself strongly to take advantage of the rise of internet-connected TV.The video site, made popular by its vast library of shortform, amateur video content uploaded by users, has hired big-name media executives in a bid to woo Hollywood. YouTube has also invested tens of millions of dollars in professionally produced original programming, which is cheaper than signing international licensing deals with film majors.Salar Kamangar, the head of YouTube, announced the plans on Monday evening. "Six years ago, when YouTube first arrived, you'd have to go from TV to laptop, desk to couch, or platform to platform, to do all this," he said."Six years ago, there were also two types of video: video you watched on your TV, and video you watched on your laptop. Today there's increasingly just video, and it's available everywhere: on a phone, a tablet, a laptop or a television screen, in your office, on your couch, in a cab."He added: "While six years ago you had to move device, room and platform to get all the video that matters most to you, today you can find it all on YouTube."By expanding our content partnerships worldwide and stimulating the success of budding filmmakers, artists and entrepreneurs, we'll ensure that YouTube remains the best place for the world to see and discover rich talent. So stay tuned – there's much more to come."Although YouTube began hosting full-length free movies in 2009, it has been sluggish at reinventing itself as internet-connected TVs and rival VoD services such as Netflix grew in popularity.In the US, Netflix dominates the nascent online movie streaming market. With 23.6 million subscribers, the US-only site now commands as many eyeballs as Comcast, the largest cable operator in the US. Apple's iTunes, meanwhile, offers a formidable roster of new releases to download and to rent online.Netflix has vowed to spend handsomely on its TV and movie library. The California-based site is also readying its push outside the US, with dealsreportedlyclose in Latin America.
A burst of 12 apps for your considerationBuzzsawAutodesk hasn't always been Apple's best friend in terms of software support, but it's firmly on the iOS bandwagon now. Buzzsaw ties into its collaboration software of the same name, enabling users to access their building project information, while also uploading project photos.Green FarmGreen Farm started life as a Facebook game from mobile publisher Gameloft, heavily inspired by Zynga's FarmVille. Now it's made the leap back to iPhone and iPad.MolomeMolome is, essentially, Instagram for Nokia smartphones. Just released on the Ovi Store, it offers a mixture of social sharing and visual filters for a user's cameraphone snaps.TeeVlog for iPadToday's new social TV app is called TeeVlog and comes from developer Intenuum. The free app promises 'an EPG based semantic search engine' for content relating to TV shows and stars, pulling in articles, images and video clips as well as Facebook and Twitter updates.Super 8The latest iPhone manipulation app is Super 8, which promises to turn Apple's devices into emulated Super 8 video cameras. There are seven lens effects, three animated filters, and the free app is the work of movie studio subsidiary Paramount Digital Entertainment.Manchester United: For Everymanc a ReligionThis impressive unofficial fan app for Manchester United arrives as the club makes its push for the Premiership and Champions League double, promising crowd chants, wallpapers, news and videos.Adobe Color Lava for PhotoshopThe third of Adobe's Photoshop iPad apps today lets users 'dab, swirl, mix' custom colours and themes on their iPad for use in Photoshop CS5 on the desktop.Adobe Nav for PhotoshopAnother Adobe Photoshop app for iPad, this effectively turns the tablet into a controller for Photoshop CS5 on the desktop, activating tools and browsing/selecting open documents.Adobe Eazel for PhotoshopOne of three Adobe apps to be released for iPad today, this lets users create paintings using their fingers, and then send them wirelessly to Photoshop CS5 on their computer.Elmer's Special DayOcenhouse Media is best known for its Dr Seuss apps, but Elmer's Special Day focuses on a different children's book brand – Elmer the patchwork elephant.Space Cadet: PedometerSpace Cadet might not look like great shakes as a game, but it has one innovative feature – its built-in pedometer. That means players level up their character by walking around in the real world.Qualcomm ARThis tech demo for Android smartphones shows off Qualcomm's QCAR augmented reality market tracker software plugin for the Unity3D game engine.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Microsoft is Buying Skype for $8 Billion &gt;&gt; Giga OmOm Malik on why Microsoft would buy Skype: "Skype gives Microsoft a boost in the enterprise collaboration market, thanks to Skype's voice, video and sharing capabilities, especially when competing with Cisco and Google. It gives Microsoft a working relationship with carriers, many of them looking to partner with Skype as they start to transition to LTE-based networks. It would give them a must-have application/service that can help with the adoption of the future versions of Windows Mobile operating system. However, the biggest reason for Microsoft to buy Skype is Windows Phone 7 (Mobile OS) and Nokia. The software giant needs a competitive offering to Google Voice and Apple's emerging communication platform, Facetime."Apple, please hire this man and implement his iOS notifications already [video] &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebAndroid is presently streets ahead, but this is a great idea.If you started today, you would never build what we've got. You would build Alphagov &gt;&gt; Neil Williams"We're mere days away from the big reveal of Alphagov, the prototype 'single domain' website which will set a challenging vision of what a unified, user-focused front end to UK government could look like."I've been relatively close to the project, from unofficial chats with project lead Tom Loosemore and others in dingy Lambeth North pubs before the thing had a name, to more formal advice lately on how Departments do their digital communications - and how Alphagov could help them do it better. (Though if I'm honest, an index card saying "F*** IE6" is the contribution I'm proudest of)."Without giving the game away too much, here's a taste of what's coming to a browser near you soon, and some speculation on the stir it will surely cause."Read on...INCEPTION_FOLDER &gt;&gt; VimeoMight not help you understand the film. Then again, it might.Microsoft Announces Windows Azure Toolkits for iOS, Android and Windows Phone - The Official Microsoft Blog - News and Perspectives from Microsoft &gt;&gt; Official Microsoft blog"Today, Microsoft announced Windows Azure Toolkits for Devices, consisting of assets for Windows Phone, iOS and a preview of tools for Android."Using the toolkits, developers can use the cloud to accelerate the creation of applications on the major mobile platforms. Companies, including Groupon, are taking advantage to create a unified approach to cloud-to-mobile user experience."That's right - Microsoft cloud tools for Android.10 Major Apple iTunes Annoyances &gt;&gt; PCWorldCan't speak to the performance on Windows (some people in the comments say it's fine, others don't) but some of the 'annoyances' seem to rank so low it's puzzling. Syncing automatically is more annoying than drag and drop? You can't delete a file in a 'smart playlist' (which is essentially a list of symlinks, so - obviously)?AnonOps Announcement &gt;&gt; Opanonymous"We regret to inform you today that our network has been compromised by a former IRC-operator and fellow helper named 'Ryan'. He decided that he didn't like the leaderless command structure that AnonOps Network Admins use. So he organised a coup d'etat, with his 'friends' at skidsr.us . Using the networks service bot 'Zalgo' he scavenged the IP's and passwords of all the network servers (including the hub) and then systematically aimed denial of service attacks at them (which is why the network has been unstable for the past week)."We are Legion. And divided.Google I/O 2011: Google doesn't get gadgets &gt;&gt; CNN Money"Google has a habit of approaching gadgets with a software-maker's mindset. It likes to launch not-quite-ready projects and then quickly improve them on the fly."That works just fine on the Web. No one's paying for Google Voice, Google Maps or Gmail, so Google can release those applications and tweak them without many complaints from users."But when you're paying $600 for a Google TV, $200 for an Android phone or $800 for an Android tablet, you're going to want those things to work perfectly. That's just not how Google operates."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Microsoft is reported to have closed a $8.5bn (£5bn) deal for the internet phone service Skype, in a deal that has shocked analysts who think it would be a substantial overpayment for the company.The acquisition, which is expected to be announced on Tuesday, would be Microsoft's biggest, ahead the  $6bn  it paid for online advertising company aQuantive in 2007, and would bring it 660 million users worldwide while giving it a foothold in voice and video communications. Analysts suggested  the service could be integrated into existing Microsoft products such as its Xbox 360 games console and Kinect gaming systems, or even into its flagship Office product to let users collaborate more effectively.Speculation has been rife in Silicon Valley for months about Skype's future. Rumours last week suggested  Facebook, Google or Cisco Systems were interested in acquiring it to fold into their own services. Tony Bates, the  chief executive hired from Cisco last year, has reportedly been exploring the idea of joint ventures or a sale to Google and Facebook.News of the deal and Microsoft's interest in Skype was first reported by the Wall Street Journal online and the technology site GigaOM.Analysts have broadly favoured the idea of the deal, but questioned whether it could ever be worth the price. Skype was bought by eBay for $2.6bn in 2005: at the time people suggested  its services could be incorporated into auctions so that bidders or sellers could call each other ahead of their close. But the synergistic ideas never materialised, and eBay wrote down Skype's value by $1.4bn, before selling off a 70% stake at the end of 2007. Ironically, the suggested price would make its 30% stake worth $2.4bn – effectively making money on the deal long-term.Skype has debt of $686m, which Microsoft would assume in the purchase.Microsoft's online efforts have been staggering loss-makers over the past few years. Its online service division, which includes its Bing search engine, has lost $8bn over the past six years, and has not been profitable since the end of 2005.Google previously looked at purchasing Skype in 2005, but decided against it because of questions over patent ownership – essential patents for the service are owned by a company linked to Skype's founders – and doubts about integration into its own offerings.Microsoft already has a voice-over-internet offering, called Lync, which combines email, instant messaging and voice communications into a single program. That is run by its huge Office division, one of Microsoft's two biggest profit centres along with the Windows division.While Skype has a name among consumers, it has barely bumped along on profitability. With 663 million registered users, most of its services are free, using internet connections for make calls between computers or in some cases internet-enabled phones. It makes revenues on voicemail services and calls to physical landlines or mobile numbers.In 2010 it recorded a loss of $7m on revenues of $859.8m, and there has been little sign that it will gain traction there.Mobile carriers tend to see Skype as a threat to their own services, because it allows people to make calls for free via data links rather than over voice connections, and have been reluctant to route its traffic. Though Microsoft is keen to push its Windows Phone mobile operating system, it is not clear whether it could keep carriers sweet while incorporating that.Microsoft rarely makes large purchases, preferring to buy smaller startups. It made an ill-fated $48bn bid for Yahoo in January 2008, which was opposed and fell apart. Since then Yahoo's value has halved and Microsoft has taken over its search business, but in their latest quarterly results the companies revealed that integration had been more difficult than they expected. In 2004 it also explored a takeover of the corporate integration software company SAP for $50bn, but that too stalled.
Why, here comes Tuesday!
In a world where first-person shooter titles are seeing their campaign modes paired down in favour of robust multiplayer modes, it's worth remembering there are quite a few players out there who don't have much use for online play. It may seem strange, but it's a fact nonetheless.Perhaps these players prize the single-player experience over everything. Maybe, for them, the story underpinning the FPS action is the main draw. Or it could be that they fear that if they sign up for online play, it will slowly take over their lives.Whatever their reasons, I would advise any players without access to Xbox Live (or PSN or the internet), or who don't like playing in online multiplayer modes, to be wary of Brink. There is a single-player experience in the game and there's oodles of content for lone players to get stuck into. But like Valve's wonderful zombie-shooter, Left 4 Dead, Brink's campaign is its multiplayer mode and as such, it's best experienced when played online with friends.The game's story is set in a future world where rising sea-levels have forced mankind to retreat to a giant floating metropolis called The Ark. Over time, divisions have emerged in society with The Ark's poorer folk becoming increasingly unsettled with their lot, and desiring to leave in search of something better. As this would mean The Ark would lose large chunks of its workforce, the powers-that-be have taken a dim view of these plans, and have had their security forces clamp down hard on troublemakers. This, in turn, has sparked a full scale rebellion with those wishing to leave The Ark arming themselves and waging a guerilla war against the city's security forces.The story itself is quite lightweight and exists mainly to complement the level design in the campaign. However, the writers have pulled off a neat trick by deliberately muddying the moral waters in Brink. The authorities maybe dictatorial but they believe they're safeguarding humanity. The rebels are demanding liberty or death, but there's no guarantee their freedom will lead them to a better place. Neither side comes across as overtly in the right (or in the wrong), and so the player's choice at the beginning of the game doesn't necessarily put them on the side of good or evil.Brink starts with the player picking a faction and then customising their character. They can then head into the Freeplay, Challenges or Campaign modes. If they choose the third option, they'll begin working their way through the missions on each side. Each mission contains multiple objectives and a time limit in which to accomplish them.Players can change their weapons load-out at Command Points that their team has taken charge of.  They also pick a class from a list which includes Soldier, Engineer, Medic and Operative. Soldiers can resupply teammates with ammunition and place bombs on targets. Medics can heal other players and buff their health levels. Engineers dismantle bombs and buff equipment. Operatives can hack safes and disguise themselves as enemy soldiers. Each class also has an array of unlockable abilities; Engineers can earn the ability to deploy machine gun turrets, for example, while Operatives can hack turrets and firewall Command Points. Every mission will call upon the skills of some – if not all of the different player classes, so it's handy that players can switch their class on the fly at Command Points in their team's possession. They can also capture Command Points off the opposing team.The game's controls are fairly standard for an FPS, with a couple of notable exceptions. First, by tapping the left bumper, players can activate the game's SMART (Smooth Movement Across Random Terrain) System. This is essentially a free-run mode which allows their character to sprint, leap over obstacles, slide under barriers and climb up structures in the environment. This freedom of movement is one of the game's highlights and its a testament to the skill of the developers that they've managed to include a parkour element in their game which is in no way clunky or obstructive to play. Second, they can use a wheel menu to check on objectives and targets.The game is geared towards forcing players to work as a team in order to succeed. Players earn more XP for kills and completing missions, but they also reap the rewards of performing duties in accordance with their class. For example, soldiers earn XP by passing out ammo, while Engineers earn XP by buffing their teammates' ordinance and handing out kevlar vests. As the XP mounts up, players gain access to Brink's huge amount of unlockables. Beyond the usual FPS fare, such as new weapons and new abilities, Brink also offers audio logs giving the backstory of the game's plot and skins, tattoos, clothes and other accessories for the player's character. It also offers different types of body size – light, medium and heavy – which affect the character's movement and ability to soak up damage. It has to be said that the level to which players can design and customise their characters actually borders on fetishistic.Beyond the campaign, players can pick from a couple of modes which include Freeplay and Challenges. In Freeplay they can choose between public or private matches (which allow solo play) and customise the match in terms of maps, objectives and the skill-level of players they'll end up facing. The Challenges range from Tower Defence, to Parkour, to Escort missions. There's also a Challenge involving the team providing covering fire for one member as they carry out an assortment of objectives.Brink deserves to be ranked among the finest co-op games available. As a multiplayer experience, it is exquisite. But as mentioned earlier, it falters if played solo. While all the modes can be played in single-player, the bots that act as stand-ins for other players are a poor replacement. It certainly isn't the case that gamers who buy Brink will feel ripped off if they don't have access to their console's (or PC's) online network. But until you've fought both with and against living opponents in Brink, you have yet to sample the best of what it has to offer.• Reviewed on Xbox 360
An extraordinary picture of life within Apple, in which Steve Jobs is trying to create a "university" to teach incomers how the business makes decisions, keeps a "top 100" coterie who are told key decisions ahead of time and bawls out entire teams for failures emerges from an article published in Fortune this week.The article (which is not yet online) indicates that Apple is driven by Jobs's personality: "the creative process at Apple is one of constantly preparing someone - be it one's boss, boss's boss, or oneself - for a presentation to Jobs," writes Adam Lashinsky, who calls him "a corporate dictator who makes every critical decision - and oddles of seemingly noncritical calls too".One key element of the company that had not previously been disclosed is the existence of a "Top 100", not necessarily based on seniority, who gather every year for a three-day session at a sequestered location - one without a golf course, at Jobs's insistence. Attendees are discouraged from marking the dates on their calendar or discussing it. They get to see super-secret new products before anyone else; the iPod, unveiled ten years ago, was first shown off at one such meet.But Apple also runs an extremely tight ship, with tiny product groups; just two engineers were given the task of writing the code to convert the Safari browser to run on the iPad, a task that on its face seems like a huge undertaking that other companies such as Microsoft or Google might have devoted dozens of people to.Jobs's reputation as a manager who takes no prisoners is reinforced with an anecdote from the time in 2008 when the relaunched MobileMe cloud service had significant outages. Jobs called the MobileMe team together to the Town Hall Auditorium on the campus. "Can anyone tell me what MobileMe is meant to do?" Jobs began. On getting a response describing it, he replied: "So why the fuck doesn't it do that?" A 30-minute tirade followed - and a new person was put in overall charge of the group. (Many of the developers left the group soon afterwards.)Despite being on medical leave from the company, Jobs personally took charge of Apple's response to "Locationgate", over therevelation that iPhones and iPads retained a file which could effectively track the owner's movements.The article is presently only available as apaid download via the Fortune app on Apple's iTunes Store, or as anAmazon "single" costing 69 pence to be released on 10 May- though it will be published in full for free access online in time.The thinking behind that paywalled-for-a-period strategy is worth examining: Dan Roth, managing editor of Fortune Digital,told Peter Kafka at AllThingsDthat "We're trying to figure out the best way of releasing journalism online" - which means trying to monetise a high-interest story by keeping it paid-for over a limited period. Previously it couldn't do this, but now that it can offer the iPad app to print subscribers for free (following a deal made with Apple), it can."There was this feeling that we're sort of pissing off our subscribers," by publishing the magazine's best stories on the Web, often before paying customers got their hands on them, [Roth] says. "The problem was there wasn't anything we could have offered them before."The article is fascinating, with in-depth analysis of Apple's working based on dozens of interviews. A teaser post ("6 things I never knew about Apple") from Philip Elmer-DeWitt on Friday led to a burst of interest that has seen the article being written about repeatedly, despite not being online.Other information revealed in the article includes:• Every Monday the executive team holds a meeting which reviews the entire business progress and products under development - in which 80% will be unchanged from the previous week• Every Wednesday Jobs or Tim Cook, the chief operating officer, chairs a marketing and communications meeting• Responsibility is taken seriously: Jobs tells anyone who becomes one of the 70-odd vice-presidents in the company that there is no acceptable excuse for not getting things done; he contrasts that with a janitor who might not be able to get access to a key to unlock a door for work.• every executive action, product or project has a "DRI" - directly responsible individual - who carries the can (or laurels) for its outcome.• only the chief financial officer is reponsible for costs and expenses that translate into profit and loss; Jobs reckons that Sony, for example, has too many divisions to create a viable iPod, iPad or iPhone competitor - a view paraphrased as "it's not synergy that makes [Apple] work, it's that we're a unified team."• the "Jobs culture" extends through the company; everyone is meant to know what Jobs would think, so that they can do it without reference• Jobs wants to institutionalise his way of running and driving the business, and to that end has created an "Apple university" inside the company - for which he hired an academic, Joel Podolny, from Yale Management School in 2008. Commenting on the details in the article, Horace Dediu noted: "Podolny has been building an understanding of how Apple is run. He's then been asked to codify this understanding into a curriculum that can be taught to Apple employees."• Sometimes, the company spares no expense: it got the London Symphony Orchestra to record some samples used in its iMovie movie-making software; it sent a camera crew to Hawaii to film a wedding for a demo video, and then staged one in San Francisco using its own staff as guests, groom and wife• Walt Mossberg, the veteran computer writer and reviewer at the Wall Street Journal, is referred to by Jobs as "our friend" who was "no longer writing good things about us" after the MobileMe debacle.Comment:the question that many companies ask is: how could we get as profitable as Apple? How could we get as big as Apple? And how could we get as nimble as Apple (which has grown roughly 60% of its multi-billion-dollar revenues from two products, the iPhone and iPad, that it only started selling less than four years ago)?It seems like the answer might be: structure yourself more like Apple. The problem with companies that grow bigger is that they lose the ability to move like a startup. Apple, it must be said, has probably undergone every incarnation a company can - startup, successful ingenue, mismanaged flop, basket case, imminent bankrupt, recovery prospect, surprise hit, behemoth. It might be that some sort of business Darwinism has been going on inside it. But in that case, it's even more useful for business people to know how it works - so they can reach the final point without dicing with the "bankrupt" stage.
A lot has changed since the early 1990s. Barings Bank no longer exists, Macaulay Culkin no longer makes Home Alone films, and BBC1 has stopped screening Eldorado. And yet, two decades later, you might be excused for thinking the beat-em-up market has not moved on at all. Then, just as now, a Street Fighter title took the world by storm, before Mortal Kombat muscled on to the scene, quickly securing its own dedicated following with a winning mix of accessible gameplay and comedic gore.Restoring both of the above qualities to a series that, while hardly plumbing the depths, had perhaps lost sight of those core values, was very clearly a central aim for NetherRealms Studios with this latest "reboot". Its decision to return to a strictly 2D fighting plane and to strip back the control system – with one button corresponding to each limb and another used for all throws – have restored a satisfyingly simplistic arcade feel. As for the gore, suffice to say there's no guarantee your fighter will be hanging on to each of those limbs you were controlling.If the cartoon violence of the original Mortal Kombat was considered too graphic at the time by Nintendo, who insisted on toning down the levels of blood for the console release, then even the odd hardened gamer might wince at some of the action on show here. The fatalities are preposterously gruesome, with opponents sliced, diced and skinned; their body parts and internal organs held up proudly by the winning character like a cat might show off a caught mouse.They are also, of course, immensely satisfying to pull off, requiring some manual dexterity, even if not as much as in some previous titles. Rather less challenging to achieve are the marginally less brutal X-ray moves, which show off your opponents' skeleton and internal organs as you pound them to a pulp.Throughout each fight a power bar on the bottom of the screen is charged up as you take damage or perform special moves. Depending how much power you have, this can be unleashed to add damage to a regular special move or to break an opponent's combo, or – only once the bar is full – to deploy an X-ray move. It is usually worth holding out for, since the attacks – deployed by simply pressing two buttons at the same time – are devastatingly powerful, though they can still be blocked or dodged.These moves are a neat addition, and the game generally plays at a satisfyingly fast pace. Regular special moves are also relatively easy to achieve, making the game accessible for newcomers – a key attribute for a game that, like most in this genre, is best enjoyed with a group of friends. A nice variety of multiplayer modes are available too, from standard one-on-one modes, to tag-team fights – which in turn allow for a co-operative Ladder mode – and various different tournament possibilities online.Nor is the lone gamer neglected. Story mode plays out like a film (albeit a fairly awful one, very much in-keeping with the style of the 1995Paul Anderson movie), steering you through a series of fights broken up by cut scenes that regrettably can't be skipped. Challenge mode takes you through a series of more innovative tests, such as pulling off certain moves within a time limit, while ladder mode simply pits you against 10 opponents, one after the other.In all of these modes, success is rewarded with Koins, which can be spent to unlock features in the Krypt (can you see what they've done there?). Frustratingly, though, you cannot see what feature you are paying for until after you have bought it – meaning that all your hard work will often wind up buying you a rubbish extra music track instead of something rather more exciting, like a new fatality.Still, as gripes go that's pretty minor. There will be those who see flaws or reasons to compare Mortal Kombat unfavourably with the most recent Street Fighter iteration. The rest of us can get back to enjoying both.• Reviewed on Xbox 360
LinkedIn, the social network for business professionals, is to float on the New York stock exchange with an offer that could value the nine-year-old website at more than $3bn (£1.8bn).LinkedIn, which has about 100 million users and turned a profit of $15.4m on revenues of $243m in 2010, expects to raise about $146m with its keenly anticipated flotation later this year.It will become the first major social network in the west to go public, following the Chinese network Renrenwhich said in the first week of May it will raise $743m in a flotation on the New York stock exchange. Though others are larger, notably Facebook with around 700 million users worldwide, the business orientation of LinkedIn's members make them potentially more valuable to advertisers because of their influence and power.The company will offer 7.8m shares priced at $32-$35 each – the top of its expected price range.LinkedIn was expected to start a social media goldrush when itannounced plansto go public in January. The social network is among a cluster of highly valued internet sites – including Skype, Groupon, and Zynga – anticipated to fetch huge sums with flotations in the next 12 months.Reid Hoffman, the co-founder and chairman of LinkedIn, will join the company's other shareholders, Bain Capital, Goldman Sachs and McGraw-Hill, in selling  3m shares in the public offering. LinkedIn will offer a further 4.8m shares.Major investors Sequoia Capital, Greylock Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners, which together own about two-fifths of the company, will not be participating in the IPO.Unlike more mainstream ad-supported social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, LinkedIn has a "freemium" commercial model, offering premium services to paying customers, while basic features and registration are free.According to its IPO prospectusfiled in January, revenue from paying users fell to 27% of overall revenues for the first nine months of last year, down from 41% in the previous year. Job listings and recruitment contributed 41% of net revenue in the same period, up from 29%. Advertising revenue remained steady at 32%.Morgan Stanley, Bank of America and JP Morgan are LinkedIn's three lead advisers.
After the slight disappointment of Lego Star Wars III: Clone Wars, the brick people (and Traveller's Tales) bounce back in some style. There is arguably one small flaw, which is: a) perhaps a very personal one; and b) probably the same reason that Clone Wars underwhelmed – a lack of familiarity with the source material.There are, no doubt, people who remember every nuance of everything  George Lucas has ever written. There are also, one assumes, people who can remember every twist in the increasingly drawn–out Pirates of the Caribbean series, all four of which appear here. But show me a person who watched the third Pirates movie more than once and I'll show you someone with way too much time on their hands.Regardless, launched to coincide with the release of the fourth movie, Lego Pirates... is a more-encouraging-than-usual take on the film tie-in. It's just that you won't necessarily understand (or remember) the plot details of any of the films from the cut scenes here. That said, they're generally colourful and witty, and aren't massively essential in order to still enjoy the puzzle-solving/scenery destroying pleasures of the game itself.Complete one level of the first game – Curse of the Black Pearl – and you'll unlock the other three titles: Dead Man's Chest, At World's End and the new one, On Stranger Tides. Complete all of these and you'll still only be around 50% of the way through the game.As with previous Lego titles, the main appeal is to the "completist" – those willing to go back and explore the huge amount of unlockable content in order to complete all the side challenges and find every collectible. The usual Lego rules apply, such as silver objects needing an explosive weapon to get through them. That's relatively easy to obtain. You'll have to wait until the end of On Stranger Tides, however, to get a siren (whose voice can break glass) and beyond that before you get Blackbeard's sword and the ability to open yet more areas and content.Puzzles are possibly more challenging than before, which may frustrate the younger player, but the scenery and visuals are much improved, gameplay is varied, the two-player option is superb and the expected humour and neatly observed character detail are as good as ever.Captain Jack Sparrow sounds and moves like Johnny Depp – a remarkable achievement from a brick avatar that never forms a real word – and throwaway gags abound (the miniscule Tom Hollander/Cutler Beckett character is particularly funny). It's not their best film-themed moment, but Lego Pirates of the Caribbean is still a hugely enjoyable, family-pleasing diversion.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
When iPad music appPlanetarylaunched in early May, it quickly caused a buzz among app developers and music fans. Developed by San Francisco firm Bloom Studio, it turns users' music collection into a 3D universe where every planet is an album.These kinds of 3D user interfaces can be controversial – insert your own argument about a simple list being a better way of navigating a digital music collection here – but Bloom chief technology officer Tom Carden says it adds an important element of fun."The music library is one of those things that pretty much everyone with an Apple device has access to, even if they don't think of it as a data set like we do," he says."It's personal, relevant, interesting but unfortunately only served up by a single app – and that app is no fun! We want to apply rich graphical views, of the kind that currently power games, to data sets like this one that people are already familiar with, and surprise and delight them with what they can find."Part of the inspiration for Planetary came from Bloom creative director Robert Hodgin's enthusiasm for astronomy, with the team poring over images of Saturn from Nasa's Cassini mission during the development process – Carden citesthis Vimeo videoas an example."Nasa has very permissive licensing policies around its images, so we can use the real stuff as inspiration in our work," he explains.Since Planetary's launch on 2 May, Bloom has been receiving plenty of emails from users with feature requests, including "more fun" shuffle modes and better playlist support, as well as wireless video output – currently, the app requires Apple's HDMI accessory to be used with an HDTV or projector."We've been thinking about ways to connect Planetary to streaming music services too, something that also opens up the potential for interesting social and sharing features in future," says Carden. Just this weekend, US streaming music service Rdio launched itsMobile Playback APIfor iOS and Android, which could be used for exactly that purpose.Bloom is looking beyond music, though. "Planetary itself is a great example of a visualisation metaphor that could easily support many different types of data; anything that's a hierarchical or tree structure, to be technical about it," says Carden. "You could imagine a similar environment that depicts your family tree or your file system from a service such as Dropbox, for example."Planetary's own App Store listing promises "an ongoing stream of apps that let you explore and participate in social networks, video streaming services, and location-based applications in a whole new way" in the coming months, whileBloom's websitenames Facebook, Twitter and Instagram alongside iTunes as services it's working with.More generally, Carden says tablets such as the iPad are sparking plenty of ideas, thanks to the way they increasingly act as the hub for people's home media consumption. In Apple's case, this happens through features and apps like Home Sharing, Remote and AirPlay, although most of the company's rivals are working on their own equivalents."It doesn't matter where the music is or where the music plays: the iPad is at the centre of it all," says Carden. "We think that these discoverable services and ad-hoc control interfaces are really fertile ground for exploration – it's especially exciting to see what the electronic music community is doing around network protocols, displays and touch interfaces. Stuff that was only in research labs a few years ago is commonplace in studios now."
Sorry, sorry, sorry! Chatterbox is late again, but is now programmed in to start at 7:30am every day this week! Apart from today...
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 7 MayPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (3)Zumba Fitness (3+)Wii (85)Xbox 360 (10)PS3 (5)62 (1)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (33)PC (10)33 (2)Mortal Kombat(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)34 (5)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (24)Wii (6)PC (3)255 (6)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (22)Wii (22)DS (17)76 (7)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (21)DS (9)PSP (8)327 (4)Operation Flashpoint: Red River(15+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (35)38 (8)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)719 (12)Pokemon Black Version(3+)DS (100)1010 (10)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)30UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A burst of 6 apps for your considerationSan Francisco SymphonyThe San Francisco Symphony has launched its official app, developed for it by startup CloudTix. As the name implies, ticketing is the key feature, with a focus on discounts and promotions, and Facebook invites for friends.Leslie West – String Bend'aLeslie who? The main-man from rawk legends Mountain, of course. He's now got his own-brand Guitar Hero-style game for iPhone and iPad, which includes three tracks to tap along to: Mississippi Queen, a cover of House of the Rising Sun, and new song Mud Flap Mama.HeyzapThe Heyzap mobile game discovery service has already been a hit on Android, and this weekend its iPhone app went live too. It invites users to check in to their favourite games, see what friends are playing, and unlock Foursquare-style badges. Gamification of games? Don't laugh...Vodafone McClaren Mercedes 2011The official McLaren Mercedes app for this year's Formula 1 season is live for Android and iPhone, offering news, race info, tweets and live telemetry, along with video content.Bean Bag Kids Present: Little Red Riding HoodiPad book-apps based on fairy tales are 10-a-penny, but Mundomono's take on Little Red Riding Hood looks to have bags of (slightly LittleBigPlanet) style, using a 3D gaming engine to present the story.LOGORemember programming language LOGO? There's an iPad app for that. Developed by Emmanuel Crombez, for now it doesn't appear to come with its own turtle accessory.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's Odd Couple &gt;&gt; Vanity FairFascinating extract from Paul Allen's book Idea Man about the very early days of Microsoft (as it wasn't yet known): paper tape and 7168 bytes (yes, bytes) of memory. Go code.Apple iPad, Pages and Microsoft SharePoint - it works &gt;&gt; Tim AndersoniPad and Sharepoint in a (directory) tree, k-i-s-s-i-n-g.Never Mind the Featurephone, Here Comes the FeatureTablet. &gt;&gt; ZDNetThe Kindle, the Nook - they're the equivalent of those clunky phones that just make calls and send texts. It's an argument.The rise of tablet computers &gt;&gt; latimes.com"'What the tablet did was completely cannibalize the netbook,' said Michael Hurlston, a senior vice president at Broadcom Corp., the Irvine company that supplies microchips to many of the largest computer and tablet manufacturers, including Apple."Hurlston noted that sales of tablets were growing nearly three times as fast as those of laptops."Analysts predict that worldwide, manufacturers will sell 50m tablets this year, up from 19m in 2010. In 2012, that number is projected to hit 100m."Laptop sales, with 230m units expected this year, still dominate globally, but in the United States they are expected to be leapfrogged by tablets much the same way that laptops surpassed desktop PCs in the middle of last decade."The Phone Tipping Point: Countdown to a majority of US smartphone usersIntriguing forecast.Why Not All Earnings are Equal; Microsoft has the Wal-Mart Disease - Adam Hartung - Growth - Dealing with Market Shifts &gt;&gt; ForbesInteresting analysis of what happens to ex-growth companies, which he thinks Microsoft is: "Rarely do we see such a stark example as the shift Apple has created, and the defend &amp; extend management that has completely obsessed Microsoft in the wake of this shift. But it has happened several times. Small printing press manufacturers went bankrupt as customers shifted to xerography, and Xerox waned as customers shifted on to desktop publishing. Kodak declined as customers moved to film-less digital photography. CALMA and DEC disappeared as CAD/CAM customers shifted to PC-based Autocad. Woolworths was crushed by discount retailers like KMart and WalMart. B.Dalton and other booksellers disappeared in the market shift to Amazon.com."Difference, though: Microsoft is bigger than any of them. At one point it was the highest-valued company in the world.Motorola Xoom &gt;&gt; Philip GreenspunThis is a chip shop fight of a review: short and brutal.BlackBerry PlayBook &gt;&gt; Philip GreenspunShort and painful. Such as: "The touch interface requires training and practice. It is impossible to use the device, for example, simply by touching the backlit portion of the screen and the buttons on the side. The borders of the frame are also touch-sensitive and are required for basic operations, such as getting back to the home screen. The user swipes down, for example, to open a settings menu. If he or she swipes up, what happens? Nothing. The user is supposed to swipe down again to undo he or she just did. How it is intuitive to pull something down and have it move up, I'm not sure."Why We Need Firefox &gt;&gt; Open EnterpriseMozilla gets bolshy when the Feds come calling.Crowds, scalpers greet iPad 2 in China -&gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"As a crowd estimated by a security guard at roughly 1,000 lined up outside the flagship Beijing Apple Store on Sanlitun Road, scalpers with bags of gray market iPad 2s could be seen hawking them for 200 to 300 yuan ($30 to $45) above suggested retail prices, which start at 3688 yuan ($568)."'Stop queuing for the device! You exchange 300 yuan for five hours,' one scalper, with more than 10 iPad 2s in hand, shouted to people standing in line, according to Xinuanet news."Apple's iMac, MacBook Pro lines are SSD friendly &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMore to the point is that Sandy Bridge is very SSD-friendly, and coming to a PC near you. If you buy one. If you buy a tablet.. you get one thrown in.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Sir Howard Stringer is the Briton who chose to serve in Vietnam so he could stay in the United States, which suggests the 69-year-old is not the type to walk away from a challenge. Running Sony – the curious Simon Cowell-to-Spider-Man, Bravia-to-PlayStation entertainment complex – while spending family weekends in Oxfordshire (which is near neither Tokyo nor New York) was never going to be the easiest of businesses. Somehow, though, Stringer has muddled through – although at time he runs the company in a rather dissociative way, describing it as an operation which he presides over with curiosity rather than runs.Nothing much is easy at Sony, though – and not just because the company is in trouble amid the PlayStation Network hacking row. This is a vast conglomerate with turnover this year expected to be £54bn, which, as Charles Arthur points out on the cover, runs on tiny sub-1% margins. Any profits it makes on film and maybe music are blown away whenever the electronics business runs into trouble. Sony insists on staying in tough businesses like television manufacturing (where any rival in distress just dumps product on the market and profit is destroyed), and fails to develop its media businesses in the way that Rupert Murdoch might.Sony Pictures is the Hollywood studio that is not that big in television (compared with Disney, News Corp, which has Fox and Sky, or Viacom/Paramount/MTV). Buying the aged Millionaire franchise and loose talk of a bid for Shameless and Skins maker All3Media only underline the point. As a film-maker, Sony Pictures hangs in the middle to bottom of the Hollywood pack and apart from Spider-Man and, arguably, James Bond, lacks the Harry Potter-style franchises or the Pixar-type animations that bring in the families, the 3D premium and the big box-office revenue. The operation is hardly failing, but different owners would probably have been more aggressive.Music is also hard work, and not just because of the well-documented defeat by Apple in the portable music end of the market thanks to Sony's repeated issuing of so-so product coupled with proprietary download formats. Sony may be a firm No 2 in the business of recorded music, although its uniquely closed corporate culture makes it hard to tell (perhaps it is in recovery after the long, difficult years of the BMG joint-venture); but this is an industry perpetually in crisis – worldwide revenues down 8.4% last year, lest anybody thought that was over.The company may in effect employ Simon Cowell, although one suspects not very cheaply. But the result is that its business in the UK, for example, is highly dependent on the impresario. And Sony's complex bids (with third parties) for Warner Music suggest that this is a company that may be up for a tilt at EMI at a time when only a billionaire mate of Warner Music boss Edgar Bronfman would fancy their chances of making a financial success of recorded rock and rap.Plenty of us own a PlayStation, but decisions taken years ago by former chief Ken Kutaragi, who left the company back in 2007, mean the PS3 console is probably still not profitable now, even though unit sales are at or near a peak at 15m a year. Yes, it was the device that got Blu-ray into everybody's home, and it's a handy gadget to stream the BBC iPlayer through, but the upmarket engineering effort left the company surprisingly vulnerable to the much-more-fun Nintendo Wii. And as the rise of casual games shows, for everyone who loves Call of Duty there is someone who prefers to play Angry Birds. On an iPhone.Sony is hardly in crisis, even allowing for its short-term problems, but Stringer's Japanese-American hybrid is only rarely a market or style leader. It works, in its way, but does it work well?
If you were looking for the digital equivalent of an oil spill, hackers breaking into a company and lifting personal details of up to 100 million people would probably qualify. And so Sir Howard Stringer, the Welshman who is the first non-Japanese to lead Sony in its 65-year history, finds himself in much the same position as Tony Hayward did when the Deepwater Horizon explosion occurred. At least nobody has been killed in this event; but the news that the PlayStation Network with 77 million users and the Sony Online Entertainment Network with 25 million users have been hacked leaves Stringer struggling to apologise, and clean up the mess.There's a wider question, though: can the Sony brand ever recover its former glories? This, after all, is the company which invented the Walkman, which once dominated the games console industry with the PlayStation, which steamrollered the US TV market in the 1970s with the Trinitron.But now? If you think of music players, you think of Apple's iPod, which has dominated the digital music player market almost from its launch in October 2001; Nintendo's Wii and Microsoft's Xbox 360 both outsell the PlayStation 3; and the TV market is a vicious cost-cutting field in which margins are thinner than next year's sets and nobody stands out.Cost-cuttingSony's problem is that it's losing brand equity, which translates directly into sales, but more importantly to profits — because if you're not a brand leader, you can't charge a premium.Interbrand's 2010 reportfound it had fallen from 29th in the world to 34th, with a 5% fall in brand value. (Among electronics rivals, only the troubled mobile phone company Nokia and computer maker Dell had bigger falls.)Neil Gaught, a brand specialist and partner in consultancy firm Gaught Conlon, thinks that Sony has frittered away the brand equity it used to have; by failing to keep that emotional connection with customers, by not making products that they would really "love" (a phrase that you often hear Apple users employ), it has sacrificed itself on the altar of price competition. Not that price competition is doing it any favours. When you dig deeper, Sony's business isn't actually that healthy. Yes, it's enormous:  last year's annual revenue was ¥7.2tn (around $77.5bn) and profits ¥27bn (around $289m). But the slimness of the pre-tax margin – one third of 1% of revenue overall –  points to the difficulty it faces.The financialfigures going back to April 2001tell a story of a business that lurches annually from feast to famine, with the electronics division in particular (making items such as TVs and DVD players, but excluding the PlayStation consoles and Vaio PCs) generating about 75% of total revenues but increasingly vulnerable to the price wars.Here's the pattern: every year there is a bumper Christmas quarter (Q3 of its fiscal year), often followed by a loss-making one, and then two quarters' climb back to profit, and a bumper Christmas again. (There are also oddities in there – a financial services business, for example, which generates a tidy profit from financing and leasing Sony's professional equipment such as its professional video cameras, editing desks and PCs to businesses.)Meanwhile, the two US media businesses perform adequately. Sony's film studio – Columbia Pictures – tends to run in the middle of the pack:  the company was last No 1 in 2006. Sony has its share of hits. Last year the studio had The Social Network, this year it has The Smurfs, and, say Hollywood watchers, summer looks like a washout. Its big franchise is Spiderman, but its control of MGM (and hence James Bond) drifted when the MGM buyout that Stringer led soured. Meanwhile, a once close relationship with the German publisher Bertelsmann, owner of Random House, may have brought it Dan Brown and The Da Vinci Code, but the link to the books giant has faded amid all the troubles with the music joint venture that was Sony BMG.Harry HoudiniNeverthless, Sony Pictures will be back. Phil Contrino, the editor of BoxOffice.com, says: "It's a cyclical business, just because Sony is not in the super hero business this year doesn't mean they are in trouble." But he concedes the upcoming Sony slate may struggle to match the success of The Social Network. The studio does have an escape plan – Sony is also planning a biopic of Harry Houdini. I Am Legend and Water for Elephants director Francis Lawrence is tipped to direct. Failing that, Spiderman will soon be back in action and Sony is co-financing the next two James Bonds.Stringer has had better luck in music recently – it's not fashionable, but the chief executive is a Natasha Bedingfield fan, according to employees. A long, difficult joint venture with Bertelsmann ended with a Sony buyout, and there was even a complex, but unsuccessful, attempt to buy Warner Music last week.Music, though, remains a tough business. Sales fell 14.5% year-on-year in the last quarter as the bottom continued to fall out of the CD market. But that's an issue Sony shares with all its rivals. And, as the company adjusts to a digital future, it's proving adept at picking acts people still want to buy.In the US, the company's market share is 32%, ahead of Universal for the first time in a decade, thanks to the phenomenal success of the Glee albums, Susan Boyle, Adele and Britney Spears's comeback – but the business is heavily reliant on Simon Cowell in the UK and increasingly the US.However, with music in decline and film in a steady state, when electronics stumbles, the whole business falls flat – and that happened with the global crisis of 2008. Sony had hit its best quarterly revenue and profit of the decade in Christmas 2007. Since then, flat-screen TVs have reached saturation, personal camcorders have flattened out, and the PC business is a zero-sum game where it barely sells more than Apple (2.7m v 2.4m in the latest quarter), and the PlayStation 3, with its expensive-to-build Blu-ray laser, still isn't quite in profit.The question is, where did Sony go? Is it down to Stringer? The problem certainly existed long before he became chief executive in 2005. Ten years ago, when Apple's engineers were labouring to produce the first iPod, the fear that consumed the executives was that Sony would notice the burgeoning MP3 player market, step in, and crush all the upstarts. It had, after all, created the entire "music on the move" market with the Walkman in 1978; it had created another with the MiniDisc in the 1990s; and so, reasoned Jon Rubenstein, then Apple's head of hardware, it was only a matter of time before it did the same in this new market."We thought we would have a year's lead on Sony and everyone else," Rubenstein told Steven Levy, author of The Perfect Thing, a book about the iPod's creation and success. "We didn't figure it would be five years."How could Sony get it so wrong when it used to get it so right? Because as it's grown bigger, its "silos" have grown deeper, to Stringer's frustration. Stringer declared a desire to drive the company towards a more integrated operation. It hasn't happened. You only have to consider the breadth of products that it makes – from optic sensors for cameras to a financial services arm which finances and leases products – to realise that Sony's size is its strength and weakness.What really hobbles it is its exposure to the consumer electronics market, which it used to dominate. "If you go back 20 or 30 years, Sony 'was' consumer electronics," says Peter Shankman, a branding consultant and entrepreneur. "If you were thinking of buying TV or audio, Sony was the name you thought of. It's not that they frittered away the brand; but they didn't move as fast as other companies."The PlayStation may have used to dominate, but it was dogged by the delayed launch of the PS3. Nor have phones done well; the Sony Ericsson joint venture has seen Apple's iPhone seize all the high-paying customers, plunging it into loss.And now? Sony's standing in professional video is strong. But in PCs, TV, cameras, hi-fi and of course MP3 players it's just one of a crowd of companies jostling for attention. So where is its USP, its unique selling point?Stringer has been trying to push 3D as a unifying experience.But consumers have shown little enthusiasm for it, mainly because of the conflicting formats being offered by Sony and its rivals.Even so, the digital spill of the PSN and SOE hacks is unlikely to make a difference to gamers or buyers, says Shankman: "Mum and Dad don't read [tech news website] Mashable. And the 15-year-olds on the PSN probably used Mum and Dad's Amex. It's only if they suddenly find strange charges on their card that can be linked to Sony that there's a problem. And this couldn't have happened at a better time of year, in the sense that it's as far in both senses as possible from Christmas. Sony's stared down the bullet there."So what's next? "Never count them out," Shankman says. "All they need is one product, one hit, and they could be back.  But I'll tell you one thing, whatever that product is, it's not going to be a 52-inch TV screen."Additional reporting by Dominic Rushe in New York• This article was amended on 20 May 2011 to clarify Neil Gaught's work description.
The 76th birthday of Roger Hargreaves, the English author and illustrator who delighted generations of children with his Mr Men books, has been celebrated by the unveiling of no less than 16 Google doodles.Ranging from Mr Forgetful to Little Miss Tiny, the doodle image changes each time the page is reloaded.More than 100m books based on Hargreaves's characters have been sold worldwide in 28 countries, while five more were completed by his son Adam, but even greater world domination may yet be on the way in the form of a big screen adaptation.Twentieth Century Fox's animation department is working on the project although it is unclear whether the Little Miss characters will feature.Hargreaves's stories have been adapted into four animated television series, most recently airing in the UK on Channel 5 in 2008 and 2009. A total of 46 Mr Men and 33 Little Miss characters were created.The first of the Mr Men characters is said have been created when Adam Hargreaves asked his father what a tickle looked like.Hargreaves drew a figure with a round orange body and long, rubbery arms. Mr Tickle had been born.Adam, who has said that the simplicity of the characters was the key to their success, took over the running of the Mr Men empire after his father died of a stroke in 1988 at the age of 53.
The launch of the iPad helped Apple topple rival technology company Google in 2010 to become the world's most powerful brand, according to a survey.WPP-owned research company Millward Brown puts Apple at number one in its annual top 100 global brand power list, Brandz, up from third place in 2009, with an 84% increase in its estimated value to $153bn (£93bn). Apple ended Google's four year run at the top of the global brand power list, in a year when social media darling Facebook also made its debut in the top 100.However, the fallout of the Deepwater Horizon disaster dogged BP, which was one of the biggest fallers, down 30 places to 64th with a 27% drop in its brand value to $12bn."It is really the iPad that has driven [Apple's growing brand value], although the iPhone has continued to do magnificently too, and the development of apps," said Peter Walshe, global director of the Brandz report.Millward Brown's report, which balances brand power with financial performance, shrugged off the potential impact of Apple chief executive Steve Jobs' medical leave, instead focusing on the seemingly endless production line of must-have products Apple churns out.Walshe added that on measures examined within the report such as "desirability", Apple scores in the top 10 in the world and on a "buzz" scale – taking in mentions on blogs, message boards and tweets – it comes fourth behind Google, Facebook and Microsoft.Facebook made it onto the Millward Brown list for the first time – this is the sixth year the report has been published – having been held back in previous years by poor evidence of financial clout.The social networking service, which has attracted a valuation of $70bn and is expected to float next year, was ranked 35th with a 246% increase year-on-year in its estimated brand value from $5.5bn to $19bn. "Facebook had a staggering year," said Walshe. "Time will tell if the financial part of the estimate is stable or not."The most valuable brand in the UK was once again telecoms company Vodafone, which ranks 12th on the global list, with a value almost flat year-on-year at $43bn.Toyota, which was hammered in the 2009 Brandz report, with its brand value plummeting 28% after the mass recall of faulty cars, bounced back to be the most valuable car marque, up 11% to $24bn in 27th place.Amazon also moved up a place to 14th to pass Walmart, down two spots to 15th, and become the highest ranked retailer on the list. Amazon increased by 37% in brand value last year to $37bn. Chinese search engine Baidu rocketed 46 places to 29th with a 141% increase in brand value to $22bn.Top fallers included Nokia, which has embarked on a restructuring programme after failing to keep step with rivals Apple and Google, down 38 places to 81st with a brand value of $10.7bn, down 28% year-on-year. Nintendo dropped 47 places to 79th with a 37% fall in brand value to $11bn.TOP 10 Most Valuable Global Brands1. Apple $153bn2. Google $111bn3. IBM $100bn4. McDonald's $81bn5. Microsoft $78bn6. Coca Cola $73bn7. AT&amp;T $70bn8. Marlboro $67bn9. China Mobile $57bn10. GE $50bn
More evidence of Nokia's deepening problems have emerged, with new data showing that in the first three months of 2011 it was pushed into second place by Samsung as the biggest vendor of mobile handsets in western Europe, and overtaken by Apple for first place in the smartphone market in the region.But Android was the clear winner overall, propelling handset makers which offered it to enormous growth and leaping from fourth place last year to take the lead for smartphone OS share in the quarter. (Tables of the figures are at the end of this post.)Thedata from IDCshows Finnish handset maker Nokia's overall sales in western Europe slipping by 10% year-on-year in a market that grew by 5% to 45m handsets, with Samsung bagging the top place with 13.2m, a 29.3% share. Nokia was second with 12.6m, and Apple came third overall with its smartphone-only iPhone range, selling 4.4m. Research in Motion (RIM) and HTC had 3.5m. All except Nokia grew at least as fast as the market, with HTC tripling its sales and Apple and RIM both growing by nearly 50%.In smartphones, Apple's 4.4m sale was a 49% growth year-on-year, but in a market that grew by 76% it saw its market share eroded, from 24.6% to 20.8%. But the news was worse for Nokia which again saw a collapse in sales, down from 4.9m in the same period in 2010 to 4.2m between January and March. That meant its share fell dramatically from the market-leading 40.6% down to 19.6%. Two years ago, Nokiahada 57% share of the smartphone market. RIM and HTC were behind it with 16.5% shares, followed by Samsung.The total smartphone market in western Europecompromisedcomprised 21.2m handsets, up by 76% from the first quarter of 2010. Smartphone sales made up 47% of handset sales, compared to 28% a year earlier.Nokia has seen its market share eroded over the past few years in both smartphones and featurephones. It reached a crisis point in February when its newly appointed chief executive Stephen Elop announced that Symbian would be abandoned in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone. However phones using that OS are not expected before October. Elop said that 150m more Symbian smartphones will be sold, but it is seeing its share being eroded dramatically, especially in developed markets where it could charge a premium.In operating systems, IDC said that Android was the leading smartphone OS, with 35.7% market share.Apple's iOS is next in smartphones with a 20.8% share (excluding iPod Touch and iPads), and then Nokia's Symbian with 19.6%, and RIM with 16.5%. Last year Android was in fourth place, having just overtaken Windows Mobile - the now-defunct OS from Microsoft.It is not clear from the data what share Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 OS had; its figures would be embedded in those of Samsung, HTC and LG, and was not broken out. Microsoft has not provided any figures for activation of phones, though some estimates put it as low as 1.5m since its launch in October. Prices of Windows Phone 7 handsetshave been dropping recently, apparently as carriers and retailers try to unload stock."Companies like Nokia (and Ericsson in the past) may have strong brands and big market shares as Nokia always had, but can be overtaken by their competitors on a blink of an eye," said Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's European mobile devices research manager. "Nokia is one of the most recognized and appreciated brands in Europe, but Samsung was the one understanding the trends first and moving faster."Western Europe phone shares 1Q2011Western Europe: mobile handset salesVendor1Q11 Unit Shipments1Q11 Market Share1Q10 Unit Shipments1Q10 Market ShareYOY unit changeSamsung13.229.30%12.529.10%5%Nokia12.627.90%1432.70%-10%Apple4.49.80%36.90%49%Research in Motion3.57.80%2.45.50%48%HTC3.57.80%0.92.20%271%Others7.817.40%10.123.60%-22%Total45100%42.9100%5%Western Europe: smartphone salesVendor1Q11 Unit Shipments1Q11 Market Share1Q10 Unit Shipments1Q10 Market ShareYOY unit hangeApple4.420.80%324.60%49%Nokia4.219.60%4.940.60%-15%Research in Motion3.516.50%2.419.60%48%HTC3.516.50%0.97.80%271%Samsung2.612.10%0.32.50%744%Others314.50%0.64.90%414%Total21.2100%12.1100%76%Smartphone OS shareOSQ1 2011 shareQ1 2010 shareYOY changeAndroid35.7827.7iPhone20.824.6-3.8Symbian20.540.8-20.3RIM16.520-3.5Others6.57.6-1.1source: IDC.com
[Update: the headline of this story has been altered to stress that the posted user data is NOT from PlayStation Network.]In another difficult weekend for Sony, the company has admitted that the PlayStation Network is likely to remain switched off for several more days. It has also been forced to take action after another security breach, which saw the stolen details of 2,500 sweepstakes contestants being published on a website.In a message posted on the Sony blog on Saturday, the company stated:We're still working to confirm the security of the network infrastructure, as well as working with a variety of outside entities to confirm with them of the security of the system. Verifying the system security is vital for the process of restoration. Additional comprehensive system checks and testing are still required, and we must complete that process before bringing the systems online.PlayStation Network is the online service that lets console users take part in mutltiplayer games, as well as chat and download videos. Two weeks ago, Sony discovered that hackers had infiltrated one of the network's backend servers, potentially gaining access to the credit card details of 77 million users. At a press event in Tokyo last week, Sony Computer Entertainment CEO Kaz Hirai promised that the service would be online within six days.However, in the latest blog message, Nick Caplin, the head of communications at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe wrote, "when we held the press conference in Japan last week, based on what we knew, we expected to have the services online within a week. We were unaware of the extent of the attack on Sony Online Entertainment servers, and we are taking this opportunity to conduct further testing of the incredibly complex system."Also on Saturday,Reuters reportedthat hackers had accessed the names and partial addresses (but no credit card details) of 2500 people who entered a Sony sweepstake in 2001. When the details were discovered, Sony shutdown the website where they had been posted. "The website was out of date and inactive when discovered as part of the continued attacks on Sony," the company stated.The combined news of the delay and another set of leaked details will try the patience of PlayStation gamers who have been without the online service for 16 days. Sony has promised a 'welcome back' package, comprising of a month's membership to the premium PlayStation Plus service, as well as a selection of free games, but has provided no new timeline for a service re-start. What most gamers now want is a chance to play the the likes of Call of Duty and Killzone against their friends around the world.
They say you can never be too thin, or too rich. After reading Paul Allen's memoir, I'm not so sure – especially about the rich bit. After founding Microsoft in 1975 with his friend and schoolmate Bill Gates, Allen spent eight frenzied years building it into the corporate colossus that it is today. But then two things happened: he became ill with Hodgkin's lymphoma; and he decided that life was too short to endure the perpetual conflict that comes with working with Bill Gates. And so he quit in 1983 (having rebuffed Gates's offer to buy his Microsoft stock at a knockdown price), held on to his shares and has spent the rest of his life with his money (his net worth was $1bn in 1990 and was 13 times that in 1996).His memoir, like his life, divides neatly into two parts, of which the first is by far the most engaging. Allen and Gates were schoolmates at the exclusive private Lakeside school in Seattle. Because of the school's eccentric decision to install a terminal that was linked to a General Electric mainframe computer in a distant office, the two boys had a unique opportunity to teach themselves programming, and in relatively short order acquired more experience and expertise than most undergraduates at the time (the mid-1960s).After high school, Gates went to Harvard and Allen got a job with Honeywell in the Boston area, but their joint obsession with programming continued. In 1975, an obscure New Mexico startup launched the MITS Altair, the world's first microcomputer. The problem was that it was also the world's biggest paperweight, because there was no software for it to run. Allen and Gates set out to write a Basic interpreter for it – software that would enable the machine to run programs written in the Basic programming language – without being able to get their hands on the hardware. That they were able to do this was due to two factors: their coding ability; and the fact that Allen had created a software simulator of the Altair machine that ran on a Harvard minicomputer. As a result, they got the contract to supply Basic for the Altair, and Microsoft was&nbsp;born.There's an important lesson here that has subsequently been airbrushed out of the Microsoft legend: Allen's contributions to the partnership were as critical as Gates's. Without the tools that he developed, and his insight into the infrastructure that software development requires, Microsoft's subsequent growth would have been impossible. When the Apple II arrived on the scene, powered by a processor for which Microsoft had no software products, it was Allen who came up with the solution that enabled owners of the Apple machine to run software written for non-Apple devices – a plug-in card running the CP/M operating system. It was a masterstroke that got Microsoft out of a deepening&nbsp;hole.And it was Allen who pulled off the biggest coup of all in the company's early development. When IBM was looking for an operating system to run its new personal computer, Microsoft didn't have one; it did programming languages, not operating systems. But Allen had contacts with a tiny Seattle company that had developed a rudimentary operating system, QDOS (for "quick and dirty DOS"), and negotiated a deal to buy the rights to it, thereby enabling Microsoft to offer the increasingly frantic IBM designers a solution to their problem. The rest is history: the IBM PC became the de facto standard for a colossal industry, DOS became its operating system and Microsoft acquired a licence to print money – which it has been doing ever&nbsp;since.Allen's account of his time at Microsoft and of his complex relationship with Gates makes riveting reading. Their personalities and talents were in some ways complementary, and in other ways irreconcilable. Allen portrays himself as more laid-back – and in some ways more innocent – than Gates. He reminds us that his father was an unworldly librarian, whereas Gates's was a big-time lawyer.Allen was shocked when Gates proposed that ownership of their fledgling enterprise should be split 60/40 rather than the equal shares that Allen envisaged – and he was equally shocked later when Gates changed it to 64/36. But he went along with it. In the end, he left because he was tired of playing "Mr Slow Burn, like Walter Matthau to Bill's Jack Lemmon".After Microsoft, Allen seems to have drifted, and so does his narrative. He started a software company, bought a basketball team and then a football team, commissioned a series of inexplicably lavish yachts and made a series of eccentric and sometimes unwise investments – in AOL, Ticketmaster, cable TV and the DreamWorks movie studio, for example. He discovered, to his cost, that Hollywood's mantra is "Give us your money, and we'll introduce you to some interesting people. But we really don't want your input". He set up an institute for mapping the human brain, gave $1bn to charitable causes and played his electric guitar a lot. His memoir is that of a talented, reasonable soul who played a key role in one of the great corporate successes of the 20th century. And it leaves one with the encouraging thought that while nice guys usually finish last, they don't always finish poor.
A race is on against the fast pace of  technological change as scientists search for ways to preserve today's most innovative artworks.A team of experts is warning that some of Britain's contemporary artistic landmarks will be no more than memories within a decade unless conservationists can effectively archive digital works and stop them degrading."The threat is very real that, unless we do something, we will have a 'lost generation' in terms of our cultural heritage," said Dr David Anderson, who, together with his colleague Dr Janet Delve at the School of Creative Technologies at the University of Portsmouth, is leading efforts to save the more complex artworks of the digital age from oblivion."Past generations captured who they were and what they did via museums and books," Anderson said, "but the pace of technological development in the digital age has now outstripped our capacity for preservation."At the same time as the visual artist Hilary Lloyd is nominated for this year's Turner Prize for her inventive work in film and video, "digital preservationists" are campaigning for more shared research and have organised the first of a series of symposiums to be held at King's College London and Cambridge next month.The fast pace by which technology changes means that many of the earliest works of art created on computer are in danger of being lost, or are already impossible to read, while new interactive digital artworks, such as 3D visualisations and video games, are so complex that scientists are not yet capable of faithfully preserving them."Digital preservation is desperately important," said Anderson. "In technology little things change all the time. Over the course of a 20- or 30-year working life, the software we use is updated or made obsolete all the time, but most of us aren't really bothered by the changes. But in terms of science and art, digital preservation is increasingly important."Preserving today's works of art poses more of a challenge to science than continued efforts to restore and conserve the great oil paintings and sculptures of the past, Anderson and Delve argue.It is a problem already faced by collectors and contemporary art galleries, as formats are updated and CDs, DVDs and digital recordings degrade.Lloyd, 48, from Halifax, creates innovative work that poses typical problems for conservators. Her recent film and video footage, previously on display at the Raven Row gallery in London, was put together in a way that subverts expectations of art. A piece that initially appeared to be a still life, for example, turned out to be in perpetual motion. Projectors and monitors formed a part of the work itself."In digital art, the key is to find ways of preserving the colour and visual aspects of a piece of art. If we don't preserve the digital art made today, it could be like walking into a world-famous gallery and seeing nothing on the walls, that no art has survived some global meltdown," said Anderson.A new digital art gallery is to launch  on Monday in the centre of Cambridge. The vaulted section, set up by Anglia Ruskin University inside the Ruskin Gallery, which was opened by the art critic John Ruskin in 1858, has been fitted with cutting-edge 3D plasma screens to enable digital artists to experiment.But the preservation of this kind of work, in contrast, is still a work in progress.Dr Simon Payne, a digital video artist and senior lecturer in film and media at Anglia Ruskin University, who will be exhibiting at the gallery, points out that many contemporary artists are happy for their work to have a short lifespan, or at least can accept that its temporary nature is a key part of the experience for viewers."Some artists who make digital art that is ephemeral, who are almost like performance artists, are dedicated to the idea that it will not last."But from an academic point of view, of course, you want to be able to recreate the culture of the past and to show it to students."Payne's own work is what he describes as "perceptual", playing with what the viewer can see, such as the Op Art movement of the 60s and 70s."It is designed with the idea of creating a discrete physical effect on the viewer and for me, ideally, it should be shown in the context of a cinema, so I don't know how you would ever preserve it effectively."Ironically, an artwork made or recorded on celluloid, or even on videotape, is more likely to survive the test of time than more recent work created or archived digitally, Payne added.
A new report fromNielsen, the US media ratings firm, conveys some bad news to the broadcast TV networks. Ownership of television sets by US households has fallen for the first time in two decades.Granted, the decline – 96.7% of American households now own sets, down from 98.9% previously – may not seem very much, but there will be many in the industry who will wonder if it's the faint tremor that presages an earthquake. After all, for as long as most of us can remember, a TV set has been almost as commonplace a piece of domestic kit as a cooker. And television has been the dominant organism in our media ecosystem for just about as long.If that's changing, then it's big news and not just for the industry concerned: politics in most western&nbsp;countries is largely driven and dominated by broadcast TV too. So it's important to know if the Nielsen finding represents a blip or a&nbsp;tremor.There are arguments either way. If it's a blip, then the explanation is simple, if sad: it's a reflection of growing poverty in the US as a result of the economic downturn that has followed the banking crisis, possibly exacerbated by the switchover from analogue to digital TV. Nielsen's research suggests that the TV-less households have annual household incomes of less than $20,000 (£12,146), so it's not surprising that households like&nbsp;that find themselves unable to afford a new TV set. This happened once before, in 1992, when the percentage of US homes with a television set also declined briefly after a prolonged economic recession. But ownership bounced back as the economy recovered. Maybe that will happen again.But there are also reasons for thinking that the current decline might be a harbinger. The main one is that for younger generations ownership of a TV set is no longer seen as a badge of adulthood. The number of kids taking a receiver with them to university, for example, is now vanishingly small. And that's not just because most campuses have communal viewing facilities; it's also a reflection of the fact that while young people watch a lot of video material, they increasingly do so via a laptop (with the more affluent among them viewing via an iPad or other tablet device).So, as theNew York Timesputs it: "While Nielsen data demonstrates that consumers are viewing more video content across all platforms – rather than replacing one medium with another – a small subset of younger, urban consumers seem to be going without paid TV subscriptions for the time being. The long-term effects of this are still unclear, as it is undetermined if this is also an economic issue that will see these individuals entering the TV marketplace once they have the means or the beginning of a larger shift to online viewing."This doesn't mean that broadcast TV is finished: there are some things for which a few-to-many medium is the most appropriate (thinkX Factor, Olympics, cup finals). But it does have&nbsp;radical implications for TV networks everywhere. It means, for example, that time-shifted viewing becomes the norm.The BBC's slogan for its iPlayer service – "Making the unmissable unmissable" – says it all. Most TV networks now offer something like the iPlayer, which, in turn, has radical implications for our broadband infrastructure, which is already struggling to cope with streaming video. And that's before HD becomes ubiquitous.But it's not just the broadcast networks that are affected by the switch. The music business is also feeling the pinch. Last week, the Digital Entertainment Group, which represents film studios and consumer electronics companies, reported that US sales of new DVDs have fallen by20% in a year. Given that DVD sales used to be Hollywood's biggest revenue earner, this is startling news. What lies behind it is the same phenomenon that's affecting the TV networks – movie streaming by companies such as Netflix, which provide films on demand to their broadband subscribers.Years ago, when the battle to decide the next high-definition DVD format was being fought between the Blu-ray and HD DVD standards, Bill Gates said that we would never see another such conflict. It would be the last time that an industry would "ship atoms in order to ship bits". For once, he was right.
Darksporemay have been produced in the same EA studio as its cute predecessor,Spore, but the similarities are few and far between. DitchingSpore's evolution simulation, with its vast open world exploration and empire-building elements,Darksporeis instead a futuristic all-action RPG challenging you to hack'n'slash your way through odd-looking baddies and demanding level bosses.Playing as the Crogenitor Insurgency, a small army of hero warriors or "Living Weapons" as they become known, you're tasked with ridding the galaxy of the evil Darkspore. There are up to 100 playable heroes, which may be customised further, both in appearance and ability, with collectible body parts, armour and weapons earned throughout the game. Finally, you can lead squads of heroes into battle, enabling you to switch between them according to the abilities needed to tackle each boss.Plenty of options, then, but it can be frustrating, with play forced down a linear path making for a poor companion to lacklustre and unimaginative storytelling. However, superb graphics and the cooperative online mode rescue this otherwise pedestrian title.
Considering the unique selling point of the 3DS – 3D without special glasses – the mostly 2DSteel Diveris an oddity. Set during a 20th-century conflict resembling the second world war as imagined by someone whose knowledge of the era comes from theDad's Armyopening sequence, the game puts players in charge of one of three elite Steel Diver submarines, each vessel possessing a different manoeuvrability-to-torpedo-payload ratio, seeing both fight and flight playing styles covered.Seven side-scrolling, labyrinthine levels must be navigated by way of depth, speed and pitch levers. Mines and enemy vessels litter the seaways and mission objectives, such as breaking into an enemy base or taking out a sea monster, are applied to the tasks. At the end of each level, brief but exciting timed challenges see players taking out enemy ships in a 360-degree periscope view that makes clever use of the 3DS's gyroscope and 3D. This is an enjoyable title, but the content is painfully slight and with almost non-existent replay value, it's difficult to recommend for more than a passing rental.
As technology progresses and sports simulations strive for ever-greater degrees of verisimilitude, it's refreshing to find a game happy to stay true to its arcade roots. The over-saturated colours and crazy mini-games of theVirtua Tennisseries are all present and correct in this latest version of Sega's popular franchise, ensuring it provides a genuine alternative to the more serious-mindedTop Spin.The Career Mode for starters is a world apart from its rival. Players build their skills not through training and practice matches, but by guiding chicks to their mothers, popping balloons or trying to keep a rally going while huge fans blow violent gusts of wind across the court. Travelling between tournaments is structured like a board game; players pick from a hand of cards to move across the world map, meeting fans and purchasing fancy-dress items to compete in special matches.It's also compatible with the PlayStation Move and Kinect peripherals, though disappointingly the motion support is limited to a single mode. Here, the game adopts a first-person perspective as players swing their arms or the controller to return the ball, with movement completely automated. Sony's device offers greater precision, although the seesawing camera might leave some players with motion sickness after longer matches. As a throwaway extra, it's moderately entertaining, but not something that will convince a mass move away from the traditional controls.IfVirtua TennistrumpsTop Spinin its crisp presentation and sheer variety, on court it can't quite keep pace. A greater emphasis on player positioning combined with a wholly useless tutorial mean it's not as instantly accessible as in past years, with a lack of visual feedback leaving players clueless as to why one return is ferocious while the next is feeble. Meanwhile, Nadal, Federer et al appear to skate across the court as if playing on an invisible sheet of ice, their exertions highlighted in disturbing close-ups that suggest the artists tasked with rendering digital sweat certainly earned their pay cheques.Once accustomed to those foibles, however, the court action is fast-paced and entertaining. The new "match momentum" feature allows players to build up and unleash powerful shots: these can bring a satisfying end to a rally, but their infrequency ensures that the game isn't unbalanced. All of which makes for a fine, if somewhat unnecessary, sequel that still leaves room for improvement for the next iteration.
The iPad 2 arrived with much hype and fanfare – look at the pretty coloured cases – but the real improvements lie in the technical specs, as it boasts a superfast processor, two cameras (front and back) and a glorious, high-definition display. So, with the added oomph from its new innards, the time is ripe for some exciting new apps.Apple'siMovie(£2.99, Apple, App Store)is the pick of the bunch for taking advantage of the HD video capability. Only available for iPad 2, it's a replica of the Mac application and works just as well. It allows video manipulation on the tablet, snipping, slow-moing and distorting to your heart's content, which comes into its own when combined with the newly added HD cameras, making for, in theory, the ability to shoot and edit whole films on the device.The added processor speed also makes for better-looking, smoother, more advanced games, and none is more impressive thanReal Racing 2 HD(£5.99, Firemint, App Store). On the original iPad, it's still a superlative racing simulation, with breathtaking tilt controls, but a few niggly slowdown issues. On the iPad 2, it runs like a dream, looks superb and the engrossing career mode will keep players glued to the screen for hours, and that's just preparation for the challenge of online multiplayer. Equally, past favourites such asInfinity BladeandFootball Manager 2011have been given a high-def booster (at no extra cost if you've already purchased them), making the iPad 2 the pinnacle of the app scene.
Steel Diver, Nintendo 3DSSteel Diver is the 21st-century, touchscreen, glasses-free 3D-enabled version of the old school fete favourite of guiding a loop of wire around a bent coat hanger without making a buzzer go off.Instead of the coat hanger, you get a series of jagged underwater caves and the loop of wire is replaced by one of three small cartoon submarines, but the principle stands: try not to touch the floor and ceiling while negotiating your sub's ponderous controls. There are enemy vessels and a sprinkling of bosses to deal with, but Steel Diver's seven maps won't take long to see off (even though it cheesily forces you to play each one with all three of the game's virtually identical subs) and neither will its tedious Battleships-style multiplayer game. At £15 this would be a cracking little piece of experimental fun. At £40, however, it's practically robbery.Nintendo, £39.99Virtua Tennis 4, PS3, Wii &amp; Xbox 360Virtua Tennis 4.Virtua Tennis 4 doesn't take itself too seriously. Where arch rival Top Spin 4 is all about authentic use of tactics and fastidious accuracy, Virtua Tennis 4 has you taking part in fancy dress tournaments and playing a mini-game where your tennis star hatches clutches of eggs, before leading the little chicks to mother hens at either side of the court to help improve your footwork. But when not being very silly, it also plays a superb, action-orientated game of tennis. Like almost all sports games, multiplayer is where this really comes to life, but the single-player career mode still provides a highly engaging role-playing game-style grind from rank amateur to globally recognised superstar, via training, tournaments and the aforementioned offbeat poultry-themed distractions. While not quite the equal of  its sprawling and extremely serious rival, Virtua Tennis 4 is a far more welcoming and accessible experience.Sega, £39.99-£49.99Games news: PlayStation Network nightmaresWhen Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 launched, they both had online capabilities. Microsoft wouldn't stop talking about Xbox Live, whereas for Sony, PlayStation Network always felt a bit like an unloved afterthought, albeit one to which nearly 80 million gamers have signed up. A couple of weeks ago, those 80 million gamers discovered they couldn't play games online or access Love Film, Qriocity or a range of other PlayStation 3-delivered services. Days later Sony admitted that not only were its servers offline, but that millions of users' personal data – including names, dates of birth and home addresses – had been stolen by the hackers responsible. Then news came that Sony Online Entertainment, publisher of Everquest and DC Universe Online, had been hacked for credit card and bank details. Because Sony's a Japanese company there has been a lot of bowing and hanging of heads in shame by its senior management, along with promises of a freebie-intensive "Welcome Back" programme. Services are in the process of being restored, but it's all put a nasty dent in Sony's reputation.
Members of Anonymous may have been behind the cyberattack on Sony's PlayStation Network and Online Entertainment systems despite a denial issued this week, according to reports.Meanwhile, the group is believed to be considering another attack against Sony's systems this weekend, just as the Japanese giant had hoped to return them to operation after being offline for more than a week.Two journalists at The Financial Timesreportthat "veterans" of the group have told them that one or more of the group's supporters may have gone beyond the rest and broken into the company's servers in April, rather than simply carrying out a cyberattack that would knock them offline.Sony claimed in a letter to the US Congressthat private investigators called in to find the cause of the cyber-theft, in whichpersonal details and possibly credit card details of between 77m and 100m people using the global networks were stolen, had found a file with the name "Anonymous" and part of its slogan stored on a server that was attacked.Somemembers of Anonymous issued an angry denial on Thursdayin which they said that no investigation would find the group to have been involved in the thefts, although they agreed that Sony's systems had been targeted – in an operation they dubbed "OpSony" – for a "denial of service" attack that would cripple it.But the denial stopped short of saying that Anonymous members had in fact broken into Sony's systems and left the file there.Some members of Anonymous are skilled hackers who might have been able to break into Sony's systems and steal the data. What is unclear is whether they would do it for personal gain or to prove that they could.Anonymous representatives continued to insist that the break-in was not their purpose or responsibility. "Let's be clear, we are legion, but it wasn't us. You are incompetent, Sony," ittweetedon one of the semi-official Anonymous accounts on Twitter on Thursday.Now the FT says that Anonymous members had been discussing details of a vulnerability that would enable a break-in to the systems in a chatroom ahead of the beginning of OpSony in April. "The hacker that did this was supporting OpSony's movements," the FT quotes the activist saying.Anonymous isreportedlyconsidering another attack on Sony this weekend in retaliation for the company's handling – and particularly its accusations against the group – of the PSN and SOE breaches.The hackers involved told CNet they have access to some of Sony's servers and that they will publicise any information they can glean from it. That might include internal company details – as happened when Anonymous targeted the website of UK law firm ACS:Law and US security company HBGary – or perhaps the credit card details held on the Sony site.Anonymous originally targeted Sony over its legal pursuit of George Hotz, who had discovered a "root key" that would allow anyone to run pirated software on the company's PlayStation 3 consoles.
This week,Sony Corporation claimed to Congressthat its investigation of the breach by which millions of customers had their credit card numbers compromised had turned up a document left on the server in question entitled "Anonymous" and containing the phrase "We are Legion", itself a fragment of our longtime slogan. Some have taken this as proof that Anonymous was responsible for the most significant online heists in memory. After all, the online activist movement has lately been engaged in a battle with Sony over its treatment of two individuals who taught othershow to alter the PlayStation 3 in such a way as to install Linux OS on the gaming console, making Anonymous a natural suspect.But those observers who are most familiar with who Anonymous is – such as the dozens of journalists who have been free to watch us at work in our operational venues – tend to agree with us that the circumstances of this incident are highly suspicious, and that any investigation into the crime in question must take into account the natural question of who might benefit from such an act – in other words, a party or parties who would have an interest in smearing Anonymous.The perpetration of a crimefor the purpose of framing another partyand thereby damaging its reputation is hardly unusual. The FBI spent two decades operating a programmecalled COINTELPRO, by which agents would infiltrate "dangerous" groups, such as those advocating civil rights, and then promote violence by its members in order to discredit their cause in the eyes of the public and justify police crackdowns. A congressional committee that investigated the issue concluded that "the Bureau conducted a sophisticated vigilante operation aimed squarely at preventing the exercise of first amendment rights of speech and association."Such practices continue today. It was only a few months ago that Anonymous's counter-investigation into a group of federal contractors including HBGary Federal, Palantir and Belricorevealed that the three companies– collectively known then as "Team Themis" – had prepared a plan to attack WikiLeaks to submit to law firm Hunton &amp; Williams (retained by Bank of America, panicked over the prospect of a leak concerning its executives).The scheme was to consistof such things as disinformation, placement of fake documents, clandestine operations against WikiLeaks supporter Glenn Greenwald, and "cyber attacks against the infrastructure to get data on document submitters".Of course, Anonymous itselfengages in attacks of that latter sort. On the other hand, Anonymous does so against dictatorships and corrupt institutions that engage in corruption alongside the state – and when we do, the FBI raids the homes of our alleged participants. Not being as respectable as our corporate counterparts, we are not permitted to act with seeming impunity.Now, having made enemies of the dozens of other firms whose wrongdoing we have exposed in the months since, by way ofOperation Metal Gearand other crowdsourced investigations, Anonymous is accused of having committed a major crime entirely different from the campaigns of civil disobedience for which we are rightfully known. The evidence is a single document that helpfully names us as the perpetrators. Sony has thus managed to shift attention away from its own failure to protect client data, while federal agencies have been diverted into a pursuit of us, this time for a massive theft rather than popular acts of revolt. Presently, I have no proof that this action was taken by any of the powerful and sophisticated enemies we have made in the world of intelligence-contracting or law enforcement; but neither can they prove that Anonymous was responsible for this heist.At any rate, an investigation is being conducted by the usual people. Congress is now on the job. Even more heartening, Attorney General Eric Holder says that the justice department is taking this "very seriously". It is good to see those two entities adopting a healthier work ethic: when, a few months ago, Representative Hank Johson called for Congress to look into the activities of Team Themis in coordination with Hunton &amp; Williams, Representative Lamar Smith, a Republican from Texas, declined,asserting that this was the responsibility of the justice department. He did not seem to think it problematic that, as shown by the HBGary emails, it wasthe justice department itself that recommended Hunton &amp; Williamsto Bank of America.Eric Holder having presumably been too busy to investigate that particular matter, Anonymous is, of course, flattered to learn that criminal activity that allegedly involves us is a higher priority than dubious activity that definitely involved his own department. Or perhaps, there is some other explanation.
This summer, an army of men in tights will take on the forces of darkness across the world's cinemas screens. And Sir Howard Stringer, Welsh-born boss of media and electronics giant Sony, could really do with the services of a superhero. Beset by a global hacking catastrophe unleashed by unknown forces, he should be calling for the services of Spider-Man, a hero who has pulled Sony out of trouble before. Instead, he's left pinning his hopes on the Smurfs.Hollywood is gearing up for a clash of the titans at the box office. Thor has just opened; X-Men: First Class, Green Lantern and Captain America will follow. But the next film in Sony's Spider-Man franchise won't be out until 2012; instead, Sony will enter the fray this year with a 3D cartoon based on a team of diminutive blue-skinned adventurers from 1980s TV. Hollywood-watchers are expecting it to bomb. But even if it does, it will be the least of the 69-year-old's problems.Hackers have accessed an estimated 100m accounts on the Sony's online gaming networks. It's one of the worst internet break-ins of all time – analysts say it could cost Sony up to $24bn – and comes as Sony has striven to put its PlayStation games console at the centre of plans for a digital future.The villains, according to Sony, left a taunting message: "We are legion" – a&nbsp;line used by the loose affiliation of hackers known as Anonymous. But Anonymousclaims it is being framed: the collective targeted Sony after it started legal action against ace hacker George Hotz, but it has never been associated with credit&nbsp;card theft.Sony trotted out Kazuo Hirai, Stringer's heir apparent, to deliverSony's official mea culpa. "We apologise deeply for causing great unease and trouble to our users," he told a press conference, bowing in shame. Then yesterday, in a blogpost,Stringer himself finally apologisedfor the "inconvenience and concern" caused by the breach.The Sony boss also acknowledged criticism that the company had been slow in alerting its customers to the hack attack; a full week elapsed between Sony uncovering unusual activity in its systems and notifying users. Stringer said: "I wish we could have gotten the answers we needed sooner, but forensic analysis is a complex, time-consuming process. Hackers, after all, do their best to cover their tracks."It is six years since Stringerbecame Sony's first non-Japanese chief executive. The curly-haired Welshman doesn't speak the language – he argues that it's too hard to learn at his age – and took over a high-profile job in a country whose corporate culture is sometimes accused of being xenophobic. But he was the first choice of Nobuyuki Idei, then Sony's chairman, who had shaken up the Japanese giant and was determined to bring in more outsiders.The appointment was the highlight of a remarkable career. Stringer was born in Cardiff, his father a sergeant in the RAF, his mother a Welsh schoolteacher. The family moved to Aylesbury when he was a small boy and he won a scholarship to Oundle public school before studying modern history at Oxford. His studies confirmed him as a lifelong liberal and in 1965 Stringer moved to New York, inspired by stories of the civil rights movement and John F Kennedy.He had just cashed his second paycheck as a clerk at CBS Radio when he was drafted to Vietnam. Instead of catching a plane back to Britain, he went to war, spending two years in the army and being decorated for valour.After Vietnam he returned to CBS, rising through the ranks to become president and winning nine Emmys, including one for The CIA's Secret Army, an exposé of the US's undercover war against Cuba's Fidel Castro after the Bay of Pigs. Stringer's mix of charm and hard work made him one of the hottest media executives in the US.Idei picked Stringer for Sony in 1997 after the latter had left CBS for a brief stint at the head of an ill-fated venture called Tele-TV. He was always going to stand out in Japan, but he was culturally adept in an unfamiliar environment, and was quick to introduce colleagues to the delights of Welsh golf courses.Stringer can be blunt too – an unusual trait in Japanese corporate culture. He was in the running for director-general of the BBC after Sir John Birt left in 1999 and during one interview someone asked him if he was a little too old for the job. "I'm only six weeks older than I was when you asked me to apply," Stringer replied.Unafraid to shake things up, he has slashed jobs at Sony, ousted high-profile executives and brought in more outsiders. But for all Stringer's charm and ruthlessness, Sony is far from the innovative powerhouse it once was. Apple dominates digital music. Amazon's Kindle is beating Sony's Reader. LG, Samsung and Vizio have proved tough competition in HD TVs. The entire music business is suffering, and while film has been a good business for the company, this summer looks spotty at best.PlayStation, too, faced stiff competition from Nintendo's Wii and Microsoft's Xbox, but it has been a bright spot for the company's digital strategy. There are 50m PlayStation&nbsp;3s around the world, all capable of accessing a world of online content as well as playing games. Indeed, it was starting to look like Sony's Trojan horse, a way to take the digital fight back to Apple and its rivals – but the hacking scandal has cast a dark shadow over those plans.For years, Stringer has talked about returning to Britain. His family live in Oxfordshire and the Sony boss spends his time flying between there, New York and Tokyo. A welcome in the hillsides must look more tempting than ever now. Having risen in the west, perhaps Stringer's long American odyssey is finally setting in the east.
Thousands of new mobile and tablet apps are being released every week, and the vast majority of them will sink without trace. In the first of a new series, though, we're going to be reviewing the best and most innovative new apps across all devices. Starting off with this week's selection ...OnavoiPhone, freeOnavo's USP is that you don't even notice you're using it. The app runs in the background on your iPhone, compressing data on the fly as you use it for apps, web browsing and emails. The startup behind it claims you can save up to 80% on your data bill, and we've been impressed with its performance so far. Particularly useful when roaming abroad and trying not to get stung by data charges.7digital MusicAndroid, freeAndroid owners craving their own version of iTunes should take a look at 7digital's newly-revamped app. It's part MP3 store, with more than 13m songs to choose from, and part music player. The interface is slick and easy to use, the MP3s are high-quality 320kpbs files, and it ties into 7digital's cloud locker service to download previous purchases – useful if you switch Android smartphones or get a new tablet.LiveShare by CoolirisiPhone, Android, Windows Phone 7, freeThere is certainly no shortage of photo-sharing apps on the various app stores now, so why should you consider LiveShare? We like the way it helps you create impromptu groups for sharing photos – for example, around specific events like a gig or wedding. It also handles the picture uploading process with the minimum of fuss, while presenting new photos as a stream. There's less focus on filters and manipulation than apps like Instagram, with the social element to the fore.Roodie Noodies and the Slippery PoleiPhone, iPad, £0.59The name sounds filthy, but that couldn't be further from the truth. Roodie Noodies is a game designed for children, starring new characters dreamt up by UK developer Complete Control. The slippery pole of the title is a rolling log, on which the Roodies have to balance while collecting "sparkly nurdles" that float past. It's colourful, and judging by our crack team of toddler reviewers, is easy to grasp and well worth a tantrum when it's turned off.Order &amp; Chaos OnlineiPhone, iPad (Android coming soon), £3.99Order &amp; Chaos Online certainly wears its influences on its sleeve: Gameloft's massively multiplayer online game owes a huge debt to World of Warcraft, from its character classes and quest structure through to its guilds for group adventuring. Unoriginal, perhaps, but an excellent homage, especially when played on the larger-screened iPad. There's plenty to see and do in the sprawling world, and contrary to what hardcore WoW players might think, the touchscreen-only interface works well.Imfuna LetiPhone, Android, £1.79We're not the target audience for Imfuna Let, and you probably aren't either. It's a "digital system for the inventory process" for companies handling property lettings. The idea: users can wander round a property collecting data, recording voice notes, and then sharing their reports with colleagues when back in the office. Naturally, our tests extend to wandering around our own house pretending to be an estate agent, but the app impresses with its efficiency – a key aspect for this kind of B2B application.Thirsty PeteiPhone, freeAre you drinking enough water? No, lager, cider and gin don't count. Thirsty Pete turns hydration into a virtual-pet game for iPhone, with the pet in question being a water droplet called Pete. Yes, he's thirsty. You have to feed him glasses of water while – we're not making this up – checking the colour of his urine to see how hydrated he is. Can water droplets drink glasses of water or wee? Confusing, but at the same time quite a fun educational game. There is a commercial aim behind it – it's the work of the Hydration for Health Initiative, which in turn is funded by Danone Waters.Nighty Night! HDiPad, £1.19There's bags of innovation happening right now around apps for children, especially those that blend storytelling, animation and interactivity. Nighty Night! HD is one of the latest and greatest examples. Aimed at 1-4 year-olds, it focuses on twin themes of farmyard animals and bedtime, with the latter aspect making it good for a last-thing-at-night app session with your children. The soundtrack and narration add to the polished feel.Music HunteriPad, £0.59As its name implies, Music Hunter is all about discovering music, using the thumbnail/grid-based interface that's becoming increasingly popular for iPad entertainment apps. Tap in an artist or genre, and it'll hunt down songs that you might like, which are all playable as 30- or 60-second samples – although if you want the full versions, you're directed to buy them from the App Store. Tapping into APIs from music tech startup The Echo Nest, it does a good job of pointing you to artists you've already heard of, but also some new names.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Well, the Mac completely changed my life. I first came across that little boxy square Mac in the 80s – it was a cubic thing. I was taught to use it by Lise Mayer, one of the writers of The Young Ones. It had everything you needed, it was the most exciting thing. I'm a dedicated Apple Mac person.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use my Mac all the time – more or less 24 hours a day. I've got five different computers, and that is the other problem – how do you collate this variety of information, because I use them all for different purposes.What additional features would you add if you could?That's difficult to say, because all these devices now have many more things than I have time to use – but two things: one, something similar to a Babel Fish, with perfect translatability, because I work in many languages. Instant translation from one language to another. Another thing I would like is perfect speech recognition technology, so that I could speak words into a computer and it would transcribe them perfectly.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Definitely. We will probably have stuff where you will be able to speak to it directly, almost like an implanted chip. We're almost seeing the demise of the keyboard, such as the way we use the iPhone.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Very banal things. Fifteen years ago, I thought that I'd be smart if I was working in batteries rather than in television – we still haven't come up with a battery that lasts forever. But my biggest frustration is forgetting to bring the charger. I also get very annoyed that every new iteration of a phone or computer requires a new set of plugs. I'm starting to think that's how computer and phone companies make most of their money.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I do wonder why they haven't managed to make a quiet hairdryer yet. My wife uses one every morning and they're incredibly loud, aren't they.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Ask your children – unless you are a child. Kids seems to be able to do these things almost intuitively, while adults find them almost impossible. I've never read a computer manual in my life, so I always ask my children how these things work.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I think neither, really. I think technology has great advantages, and I'm lost in admiration for the people who create it all. But if you meet a great chef, or great composer, it's equally as mysterious how they do what they do.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my car – I have an extremely old Porsche 911, it's about 15 years old. It was second hand when my wife bought it for me, but it was pretty pricey.Mac or PC, and why?I just think everything is better about the mac – the prettiness of the design, the ease of comprehension. It just feels like when you go from a Mac to the PC, if feels like going back to the horse and cart – slow and clunky. Creative people almost always tend to be Mac people.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I still do, and I know I will for a while, but I'm beginning to think I really should have a Kindle. I have thousands of books, and I read an enormous amount, but I think there is no question about the  convenience of the Kindle. But I do like buying DVDs and CDs. I bought a lot of spy thrillers on DVD last year when I was scripting Johnny English 2 – from the Bourne Identity right back to The French Connection.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?No. I don't want a robot. I'm against them – it's a bit like convenience food, you're a lot better off preparing your own food, aren't you?What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd love to have a helicopter, but I'm going to have to work a bit harder before I can afford one of those.• John Lloyd co-created the BBC series Not the Nine O'Clock News (with Sean Hardie) and ITV's Spitting Image (with Peter Fluck and Roger Law). He also produced all four Blackadder series and is the brains behind QI. TheQI appis available from the App Store.
The growth in popularity of casual gaming in recent years has catapulted video games from fringe to mainstream entertainment. The Wii has been immensely influential in this regard, but recently smartphones and social media have started replacing consoles as the "go-to" platforms for casual gaming.One of the best and most influential developers behind casual-core video games is PopCap. The Seattle-based company's catalogue features some of the most critically acclaimed and biggest-selling titles of all time –Bejewelled,PeggleandPlants vs Zombiesamong them.With casual gaming becoming more and more popular – throw a rock into a crowd and you'll hit someone playing Angry Birds – some pundits have begun speculating that companies such as Rovio and PopCap may some day be as big as Disney. We thought it we'd find out from PopCap's chief executive John Vechey what he thought of that assessment, as well as his opinion on several other topics.Last year was a fantastic year for casual games and casual gaming – with the success of Plants vs Zombies on various platforms, Angry Birds and Cut the Rope – especially on mobile platforms. It's really captured the imagination of millions. Has all this competition been good for PopCap?I think so. I mean, we don't really think of gaming as some industry. We're friends with nearly every single every game company in our competitive environment. When you look at Angry Birds on mobile phones and Zynga's games on Facebook, they're really great for us because people are playing more games because of them.Look at it this way; the majority of people in the world will argue about movies and have favourite movies, but very few of them will say, "I don't like movies at all". In gaming right now there are still more people or as many people who say, "I'm not a gamer and I don't play games" as there are people who play games. Any game that has the success we've seen from some titles in the last year, increases the number of people who play games. There are people discovering gaming for the first time, because of Angry Birds. And that is good for us! And it's good for the industry! (Laughs) It's all good!What did you think of Angry Birds?Angry Birds to me is like golf in that it's more frustrating than fun. However, it's incredibly rewarding when things go your way in it. I can play something like Cut the Rope – and I did for hours – and get three stars on every level. With Angry Birds, the scoring is a bit to arbitrary for my tastes. I like it, but I feel it would be a better game if it wasn't so opaque – but that's me.There are a lot of people who play games who don't consider themselves gamers, but the audience for casual games has grown in leaps and bounds in the last year. Do you think the market is becoming saturated?I think the sky's the limit. I can't predict how fast it's going to grow; when started in 2,000 with Bejeweled there was a big acceleration in casual gaming. Then it settled down a bit over the next few years. Now with Facebook and smartphones being a great one-two punch, it's picked up again and you're seeing huge growth again.PopCap's goal is this; everyone in the world has a top five games list and we want a couple of our titles on everyone's top five list. Whether that takes us 10 to 50 years to accomplish this, we don't care. I know we have so much further to go.We're a very inwardly focused company. We believe markets and platforms aren't static – everything changes, sometimes quickly, sometimes slowly. For us, it's about focusing on great games and great game franchises. We don't need to release 50 games per year that are C+ or B- quality releases. What we need to do is keep reinvesting in the great games we have and continue to experiment with games that we think would make amazing experiences. We're like Pixar; they don't feel the need to make 10 times as many movies as their competitors, but they do feel the need to keep making every movie great. We're okay being the tortoise. The tortoise eventually wins the race.Do the backyard shuffle ... PopCap's Plants vs ZombiesThere are some pundits who – because of the success of Angry Birds and PvZ – are saying that companies such as Rovio and PopCap will become bigger than Disney. What's your take on that?I definitely think that companies such as Rovio and Zynga and PopCap are going to end up looking like companies such as Disney. You look at what Hasbro's done with Transformers and how that revitalised the brand in the toy business.I think that what's going to happen is, at some point we're going to see that gaming is just one aspect of what we do. How else can our customers want to interact with what we do? Whether that's toys or movies or TV or some other medium, it's another way that customers gain appreciation for it.Look, Disney's a giant company and I think it would be foolhardy to say, "hey, we're gonna be bigger than Disney", but I think that in 30 or so years, we're going to look a lot more like Disney than we do right now.I think the fact that the big media companies don't have great interactive experiences for their audiences nailed yet, will mean that eventually, they're going to start to look more like us.The quality of their games is factor. PopCap seems to be one of those developers who seem to straddle the casual and core markets. Your games are visually very cute and friendly, but the depth of play is guaranteed to bring in the core crowd too. Is it a tricky balancing act?We get that just by the nature of the development process. We make games first and foremost for ourselves and we cancel titles that we aren't having fun with. Once we've started having fun with a title, we try to make that experience as accessible to as many people as possible, and once again, if we can't do that we cancel it.By nature, everyone at PopCap is a hardcore gamer. If we find it fun, we've got the core audience. Once you make that experience accessible to people outside that core audience, you increase your game's reach. We spend a lot of time making what we enjoy appeal to as many people as possible.Your titles have had a lot of success on portable devices. The Sony PSP2 (NGP) is on the horizon, and it's come under fire from some quarters who say that the experiences available on it don't lend themselves to the easy "pick-up-and-play" appeal that audiences want on portable gaming devices. What's your take on that?(Laughs) I think the thing with portable gaming – and portable gaming devices – is they all have the same problem; the mobile phone. I don't carry my DS with me anymore when I go travelling. It just sits there until there's a game I absolutely have to play on it, which isn't available on any other platform.The PSP2 will have the same problem. People always have their smartphones with them. Yeah, you're always going to get better hardware and more immersive expereinces, but when I'm on the road, I'm looking for a less immersive experience. That's really what all those devices are up against.Peggle ... 2D time-wasters will never go out of fashionSo would you say these portable devices are on their way out, because they don't offer all of the conveniences of a smartphone – such as a phone, a camera, a gaming device, a music player and so forth?I think that if they want to survive, in my mind, they'll have to evolve into something that's way beyond what they are now. Whether or not they do that, or what they need to do, or what they'll even look like, I'll be honest, I don't know. But it's very definitely a challenge they face.Speaking of evolving platforms, the iPad 2 just got released ...We're really rooting for the iPad, just because so many great experiences can be made. We need more users on it for us to develop more specific content for it – the way we did with multiplayers on the Xbox 360 – but there are all sorts of things the iPad 2 can do, such as LAN gaming. Usually that involves a big headache of setting up machines, feeling really nerdy and wondering why women talk to you at all. With the iPad, if you have a multiplayer game, you can just bring your iPad round, sit on the couch and have a blast.In the past, PopCap mainly made games for PCs and Apple's touchscreen platforms, but recently you made the jump to Xbox 360 and Nintendo DS. What were the main challenges in porting your games to these consoles?I think the big challenge there breaks into two parts. First, you have to look at the modes that are expected by the audiences of those consoles. For example, when we ported Plants vs Zombies to the Xbox 360, we probably spent well over half the development time on designing its multiplayer mode. We wanted to make it a really great, "on the couch" type of experience because we knew that that's what people expect and want from an Xbox 360 game.Second, we spent a lot of time adapting our control systems to the console interface. What makes a great iPhone game or a PC game is different to what makes a great Xbox 360 game – and in turn, what makes a great Nintendo DS game. So, really the creative challenge that we embrace and take very seriously, focuses a lot on those two areas.Now that you've made the jump on to these platforms, will we see PopCap make a title exclusively for one of those consoles?We will never release a game that's exclusive to any platform. Whatever gaming experiences we create and continue to create, we're all about the multi-platform aspect of gaming. We feel it's very important to our strategy and very important to our customers.Will we ever start a title off on a console? Well, it's something that we've talked about at various stages. We've even done some prototypes of some games on a console. I can see us at least starting on a console in the next five years, certainly.We don't have a hard and fast rule for or against the idea; it's all about whether or not we've got a great idea for a console game. And the same goes for PC, or mobile phones, or any other platform we're currently on.You talked about the challenges of adapating to the Xbox 360 and DS control interface – being, as they are, very different from PCs and smartphones. But the interfaces of consoles are changing again, with the introduction of Kinect and the PS Move ...Yeah, we're looking at them. The problem we have with those interfaces is... well, the great Wii and Move and Kinect games you see are designed from scratch to be great Wii and Move and Kinect games. We have yet to see a game that's a port or an adaptation on those control systems that's a great game too. To the extent that one of our games would be a good adaptation, then, yeah, we could think about porting it. But the question, once again, would focus on whether the game would be a great experience with those interfaces. For example, Bejeweled on Kinect would just be Bejeweled exactly how it is, but you'd control it by moving your hands, which wouldn't exactly be a great Kinect experience.We're not a mobile company or a console company or a PC company. We're a games company – that's our DNA.•PopCap HitsandPopCap Hits Vol 2(for the Xbox 360) andPlants vs Zombies(for the DS are out now. All three titles are published byMastertronic
Like a shuffling horde of walking dead, the march of Plants vs Zombies continues unabated.Originally landing on the PC in 2009, PopCap's superb tower defence game was released in 2010 on iTunes for the iPhone where it broke sales records, raking in $1m in revenue in just nine days. Since then, it has spread to the iPad, Xbox Live and PSN platforms. Now it's making a bid to conquer the DS.As with all of PopCap's titles, Plants vs Zombies straddles the core and casual gaming demographic with an enviable ease. This is a charming, easy-to-play game wrapped in cute, cartoonish visuals and eerily sweet music, yet it boasts hidden depths both in terms of its content and its tactically minded gameplay.The game's basic premise is simple; the player is trapped in a house and has to fight off wave after wave of approaching zombies. The zombies come in a variety of forms; some wear buckets and traffic cones to ward off damage, some sprint across the lawn in American football gear, while some float above the lawn using balloons. If the zombies manage to cross the lawn and enter the house, the player loses. To prevent this, players are given an array flora and fungi offering them both offensive and defensive options – ranging from pea-shooting plants, to immovable rocks to spikes which attack the zombies' feet. At the end of every level, they unlock a new plant and their arsenal of foliage steadily grows. They can also pick up coins from fallen zombies to buy new plants from the in-game shop, which is run by their eccentric neighbour, Crazy Dave.The game's main campaign is a lengthy affair, featuring 50 levels split across five environments which are broken up by imaginative mini-games. Once they've conquered that, players can turn to several other modes offering up new challenges – as well as the opportunity to revisit old ones. The DS port doesn't skimp on content; all the previous features from other PvZ titles are present and correct here, including Survival modes, the multiplayer which first appeared on Xbox Live, the Zen Garden (available as an unlockable) and the mini-games mode which houses some nice twists on the main campaign and include the mini-games that have already been unlocked.There are also a couple of new and exclusive features for the DS version of Plants vs Zombies, including a mini-game in which the player uses the microphone to spur their plants on, a boss battle involving an airplane and a zombie creator utility. Finally, as with all the other versions, Plants vs Zombies for the DS also boasts the best end credits of any game outside the Portal franchise.However, the DS title isn't flawless. While the stylus and touchscreen make for a decent control system – albeit a drag-and-drop one, rather than a select and click – it should be pointed out that this is the least attractive of all of the Plants vs Zombies versions currently available. The animation is far less smooth and when the screen fills up with the undead, the frame-rate can slow down quite considerably. The top screen of the DS also feels underused; all the action in the game takes place in the second screen and the only use the top screen has is to measure the distance between each wave of zombies. It's also worth noting that at £24.99, this is also the most expensive version of the game on the market.These slight considerations aside, Plants vs Zombies is an incredibly strong title for the DS. Mind you, this is probably because is it was an incredibly strong title when it was first released. Given the popularity of the game, it's hard to build a mental picture of the sort of gamer who has heard of Plants vs Zombies and has yet to play it.If, however, you are one of those unfortunate folk and you own a DS – and you don't own any of the platforms it's already been released on – I urge you to pick up a copy immediately. Plants vs Zombies is brilliant; cute as a button, ingenious in its design and as addictive as any core title you could mention, this is one of the best investments you will make all year.• Game reviewed on DS
I have finally convinced all of my extended family to allow me to scan the family photographs they have in their possession for all of us to share. I did this by scanning all my mother's pictures and uploading them to shared albums on Facebook and Flickr, but as I was using a flatbed scanner, this took a lot of time.I borrowed an HP ScanJet 7650n from work to do the job, but pictures scanned via the document feeder didn't look as good as ones I scanned on its flatbed. Ideally, I would like a very portable scanner than can take excellent scans up to about 600dpi using some form of feeder, but without this impacting the quality of the scans.Joe DelaneyThe HP ScanJet 7650n is a good quality scanner, which generally goes for around £800. If you're sensitive to any slight drop in quality from using the sheet feeder then you may not be happy with the quality you'll get from most portable scanners. Flatbed scanners with CCDs (charge-coupled devices) usually cost more and produce better results than CIS (contact image sensor) models.However, there are four main variables: image quality, portability, speed and price. It will be up to you to balance the different requirements to match your needs.If image quality is your top priority, then have a look at the Epson Perfection line of photo scanners. At the top of the range, you could get an Epson Perfection V750 Pro flatbed, which claims 6400dpi x 9600dpi and costs about £560. At the cheaper end of the range, there's the Epson Perfection V330 LED Photo (4800dpi), at around £90. A good compromise would be the Epson Perfection V500 Photo, which offers the same resolution as the V750 for about a third of the price – it's currently£179.20at Amazon.co.uk. There are other stockists, of course, so shop around.An alternative would be the Canon Canoscan 9000f, which costs about the same (£185.34at Amazon.co.uk) and might have the edge for scanning negatives, if family members still have these.If you were using the HP ScanJet 7650n in its 600dpi flatbed mode then either of these scanners could give better results. However, you will make only a small gain in portability and the scanning may be as slow or even slower.Alternatively, you could go for a portable scanner. There appear to be dozens of cheap, portable scanners but most are designed to scan enprints up to 6in x 4in or sometimes 7in x 5in, and save scans to a memory card. Most of the larger models are intended for scanning documents rather than photos, and some will scan both sides of a page at once (duplex). Most require you to feed in one page at a time, and it's not always easy to get the page in straight.The Kodak P811 Personal Photo and Negative Scanner is one of the few portable scanners aimed at the photographic market, and it can scan 8in x 10in prints at 600dpi. I've never seen one, but at least two companies are offering the P811 in the UK, for£142.99or£181.10. If any reader has one, please tell us about the image quality and usability.A more popular choice is the Canon Image Formula P-150, which is billed as a "high speed portable document scanner". It can scan documents up to 356mm x 216mm (14in x 8.5in, or American Legal-2) at 600dpi, and costs£226.70from Amazon.co.uk. Most unusually, its open lid provides a simple sheet feeder that can handle up to 20 pages. This could be your best bet.See? We told you the Canon Image Formula P-150 scanner was portableI wouldn't expect the Image Formula P-150 to match the image quality of an Epson Perfection V500 or Canon Canoscan 9000f, but it's a lot more portable and should be quicker to use.Another alternative is theVisioneer Stroberange, and the 600dpi Strobe XP 220 is fairly widely available for around £175-£185.My preferred strategy for scanning things (or ripping CDs), is to do the job so well that it never has to be done again. This is the argument for using a good flatbed scanner. You will certainly want high quality scans if you intend to make prints, and several online suppliers will convert a bunch of scans into delightful bound albums.However, you don't need high quality scans if the images are only going to be shared online. I typically reduce my digital photos from an original width of 4288 pixels to 960 pixels for sharing. This is fine for viewing on a typical computer screen, which might be 1280 or 1366 pixels wide, and will make a small print. Facebook, rather brutally, reduces pictures to 720 pixels wide (or high, if they're vertical) for viewing. Either way, you're unlikely to need more than 1920 x 1080 pixels, which would fill an HD TV screen. However, bear in mind that you can always reduce a scanned image file, but you can't increase it without losing some picture quality.One solution to your problem would be to use two scanners. Get a portable to produce fast scans of the bulk of the family pictures, and select a small number of important shots to take home for high-resolution scanning (perhaps with  the borrowed HP ScanJet) and important post-processing work. This may include colour balancing, sharpening, and retouching. Scanning an old photo may just be the first step in a time-consuming restoration.
Originality is sadly no guarantee of gaming quality. 2009's Spore is a great example. The concept – create and mould lifeforms and take them from ocean floor to universe – was a world away from the shooters 'n' sport gaming mainstream. Sadly, despite an engrossing first few hours, Spore never really shook the impression that gameplay was secondary to the concept. This isn't something that new spin-off title Darkspore can be accused of. While Spore overreached in its ambition, Darkspore is tightly focused in creating a Diablo-style dungeon crawler with tons of customisation. What this means in practice is RSI-inducing amounts of mouse clicking as you guide your creature through never ending amounts of monster-infested locales.As with Diablo et al the fast-paced action is peppered with goodies for your progress. These sparkling rewards – weapons, armour etc – can also be customised. It is the level of flexibility here that drags Darkspore up from other Diablo clones. It's very easy to create a unique slant on one of the standard creatures from the start and even if you come across someone online who had similar ideas it's highly unlikely they will have made the same design choice as you when it comes to weapons and armour.Flexibility is key in the action too. Players get a choice of three creatures when playing and these can be easily swapped out to allow different for different situations (such as when you need more healing).Recognising that these kinds of games are essentially all about the goodies and rewards Darkspore allows you to gamble with your prizes by taking on tougher enemies at the end of a completed level. Succeed and you can leave with what you have or up the ante for more. Get a decent group together and this becomes worryingly addictive. Talking of groups the game is – as you would expect – best played online with others.The sci-fi setting helps differentiate from the traditional fantasy setting usually associated with these games. Sadly a lack of anything approaching a decent story means the action can feel like a grind, especially when played offline. Nevertheless Darkspore has enough nuance and character to keep fans of the genre ticking over until the likes of Torchlight 2 and Diablo 3 arrive.• Game reviewed on PC
Just as we had extracted just about everything from the 3DS's launch titles, Steel Diver arrives in a timely fashion, signalling the beginning of a second wave of 3DS games. It has a curious provenance, previously existing as a tech-demo shown when the original DS launched, but only now has it acquired full-game status.As the name suggests, it's a submarine-simulator, which doesn't exactly sound like a barrel of laughs. But it turns out to be curiously compelling. Which isn't to say that it's perfect – it's conspicuously short, despite the full-game price-tag. But at least it demonstrates some gameplay variety, and makes decent use of the 3DS's attributes.Steel Diver's main element is a series of side-scrolling missions which, surprisingly, feel reminiscent of Defender, with the control system of a submarine grafted onto it. Essentially, they involve fine control of your movement – you're given separate sliders for forward/reverse movement and diving/surfacing, as well as an arsenal of torpedoes.Light, medium and heavy subs add slight control variations. The light one, for example, can fire torpedoes upwards, whereas the other two can only fire from the bow, but you can adjust their orientation in order to aim. As well as avoiding crashes, you have to take out enemy subs and ships to complete the missions, blast rocks and concrete out of the way and avoid mines and depth-charges. When you're hit, leaks spring, which can be plugged with a rub of the stylus.The 2D side-scrolling missions don't put 3D at the forefront, although they do have noticeable layers which jazz up the visuals somewhat. However, the periscope-based element of the game, in which you must torpedo entire flotillas of enemy ships while on the surface, would flounder without it, as you need to judge how far in front of the ships to aim. This aspect of the game also uses the gyro-sensor, and is best played sitting on a chair equipped with wheels. To add a modicum of variety, it also includes shoot-outs with other submarines and a variation set in convincingly stormy seas.You also get a turn-based sea-warfare game which manfully strives to turn the idea of Battleships into something more substantial, plus more impressive to behold, but doesn't really succeed – it's still too basic and leaves too much to guesswork, which is annoying. Although you can play it against a friend, even if only one of you owns the game cartridge.Given the post-launch dearth of new 3DS games, Steel Diver is worth checking out. It is, at least, pretty original, and getting to grips with your submarines' controls is both fun and satisfying. We would, though, have preferred to see it priced more realistically to reflect its brevity. It's true that it simply wouldn't work on any console other than the 3DS, but it's by no means an essential purchase.• Game reviewed on 3DS
A burst of 8 apps for your consideration4th &amp; MayorWhile Windows Phone 7 users await the updated version of Foursquare for Microsoft's platform, there's an alternative. 4th &amp; Mayor uses the Foursquare API, and wraps a suitably slick WP7-like user interface around it, including comments on check-ins, adding photos to places and tips, and more leaderboard features.Music WithMe 2.0ParkVu's new music app for Android enables users to share and sync their iTunes libraries with their Android handset, via a helper app that sits on the user's desktop. Social features are also built in, to share activity on Facebook and see what friends have been doing. The app also links to the Amazon MP3 store app to buy songs.Imaginary RangeGames publisher Square Enix says Imaginary Range is 'a hybrid comic and game experience'. The idea: people read the comic parts, and then play gaming segments that sit in between them, unlocking extra commentary and images as they go.Taptu for AndroidTaptu's news aggregation app was already available for Android, but an update now includes a native version for Android Honeycomb tablets. The app puts a new tablet spin on RSS, including allowing users to create their own streams from a variety of sources.Frisbee ForeverFrisbee Forever is an officially licensed Frisbee game - yes, there's a registered trademark for that - developed by Kiloo. The universal iOS app offers a 3D take on flying plastic discs.Snapbucket | Snap, Style, and ShareOnline photos service Photobucket has released its own take on Instagram, called Snapbucket. Users can take shots, edit them using filters, and then upload them to Photobucket, Facebook and/or Twitter. It's available for iPhone and Android at launch.Lynx StreamUnilever has released a branded app to promote its Lynx deodorant brand. Lynx Stream aims to gather photos, videos, texts, tweets, check-ins and status updates from groups of (male, obviously) friends on their nights out, and turn them into single streams. It's available for iOS and Android as a free download.Ovum Pocket Analyst for AndroidThis Android app offers the latest news and data from analyst firm Ovum, and now includes the ability to send feedback and questions back to the company's team, using in-app messaging features.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Sony chief Sir Howard Stringer has spoken about the security breach of the PlayStation Network for the first time, apologising to the users affected and unveiling a $1m identity theft insurance policy to protect each user in the future.Stringer has remained tight-lipped about the two attacks on the PSN carried out last month which saw personal information of as many as 100m gamers stolen.However, Stringer has been forced to take action to try and control the crisis as Sony's share price fell by as much as 4% in trading on Thursday as investors worried about the ultimate cost of the attacks.In a blog post, Stringer said that there is "no confirmed evidence any credit card or personal information has been misused, and we continue to monitor the situation closely".Stringer announced plans to introduce more stringent security measures to "protect your information better than ever" and unveiled a $1m identity theft insurance policy per user to "cover identity restoration costs, legal defense expenses, and lost wages that occur within 12 months after the stolen identity event" – but only for US gamers.He said that announcements regarding gamers affected in other territories would follow."As a company we – and I – apologise for the inconvenience and concern caused by this attack," he said. "Let me assure you that the resources of this company have been focused on investigating the entire nature and impact of the cyber-attack we've all experienced and on fixing it. We are working with the FBI and other law enforcement agencies around the world to apprehend those responsible."Sony has been criticised for not notifying custmomers about the attacks quickly enough and while Stringer acknowledged the accusations, he fell short of admitting that the consumer electronics giant bungled its response."I know some believe we should have notified our customers earlier than we did. It's a fair question," he said. "As soon as we discovered the potential scope of the intrusion, we shut down the PlayStation Network and Qriocity services and hired some of the best technical experts in the field to determine what happened. I wish we could have gotten the answers we needed sooner."Stringer said that the game network would be restored "in the coming days" – the service has been offline for almost three weeks –  with all users having to change their account passwords before being able to sign in.To try to entice users back onto the system, and by way of apology, Stringer reminded gamers that a "welcome back" package is being offered that will include benefits including a month free of its premium-level service "to make up for time lost".
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRegistration &gt;&gt; silicon milkroundabout"Are you a developer or engineer with a passion for building real products and crafting great code? Fresh out of uni, or looking for your next move?"Did you know that London's top tech startups are hiring for over 100 technical roles right now?"Research Immobilized: Time for a Management Shake-Up? &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Seems the incremental advances RIM showed off at BlackBerry World this week did almost nothing to convince Wall Street that the company can reverse continuing market share losses and reinvigorate its pioneering BlackBerry platform. As Needham analyst Charlie Wolf said in a note to clients Wednesday afternoon, RIM is a one-trick pony whose one trick no longer works."'RIM has attempted to keep pace by adding the standard checklist of features to its BlackBerries, as defined by the iPhone,' Wolf said. 'Unfortunately, RIM's skills as a hardware manufacturer have been more than offset by it ineptness in software development, the focus of competition today. The blame must be laid at the feet of the company's Co-CEO's who in their actions and words, appear to have no clue on how to mount a successful response.'"Rising Costs Leave Facebook Developers in the Lurch &gt;&gt; Advertising Age"As Facebook heads toward 700 million users, one thing seems clear: the gold rush for Facebook app developers is over."Early adopters of the social-game space, such as Zynga, Crowdstar and Playdom -- known in the industry as part of Facebook's "Top 10" -- are still raking in all the users and much of the revenue, but rising ad prices, a cluttered market, and higher transaction fees are forcing smaller players elsewhere, and in many cases off Facebook altogether."Android To Surpass Apple's App Store In Size By August 2011 &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"In a recent report, app store analytics company Distimo forecasted that Android would surpass the App Store in size before the end of July 2011."Another research firm, Germany-based research2guidance, corroborates Distimo's findings; the firm forecasts Android to blow past Apple's App Store by August 2011."Measure Page Load Time with Site Speed Analytics Report &gt;&gt; Google Analytics blog"Therefore, we are thrilled to announce the availability of the Site Speed report in the new Google Analytics platform. With the Site Speed report you can measure the page load time across your site."Happy birthday Dell: The beginning of an evolution/revolution &gt;&gt; TG DailyYesterday was Dell's birthday, which is clearly an interesting time for the company because it is going through a massive transformation."The fascinating thing about this transformation is that Dell is going in a direction that is quite atypical of a hardware company; one that technology buyers should like but one that isn't without risk."To facilitate this change, Dell has moved from executing just a few acquisitions to cranking out 8 in about 12 months - becoming one of the most aggressively changing companies in the technology segment."Intriguing.Why an iMac now is in the cards for me | Deep Tech - CNET News"Three years ago, I decided not to get an iMac. Now I'm rethinking that decision."And it's not because CNET gave the iMac an Editor's Choice award, though that's helpful. What tipped the scales is an ability to use the machines as a lowly external monitor years from now. Let me explain."Microsoft will tell him first to go to this next site....Do the Math &gt;&gt; Microsoft.com"Surf the web or surf Hawaii", says Microsoft in this dangerous new "comparison" page between Windows PCs and Macs.Why dangerous? Because it makes it look like that Microsoft takes Apple as a serious competitor, worthy of being featured on its own site. And it's not even as if the Windows machines come out best on every comparison either.IP addresses alone cannot be used to identify individuals, US judge says | Pinsent Masons LLP"An IP address on its own cannot be used to identify who has carried out activity on computer networks, a US judge has ruled. Judge Harold Baker, a federal judge in Illinois, denied a copyright holder the right to force internet service providers (ISPs) to hand over the address details of their subscribers."But how DO you turn it off? &gt;&gt; DelbiusIf the head of Twitter's Trust &amp; Safety division can't figure out how to turn off Facebook integration on sites, what hope for the rest of us?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The fourth title in the hugely successfulAssassin's Creedseries is coming out in November. Subtitled 'Revelations', it is apparently the final instalment of the game to feature dashing renaissance assassin, Ezio, who arrived in Assassin's Creed 2 and took on the Borgia clan in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood.According to the Ubisoft press release, Revelations will see Ezio travelling to Constantinople, "where a growing army of Templars threatens to destabilise the region." It is apparently a journey of 'discovery and revelation'. There's also an oblique reference to the Italian killer following in the footsteps of his ancestor, Altair, the protagonist from the first game. A teaser image posted on the game's Facebook page, also showed a character who resembled Altair, suggesting some kind of inter-chronological plot shenanigans. This is particularly intriguing:The latest chapter in the Assassin's Creed saga also includes revolutionary gameplay, allowing players to manipulate the construct of Desmond's memories and the Animus to decipher the mysteries of his past and gain insight into the future.Little else is known at present, although Ubisoft has promised a 'refined and expanded' version of Brotherhood's interesting multiplayer functionality, "with more modes, more maps and more characters that allow players to test their assassin skills against others from around the world."Revelations will be released on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. More will, of course, be revealed at E3 in June.
It's Friday time already!
It's been a mixed bag for Microsoft recently:profits and revenues setting a record for the quarter(yay!) butoutstripped by Apple for all of revenues, profits and market capitalisation(boo!). Its search engine grew its revenue for the quarter (yay!) but increased its losses (boo), which makes it look even less effective when compared to Google. And don't even mention Windows Phone - Microsoft's executivescertainly didn't in their results call.Now it seems that some of the folks up there in Redmond have decided that it's time to get aggressive about pushing the company's services - but the results aren't particularly pretty, as we'll see.But first there is some good news for Microsoft, delivered by a third party. Which Computing?, aka the Consumers Association, has released a study which compares the email services from seven providers - Windows Live Hotmail, Gmail, Yahoo Mail, AOL Mail, Excite (yup, still exists), and Facebook Messages.Hotmail comes out top in the study, scoring 83%; Gmail got 69%, Yahoo 67%, AOL 65%, Excite 50%, and Facebook 48%. (The Which? review isbehind a paywall.)The Which? testers like the 5GB of storage space offered by Hotmail and its interface: "It actually feels like part of the operating system," they noted, and liked the way they could group messages into conversations. Advertising was unobtrusive and they thought the spam filter good. (Gmail offers more than 7GB for free.)Facebook's low score followed its lack of features, inability to receive email from non-Facebook accounts and lack of HTML formatting. On that basis, it's surprising it got so much. "Too minimal", said Which?. Facebook responded: "Facebook Messages is not email. The focus is on creating a simpler, faster experience."So that's today's good news for Microsoft. Now some signs that people there are rattled.• First is the extraordinary creation of acomparison shopping site on the Microsoft website called "Do the Math".The suggestion: you can buy an Apple Mac at HUGE expense, or get something for far less and have money left over to do other stuff. Or, as the tagline has it, "Surf the web or surf Hawaii."You can then choose from among the Apple line and see how its specifications - especially price - stack up against products running Windows.Any branding or marketing manager will tell you this is a terrible idea. Why? Because it defines Windows based on price. It means that all the brand equity in the product becomes tied to low prices, not quality - which in turn means that you can never push prices up, or get brand loyalty.Think of it this way: do you want people to think you're Ryanair or Easyjet - who have built their brands around "cheap" - or an airline where you pay a bit more? Microsoft is making itself and its partners into the Ryanairs and Easyjets of the PC world.It doesn't even work well: the new 27" iMacdoesn't have a competitorif your criterion is screen size. Plus there's a lot of sleight of hand going on: "Windows Skydrive" (which offers free storage for PCsandMacs) is represented as somehow not available on Macs, where instead the suggestion is that you'll spend money on Apple's MobileMe service (which is also available for Windows).Alternatively, if battery life is your thing, then itseems the MacBook 13 is going to be the one. Plus the fact that some of the MacBook Airs use SSDs - superfast Flash storage - is glossed over rather quickly, with a mention in tiny small print.And of course that's before you get to "Security Protection", which you apparently "purchase separately" for Macs. If you choose to have it (read:do you need antivirus protection for the Mac?, one of the most-read articles on this site) you might as well know thatSophos offers a free onewhich won an award recently.So it's full of misinformation, and it doesn't even do the job of showing the Windows machines as better in every way (in some cases, they're very close), but the core failing here is the positioning. What does it say? "Windows machines are cheap." It really doesn't look clever for Microsoft to position itself as the Ryanair of computing. These are machines you'll have for years. Would you want to spend years and years in a Ryanair seat if you could get a better one for a comparatively small extra outlay?And most of all? It shows that Microsoft is treating Apple like a serious competitor that must be pored over, and where technical specs must be compared minutely. It gives it free advertising and more mindshare. The takeaway message an informed consumer might take away? Microsoft must be rattled by thedrop in PC sales last quarterand Apple's contrary continued growth in computer sales. That's not how behemoths are meant to behave.Update:and just to give more clarity to this, Apple's computer sales as a proportion of PC shipments remain tiny: they've only gone over 4% in the past four quarters, after years of bumping along in the 2% and 3% levels. The last time Apple was over 4% of shipments? The fourth quarter of 1999. Is Microsoftreallyworried about Apple going from 1 in 30 to 1 in 20 shipments?• Lastly, just to show that Google hasn't been forgotten in all this lashing out, Microsoft's Tom Rizzo has penned a blogpostclaiming that there's a Hidden Google Tax:No one would willingly give the IRS more than they owe, or submit to taxes they weren't required to pay. So why is it that people and businesses allow themselves to be unfairly "taxed" by Google?The basis of his claim: in a survey of 90 companies using Google Apps across 5 countries, "For 9 out of 10 companies surveyed, Google Apps are used in parallel to Office. These companies have not replaced Office due to user readiness, productivity requirements, security concerns and the inability to work offline."And: "Of the small and medium sized businesses that participated in our survey, most were limited to using Gmail and calendar. Only two in five adopted Google Docs and two out of three companies still use Office as their primary productivity solution."(Disclosure: The Guardian moved from a Lotus Notes/Microsoft Office setup to a Google Apps/OpenOffice setup for most of its staff at the end of 2009.)Google Apps for business isn't free, of course. The blogpost links to a white paper written by - can you guess? - Microsoft, which points to switching costs, migration costs and the need in some cases for extra add-ons. "Google Apps offer very basic functionality that lacks consistent document conversion and import/export capabilities," Rizzo grumbles. This is very true. However, this begs the question: how much functionality do people actually need? That's not very clear. Some people absolutely do need the most powerful functionality of Microsoft Office (though it's interesting to question whether they'd find some of it, and more compatibility, via OpenOffice - which is of course free).But again, what this suggests is concern within Microsoft about Google as a competitor in its most valuable field: Office, the sector that actually generates the most profit. Once again, the feeling that surfaces is: Microsoft is rattled. It's only the companies that you look on as rivals that you go after in this manner.So it's been praised on webmail, but it's begun some aggressive tactics to defend Windows and Office. You could look at that as a company defending its turf. Or perhaps one worried about its future. Do they persuade you?
