It may not have been Facebook's year at the Oscars, with The Social Network, the film depicting its creation, being trounced by The King's Speech, but when it comes to cold, hard cash, Facebook reigns supreme.In the latest list of the world's billionaires, published by Forbes, no fewer than six made their money from Facebook. As members of the world's richest club, the Facebook six have become an elite within the super-elite.Top of the list is Mark Zuckerberg, the social networking site's CEO and president, who helped to create it while at Harvard University. He ranks 52nd in the Forbes list, with a fortune estimated at $13.5bn.His wealth, along with the other five, massively increased this year when Goldman Sachs arranged an injection of $1.5bn (£926m) in capital into the site, valuing the company, which remains private, at $50bn.Next among the six comes Dustin Moskovitz, a co- founder. He is at $2.7bn – well behind Zuckerberg – although he has the satisfaction of having knocked Zuckerberg from his perch as the world's youngest billionaire. Moskovitz, a newcomer to the list as a result of the Goldman deal, was born on 22 May 1984, eight days after the Facebook supremo.The remaining six include Sean Parker (played by Justin Timberlake in the film), who is put at $1.6bn, Peter Thiel ($1.5bn) and a Russian investor in the company, Yuri Milner ($1bn).The final member of the group is Eduardo Saverin, whose falling out with Zuckerberg and the eventual lawsuit and settlement provided the dramatic core of The Social Network. Forbes estimates that the agreement that was reached makes Saverin worth $1.6bn."Shed no tears for Eduardo," says Steve Forbes, editor-in-chief of the business magazine that bears his name. "If you do get to be thrown out, a billion dollars isn't a bad severance package."Some features of the list remain comfortingly stable in a rapidly changing world. The top three names are unchanged, with Carlos Slim Hélu, the Mexican telecoms tycoon, unrivalled in the No 1 slot with a personal value of $74bn, an increase of more than $20bn.The next two in the list – Microsoft's Bill Gates and the investor Warren Buffett – can only muster a lacklustre $56bn and $50bn respectively, but then they are both preoccupied with giving away most of their wealth to charitable causes.Overall, Forbes reckons there are 1,210 billionaires in the world today, 214 more than last year. Another steady theme is the rise of Asia, particularly China. Asia has more billionaires (332) on the list than Europe (300).The US hasn't done too badly this year – the number of American billionaires has risen by 10 to 413. Yet in the medium term its story is one of relative decline. Ten years ago the US accounted for fully half of the global billionaires; last year that proportion had fallen to about 40%. This year it stands at 34%.There are 102 women on this year's list, up from 89. The richest is Christy Walton, widow of John Walton, son of Sam Walton, who founded the US retail giant Walmart.
Dutch police have seized several thousand PlayStation 3s at Sony's biggest European warehouse in the latest stage of its acrimonious patent battle with LG.LG has won a court order enabling it to seize all new PS3 across the Netherlands – including those already in Dutch homes – in a dispute that centres on Sony's allegedly infringing use of Blu-ray technology belonging to LG.The injunction means that LG is tightening the net on PS3s in Europe, having alreadyordered customs officers to seize thousands of the consoles last week.Sony will fight to have the blockade lifted at an emergency hearing in the Hague's civil court of justice tomorrow.LG argues that Sony PS3s infringe a number of its patents relating to playback of Blu-ray discs. The Korean company has been granted an investigation into the PS3's Blu-ray use by the US international trade commission, after seeking a "permanent exclusion order ... excluding entry into the United States" of the games console.Tomorrow's court battle will be one of the first times the Asian giants have come head to head in patent disputes stretching almost seven years.LG is likely to apply for the consoles to be destroyed, while Sony will apply for the blockade to be lifted. A court judgment on what happens next could be returned tomorrow or in the coming days.Customs officials at Rotterdam and Schiphol, the main import points for PS3s for both the UK and wider Europe, are understood to have extended a blockade on two Sony shipments made last week.Sony, which imports about 100,000 PS3s into Europe each week, is attempting to get all the restrictions lifted.If Sony is found to have infringed LG patents, it could be forced to compensate the South Korean manufacturer for each PS3 it has sold around the world, which could cost hundreds of millions of pounds.A spokesman for Sony said: "Sony was notified at the end of February by customs authorities in the Netherlands that an inspection would be made into imports of [PlayStation 3s]. We believe this is due to a petition made by LG Electronics, alleging that Sony may be infringing LG patents related to Blu-ray technologies."However, this is only a preliminary injunction, that has resulted in shipments being temporarily withheld. It does not indicate any acceptance of LG's allegations. We consider these allegations unwarranted, and will take appropriate measures including filing a claim of opposition to courts in the Netherlands. We will not comment on any further details."
Magazine publishers remain unclear about the exact ramifications of Apple's new iOS subscriptions rules on their businesses, according to Mark Payton, editorial director at Haymarket Consumer Media."The main problem we face at the moment is that I don't know if even Apple themselves in the UK know how those rules are going to be applied yet," said Payton at the Mobile Monday London event. "I'll be curious to see how that one plays out."Payton said Haymarket is alive to the potential to market its magazines more as cross-platform content, potentially bundling apps, print and web access into a single subscription for readers.The company has been experimenting on iPad this year, releasing two one-shot apps:Stuff DNAandAutocar Fast Cars. Haymarket has been using theWoodWing Smart Stylesplug-in for Adobe's InDesign software, which Payton said was an attractive option as it fits into the existing workflow of Haymarket's design teams."It means we could put effort into making the product more experimental," he said. "Both of our first apps weren't simply a repurposing of issues that already existed – they were one shots."He warned that it is early days for tablet magazines, in terms of the creative potential and business models around these apps."Our design teams, both online and off, saw the reformatting of magazines for tablets as a space where you could bring the best of magazine design, typography and narrative together with the best of the web," Payton said. "I don't think the tools are necessarily out there to realise that to the full though."Payton said he is no fan of simply slapping pdf scans into an iPad app, as was seen in the early days of magazine publishers targeting the App Store. Ironically, though, Haymarket is currently seeing success from a service that isn't a million miles away from that strategy."We've recently got onto [digital magazine app]Ziniofor a few of our titles, and the numbers have actually been incredible: really encouraging," he said. "The tablet is ironically quite a good format to move round a pdf, and people are subscribing in good numbers."Haymarket's mobile and tablet ambitions were ignited in summer last year, when it saw the percentage of people visiting its websites from mobile devices shoot up from 2 to 3% to more like 11%."A good chunk of that audience is iOS. We are seeing the growth in Android, but from a much lower relative base. It's straightforward – the audience is iOS at the moment, it hasn't made the big switch."Despite the uncertainty around Apple's new rules, Payton said the market for tablet mag subscriptions continues to encourage experimentation, with no "sensible view" on what models will work best.He also gave short shrift to a question about whether Haymarket is concerned about editorial censorship from gatekeepers such as Apple and Google, whose products and services may be written about critically in Haymarket's publications."It's not an issue – I quite like Apple's approach to some of the more extreme material out there actually," he said, referring to the company's approval policies. "It [censorship] is not really a problem yet. If you've seen the guys from Stuff, you'll know they certainly don't pull their punches!"
BT, Sky and Virgin Media – along with the rest of Britain's leading internet service providers – will next week outline an industry-wide "code of practice" on how they explain controversial "two-speed internet" policies to customers.The group will make their announcement at a ministerial summit on net neutrality chaired by culture minister Ed Vaizey – which will also be attended by Tim Berners-Lee, the founder of the web and a strong supporter of net neutrality – on 16 March.The ISPs plan to publish how they manage internet traffic – such as video viewing, music streaming and movie downloading – in comparison to their rivals. That will make clear if they throttle popular services such as the BBC's iPlayer to maintain capacity for all customers on their network.However, the companies – whose ranks also include the leading mobile operators – will not commit to a minimum service standard, even though some phone companies believe that "there should be a basic commitment to let people browse everything on the internet".The agreement follows a wide-ranging debate on "net neutrality" – whether ISPs should be allowed to charge content companies such as the BBC or Google for faster delivery to the nation's homes.BT, TalkTalk and others argue that ISPs should be free to strike deals for more efficient delivery.Under the plans, described as a "voluntary code of conduct" by people at the meeting, ISPs will be compelled to publish a "scorecard" of how they speed up and slow down traffic and for which companies. But internet providers will still be allowed to throttle public access to video and peer-to-peer services if they wish.The Broadband Stakeholders Group, which has been facilitating meetings with ISPs on traffic management since late last year, will publish a statement shortly after the meeting. ISPs hope the move will head off an enforced code of practice by the communications regulator Ofcom.Most ISPs manage traffic at peak times to enable faster speeds for their customers. The BBC has been in fights with ISPs over the amount of bandwidth used to stream its  iPlayer service.In November, the corporation said it wouldintroduce a "traffic light system"on the iPlayer, so that viewers could say whether their connection was being slowed down by providers.Mark Thompson, the BBC director general,publicly intervened in the net neutrality debatein January, saying an internet "fast lane" could undermine the corporation's responsibility to deliver programming to the nation's homes."As the web becomes a vehicle for the transport of richer and richer content, the question of whether all content from all providers is treated equally by the networks becomes ever sharper," he said.
Wii Fit,Mario Kart Wii,Wii Sports Resort: some of the biggest hits on Nintendo's system have been those accompanied by new peripherals. THQ is hoping to join that exclusive club, and with its uDraw Tablet having sold more than a million copies since November in the US, it's off to a good start. uDraw doubles as both an artistic tool and a game controller, and if it initially seems to be aimed at a younger audience, it's just as likely to be enjoyed by parents as their offspring.The hardware is well-built, with the chunky solidity of a Fisher-Price toy. A thick stylus slotted into the base reacts with the 6x4-inch drawing space when held closely to the surface, though users will need to press down reasonably firmly for their pen strokes to be translated to the screen, meaning accidental scribbles are unlikely. A single Wii remote powers the device, though an unfortunate design oversight means it needs to be removed to launch uDraw Studio, the software that comes with the tablet.It's an accessible and impressively flexible art package, providing a range of implements, from airbrushes to chalks, several paper types, and even different environments to get creative in. Available separately, a digital take on boardgamePictionaryis great fun, with an even more intuitive interface.Dood's Big Adventureis the only dud; a brave attempt to add an unusual control twist to platform gaming, it merely serves to highlight the device's limitations. Otherwise, it's easy to understand uDraw's Stateside success.
Wednesday's edition oF Chatterbox
In a quiet news week, several months before the massive E3 event, rumours are starting to circulate about the next generation of Wii and Xbox consoles. While the manufacturers themselves are keeping quiet, everyone knows that hardware research and development is an ongoing concern that doesn't stop for a few years when a new machine launches.We also know that the console industry usually works to a five-year cycles. Sure, the last generation was so hideously expensive for Microsoft and Sony, the duo have sought to hold off a generational leap by releasing new, slimmer versions of their machines, and by introducing motion control hardware. But progress is inevitable – and that looks to be all the evidence that game sites need to start speculating.So we're overdue a refresh. But is one actually on the way? Let's take a look at the facts.Wii 2The rumour:That Nintendo will announce a follow-up to the Wii at E3 in Los Angeles this summer. The device will feature a Blu-ray drive, a quad-core processor and a built-in LED projector, presumably so you can project games onto a wall rather than relying on a large TV display. There are also murmours of 3D support.The evidence:A lot of the information feeding this gossip comes froman IGN articleposted last December, which gathers a range of vague and cryptic quotes from Nintendo personel and third-party developers about the possibility of a Wii sequel. The article includes a chart that shows how each Nintendo hardware iteration since the launch of the NES in 1985 has had roughly a five-year lifespan. And as the Wii was launched in November 2006, we're due a change-up.Elsewhere, some sources have observed that a previous title in Nintendo's massively popular Zelda series – Twilight Princess – was released for both the GameCube and the Wii in a sort of cross-generational baton pass. And Nintendo has a new Zelda title, Skyward Sword, due for release this year. Could Big N be looking to try the same promotional trick twice? Charlotte Martyn, editor of unofficial Nintendo magazine Ngamer, reckons not,according to a quote on Tech Radar, but suggests that, "this year's E3 would seem the logical time for Wii's successor to be confirmed, given the dwindling release list for the current console".The doubts:The Blu-ray, processor and projector detailsseem to come from an anime and manga news sitenamed 3anime, which opens its new story by claiming that Nintendo has 'confirmed' a successor to the Wii. It hasn't – not even a bit – and that rather puts the rest of the information into question. Also, Nintendo has never filled its hardware with expensive cutting edge components, so Blu-ray players, quad-core processors and bespoke projectors would seem to be red herrings. As Time Magazine's Techland blogpoints out, "projected video doesn't seem to line up to the company's commitment to motion gaming. Standing in front of a projector would just make a big shadow."The verdict:Forget the tech specs, that's utter conjecture. But itwouldmake sense for Nintendo to announce Wii 2 this year, with a 2012 launch. The company can capitalise and build on the hype surrounding its 3DS launch, and with Wii sales falling, it can reconnect with its huge mainstream audience. "I'd be very surprised if Nintendo didn't make a hardware announcement at E3," says Tim Ingham, editor of game news site,CVG."Microsoft and Sony have aggressively moved into the space that Nintendo created, and it can't compete with hardware that's becoming outdated. And, of course, people just like to buy new shiny things, it gets as shallow as that. Wii is no longer new and shiny, it's not something that your broadsheet or lifestyle journalists want to write about."But there's another factor that should be prompting Nintendo to go with an E3 announcement. Yesterday,  CVG ranan interviewwith Christofer Sundberg, the co-founder of Just Cause developer, Avalanche. He argued very strongly that the next generation of consoles would not feature optical disc drives. It's a point Philip Oliver, co-founder of Blitz Games Studios,has made before: physical media is dead.Sony is heading in this direction, both through the PSP Go and the recently announced NGP console, which will use flash memory cards, rather than discs. But Nintendo could well be in the best position to bring about the digital distribution revolution. As Ingham points out: "Nintendo is best positioned to go digital-only. It has a client base that's used to playing games on devices like the iPhone; its core uses are comfortable with downloading smaller games digitally and using these as their main source of play."So, with a reasonably powerful Wii 2, boasting a strong digital download service and HD visuals (a must considering the huge rise in LCD TV sales since the Wii), Nintendo can shape the next-gen conversation without resorting to cutting edge hardware components.Xbox 720The XBox 360 launch event at an aircraft hanger in the Mojave Desert. Photograph: Chris Pizzello/ReutersThe rumour:Microsoft is gearing up to announce a sequel to Xbox 360, widely nicknamed the Xbox 720 - you know, because that'stwofull revolutions. Or something.The evidence:This one has come about due to a series of job listings on the Microsoft website (see Engadget), looking for hardware engineers, specifically Xbox-capable hardware engineers, to join a team that's currently, "defining and delivering next generation console architectures". That would very much appear to be the smoking gun of console rumour confirmation.Also, developers seem to be openly discussing the prospect of new hardware – always a good sign that something is imminent. In that CVG interview with Christofer Sundberg, he said this on the subject of new Xbox hardware:"It's actually quite an interesting subject for us – because when we worked on Just Cause 1, the Xbox 360 came out [at around the same time]. We had to do the 360 version in six months. It's an interesting place again right now, where the projects we're working on today might be coming out on [Microsoft's] next technology."This reflectsa commentmade last year by Bungie community director Brian Jarrard who said the studio was planning its next title, "to potentially span multiple hardware generations."The doubts:Okay, so Microsoft is clearly recruiting for its console R&amp;D division; but we've already established that console manufacturers –by their very definition– continue to work on furture hardware throughout the lifespan of the previous product. Indeed, the fact that the team size is only just ramping up would suggest that we might have to wait a little while for the results. Also, Microsoft hasstated very publicly, that it's supporting the Xbox 360 until 2015. Now, that doesn't mean we won't see a follow-up until 2015 (Sony is still selling the PS2 five years into the PS3 lifecycle), but it probably means Microsoft has until at least 2013 to start getting serious about a new machine.The verdict:There's nothing really here to suggest that an announcement is imminent, and there was a major hardware launch last year: Kinect. "The rhetoric coming out Microsoft is largely, well, Kinectisyour new console, it is the next generation," says Ingham. "That's fine and a good defensive position, but it's more about Microsoft's market growth than it is about technology."However, there are some compelling arguments as to why Microsoftshouldbe considering an upgrade. "There are developers out there who are keen to get their teeth into new hardware," says Ingham. "There was an interesting quote from Cevat Yerli, the boss of Crytek, who said that the console market has remained static for so long that the high-end PCs are effectively a generation ahead in terms of hardware. So it's little wonder that some teams are getting slightly restless. The in-house studios, especially, are probably thinking, 'we're sick of the same old hardware, we want something new'."Developer pester power should not be overlooked here. It's crucial to the console manufacturers to have the best studios onside, and the best studios tend to be the ones with incredibly bright, ambitious coders who want to try themselves against bleeding edge hardware. Sony famously toured the world's most talented development houses in 1994 taking its PlayStation demos with it – the company knew it had to get the dev community interested before even thinking about consumers.Of course, Xbox 360 is still selling, and Kinect is performing well with over 8m units sold. But then, there's no reason why Kinect shouldn't be compatible with the Xbox 720. Or whatever it will be called, whenever it is announced ...PlayStation 4A bit more quiet at the moment. In an interview with Japanese site PC watch last month, Sony Computer Entertainment President Kazuo Hirai stated this about the PS3: "Every year, we reveal and release new features. That's why, we're not deliberating on a PS4 or a next generation machine, whatever you call it." (Kotaku has a translationhere). R&amp;D is certainly continuing on PS4, but the company is adamant that it's concentrating on PS3 and NGP this year.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFox DMCA Takedowns Order Google to Remove Fox DMCA Takedowns &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"As concerns mount over the amount of checking carried out before items are taken down, it appears that Fox has managed to get Google to delist DMCA complaints on Chilling Effects, which were originally sent by Fox themselves and submitted to Chilling Effects by Google."Google Bans Itself Again By Banning BeatThatQuote.com &gt;&gt; Search Engine Land"Yesterday the financial price comparison site, BeatMyQuote.com was purchased by Google for £37.7 million. And within the same 24-hour period Google decided to slap on a penalty to lower its ranking due to violating Google's webmaster guidelines." Now *that*, Alanis Morrisette, is what we mean by 'irony'.Viewsonic dual-boot tablet: Windows 7 or Android 1.6? &gt;&gt; ViewsonicIt's a press release, yes. Android 1.6 on a 10" tablet? $599? Windows 7? Wow. But the more interesting thing about this soon-to-be-landfill is the promotional image. The one there is a rather blurry Windows 7 - at least, the menus are. However when originally released it had a slightly tweaked, and in-focus,screenshot taken on Mac OSX. A three-OS tablet? That's a record, surely.Microsoft Is Said to Pay Nokia More Than $1 Billion in Deal &gt;&gt; Businessweek"Microsoft Corp. will pay Nokia Oyj more than $1 billion to promote and develop Windows-based handsets as part of their smartphone software agreement, according to two people with knowledge of the terms."Microsoft Gives Up On Sidekick &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Microsoft has given up on getting anything out of its $500m acquisition of Danger: it's shutting down the Danger service for T-Mobile Sidekick customers on May 31." Remember when the Sidekick was the trendiest phone in the US? Still, Nokia can feel safe. Microsoft is giving it a billion dollars.Apple's customer unfriendly iPad2 sales plan &gt;&gt; The Orange ViewFrom the Ronald Reagan PR playbook: "Nobody heard what you said. They just saw the pictures." So if you get long lines of people waiting to buy a product on the TV news and media to make it look like your product is insanely popular.... Oh, did someone ask why you can't pre-order the iPad 2 online?Advertising in Skype &gt;&gt; Skype Blog"We believe that advertising, when done in the right way, will help us continue to invest in developing great products." Translation: we haven't got enough people paying for the service to cover our costs in other ways. Thought: will an upgrade be obligatory, or can we keep the nice old versions of Skype?Latest comScore numbers have Android at #1 in US &gt;&gt; Fortune TechThe interesting questions now will be which Android handset makers can make enough profit to make it worthwhile, and whether Windows Phone can get any traction.Playing Music Better &gt;&gt; Tim Bray"My #1 complaint [about iTunes] is that when I just want to listen to some music, iTunes gets in my way. If it isn't actually running it takes forever to start. Then, unreasonably often, it wants to update itself. Then maybe it decides it needs to reindex, or tell me about Ping, or do some genius-bar stuff, all of which get between me and my music. "Let me put it this way: Playing a song on iTunes often takes longer than it did to get the CD off the shelf, slide the player's drawer out and in, and wait for the music to start. "I think I've been influenced by the music apps on my Android devices. The iOSians tell me theirs is better, but I can tell you that I have two or three different programs on my Galaxy Tab which get me to the music immensely faster than iTunes running on a large dual-quad-core 'personal computer'. Certainly iTunes's unending series of "can you just wait? it's time to update" is beyond boring.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
When Facebook gets involved, relationships can quickly fall apart – as Hosni Mubarak and Muammar Gaddafi have discovered. But dictatorships are not the only ties being dissolved by social networking sites: now Facebook is increasingly being blamed for undermining American marriages.Even though the rate of divorce in the US has remained largely stable in recent years, American divorce lawyers and academics have joined Middle East analysts in picking out Facebook as a leading cause of relationship trouble, with American lawyers now demanding to see their clients' Facebook pages as a matter of course before the start of proceedings."We're coming across it more and more. One spouse connects online with someone they knew from school. The person is emotionally available and they start communicating through Facebook," said Dr Steven Kimmons, a clinical psychologist and marriage counsellor atLoyola University Medical Centrenear Chicago.Yet while the US media has been quick to trumpet any evidence of Facebook as the country's leading marriage-wrecker, the truth is "It's complicated," as the site's relationship status would have it.A2010 surveyby the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers (AAML) found that four out of five lawyers reported an increasing number of divorce cases citing evidence derived from social networking sites in the past five years, with Facebook being the market leader.Two-thirds of the lawyers surveyed said that Facebook was the "primary source" of evidence in divorce proceedings, while MySpace with 15% and Twitter with 5% lagged far behind.Those statistics included not just evidence of infidelity butother legal battles, such as child custody cases in which parents deny using illicit drugs but boast of smoking marijuana on their Facebook pages.Photographs harvested from social networking sites – including those posted by friends or colleagues on their own pages – are a particularly rich source of damning evidence, according to divorce lawyers."This sort of evidence has gone from nothing to a large percentage of my cases coming in," Linda Lea Vicken, a member of the divorce lawyers' group from South Dakota,told the Associated Press.Marlene Eskind Moses, president of the AAML, said the openness and sharing of social networking sites left their users' public and private lives more exposed."If you publicly post any contradictions to previously made statements and promises, an estranged spouse will certainly be one of the first people to notice and make use of that evidence," said Moses.Statistics for January fromonline analysts Nielsenshowed 135 million people in the US visiting Facebook during the month – nearly 70% of the country's internet users. On average, users spent more than seven hours a month visiting the site, far longer than the less than half an hour spent on visits to Amazon or the average of two hours and 15 minutes on Google, America's most popular web destination.The overall rate of divorce, however, appears to be unaffected by the advent of social networking. Themost recent published data– from 2009 – shows the overall divorce rate declining, slightly more slowly than the shrinking percentage of Americans who get married every year.A spokesperson for Facebook said: "It's ridiculous to suggest that Facebook leads to divorce. Whether you're breaking up or just getting together, Facebook is just a way to communicate, like letters,  phone calls and emails. Facebook doesn't cause divorces, people do."But given its popularity, it is little wonder that negotiating "Facebook divorce" status updates has becomeanother unhappy eventfor failed romances, over when to launch the site's broken-heart icon out into the glare of the world's news feed.
Aleks Krotoski is joined by Guardian Technology editor Charles Arthur and Guardian Apps Blog editor Stuart Dredge in the studio this week to forecast how the recently launched iPad 2 will transform our web consumption habits. Is the browser dead? Are apps the way we'll surf the web from now on?Mozilla Europe's president Tristan Nitot and Mozilla Europe's VP of Product Jay Sullivan don't think so; they've briefed Charles on the upcoming Firefox 4 release, which they claim is future proof. Along with a few tantalising personal recommendations for Firefox extensions, Charles, Stuart and Aleks discover the USP for web browsing applications on handheld devices, and what Firefox needs to do to remain a player in the face of competition from native browsing apps bundled with hardware – unlike its predecessor, Netscape.Aleks speaks with Mohit Gundecha from Mig33, a mobile social network with 40 million registered users throughout India, Indonesia, Bangladesh and the Middle East, and discovers that the secret of their success is down to cultural differences.Finally, Jemima and Aleks unveil their grand plans for who they'll interview, what they'll see, when they'll be where and how they'll cover the South by Southwest interactive festival in Austin, Texas, taking place next week. Check out the SXSW schedule and let them know what you'd like to see covered.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The next wave of innovation in book apps may come from developers working directly with authors, says David Roth-Ey, group digital director and publisher at HarperCollins UK."What we can do is really get developers working closely with our authors," he said at the Mobile Monday London event. "What comes out is rising organically, rather than grafting a developer onto the end of a project once the content has been written."HarperCollins has had some success in turning books into apps already. Its iPhone and iPad app for the SAS Survival Guide has sold more than 100,000 downloads with a £3.99 price point, according to Roth-Ey.Meanwhile, a more recent app for children's book The Heart And The Bottle has also been successful, although Roth-Ey did not give figures for it."It's not his best-selling book, but Apple loved it and made it iPad App Of The Week," he said. "It's £2.39, and is really stretching what a picture book can be in very innovative ways. We're trying to bake that into our divisions at the editorial level, not just at the digital level like me."The topic of the Mobile Monday event was tablets, which Roth-Ey described as "hugely significant ... a new form factor for digital reading".He also said that the book publishing world has been fortunate in agreeing early an international standard around the ePub e-book format, ensuring that publishers' digital content can flow into apps and stores on many platforms without needing to be reformatted.However, there are other challenges. Roth-Ey cited ebook discovery as a key problem waiting to be solved on tablets and smartphones alike."Discovery is terrible in the digital environment. The iBooks app isn't very good, and even shopping on a Kindle isn't a great experience," he said. "If you know what you're looking for it's fantastic, but the whimsy and delight you get at indie bookstores is absolutely missing."Roth-Ey is hoping that developers will solve this problem, though. "I hope there's some developers out there thinking of a way to replicate that experience," he said. "There is a big audience of book lovers who are very nostalgic about that, and feel a bit guilty about leaving behind physical books for digital ones."He was also asked whether the book publishing industry will ever go down the Spotify/Netflix road of an all-you-can-eat subscription service, where people pay a flat monthly fee for unlimited access to a catalogue of e-books."My nightmare is that we have to rush off and find a 'Spotify for books'," he said. "We have to find a model that does compensate us for the value of that content. It's something we're certainly thinking about, and how we can do it in a way that makes sense."Roth-Ey said that any such subscription service might involve windowing ebooks in a similar way to TV shows and movies, looking at how content is distributed through Netflix and LoveFilm.
"Imagining a post-PC world ... at this juncture, given all that has transpired in computing and communications, it's important that all of us do precisely what our competitors and customers will ultimately do: close our eyes and form a realistic picture of what a post-PC world might actually look like. How would customers accomplish the kinds of things they do today?  In what ways would it be better?  In what ways would it be worse, or just different?"Who do you think said that? Steve Jobs, in his coda tothe unveiling of the iPad 2 last week? Nope. What Jobs said was this: "Our competitors are looking at this [tablet market] like it's the next PC market. That is not the right approach to this. These are post-PC devices that need to be easier to use than a PC, more intuitive. The hardware and software need to intertwine more than they do on a PC. We think we're on the right path with this."The first quote, by contrast, comes from Ray Ozzie – and it's contained inhis parting salvo to Microsoftwhen he stepped down as chief software architect after five years last October.Ozzie was signalling, as clearly as he could manage, that the post-PC world is, if not upon us, then coming at us with express train-styled speed. "And the PC and its ecosystem is going to keep growing, and growing, for a long time to come," he wrote. "But ..."And there's the thing. You might prefer to stick on the first half of his prognostication. After all, are we truly living in the post-PC era? The numbers initially suggest not. The research company Gartnerreckons that this year will see 387.8m PCs sold worldwide, up 10.5% on 2010. Rude health, right?Look around, though. Look at the adverts for smartphones and data plans that spring up on every web page you visit. Look at the coverage of "media tablets" (not just Apple's iPad) that you find on every technology website that has any sort of consumer readership – and even some that don't, because media tablets are (despite what any naysayers might think) finding their way into peoples' homes and businesses, just as the first PCs did almost 30 years ago.Dig a little deeper and you see the extent of the change. The research company Gartnerlast week announced a substantial downrating of its forecast for PC sales, to 387.8m, a 10.5% increase on 2010. But at the start of January, it was forecasting that sales growth this year would be 15.9% (which would mean 406.6m PCs sold). And in November, it was suggesting 17.9% growth, which would have been 413.6m sales.Which means that in roughly five months, Gartner reckons that 25.8m potential PC sales have vanished. (IDC, another research company, says it will have updated forecasts later this week.)That's rather a lot of money lost for Microsoft. My calculations, based on the revenues and profits from Microsoft's accounts (which I've wrangled into annual numbers, because the company's financial year starts halfway through the calendar year), show that for every 10m PCs sold, Microsoft gets• $573m of revenues in its Windows division;• $443m of profits in its Windows division.(Based on a linear average of seven years' figures.)Here are the graphs. (The table with the figures is at the end of this post.) The pinkish lines are the linear best fit. The line connecting the data points shows the time progression.Worldwide PC sales v revenuesWorldwide PC sales v profitsSo if Gartner thinks that tablets have eaten 25.8m PC sales, that is $1.48bn of lost revenues, and $1.1bn of lost profits. That's money coming straight off Microsoft's bottom line.You can argue that this is just spreadsheet-wrangling: imaginary sales that never really existed except on an analyst's computer. I'm not sure that Microsoft's board would agree: last year theyhalved Steve Ballmer's bonus, on the basis that the mobile business wasn't doing as well as it should.And this time it doesn't look cyclical. Unlike 2008 and 2009, when PC sales were flat because of the horrendous financial outlook, this time the sales have been diverted, Gartner reckons, to our new friends, media tablets and smartphones, which outsold PCs in the fourth quarter of 2010; I don't think PCs will ever outsell smartphones again, because cheap Android phones are taking off in China, Nokia has 150m Symbian handsets to dump on the world's markets over the next 18 months, and Apple can now offer GSM and CDMA versions of its phones to high-end buyers.It's those media tablets which are snarfing the sales in particular in the region where the PC first had its boom: North America. PC sales actually shrank there by 6% in the fourth quarter, but that's where media tablets are having their best showing, making up more than 50% of the estimated 19.5m tablets sold in 2010. Imagine the decline in PC sales as a wave washing over the world, starting in the place where the PC boom began - the US.And this year? Gartner's talking about nearly 55m tablets being sold worldwide.That's a lot of non-PCs; a lot of consumption and creation going on completely beyond the boundaries of the PC. Emails, spreadsheets, music (onGarageband on the iPad 2), movies (Googledemoed a movie editor for Honeycombwhich can upload directly to YouTube at Mobile World Congress).And Microsoft still doesn't have a tablet strategy worthy of the name. It won't allow Windows Phone 7 on tablets. Nobody (to close enough approximation) is buying Windows 7 tablets.Are PCs going away? No. But that's like asking whether radio went away when TV came along. It didn't – but the time and effort spent on listening to it was quite rapidly diverted to the new medium. Or you could look at it like VHS video v DVDs: VHS hung on pretty well, but DVDs turned out to be a better way to do precisely the same thing.Windows division revenue and profit v PC salesYearWindows revenue ($m)Windows division profit ($m)PCs sold worldwide20041185092311762005125699760207.8200612390955923020071755313836257.420081673413488287.820091643011082308.320101880212698350.92011387.82012440.6Sources: Microsoft, Gartner. Numbers for 2011 and 2012 are estimates.And in the meantime, there will be a billion-dollar hole in Microsoft's profits this year because it hasn't worked out what it should do. The price of not listening to Ray Ozzie is turning out to be high.
The compilation, that evergreen provider of bloat to the video game racks. For the consumer, it's a way of getting many for the price of some. For the developer, it's a surefire method of squeezing fresh sales from slightly musty product, with the odd gem thrown in.PopCap, that renowned creator of "casual games" (think: Tetris, Solitaire, Minesweeper) first sprang to prominence in 2001 with the maddeningly addictive Bejeweled. Since then, the company has assembled an impressive catalogue of dip-in, dip-out titles – four of which are plucked from Xbox Live Arcade and compiled here.Zuma, from 2003, is the oldest title, a pseudo-puzzler in the Bust-A-Move tradition which borrows heavily from late-90s title Ballistic, aka Puzz Loop. It features a snaking chain of variously coloured balls following a winding, pre-determined path towards an exit.You, a frog (don't ask), are equipped with coloured balls of your own to try and stop them getting there. Fire them into the pack, and every same-coloured row of three-or-more balls disappears, temporarily halting the chain's progress. Sadly, this a slightly lazy port from the PC/Mac original, featuring an intrusive border around the main action as opposed to offering a full-screen mode, and those that have previously played with either a mouse or a scroll-wheel will find the Xbox controller a little clunky to use at first. That said, it's superb fun, with a satisfying feel as each ball fires off and clacks against others, pool-style.Feeding Frenzy 2 is the Marmite title in the collection. A cross between Ecco The Dolphin and long-forgotten 8-bit classic Savage Pond, you begin as butterfly fish Boris, making your way around the ocean looking for schools of smaller fish to hoover up, avoiding ominously large predators, and gradually working your way up the food chain until you're big enough to gorge on pretty much everything in sight.Expanding on the original with more power-ups, a great co-op two-player mode, some largely forgettable party games, plus additional levels which see you able to venture to the surface to pluck insects from the air and perform flips and flops, it's a cute mixture of hectic action and a soothing ambience, and while not for everyone, is well worth its inclusion here.Quality drops as we reach Heavy Weapon, a fairly primitive side-scrolling shooter with a decidedly retro feel – think Moon Patrol as reimagined by Michael Bay. You control Atomic Tank, attacking all that comes at you from air, ground and sea. Making use of a control system in the Robotron/Smash TV vein, left stick moves the tank, while right stick controls the direction of your fire.After some straightforward opening levels, soon you find your reflexes stretched to their limits. But alas, while the air fills with pyrotechnics, fun remains thin on the ground. Repetition sets in fast and after a few inevitable and frustrating deaths, it's hard to muster up the will to start again. There's a decent array of weaponry and power-ups on offer, and multiplayer modes add interest, but nothing here isn't done far better elsewhere.The real attraction in this package is Plants vs Zombies. A tower defense-style romp, it pits you against scores of the undead, armed with a series of plant-based weapons including pea-shooters, melon-pults, cherry-bombs, walnuts and (my favourite) corn-cob cannons to curb their progress. The most recent title here, and far-and-away the most polished, PvZ is far from "casual" gaming – it takes serious willpower to stop yourself taking on each new level.The controls aren't quite as satisfying as in the touchscreen versions (this is a game that excels on iPad, iPod Touch and iPhone), but they work extremely well. After building to an almost unbearably hectic crescendo, story mode does seem to end a little too abruptly, but while working through you'll unlock several other game modes and some very decent mini games, and there's plenty of replay value to be had.An essential XBLA purchase, it's simply superb, and fully deserving of a physical release.A mixed bag then, but perhaps the biggest reservation about PopCap Hits Volume 2 comes when you look at the maths. To download all four would cost you 3,200 Microsoft Points, which even at top whack works out less than the retail price of this compilation. Similarly, it's hard to fathom why the developer stopped at four titles. Downloading them all would only take up a little over 200Mb, so the DVD media is hardly being stretched to breaking point here.Bejewelled Blitz, Peggle Nights and Bookworm are just three fine PopCap titles that remain uncompiled, and would have helped add up to decent value for £29.99.As it stands, there's quality to be had here, but the discerning casual gamer would perhaps do better to invest in some portable storage and a fistful of points to cherrypick PopCap's best for themselves.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
When I was a high-school student in Toronto, I loved working in libraries. I spent a glorious summer inputting the ISBN of every book in a junior-high-school library for a new automated catalogue (if that doesn't sound glorious, think of this: I had to get down and handle every single book in a mid-sized library, which was an education in and of itself). I worked at a high-school library for a time. Then I graduated to the big leagues: working in the business and urban affairs section of the North York Central Library, a huge, multi-storey library with dozens of collections and hundreds of librarians, public service clerks, and pages – that was my job, page, and it meant doing all the drudgework from re-shelving books to repairing the newspapers.Yes, repairing the newspapers. We were the business collection, and that meant that people came in to find out what had been in any of the nation's daily papers (as well as a few international papers) over the past month. After 30 days, we'd get microfilm editions of the papers, which were kind of a pain to read, but they were at least designed from the ground up to be used by the general public over a period of years.You can't say the same thing about the print edition of a newspaper. Newspapers are practically designed to self-destruct after a single reading – if you've ever picked up a daily paper in a cafe around suppertime after it's been handled by a day's worth of patrons, you know that this is a *personal* tech, and that after a pass-along or two, it starts to look like it's been to the wars.Try to imagine what a newspaper looks like after it's been read by a busy library's patrons over the course of 30 days. By month's end, the papers were more sellotape than newsprint, big photocopied sections glued in to replace torn-out or illegible pieces and so on. Whatever the demerits of microfilm as a storage medium (and it is notoriously balky, difficult stuff), at least it had a certain durability that the print article lacked.Now, we did pay a stiff premium for those film editions, but nothing in our deal with the newspaper publishers required us to gently and deliberately age them so that they would fall to bits over 30 days' use. No one tried to argue that the fact that newspapers disintegrated if you looked at them cross-eyed was afeaturethat had to be preserved as their content moved from medium to medium.And yet, that is just the case made inthe ebook deal HarperCollins is offering to libraries. HarperCollins has informed libraries that henceforth, ebooks will be sold on the condition that they can only be circulated 26 times before they self-destruct. HarperCollins argues that this reflects the usage characteristics of the print editions that HarperCollins has sold to libraries for literally centuries. That is, HarperCollins argues that once one of its print books lands on the shelves of a local library, it will only survive for 26 checkouts before it has to be discarded because it is in such an unreadable state.Now, in point of fact, many ordinary trade books circulate far more than 26 times before they're ready for the discard pile. If a group of untrained school kids working as part-time pages can keep a copy of the Toronto Star in readable shape for 30 days' worth of several-times-per-day usage, then it's certainly the case that the skilled gluepot ninjas working behind the counter at your local library can easily keep a book patched up and running around the course for a lot more than 26 circuits. Indeed, the HarperCollins editions of my own books are superb and robust examples of the bookbinder's art (take note!), and judging from the comments of outraged librarians, it's common for HarperCollins printed volumes to stay in circulation for a very long time indeed.But this is the wrong thing to argue about. Whether a HarperCollins book has the circulatory vigour to cope with 26 checkouts or 200, it'sbizarre to argue that this finite durability is a featurethat we should carefully import into new media. It would be like assuming the contractual obligation to attack the microfilm with nail-scissors every time someone looked up an old article, to simulate the damage that might have been done by our careless patrons to the newsprint that had once borne it.Ebooks have loads of demerits, especially as they are marketed to libraries. They are sold at full price, while print editions generally go at a hefty discount to reflect libraries' volume purchasing. They can only be read with certain, proprietary readers, something analogous to insisting that the libraries require patrons to read their books by the light of one preferred manufacturer's lightbulb. They can't be sold on as a library discard once the library no longer needs them for the collection.But they have virtues, too. For example, they don't wear out. To pretend that this belongs on the "con" side rather than the "pro" side of the ebook chart is indefensible. You might as well argue that a surcharge should be assessed against paperbacks to offset the "losses" experienced by publishers when libraries buy them instead of the hardcover, or that charity shops should be obliged to apply fake rust to stainless steel cutlery to make up for the fact that it lasts longer than the non-stainless kind.Of course ebooks don't wear out. Programming them to self-destruct after 26 checkouts is tantamount to asking librarians to embrace entropy. Anyone who thinks that this is going to happen has never spent any time with a librarian.
While Microsoft's343 Industriesmulls over where to take the mammoth Halo franchise, and whileBungieworks on its upcoming multi-format project for Activision, three ex-staff members from the first three Halo titles have grasped destiny by the throat and set up their own studio.Moonshot Gameshas now revealed a trailer for its first title, Fallen Frontier, a 2D platform shooter set on a colony world in Alpha Centauri. Players take on the roll of a lawman turning up at the planet on some kind of revenge mission. As the developer's website explains, "Events unfold as an engaging film noir style mystery, and the hero quickly comes to realize that in this brave new world, nothing is quite as it seems."The team is promising to bring along the design princples they developed at Bungie, and certainly the intro to their teaser clip has Halo's stately ominence and that sense of desperate men fighting the odds on the edge of the galaxy. From here, the obvious reference points are Shadow Complex and Bionic Commando – especially with the title's 'hard sci-fi' setting. Players can use rifles and grenades to blast enemies, but there's also a grapple gun, used both to navigate the vertical environment and to grab enemies, a la Bulletstorm. A co-op mode is included, too, and one moment from the trailer shows two players grapple hooking an enemy at the same time, which looks like an amusing tactic.No word yet on release dates or platforms, but XBLA and PSN are likely. The team will be revealing more details at thePax Eastexhibition taking place later this week.
Sky is keen to launch mobile apps across many smartphone and tablet platforms, despite challenges around monetisation and rights, according to its general manager for mobile, David Gibbs."We've seen success on iPhone, with 10.2m downloads of our applications," he said at the Mobile Monday event in London."But it's important if we're going to make a real commitment to mobile, we need to be ubiquitous as possible. It's important that we spread ourselves across all of the platforms. That can be quite expensive, but if you're committed to it, you have to invest."Gibbs said Sky has been impressed with the performance of its apps on BlackBerry smartphones – "it's been a really encouraging platform for us" – and said the broadcaster is monitoring the progress of Nokia's partnership with Microsoft for Windows Phone.And Android? Sky has developed apps for Android, but Gibbs said there are specific issues with Google's OS that are preventing the company from investing heavily. "The big sticking point at the moment is security around streams," he said."We can't protect those streams to meet the obligations for our rightsholders. There will be a solution around September-time, but it's a challenge: we're optimising someone else's [DRM] solution and putting a wrapper around it. We would like to have been there earlier, as we are aware there is a significant number of Android customers."Gibbs described Apple's iPad 2 as a "really exciting platform", picking out its ability to display 1080p resolution HD video. However, Sky is taking an equally balanced view to the tablet market in the long term."We're looking at all tablets," he said. "BlackBerry PlayBook is an interesting proposition for us, as the specific BlackBerry audience offers something different to the iPad and Android devices. But we're looking at all of them. You have to follow the customer."He sidestepped questions about Apple's new rules on iOS subscriptions, while admitting that "the whole debate changed quite a bit last week" around charging for iOS applications.Overall, Gibbs was bullish about smartphones and tablets, though. "We see this as the third screen, and increasingly becoming the second screen for our customers."He said that broadcasters are resisting the pressure to reach fixed conclusions about business models in the apps space."The beauty of this is you can experiment with different models, and afford to change things around. We have an existing subscription for our customers, so how do we extend that subscription and add value to it in our tablet products, and how do we create new customers? It's still a learning process."Gibbs warned that Sky has to operate within its rights agreements and the security obligations around them, meaning that there are some restrictions to the content it can offer on tablets – especially in the light of technologies such as Apple's AirPlay, which lets iPad users stream video from apps to their television.
Spotify has reached 1 million paying customers, making the online music service the largest of its kind in the world.The company announced on Tuesday that 15% of its active users pay for Spotify, marking a significant milestone for music streaming sites.Spotify isin the process of a $100m funding roundthat values it at $1bn (£616m) – despite long delays on its expansion to the US.Daniel Ek, Spotify's co-founder and chief executive,told the Financial Times: "For any kind of 'freemium' business, that is a really, really good number. It's safe to say we are growing up. We are still a toddler, but we are growing faster and faster every day."Almost 6 million music fans use Spotify's free service, which is subsidised by advertising, with 1 million paying subscribers. The loss-making company was previously thought to have tempted less than 10% of its users to pay, with analysts predicting a bleak future of Europe's favourite digital streaming site.The four major music labels – Universal, Warner Music, Sony and EMI – are also thought to have been unconvinced by the startup's stateside ambitions.However, with an impressive ratio of paying customers and talk of a sky-high round of funding, Spotify's long-awaited launch in the US may not be too far away. Both EMI and Sony are understood to have put pen to paper on US deals with Spotify, with the two largest labels yet to fully commit.In the US, potential competitors include Rhapsody – which recently signed up its 750,000th paying customer – and smaller services such as MOG and Rdio. Bigger players Apple and Google are thought to be lining up forays into music streaming within the next 12 months.The most recent audited annual accounts for Spotify, for 2009, show it lost £16.6m in the UK on revenues of £11.3m."It seems like only yesterday we were hatching ideas for a new music service in a tiny office-cum-apartment with a broken coffee machine, and the party we threw having reached 1 million users almost two years ago today was one to remember," Ek wroteon the company's blogon Tuesday."From everyone at Spotify, we'd like to give you all massive thanks. We'll continue to focus on providing you with the best music service possible, and look forward to adding even more cool new features over the coming months. What's really exciting is that this is only the beginning."
If William Gibson and Wassily Kandinsky somehow conspired to invent a game designer, they would create Tetsuya Mizuguchi. During the nineties this veteran of Sega's famed Amusement Machine divisions crafted a string of successful racing titles, but then, when the company span out its development studios in 2000, he started thinking about games in a whole different way.The keen clubber and techno fanatic became interested in the concept of synesthesia, the merging and confusion of sensory inputs, and via the witty dancing title Space Channel 5, this fascination led to Rez, an awe-inspiring shooting game about music.Child of Eden, a startling musical-graphical odyssey, is the culmination of what Mizuguchi started to explore with that fondly remembered title. It is a liminal interactive experience, a combination of shoot-'em-up, digital art exhibition and dance music video. Except unlike Rez, there is no ghostly figure on screen representing the player: Kinect and PlayStation Move have allowed the camera to pull back, and the game's universe engulfs us.Speaking about the charismatic head of his studio, James Mielke, the producer of Child of Eden, explains: "This is the culmination of his life's work. He's a techno-hippy, he has these messages he wants to get across – love, happiness … things that would cause an allergic reaction in some masculine gamers. But he doesn't care about that. This game is Mizuguchi in a capsule."The concept at the heart of it all is the stuff of … well I don't know, but lets go with techno-spiritualist mythology. Lumi, the first child to be born aboard a distance space station, has died, but in order to preserve her being, the infant's personality has been uploaded onto a powerful computer named Eden.Unfortunately, the data is now being attacked by a virus, and the player's role is to go into each of the five sectors of the Lumi program and purify it of invading code.You interact with the world via a reticule controlled with your right hand and two different "weapons". The "tracer" auto-fires light missiles at onscreen enemies, while the lock-on option highlights up to eight objects, which can then be dispatched by thrusting your palm forwards (or, if you're feeling energetic, by kicking).But of course, the wonder of the game is that you are not blasting angular spacecraft out of the dead vacuum of space. Amid soaring cloudscapes and glittering starry skies, the screen fills with flower-like beings that pulsate and transmute as they are targeted.There are groups of pods forming floating caterpillars; there are erupting insect cocoons, swooping jellyfish and fluttering crystalline butterflies. When these organic oddities are hit, the gentle, echoing pings and bleeps they make differ depending on the weapon you've employed. As you kill (or "purify" to use the game's hippy parlance), you compose.But the really important thing about the game, is that there is solid shoot-'em-up design beneath the dazzling aesthetics. Control over the targeting system is intuitive and accurate, and lag is minimal so the natural interface between player and machine – the vital link in the sensory chain imagined by Mizuguchi – is supple and compelling.There's also a deep scoring system with multipliers available to players who can target eight enemies before blasting them, and colour coded gates between sequences that players unlock with timed blasts.After a few minutes of floundering things begin to click into place. Suddenly, you're reading the game's rhythm, painting the screen with laser fire and clapping to swap between weapons (you can also operate one weapon with your right hand and one with your left, though this takes a little more practise).Mizuguchi is looking for an immersive ride that in some way resembles the clubbing experience – there's even a screen-clearing smart bomb called "euphoria", accessed by throwing your arms in the air. You don't have to be a veteran of the second summer of love to get what imagery he's playing with here.Although it'll probably help because the Eden concept expands beyond the game itself. Lumi, the character at the game's heart, is also the "virtual idol" who fronts Genki Rockets, a dance music collective produced by Mizuguchi. They previously provided the soundtrack to his 2004 sonic puzzler, Lumines and they're here again, conjuring the game's audio landscape of tinkling ambient techno J-pop.Lumi herself appears throughout the game, most startlingly as a video texture embedded within an end of level boss designed to resemble a huge blossoming flower. Between each of the five sectors, players are also able to access an interactive menu named Lumi's Garden, which provides a range of sound toys – and more become available each time you complete the game.Mizuguchi is also a fan of physical feedback, too. Rez came with the legendary Trance Vibrator, a device that plugged into an unused joystick port and buzzed in time to the game's rhythms – there were interesting implementations, Child of Eden offers its own semi-haptic set-up: all four Xbox pads will vibrate in time with the game, so players can experiment with various, er, positionings. Mizuguchi has apparently fashioned a belt that holds four pads, though sadly this won't be mass-produced to accompany the game's release.So yes, Child of Eden is shaping up to be the true multi-sensory "killer app" of the motion control era. It wants to break down the barriers between player and screen, it wants to turn our bodies into proper, expressive game controllers, it wants to twist and mutate what we think of as game design.But beyond all that, judging from the demo we've enjoyed, it's an enjoyable audio-visual thrill ride. It might be the Kinect game you finally introduce to your sceptical friends or partner; it'll certainly be the one they remember. We've not had chance to play the Move version of the title, but it will be interesting to see how the game exploits Sony's own take on physical gaming.In conceptual terms, Child of Eden is apparently just the beginning. "Now we've had some time and experience with Kinect, we're already envisioning what we can apply this to that's really fresh," says Mielke. "We want our next game to challenge people more than Child of Eden; we've built up a certain amount of expectation with this tile – now we want to continue to innovate."Child of Eden is coming to Xbox 360 and PS3 this summer.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWeb startups clamp down on trading of their shares &gt;&gt; Reuters"The top 20 private Internet companies that trade on these exchanges "are all taking steps to control the process," the Twitter investor added."An Inside Look At Our Readership And Financial Performance &gt;&gt; Business Insider"So, in short, as Huffpo, Gawker, Engadget, TechCrunch, Mashable, Talking Points Memo, Yahoo, Google, and many other digital news businesses are demonstrating these days, the digital media business is a real business."Google Being Spammers? Will Google Penalize Google for Google Spamming Google &gt;&gt; SEO Book"Google has on multiple occasions penalized other UK based finance sites for SEO issues &amp; link buying. But now that Google owns one of the horses in the race, and that horse has been found to be using anabolic steroids, can they legitimately penalize any of their new competitors?"Ars reviews the Motorola Xoom &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Although the Xoom has a lot to offer, the product feels very incomplete. A surprising number of promised hardware and software features are not functional at launch and will have to be enabled in future updates. The Xoom's quality is also diminished by some of the early technical issues and limitations that we encountered in Honeycomb. Google's nascent tablet software has a ton of potential, but it also has some feature gaps and rough edges that reflect its lack of maturity."Security experts decipher malware that attacked Android phones &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"Lookout says DroidDream is the first piece of Android malware that uses an exploit, or known vulnerability, to gain access to the phone's system code. It can take substantial control of a phone and it generally operates while the user is likely to be sleeping: from 11 pm to 8 am. That means the malware is cleverly written so that the user won't notice something strange with the phone."Nokia and Digia 'working together' to 'grow the Qt community' &gt;&gt; The Qt BlogThe title of the blogpost is completely misleading. Nokia is offloading Qt because it isn't core to its future. Qt isn't Windows Phone. So goodbye, Qt. In an anthropomorphic universe, imagine Symbian ordering two drinks at the bar and doing the knowing nod as Qt comes in swearing and saying 'you'll never believe what those bastards just did to me.' Or as the blogpost tries to portray it: "Many organizations which want to use Qt for their business applications choose commercial licenses, for a variety of reasons. These include restrictions in using open source licensed software in industries such as defense &amp; aerospace, or the need to provide product warranties &amp; indemnities such as in the medical device industry. Others choose a commercial relationship for access to Qt professional support and services to ensure successful development of their projects." Except, ahem.. "However, these professional services are not core business activities for Nokia". Sayonara, Qt!You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Born in Kenya, and with an IT degree from the university of Missouri,Rotich, 33, co-founded a revolutionary website,Ushahidi.com, that harnesses the internet's power to uncover violence. The site crowdsources information about crisis areas, collating it into live, online maps. First used duringthe Kenyan presidential violence of 2007-8, it allowed the media to cover the violence effectively and put pressure on the regime to stop. The software has now been adapted for disaster situations in Congo, Haiti and Chile.Rotich is a prolific blogger, frequent public speaker, and a widely respected commentator on developments in African technology. She is currently leading the attempt to create a second, improved version of Ushahidi, a role she combines with her senior fellowship atTechnology, Entertainment, Design(TED), a group devoted to the spreading of ideas. By her own admission, Rotich also has "treehuggery tendencies", a passion she has harnessed through her editorship of the environment section of theGlobal Voiceswebsite. "Closer to home," Rotich says, "I am worried about the loss of water catchment areas and indigenous forests in Kenya. Encouraging others to plant trees is my mission this year." She blogs atafromusing.com.
At the height of the 90s dotcom boom, Martha Lane Fox was its most recognisable face. The travel website Lane Fox set up with Brent Hoberman in the 90s,lastminute.com, was one of the internet's biggest early brands and made her a multimillionaire. Now aged 38, the government's digital champion is leading theRace Online 2012project to get the 10 million British adults who don't have access to the internet – predominantly older people and those in disadvantaged areas (often women)&nbsp;– online by the end of next year.Her recovery from the injuries she sustained in a near-fatal car crash in 2004 has been long and slow, but she remains a An energetic supporter of social issues she runsher own foundationawarding grants to small charities.
A facility allowing members of Facebook to sound the alert about friends they believe may be suicidal has been launched as part of a collaboration between the social networking site and the Samaritans.The launch follows a number of reported cases in which Facebook users posted messages before attempting suicide, and the death over Christmas of Simone Back, who told 1,048 Facebook friends that she had taken an overdose. No one raised the alarm until the following day.Via Facebook's help page, its 30 million UK users can now submit reports of potentially suicidal content to the website by clicking on alinkthat allows them to record the name and other details relating to the person they are concerned about.Facebook will immediately alert the police if the person is judged to be at imminent risk and pass on all alerts to the Samaritans, a spokesman for the charity said.Concerned Facebook users will also be redirected to contact details for the Samaritans in the UK and Ireland, as well as for similar organisations in the US and Norway, which have already been operating in conjunction with Facebook.According to the Samaritans, the system was under trial before the death of Back, from Brighton, who posted a message on Facebook after 10pm on Christmas Day saying: "Took all my pills, be dead soon, bye bye everyone."Instead of trying to help, some of her online contacts left messages taunting her and arguing among themselves.One called her a liar, another said she "does it all the time, takes all her pills", while another said it was "her choice".Her mother, Jennifer Langridge, called police the following day after receiving a text message about her daughter's online note.Samaritans also launched an awareness campaign via its Facebook page, which is advising people on how to spot signs of distress and offer support to vulnerable friends.The charity's chief executive, Catherine Johnstone, said: "Through the popularity of Facebook, we are harnessing the power of friendship so people can get help. As a friend you are better placed to know whether someone close to you is struggling to cope or even feeling suicidal. We want to remind people that if a friend says that life isn't worth living, they should always be taken seriously. Facebook is a part of daily life for so many of us and we must make sure that people online have support when they need it."Facebook's director of policy for Europe, Richard Allan, added: "We're pleased to welcome the expertise of a great partner in Samaritans. They will help to make our robust reporting system even more effective, as friends are encouraged to look out for one another on Facebook as they do in the real world. This supplements the number of ways to get help already available on Facebook, from our help centre to the reporting tools we offer."
Google made a rare UK acquisition on Monday, paying £37.7m to buy price comparison website BeatThatQuote and making a second eight-figure fortune for the company's founder.The US search engine giant's cash will largely go to north London entrepreneurJohn Paleomylites who owns 90% of BeatThatQuote, a smaller rival to sites such as Go Compare and Compare the Market.Google wants to expand its involvement in price comparison products – it already runs a service called Comparison Ads in the US and has some limited offerings in the UK focused on credit cards and insurance.Paleomylites used to run internet security company JCP, which was set up in 1995 and originally financed using his credit card. He sold it to Sun Microsystems in 2000 for £40m, netting him an estimated £10m according to the Sunday Times rich list.BeatThatQuote was founded in 2005, and in the year to 31 January 2010 – the last year for which accounts are available – the company generated £8.5m in turnover and a loss of £2m.Although BeatThatQuote is not considered to be a market leader, Google is understood to be keen to run the business as a standalone brand at first, gradually building up its marketing and distribution power through increasing tie-ups with the search engine itself.Google also believes that the price comparison market should be simplified – and that existing competitors are either too complex, requiring consumers to make too many clicks, or bombard customers with email marketing. However, there are no plans to expand the company internationally.In a statement on the company's website, Paleomylites said: "We are confident that by combining BeatThatQuote's expertise in UK financial products with Google's technology, we'll accelerate innovation in this field."
In general, there are a lot of good things to say about the London borough of Richmond upon Thames' feature-rich and information-filled website. But the other day I was casually browsing the planning pages, when I spotted a little notice warning that by using the search facility I would be bound by a licence agreement. I clicked for the details, which included a lot about gazetteer data.And this:"Your continued use of www.richmond.gov.uk indicates your acceptance to be bound by these terms and conditions. If you do not agree to be bound by these terms and conditions, please cease using www.richmond.gov.uk."Not just – don't use the planning pages, but – don't use the site at all. As a taxpayer, I resent that. Where, I wondered, did that come from? It turns out that there are two sets of T&amp;Cs:first, the council's own general site T&amp;Cs; second, the "web-click" licence specifically for the postcode and addressing information, which is supplied by the National Land and Property Gazetteer and the National Street Gazetteer. These are the products of a joint venture between the UK's 346 local authorities, Ordnance Survey, and private company Intelligent Addressing, which provides the technology hub that powers the whole system.By statute, addresses are created and managed by the local authorities, who name and number new properties. Many organisations need this information immediately, including the emergency services and the post office. In the old days, the council sent out letters. Ten years ago, pdfs. As of 2005, however, the data is transmitted electronically to Intelligent Addressing, which aggregates and validates the data, benchmarks it against other datasets to ensure it's complete, and then uses web services to distribute it onwards."It's the only example I know of where the 346 councils coordinate to do their statutory duty in an entirely consistent manner on behalf of society," says Nick Turner, Intelligent Addressing's business development manager. He goes on to explain about the licence. "If you draw a square," he says, "at the corners you'd have Intelligent Addressing, the local authorities, Local Government Information House, and Ordnance Survey, and there's a flow-through of licensing between all four organisations."He then added a fifth corner: the Royal Mail. "All five organisations have an interest in the data licence, and there are terms and conditions within the National Land and Property Gazetteer for all five, so effectively this web-click licence is a licence that LGIH has arranged with Ordnance Survey for public service delivery within a public website."The basic threat they're worried about seems to be people repeatedly hitting the council websites until they have compiled a full set of addresses they could use to create competing services."All local authorities are bound by the same T&amp;Cs," says Steve Whitworth from Richmond's corporate web team, adding that the licence will change in April, when the new agreement governing the use of Ordnance Survey data is due. "I suspect it will be a whole, new set and will be simpler." However, comparing Richmond's licence with the one posted bynearby Ealing, it's obvious that Richmond made some additions, including, among other things, the sentence that so offended me.This seems to be part of Richmond's essential attitude; the site's general T&amp;Cs say: "No part of this website may be copied, broadcast, adapted or used in any way, without the prior permission of the London Borough of Richmond Upon Thames."(Hmm: am I allowed to quote that?) "Culturally, the way local government works in the UK is that it doesn't perceive itself as being by the people and for the people," says Jason Kitcat, the acting assistant director for the Open Rights Group and a Green city councillor for Brighton and Hove."The default is that the information is copyright of the council and if it can monetise it, it will." It's not clear, he agrees, how exactly a council might monetise its recycling schedule. "But I have seen situations where companies want to sell it on and aggregate it, so they're keeping their options open without realising that if they used an open licence they would be enabling far more commercial and non-commercial uses of it and that it's not an appropriate use of taxpayer money, really. It's a cultural thing with solicitors – let's do a really blanket licence so there are no problems coming our way."
With GDC last week and E3 sneeking up on the horizon, game publishers are cranking out teaser and trailer footage at an increasing pace. Here are five interesting videos from the past few days – taking in both major releases and a few indie and smartphone oddities. A nice convenient way to get your news/video fix on a Monday afternoon...Resistance 3 multiplayer footageA whole five minutes of multiplayer action fromInsomniac's sci-fi shooter sequelhas been released on to the web. It shows a variety of human and alien characters shooting it out in an abandoned office complex (or actually, it could be a jail going by some of the screenshots coming out of Sony). Sniper rifles, assault rifles, shotguns and grenades all make obligatory appearances, alongside a toxic gas grenade launcher that turns unfortunate victims into giant bubbling balls of erupting pustules. Yummy. The game is due out in september.CryEngine 3 – the GDC tech demoThe game sites have gone ga-ga for this demonstration video from Crytek showing off the real-time graphics potential of the developer's new CryEngine 3 technology. Of course, graphics engine willy-waving is a popular and keenly contested sport at GDC (for which this teaser was produced), but it's interesting nonetheless. The section with the girl walking through the forest is particularly impressive, but there's rather too much of the futuristic offroad buggy...Anarchy Reigns in new trailerCVG has posted a fresh peek atAnarchy Reigns, the not-exactly-understated new third-person shooter from Platinum Games. Previously responsible for cult faves Bayonetta and Vanquish, the team is promising a blistering online multiplayer experience, with loads of interactive scenery, including giant buzz saws and tsunami-size waves of death. It's due out this winter.Sword &amp; Sorcery EP – art gaming for iOS devicesI'm really intrigued by this combination of old school adventure gaming and audio experimentation. "It's basically an album you can hang out in,"saysCraig D. Adams one of the indie developers collaborating on theSword &amp; Sorceryproject. Whether you get that or not, the pixellated visuals are lovely.Car Jack Streets 2 teaserThe original Car Jack Streets from Dundee-based studioTag Gameswas one of the best mobile interpretations of Grand Theft Auto – hardly surprising as it was developed by several of the original GTA team. This sequel is adopting a bright, highly stylised look, which reminds me of CGI art in the eighties (you know, early Pixar shorts, Dire Straits' Money For Nothing video, that sort of thing). It's another mission-based crime caper, and we can expect it later this year on various smartphone formats as well as iPad and possibly DSiWare and PSP if its predecessor is anything to go by.
Sending an HTC 7 Trophy smartphone into the stratosphere in a balloon might sound like an attention-grabbing stunt. However, last Friday a team from Southampton University did it for entirely serious atmospheric research reasons. And yes, there was indeed an app for that.The School of Engineering Science team worked with Microsoft to develop a Windows Phone 7 application to help track the location of the handset and balloon, and predict its ultimate landing site.In Flight Mode, the app installed on the handset was able to record and transmit GPS and location data part of the way up and down – while within range of mobile networks – while in Hunter Mode on the team's own handsets, it plotted the latest data and predicted a landing site on a Bing map.The flight was part of the university'sAstra project– Atmospheric Science Through Robotic Aircraft. "We want to explore the outer atmosphere using low-cost high-altitude unmanned aircraft," said research fellow Andras Sobester."We are collecting data which will then plug in to various atmospheric science projects, monitoring pollutants such as volcanic ash for example, and informing the science behind modelling the climate and earth system in general."Friday's flight was a test run to see if the handset was up to the task – it passed with flying colours – while testing the technology out. The positioning data was sent to a Windows Azure server, which did the number-crunching work to calculate its course. The software and app was the work ofdeveloper Segoz, working with the university team.Why use a phone to do this? "10 years ago, using a box with a 1GHz processor wouldn't have come in under 10kg in weight," said research fellow Steven Johnston. The need to reduce the "payload" on the balloon is what made a smartphone appealing, but why Windows Phone 7 rather than, say, an iPhone or Android handset?"We looked at iPhone, but objective C is just not for me, on a personal level," says Johnston. "I love my Visual Studio and do a lot of net development, so I didn't need to learn any new skills for this. The key thing is that we're not doing all the calculations on the phone itself: Azure comes in for the serious backend processing."Johnston said he's looking forward to Microsoft extending the Bluetooth stack in Windows Phone 7, which would enable a handset to communicate with more on-board devices. One use for this might be to transmit data via satellite to track the entire flight rather than just the parts within range of a GSM network. Meanwhile, other sensors – he mentions a compass – will enable the phones to record more useful data.Geoff Hughes, academic team lead in Microsoft's developer platform and evangelism division, says the app's Hunter Mode shows potential for other kinds of scientific research, when there is a wider audience of people who would be interested in following events."If you could get a whole series of people following a scientific experiment in this way, they could potentially take part in the project," he says. "It's an exciting spin on trying to get the community involved with what is a very fascinating science project."
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 5 MarchPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Pokemon White Version (3+)DS (100)12 (–)Pokemon Black Version(3+)DS (100)13 (–)Fight Night Champion (16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)14 (2)Bulletstorm(18+)Xbox 360 (78)PS3 (20)PC (3)25 (1)Killzone 3(18+)PS3 (100)26 (3)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (36)Wii (4)PC (4)177 (5)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)218 (4)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (32)DS (6)Wii (6)239 (6)Dead Space 2(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (38)PC (6)610 (9)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)19UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Fair-weather fans brought in by the mind-numbing cartoons never really understood the subtle charm of this long-forgotten fad. However, after a period of formulaic releases, Pokemon's latest is a real move forward.For a start, there are unique areas to explore for Black and White players, set in a region called Unova, far from the familiar haunts of previous games. These are now illustrated with sweeping 3D cut-scenes, that at least make an effort to compensate for the DS's lack of graphical clout. There are also seasons to contend with that alter the types, colours and forms of creatures you can collect as well as the geography, with some regions proving all but impassable when not in a particular season.But collectability is what this franchise is all about and there are 150 all-new characters to feed that relentless urge, ranging from look-alikes of previous characters to all new types and abilities – making a grand series total of 500+.As always, these new creatures take some getting used to, but you are eased into the experience with your initial choice of three; the grass-type, Snivy, fire-based Tepig or water-based, Oshawott. Watching these characters level up, evolve and do battle remains the game's main occupation. However, die-hard collectors will begin hunting immediately for the two Legendary creatures, which for Black owners means the flame-shooting, Reshiram.As for quibbles, well, although there are new animations to go with your new creatures, the formula for progressing through the game seems disappointingly familiar. The two main goals remain the same: the first is to fill your Pokedex with details of every creature you encounter; the second is to battle through various rounds against your gym rivals, Team Plasma, and the Elite Four to become Pokemon League Champion. Interestingly, this time you can level up against both NPC trainers and Wi-Fi players, thanks to a new Random Matchup mode.So although there is still too much similarity to justify buying (or indeed making) two separate releases, at least owning Black and White is required for only one of the game's ultimate quests. In other respects, particularly the visual effects, new creatures, deeper gameplay and much improved Multiplayer component, this is the best Pokemon release in years.The improvements do now leave the actual battles in conspicuous need of a visual overhaul (something for the imminent 3DS to tackle, perhaps) but at least fans will have plenty to occupy their time until that happens.• Game reviewed on Nintendo DS
Money: the cornerstone of our Western capitalist society, and the source of so many of our social ills. AsDouglas Adamsonce wrote:This planet has – or rather had – a problem, which was this: most of the people living on it were unhappy for pretty much of the time. Many solutions were suggested for this problem, but most of these were largely concerned with the movements of small green pieces of paper, which is odd because on the whole it wasn't the small green pieces of paper that were unhappy.But what would happen if we lived in a system that didn't distinguish between the rich man and the pauper? Take one open network, a culture of freedom andthe ability to copy and distribute at will, and surely we can predict a powerful effect our perceptions of financial worth?Yet human beingsinsist on enforcing existing social structures, even on such systems. Virtual financial models typically regress to traditional economic patterns, based on rarity. Even in this context where scarcity is irrelevant, we still ascribe value, but at the same time we demand new (and increasingly free) economic transactions. And, it it still a problem.So, has the Web transformed our relationship with cash?Send your thoughts, experiences and money to me@aleksor email me ataleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk.I accept PayPal.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
How could the experience of phoning someone from a mobile be improved? The obvious answer is call quality: better reception, noise reduction and even the "HD Voice" technology that operators such as Orange have been punting for a while now.A new Android app called Thrutu is taking a different approach, claiming to make voice calls more social. To which the obvious retort is derisive laughter: what could be more social than talking to someone after all?Thrutu thinks there's potential for more, starting with the ability to share your location, take and share a photo, and send your contact details to someone while talking to them on your Android handset. iPhone and BlackBerry versions will apparently "soon be ready".For now, the app works in the US, Canada and the UK only. You don't pay directly for Thrutu – it's a free download and there is no subscription charge – but the calls will incur data charges (or, at least, will count as part of whatever your monthly data allowance is)."The phone call has not fundamentally changed in the last hundred years, yet we now use our phones to do all kinds of sophisticated things such as text, email and interact on social networks," claims VP Liz Rice in Thrutu's launch pitch. "With Thrutu we're truly changing the conversation, by bringing these activities into the actual phone call."The company has grand plans, too. In the future it wants to introduce social networking, the ability to play games during calls, as well as event planning and video sharing.There are some obvious challenges in store. First, both participants in a call must be using the Thrutu app, and second, it requires their operators to support simultaneous voice and data – which for now rules out two of the biggest US operators, Verizon Wireless and Sprint.Thrutu has investment from big-name VC Sequoia Capital, and there's a curious quote from that company's partner Jim Goetz praising the service. "We love the simple elegance of the experience, as well as the platform's open-ended potential. It really does make the phone call relevant again."Phone calls are irrelevant? That view may be held in some quarters of Silicon Valley, but whether the problem that Thrutu is trying to solve is recognised in many other parts of the world yet is debatable.You could also argue that if these sorts of in-call features are really going to be in demand, they're more likely to come baked into the core operating system of handsets, rather than as a third-party app.This may be Thrutu's view too, of course. If the technology showcased by its new app persuades a handset maker, operator or OS platform owner to buy the company in the coming months, then its VC backers will have cause to admire the simple elegance of its exit strategy, as well as its experience.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNew music industry plan: halt flow of money to pirate music sites &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"IFPI has proudly announced a new copyright enforcement initiative. It boils down to this: IFPI will submit allegedly infringing websites to the London police department's Economic Crime Directorate. Once the division has "verified the evidence," it will pass the information to MasterCard and Visa."No 'Mango' Windows Phone update before December? &gt;&gt; Windows IT ProThis could spell a big problem for Nokia, which is waiting for the next big update to Windows Phone (beyond 7) before it intends to release "Nokindows" phones: "Windows Phone fans will need to wait for the v2 release of Windows Phone 7, code-named Mango, to get a major functional update. Mango will be finalized by the end of 2011, and while Microsoft recently promised to ship this release to customers by the end of the year as well, my sources tell me that schedule is a near impossibility. "Windows Phone 7: Will NoDo show? Has Mango gone soft? &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley on the unending "update that doesn't update" for Windows Phone 7 problem: some Samsung phones still haven't updated for technical reasons. Big question: will that push back the "copy/paste" update due later this week?No Windows Tablets Until Late 2012? That Could be Disastrous. Or a Pretty Good Idea &gt;&gt; TechnologizerHarry McCracken makes a good case. Then again, at this point Microsoft has tried competing via Windows 7, and it's been a failure. So, Windows 8 it will have to be - given that it's not allowing Windows Phone 7 on tablets.Samsung sees iPad 2's thinness, price as challenges &gt;&gt; Yonhapnews"Samsung Electronics Co., the world's second-largest maker of mobile phones, sees the slim design and competitive price of Apple Inc.'s new iPad 2 as its biggest obstacles, a senior official said Friday." In which case it arguably hasn't realised what the real biggest obstacles are: availability of compelling apps and user experience.Apple's MacBook Pros ship with active SSD TRIM support in Snow Leopard &gt;&gt; AppleInsiderTRIM support means solid state disks have OS-level support (rather than needing it in their own firmware). Now available for Apple-supplied SSDs; soon coming for others too?RIM's Marketing Chief to Leave &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"The departure of Mr. [Keith] Pardy, who was hired from Nokia Corp. in late 2009, deprives the smartphone maker of a marketing chief during the crucial lead-up to the launch of its PlayBook tablet, expected at the end of March or early April. It reflects larger turmoil in RIM, as the company struggles to remake itself from a maker of corporate-workhorse devices known for security and reliability to a producer of hip, media-savvy gadgets that can compete with the likes of Apple Inc.'s iPhones and iPads, say people familiar with RIM's strategy."IE6 Countdown &gt;&gt; MicrosoftWe'd like to be able to zero in on particular places on the map. Such as the NHS and other parts of UK government. Then let's see what the (geiger?) reading is.Nexus One downloaded OTA update for Gingerbread 2.3.3 but didn't update after reboot &gt;&gt; Google Mobile HelpInteresting to read the advice on how to do the update. It makes Android feel like Linux. Which of course it is.US cites a top Chinese web site in the sale of fake goods &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The United States government has labeled China's top search engine, Baidu, and Taobao, a popular Chinese-based e-commerce platform, as 'notorious markets' linked to sales of pirated and fake goods." Specifically, "music, clothing and other goods that were fake or unauthorized copies."Smartphones - the grip of death &gt;&gt; Bristol UniversityIf you dig through it, you discover that what it's saying is "all smartphones can suffer from the death grip".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A new service allows music fans to listen to personalised radio stations on their mobiles even when they are not online.Music service We7 is launching a free app that will let users create a personalised radio station on their mobile phones by choosing which artists they would like to hear, before the station chooses other similar artists.While users are listening to We7 in a connected area on their phones, the app will allow the phones to store songs which it can then continue playing even when the phone no longer has access to the internet, said Steve Purdham, of We7."Music and mobiles are the ideal combination," said Purdham. "But until now when you have streamed internet radio as soon as you lost the connection, you lost the song."The service was well suited to younger, budget-conscious music fans wary of using their mobile phone data allowance for listening to music, he added. "Even if you are on a pay-as-you-go phone you can still play music." The service will be free for the user and feature adverts.Analyst Mark Mulligan, of Forrester Research, said it was a sign that some digital services were reaching out to a mass market, rather than a niche section of dedicated music fans still willing to pay for music."It is vitally important that it's free – there has to be a recognition that the vast majority of people don't believe in paying for digital content," he said."If content is everywhere, you either have to make it exceptional so a small number of people will pay, or embrace the free business model – that is the only way to the mass market."Offering music fans free internet radio on the go and giving a generation of young music fans who have never paid for music a legal mobile service that pays royalties to the artist, could only help the industry, said Purdham. Like traditional radio, it would also help music fans discover new music, he added."The more songs are listened to, the more digital revenues go up. Like regular radio, it has real promotional value for artists plus this is a legal way for people to listen to music that they are probably not going to pay for anyway, but the artist still gets paid."Those who prefer more control and choice over their music could choose subscription services like Spotify's £10 a month unlimited streaming, mobile service or a similarly priced package for a mobile jukebox from We7, he said."This service recognises that the vast majority of people want to be entertained, but not everybody has the tie to choose their own songs," he said.Mulligan said that although the service was not "revolutionary", it did go some way to reinventing radio for a new generation, comparing it to Pandora, a similar service in the US. "Radio has been going the way of newspapers, and it has felt like we are just waiting for it to die ," he said. "This is a way of bringing radio into the future and it gives artists a way to expose more people to more new music."• This article was amended on 7 March 2011. An indirect quote from We7's Steve Purdham has now been corrected.
As the title suggests,Bulletstormis a crude, frenetic and often hilarious sci-fi shooter delivering the expected quota of destruction and mayhem. It is not subtle. But laying waste to hordes of bad guys with a huge arsenal of weapons is a popularly uncomplicated premise in modern gaming.Playing as Grayson Hunt, an ex-black ops soldier, and partnered by your foul-mouthed part-cyborg sidekick, Ishi Sato, you must seek revenge against General Sarrano, the commanding officer whose betrayal caused your dishonourable discharge from the army.Bulletstorm's single-player campaign allows few opportunities to deviate from the game's linear path and is short at just six hours' playing time; however, entertaining gun battles bring it to life. And there are some unlikely weapons. The flailgun, for instance, fires two grenades linked with a chain that wraps around your enemy before detonating, taking out all those nearby.There's a lack of refinement here, including a poor attempt at online play, that is overcome for fans of simple mayhem by the intense action, stunning visuals and a simply extraordinary volume of obscenities.
Sport games are a huge cash cow for publishers, and yearly updates and a seemingly insatiable fan base ensure they nearly always top the charts. However, the relentless release schedule means innovation is rare – tweaks here and there are the order of the day, so when something genuinely new is introduced it's to be applauded. Put your hands together, then, forFight Night: Champion, which introduces a polished narrative strand, the eponymous Champion mode, breathing new life into the boxing sim.When the game starts, you're thrown straight into the ring as Andre Bishop, an up-and-coming amateur. The story continues from there, following theRockyformula – old-school trainer, evil promoter, dastardly heavyweight champion waiting to have some humility beaten into him – but it's an absorbing experience that's enjoyable while teaching the sport's fundamentals. Each fight offers a new challenge, whether it's avoiding the powerful left hook of one opponent, having to knock out another due to dodgy scoring by the judges or surviving a bare-knuckle prison fight, all with engagingly cinematic cut scenes in between.Sadly, it only lasts a few hours and, once completed, Bishop is left behind as you delve into the standard range of non-narrative combat. Here, the requisite tweaks have been made, controls have been finessed with a choice between button or right stick to control punching and a tricky but rewarding system of blocks, dodges, weaves and counter-punches. Go in slugging away and your strength quickly fades, leaving you open to a swift knockout blow. Easy this is not.The main action lies with the disappointing career mode, where you control a rookie all the way to the heights of the boxing pyramid. However, it's slow to develop and nowhere near as fun as Champion mode; why the two modes weren't combined is a mystery, but it is surely the direction the series is heading.While the online experience has been improved, too, with virtual gyms available to organise bouts, the graphics are also hugely impressive and stars such as Ali, Tyson and Pacquiao are all playable, with a stunning level of detail – you'll even notice your opponent's blood staining your shorts as they're pummelled. In this incarnation,Fight Night: Championis a tantalising glimpse of the future; the development of the narrative sport sim is surely a sign of things to come.
Considering a recent spate of thematically – and sometimes visually – very dark platform titles such asBraidandLimbo, the return of a family-friendly gaming hero inKirby's Epic Yarnis a welcome reminder of why the original protagonists of the platforming genre are so well-loved.After being banished by evil wizard Yin-Yarn into Patch Land – a kingdom of textile-people quite literally falling apart at the seams – Kirby and multiplayer sidekick Prince Fluff must hunt down the magic yarn dispersed through seven cloth continents that can weave the world back together again.Robbed of his traditional ability to inhale enemies and use their powers, Kirby transforms his new fabric body into a car, weight, parachute or submarine as the situation demands. He can also swing around the well-designed levels from clearly signposted interaction points like a diminutive, pink Indiana Jones. Boss fights are tense, while the inclusion of thrilling vehicle sections rounds out the range of gameplay styles impressively.That Kirby cannot be killed may prove a turn-off to experienced players, but it will appeal to a younger generation of gamers for whomEpic Yarnis a standout entry in an always inventive series.(The classification was amended from cert: 18 to cert: 3 on 8 March 2011)
At seven in the evening, the bags under Jamie Oliver's eyes seem to have acquired bags of their own. He looks as if he hasn't slept for days. It might well be so, for he has just spent an exhausting two-and-a-half months filming in Los Angeles for his new series, during which time he was banned from every school in the city, and moments earlier he had bounded on to the stage of the TED ideas conference and delivered a six-minute talk on the progress of his food revolution."It was really tough," he told me. "I mean how do you sum up a year in six minutes?" But the reason he did it, why he flew in from South Beach in Florida to do so, and delayed his return to Britain, is because "there's more power in that room than there is in Capitol Hill and Downing Street combined. Those people can get things done.""That room" is the Terrace Theatre of the Long Beach Convention Centre, south of Los Angeles, and "those people" are the 1,350 individuals who pay more than £4,000 to attend four days of talks by some of the most interesting and dynamic people on the planet. A year agoOliver was given the TED prize, a $100,000 award that comes with the chance to make "a wish to change the world" and a community of people who commit to making it happen. Then, he announced his wish was to "educate every child about food" and "empower people everywhere to fight obesity". It was a call to arms, a mission statement, a detailed breakdown of how food and food-related diseases are the biggest killers in America. It has since been watched by more than a million people onTed.comand it galvanised the TED audience into action.Last week he told me: "It was just astonishing. All these people, they just started putting up their arms and offering me all this stuff. Not just money, but all sorts of things. This truck. The website. All sorts of things. It was quite incredible."We are sitting in the truck which he has parked outside. It is an 18-wheeler big rig, and has been turned into a mobile kitchen to travel the US hosting roadshows and cooking workshops. The money to pay for them was donated within minutes. And the traction Oliver has been able to gain, the five permanent kitchens he has opened in the US, the political pressure he has been able to apply, has been in no short part due to his involvement with TED.Because it is hard to overstate not only the power of the people in Long Beach last week, nor their wealth – some dinners boasted a handful of billionaires each – but also their creativity and commitment. These people are behind some of our age's greatest technological breakthroughs — Bill Gates of Microsoft and Larry Page and Sergei Brin of Google for starters; scientists working at the cutting edge of human knowledge; and the activists, environmentalists, artists, film-makers and educationalists all striving to change their particular corner of the world.Or, as Oliver puts it: "There's an awful lot of brains out there." There are, and it is comforting to know they are working on some of the world's most intractable problems, coming up occasionally with ingenious solutions. From Google's prototype self-driving car, in which the audience got to speed around an obstacle course, to Aaron O'Connell, a quantum physicist, whose research has shown that "objects can be in two places at once", to the mind-boggling moment when Anthony Atala, a professor in regenerative medicine, called a colleague from the back of the stage and showed off a human kidney "which we printed earlier". Atala is harnessing ink-jet technology to one day make human organs with cells rather than ink. Luke Massella – who was born with spina bifida and who has a new bladder "grown" in the laboratory from existing cells – walked out on stage, an apparently fit and healthy college student.It's not all about finding the cure for cancer or solving global hunger: there's the odd performance poet or New York indie rock band (Antony and the Johnsons) around, but at times it did feel as if questions about the limits of the human condition itself were being asked. From Daniel Tammet, an astonishing high-functioning autistic and savant, who explained the patterns and colours that informed how he perceived the world, to Ed Boyden, a pioneer in optogenetics, who discovered how brain cells can be controlled with light and whose work includes research on how memories can be downloaded, or uploaded, in the human brain.There is a surface gloss and glamour to TED: everybody has their own Cameron Diaz moment (mine is at the coffee bar) or Goldie Hawn moment, or Ashton Kutcher and Demi Moore moment – but, in this context, it is more exciting when, on my next trip to the coffee bar, I find myself standing next to Daniel Dennett, the great American philosopher of the mind.He has given three TED talks in his time "and, you know, I've written some very well-selling books, but the effect of having those talks online has been amazing. I get emails every day from people who've seen them, far more than I can respond to. And it's turned TED from being where the dotcom billionaires would come for this very elite and completely closed party and into this amazing force for knowledge."The last talk was by Roger Ebert, the US film critic and screenwriter who lost his jaw – and ability to speak – to cancer, but, through his wife and a speech-software program, he told how computers had given him back his voice. "I can communicate as well as I ever could," he said, and the power of computers to connect us together was forming "a global consciousness".These are big words, but in a room in which a Canadian doctor, Bruce Aylward, explained how and why he was working to eradicate polio, and Jack Horner, an American palaeontologist, how he is trying to reverse-engineer a dinosaur from a chicken, they didn't seemthatbig.Back in his cooking truck, Oliver looks close to collapse. He has just committed to spreading his food revolution for the next 20 years: "Because that's about how long I think it needs."When he won the TED prize last year, some considered him an unlikely choice. He doesn't exactly fit the rocket-scientist mould. But what TED recognised is that, in his own way, Oliver is as radical an activist as any and it came, he says, "at exactly the right time. It just gave me the support I really needed." It also means that, just possibly, he might succeed.• This article was amended on 13 April 2011 to make it clear that student Luke Massella has a new bladder "grown" in the laboratory from existing cells, not implanted using organ "printing" technology.
On WednesdayApple releasedthe second version of the iPad. Pardon  me while I yawn: I know it's rude to  do it in public but what the hell? iPad&nbsp;2 is thinner – down from 13.4mm to 8.8mm, if you please. (Who was it who said that you can never be too thin or too rich?) It's faster too, courtesy of a dual-core A5 processor. And it's got two cameras, no less, one front and one back, plus a gyroscope. If that doesn't make your head spin, the news that iPad&nbsp;2 is 15% lighter than its predecessor definitely will.And – get this – for a mere $39 (£24) extra you can get a magnetised polyurethane cover which switches the device off when you lay it on top! Oooh: and the cover also cleans the smudge marks left by your greasy fingers on the touchscreen! Now I know what you're thinking, dear reader: a subculture which thinks this stuff is hot news must be several bits short of a byte. And it's hard to disagree.On the other hand, there is the unpalatable fact that Mr Jobs's ability to lure so many otherwise sane people on to his product-upgrade treadmill has made Apple the second most valuable company on the planet. And that's definitely news. The logical next step for Apple fans will be to have their salaries (plus bonuses, naturally) paid directly to Steve Jobs, who will then supply them with regular kit upgrades plus food coupons in return.The technology industry's appetite for trivia never ceases to amaze one. Over in another corner of the forest, HP and RIM, two companies which are trying to play iPad catch-up, are sniping at one another. RIM's device is called the BlackBerry PlayBook, while HP's effort is called the TouchPad. They have different screen sizes but in some respects seem remarkably similar. "The BlackBerry Tablet operating system",saysLaptopmagazine, "certainly looks as if RIM may have taken a page out of the webOS [ie HP] playbook." For example, "both tablets render open programs as cards that you can easily swipe through for multitasking, and you can close apps using both OSes by swiping them off the screen".The magazine asked both companies for their reactions to these observations. "It's a fast innovation cycle and a fast imitation cycle in this market," said HP's Jon Oakes, snootily, "so… we'll keep innovating… and those guys hopefully will continue to see the value in it and keep following us by about a year."Stung by this, Jeff McDowell of RIM pointed out that "cars over time end up looking a lot alike because you put them through a wind tunnel, and when you're trying to come up with the best coefficient to drag ratio, there's one optimised shape that gets the best wind resistance, right? Well, when you're trying to optimise user experience that juggles multitasking, multiple apps open at once, and on a small screen, you're going to get people landing on similar kinds of designs."In other words, asAmerican technology commentator John Paczkowski put it: "Our iPad challenger is more original than your iPad challenger."Neither man commented on the really interesting aspect of the story, namely that neither company had yet managed to actually ship a tablet, though both are coming real soon now.While all this was going on, Apple and Microsoft were squabbling about capital letters. A while back, Apple attempted to trademark the phrase "App Store" – the name of its online store of downloadable programs.  Microsoft objected, arguing that the term was too "generic". (This from the company whose main products are Windows, Word, Office and Excel.)  On Monday last, Apple struck back. "Having itself faced a decades-long genericness [sic] challenge to its claimed Windows mark," it sniffed in acourt filing, "Microsoft should be well aware that the focus in evaluating genericness is on the mark as a whole and requires a fact-intensive assessment of the primary significance of the term to a substantial majority of the relevant public."Yet, Microsoft, missing the forest for the trees, does not base its motion on a comprehensive evaluation of how the relevant public understands the term App Store as a whole. What it offers instead are out-of-context and misleading snippets of material printed by its outside counsel from the internet and allegations regarding how the public allegedly interprets the constituent parts of the term App Store, ie, 'app' and 'store'."If this reminds you of two bald men arguing over a comb, then welcome to the club. You don't have to be obsessive to work in the technology business, but it sure helps.
There are more than 10 million people living in the UK with a long-term illness, impairment or disability according to the Office for Disability Issues (ODI) and although medical treatment and pre-birth screening have reduced this number dramatically over the last half-century, many of the problems faced by this population have not changed. Compared with their non-disabled counterparts, people with disabilities in this country are still more likely to be poor and unemployed with fewer qualifications than non-disabled people, more likely to be the victims of crime and more likely to experience occupational and social discrimination.This was supposed to have been fixed by the web. After all, to put it crudely, there are no staircases online. If you subscribe to the mythology that's been spun into the fabric of the internet by technological utopians, the web should be a totally accessible resource available to all, where everyone can achieve personal and social self-actualisation despite the barriers that they face offline. It should be the great leveller. It should be, but, as always, it's more complicated than that.In 2003, I started an MSc in social psychology, with all the wide-eyed expectations of a baby academic. I was going to prove that the web – and specifically online games such asEverQuestandWorld of Warcraft– could provide benefit to society. To demonstrate my hypothesis, I chose to look at the qualitative and holistic experiences of people with severe physical disabilities; I interviewed game players who had injured their spinal cords so severely that they were almost completely paralysed.My argument was that with the right tools, physical disability becomes mutable in cyberspace; the act of achieving goals that relied on the brain rather than on brawn – making the physical corpus obsolete – would serve to increase players' well-being. Indeed, thanks to a variety of exceptional engineering adaptations, my participants were able to play with able-bodied online people, exercising their psychological identities rather than the physical ones that tended to dominate social interactions offline.Two results stood out. First, the web offered personal and physical anonymity to a population that experiences a significant amount of stigma offline. In general, for people such as my participants who cannot "pass" in real-world situations the web allows them to experience an unrestricted liberty. They can interact in a place where there are no barriers to access that single them out. The disembodied nature of online interaction gave them a sense of control over how they were perceived and transformed the power dynamics that exist offline when a disability is overt.Second, the web was described as an empowering platform, giving the participants the sense that they were in charge of their own destinies. Extending this observation to the wider web, levelling up doesn't just happen in games; getting information, getting a posse, being an agent of change through whatever means gives the individual an ego boost and is far more achievable now than it ever has been.I was pleased with these results, but surprised at how little research has been done looking at these questions, given the potential social benefit. Almost universally, the results of the few small-scale studies that have been published in this area indicate that the web is an untapped resource for disabled people, with the potential to transform social participation by providing information and networks that should reduce the negative effects of social isolation. Based on these, there are countless initiatives to get people with disabilities online, such asRace Online 2012andDirectgov, and to reduce the significant access gap.Unfortunately, this is part of the problem. All of this supports a theory called the social model of disability, which says that it's society that creates the barriers to access and equality that people with disabilities experience, rather than the disability itself. In other words, it is architecture, culture and social constraints that exclude disabled people from full participation. Clearly, the web has been a great place to test this: remove the obvious barriers and the evidence uncovers happy, fully-functioning members of society. But these barriers still exist. We still live in the real world.One of the strongest criticisms against the social model is that by hiding a physical disability, or attributing non-physical impairments to clumsiness or inattention, disabled people perpetuate a discriminatory society and reinforce the perception of personal tragedy, inefficacy and stigma. The web is the greatest passing platform of all: everyone is normal online. And so where does that leave our attitudes towards disability offline?Over the past decade, there have been improvements for people with disabilities in employment, education and participation in cultural activities, but the web is not the only factor in this change. Unsurprisingly, the gaps between disabled and non-disabled people in these areas are still significant; the ODI reports that only 48% of disabled people are employed, compared with 78% of non-disabled people.If the web's limitless potential was actually being realised, we would expect greater changes to have occurred over the past 20 years. It seems ironic that a technology that has the potential to empower a group may also be perpetuating divisions.The web has transformed the personal experiences of disabled people by creating a playing field for empowerment with access to information, connections and a platform for change. Yet we must reflect on our social attitudes to disability in the offline world instead of ignoring what we can't see online. Only then will the web's effect on disability become truly clear.
This one arrived with a man! From Citroën, to talk me through it. That's nice. He gave me a private little presentation, in my front room. It felt a bit naughty, and afterwards I tucked a&nbsp;20 into the top of his trousers... no of&nbsp;course I didn't. To be honest I&nbsp;was mainly worrying about what a mess the place was.So the man from Citroën told me about target profiles, market demands, and giving the customer what the customer wants; about increased comfort levels, habitability and cabin ambience. I&nbsp;gave him a cup of tea, and because I'm a spineless coward I said it all looked brilliant. Which is a lie.What I really think is that the previousC4was a much, much more interesting car – a striking and distinctive design in the spirit of Citroën's reputation for innovation. I'm not saying it will become a&nbsp;classic, like aTraction Avantor a DS or even a 2CV, but it might conceivably. The replacement? Absolutely no chance.Through compromise and market demands and listening to what the customer wants and trying to compete with the Ford Focus, they've come up with something that is unspeakably dull. It looks like dozens of other cars. It's a Citroën Focus. Or possibly a Citroën Focus Group. Oh, and the fixed-hub steering wheel – which stayed still in the middle – has gone, too.It's a shame it comes in such a&nbsp;boring package, because the new car does work very well. I'm trying the environmentally respectful e-HDi, with an impressive engine stop-start system that seems to know what I'm doing before I do. The clutchless automated manual gearbox is a bit weird and takes some getting used to – it's like there's a ghost changing up and down for you. But it all adds up to some impressive fuel economy and emissions production – as low as 109g/km, though my higher spec farts out 114 (the extra 5g isn't going to kill any polar bears though, is it?).My "Exclusive" model also means I've got a lot of toys. I can customise my signal alerts – the seat-belt warnings, indicators, all of that. I've got cruise control and a speed limiter, both useful and appropriate as I'm taking it to Basingstoke for my speeding detention, ordriver awareness trainingas they call it (brilliant by the way, highly recommended). To be honest, though, there's no real temptation to misbehave in this car. You're more likely to drive round to the vicar's, for tea.Citroën C4 1.6 e-HdiPrice£21,095Top speed122mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.2 secondsAverage consumption62.4mpgCO2 emissions114g/kmEco rating8/10Bound forLittle SnoringIn a wordMiddle-aged
Microsoft wants you to stop using Internet Explorer 6. It's got a site,ie6countdownshowing you how badly we're doing in terms of using its horrendously old, buggy, security-lapsed browser: the worst country in terms of usage turns out to be China (and the country with the largest number of bot-infected PCs is..?).There are plenty of other browsers: Microsoft has abunch of them(choose between IE8 and the newer in-beta IE9), and of course there'sFirefox, andSafari, andOpera, and..However if you happen to be cursed for some reason with IE6 and would like to be able to complain to IT (they must have made you use it, right?) that it keeps crashing and you need a new browser, here's all you need to do.Either:click this linkorSet the home page toms-its:%F0:(the penultimate character is a zero.)Thanks to Brian Krebs for the self-destruct links, which he says he was told by an ethical hacker at a Defcon conference:"Alex Holden, the Wisconsin based researcher who showed me this crash, said the bug is the result of a pointer overflow in IE. The crash does not appear to work in newer versions of IE."Holden said he notified Microsoft about his finding back in 2004. An e-mail thread Holden shared with krebsonsecurity.com indicates that Microsoft engineers believed there were no severe security consequences of this bug, and that it would probably be fixed in a future service pack. Obviously, it never was."Though as Krebs points out, that does leave the door open to some malware which changes the IE6 home page to that URL, which would mean it would always crash on launch, and you'd never be able to change it. A project for Microsoft?Here's what it looks like. Enjoy..
A UK startup company offering details of farmers' markets has complained of being "crippled" after it was mistakenly labelled adult viewing on O2's mobile network.Lovefre.sh, a location-based service for finding fresh food, discovered that it had been rated at "only suitable for over 18s" by a third-party company which provides content filtering for O2, and that users of its iPhone app – which has seen nearly 18,000 downloads from Apple's App Store since its launch – would only see a blank page.Although O2 is the only network that has blocked Lovefresh, "the problem is that most iPhones in the UK are on O2," said Mark Spofforth, the company's co-founder and chief executive. "I'm despondent about it. It's just crippling."A spokesperson for O2 said that it had been notified of the error and had moved to whitelist Lovefresh – but that the effect would not work through its network until early on Saturday morning.But O2 has been criticised by its customers after it implemented the "age verification" system without warning on Thursday. Any of its 20m users who try to access a page that has been rated as 18+ will have to go through a verification page which demands a payment from a credit card.The company insists that it has taken the step as a child protection measure. Previously it only implemented the block if the buyer or controller of a phone requested it, such as a parent buying for a child.But the flip from the longstanding "opt-in" system to an "opt-out" system, where people have to make a payment on a credit card as an age verification measure – on the basis that credit cards are only available and accessible to over-18s – has annoyed users.Users in its forumshave worried that they are being scammed, and complained that O2 is "censoring" them.O2 says that the move is not censorship, and that it is not profiting from the verification process. A £1 payment is made, but £2.50 is then refunded to the credit card and the phone is approved for full access.O2says that the reason for the switch is child protection: "To ensure that children are protected from inappropriate content when using the internet on their phones, we require customers to prove they are over 18 before they can use these sites. Access to 18+ rated websites is therefore blocked by default. Customers only have to age verify once."A spokesperson acknowledged that people would have found it inconvenient and apologised for the lack of publicity for the introduction of the scheme. "It could have been handled better," the spokesperson said.
Millions of people using Google and other search engines to find information are being "scammed" into phoning expensive premium-rate phone numbers, the watchdog PhonepayPlus has warned.A growing number of websites have emerged urging customers to unwittingly call £1.50-a-minute phone lines for information, such as "British airways telephone number" and "Sky TV phone number", which is available elsewhere online for free.The websites buy advertising from Google so that they appear prominently for certain search results.However, PhonepayPlus warns that these sites use so-called search engine marketing (SEM) to fool customers who are often landed with a hefty bill. On Thursday two UK-based companies, AT Telecom, of Stockport and Customer Service Helplines, of Arlesley, Bedfordshire, werefined £50,000 eachfor "misleading" customers in this way.In both cases PhonePayPlus found that the annualised revenues generated by the calls were greater than £250,000, indicating its scale. The companies have been ordered to repay the money to complainants."We continue to look for ways to work with search engine providers to stop activity that causes consumer harm," said Paul Whiteing, chief executive of PhonepayPlus."We are aware that people behind such sites have become adept at using SEM to push these sites to the top of the pole when a consumer uses search engines to find numbers. We have already worked with Directgov to forward a number of sites to Google and Bing when these sites use premium rate numbers for information available for free from the government."One customer who searched on Google for "British Airways telephone number" found what he thought was the correct number for British Airways, but was in fact a premium-rate number run by AT Telecom. He described the service as "a scam".The same search on Friday morning produced as the top sponsored link, above the "natural" search results, a link to a company called Customer Services Numbers Ltd,, registered in Windsor. The page linked to says: "Simply call the number below to obtain the telephone number for British Airways Customer services," and in very large type offers a premium-rate number to contact "British Airways helpline".In smaller type it adds: "This is a directory service and calls cost a fixed £1.53 from a BT landline but may cost more from mobiles or other networks. You should be aware that you will not be connected directly to the British Airways helpline from this service."Another person hit by the tactic said: "I was looking for a phone number for Sky TV. The first website I clicked ... displayed Sky TV Customer Services and a premium rate number, which I almost dialled. This is clearly taking advantage of people who are looking for someone else."Whiteing said customers should look carefully at phone numbers provided by any website, and to remember than premium-rate numbers generally begin with the 09 prefix.
Last week, hardware repair site,iFixit, took delivery of a brand new Nintendo 3DS – and, as is their wont, immediately took it to pieces. They've described the results of their 'teardown' here, complete with plenty of fascinating images."The Nintendo 3DS received a 5 out of 10 repairability score," says director of technical communication Miroslav Djuric, "mainly for the extreme difficulty in accessing the top half of the unit."Everything was coming apart just hunky dory: we removed all the Phillips screws and easily disconnected all the components on the bottom half. But then we tried to access and remove the top display, and the disassembly went awry from there. To continue the disassembly, we had to separate the hinges and do a bunch of cringe-inducing threading of ribbon cables through the 3DS' hollow hinges."Even with our super-careful hands, we still managed to break a couple of the ribbon cables. We decided that threading the upper display and camera cables through the tiny hinge tube is something that Nintendo undoubtedly accomplishes with robotic machinery, and should not be attempted by human souls unless they're willing to potentially destroy their device."Oops.They also made a few interesting little discoveries.While using canned air to blow away some dust from the console, the iFixit team found that the external mics pick up the wind noise and cause the live icons on each screen menu to spin around as though caught in a gale.Prising off the IR board. Nobody sneeze. Photograph: iFixitThe team also pondered the functionality of the device's infrared port. There are rumours online that it's for some as yet unanounced Pokemon Black/White functionality, or perhaps for the effective Virtual Console simulation of the (very few) Game Boy Color titles that used IR links.The underside of the motherboard... Photograph: iFixitApart from that, the big discovery was how difficult it is to remove the top display without immediately bricking your new piece of 3D gaming hardware...
At the iPad 2 launch, Apple showed off several of its own apps that will make use of the new tablet's hardware, including Photo Booth, FaceTime, iMovie and GarageBand.Developers have since been digesting the implications for their own apps and games. Apps Blog has been canvassing opinion on what features such as the new A5 processor and dual cameras – as well as the lack of a higher-resolution Retina Display – mean for developers.Games is the obvious category to benefit, with developers taking at face value Apple's promise that the A5 will deliver twice the CPU performance and nine times the graphics performance of the first-generation model."The original iPad is already an amazing gaming device, and now with the addition of a gyro, an even faster processor and cameras, a whole new dimension of possibilities opens up for some super-fun new gaming experiences," says Igor Pusenjak, co-founder of Lima Sky, developer of the hugely popular Doodle Jump game.However, not everyone agrees on his first point, about the first iPad. "I think it is too heavy and slow to comfortably play anything beyond casual and table gamers," says Renate Nyborg, head of business development at DMGT Group's Metro Apps division."The iPad 2 is lighter, twice as fast, a third thinner and also has a gyroscope. To some consumers these changes may seem minimal but I feel this brings the iPad into the realm of ambitious premium gaming titles."Infinity BladeIt's tempting to think iPad 2 is going to be all about rich, 3D games such as Infinity Blade. However, some developers are excited by the combination of graphical horsepower and the casual gamers referred to by Nyborg."The increased graphics power, coupled with a casual user base, also means that there'll be new types of visually rich social games coming out on iOS and Android devices soon, way before that change happens on Facebook, which is being held back by Flash," says Torsten Reil, chief executive of UK developer NaturalMotion.Are developers peeved at the lack of a retina display? Actually, they seem quite pleased. "For me, it means existing applications will not need graphical updates," says Matt Mills, co-founder of UK studio ustwo. "As developers, we can focus on making sure they work even better, taking full advantage of the accelerated performance."He's backed up by Georgina Mackenzie, chief executive of UK developer Toytek. "I'm glad to see that Apple haven't changed the aspect ratio and resolution of the screen as rumoured," she says. "The idea of upscaling all of our graphics again, as we did for the transition from the iPhone 3GS to iPhone 4, was not appealing!"Developers are singing the praises of iPad 2, but several mention the bigger picture, which is this: a range of tablets with dual-core processors coming to market in 2011, including the Android-powered LG Optimus Pad and Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1, the BlackBerry PlayBook, and HP's webOS-powered TouchPad."There's a wider story here," says Reil, of NaturalMotion. "Essentially, what is a 'console' is starting to blur. If you extrapolate the current tablet and phone hardware progress, we won't be far off PS3 performance next year. Coupled with very high unit volume and super-slick digital distribution, this means that high-end development teams can now create visually rich games for a much wider audience."Outside the games world, it's the cameras on these tablets that are getting developers fired up. Jeff Cavins, chief executive of Fuze Box – a startup focused on web and mobile video conferencing – says Apple's new device is a big boost for his sector, thanks to that front-facing camera. "The iPad will transition from a mobile computing accessory to a vital tool for establishing physical presence and connection while on the go."Meanwhile, Greg Taylor, design director of agency TigerSpike, thinks front and rear cameras on iPad 2 and tablet rivals open up the possibility for Kinect-style gestural interactions."The addition of the front and back facing cameras open up the opportunities for highly interactive modes of interaction such as air gestures," he says. "The user can interact with the device without touch, and applications will now be able to map users movements to create an entirely new level of interaction and personalisation."
Five years ago, something interesting happened in western game development: 2D returned. Back in 1995, 3D was the future. The only future. Sega was widely derided for concentrating the architecture of its Saturn games console on 2D friendly features like hardware sprite generation, while PlayStation was built entirely around polygonal performance – it triumphed accordingly.But then we saw the rise of casual gaming, of mobile and social games, and of digital distribution. Xbox Live Arcade, PSN and Wiiware meant that smaller development teams could produce leftfield titles and sell them at a cheaper rate straight to 'core' gamers. And many looked backwards for inspiration – titles like Mutant Storm and Geometry Wars eulogised the era of the classic 2D shooter, while Castle Crashers leered longingly at Golden Axe, and Shadow Complex at Metroid. 2D made more sense to emerging studios likeTwisted Pixel,The BehemothandMetanet Software– there was no need to spend months developing a complex 3D engine, and 'retro' visuals could be much more stylised, more avant garde, which suited the indie mindset. 2D was back.Deathsmiles: more scrolling madness from Cave.But the thing is, it never went away. Not where these genres started. Not in Japan. Here, studios like Treasure, Cave, Arc Systems, Vanillaware and SNK have spent the past two decades belting out what we'd term 'hardcore' 2D titles – shooters, fighters and RPGs – to a passionate fanbase. These companies have expertly twisted and turned to face the machinations of an evolving industry. When SNK went bust in 2001, founder Eikichi Kawasaki set up a new company, Playmore, and bought back all the rights to his back-catalogue, as well as taking on staff from cult 2D developer, Aicom (seehere). After shoot-'em-up giant Toaplan collapsed in 1994, several splinter studios – including Takumi andCave–  formed to continue the legacy. Somehow, despite everything, 2D survived.And now, gratifyingly, the architects of modern two-dimensional game design are thriving. Street Fighter IV has revived interest in the 2D fighter, and the likes of Cave and Treasure are bringing their classic shooters to XBLA and PSN (despite someinitial resistance).Today, I'm sitting in the library of Bath's sumptuous Royal Crescent Hotel with Toshimichi Mori and Daisuke Ishiwatari fromArc System Works, the developer of classic fighting game series Guilty Gear and the more recentBlazBluetitles. They're in Europe to attend a series of fighting game tournaments as well as to meet the local games press. Blazblue, written and directed by Mori, has been a critical smash, with the latest instalment, Continuum Shift, pulling a Metacritic average of 85. Set on a distant Earth in which magic and science have been combined by a dictatorial government, the game features an inspired combat system based around dramatic special attacks and a uniquely complex defence mechanic."The main goal was to create a brand new fighting title that introduced systems and gameplay elements that people had never experienced before," says Mori who counts sci-fi movies Bladerunner, Gattaca and Brazil as well as the manga series, Trigun, among his key influences. "With this in place, I wanted to then create a 'universe' on top of it. We focused on creating very strange, very unusual characters with special attributes. These very 'different' characters meant inventing new gameplay mechanics by necessity – the 'Drives' are special abilities that can alter the direction of the wind, magnetise opponents, absorb health and so forth. With these kinds of mechanics in place, it was inevitable that BlazBlue ended up being such a unique and interesting experience."No surrenderThis uncompromising approach to design typifies the 2D rebirth and aligns studios like Cave and Arc to the emerging indie studios in the west. Although Mori and Ishiwatari jokingly refer to their company's founder Minoru Kidooka as 'the god of Arc' it seems there is more creative freedom here than at the more hierarchical mainstream giants like Capcom and Konami. Mori initiates the narrative and gameplay concepts for BlazBlue (he also devised the game's hugely complex plot and wrote the brilliantly sarcastic text for the tutorial mode), but he then hands over his design documents to programmers and designers who add their own ideas.It sounds like a creative free-for-all, but a structure gradually emerges. "Members of the BlazBlue team are very opinionated about all aspects, from character design to the specifics of gameplay mechanics and fighting style," he explains. "Everyone has their tastes and believe in being forthright in making their opinions known – but that also means being very stubborn! So adjusting to each opinion is never easy. After these final brainstorms have been completed and people have voiced their opinion, a director has to step in and make the final decisions and everyone has to obey. It's the only way it works!"At Cave, a smaller workforce means that individual designers are given plenty of autonomy. "In most cases, we will hand new titles over to one planner to build the game system, " says co-founder Tsuneki Ikeda. "Since most planners also double as programmers, that person will build the game's main system from the ground up." Ikeda himself also has a second role as a coder – he has worked on most Cave titles, including Deathsmiles, Dodonpachi and Guwange.The complexity of 2DThere is a popular misconception that 2D games are somehow easier to produce or at least less taxing on modern hardware. This is not the case. When some players moaned that last year's BlazBlue sequel, Continuum Shift, only added four new characters to the roster, they seemed unaware of the intense development detail that goes into each new addition. "Every character goes through a long process of specification and design," says Mori. "Initial sketches, colouring, how the character moves, animates and behaves, and then finally fine tuning and adjustment. Each one takes roughly five months and over 1000 individual drawings to perfect, so you can begin to appreciate the volume of work involved in the 2D style of fighting games." That's also a lot of data to include in a game file, which explains why you won't be seeing any BlazBlue titles on XBLA or PSN without significant alternations – they're too big.Interestingly, 3D graphics are involved in the BlazBlue process, but only in the development phase. When the initial concept sketches for new characters are produced, the company's artists all have different drawing styles and produce designs of wildly different dimensions. Consequently, 3D rendering software is used to unify the various designs, ensuring they all work to the same scale, and that the physical movements imagined by the art team can actually work in the virtual space. Then it's back to hand drawing all the animations.This process, instigated by Mori, has apparently sped up the development cycle considerably. Earlier today, when the Arc duo were visiting Future Publishing, one journalist asked Ishiwatari about the longest time he'd ever spent at the office without going home. "18 months," was he rather astonishing reply, referring to his work on the last Guilty Gear title. When he tells me this story, Mori quietly adds, "There is a public bath around the corner from the office. That helped." Now, most of the staff keep regular hours – apart from Mori. "The Arc building has two floors," he explains. "The ground floor is the office, and the top floor is a big storage room with a large couch. That is now called Mori's bedroom."For Mori, this obsessive attention to design and narrative detail is vital – it's about creating rounded characters that exude life. "We take great care to flesh out every character's story," he says. "We consider their likes, their dislikes, their history and we make efforts to work these details into the final designs. This is very important. Animation is loved globally and I really believe that a traditional 2D drawing style contributes to the game because of the warmth and organic feel of the art. I want to develop games which pursue that feel."Indeed, animation is a key influence on the Blazblue aesthetic; the game's artists regularly employ techniques derived from anime. For example, when a character performs a double jump, the size of their head is subtly and momentarily reduced to give a greater impression of height; and both fists and feet are enlarged when contact is made with an opponent's body to emphasis impact.When I ask Mori and Ikeda about how their respective genres have lasted into the modern age, they both answer in the same way: community. Both Cave and Arc have a hardcore of fans, who play their games obsessively, both at home and in the sorts of flashy game centres (think Taito HEY and Sega GiGo) that we don't have in the UK anymore. 2D shooters and fighting games are like indie bands – they rely on passionate knowledgeable audience to keep going.Hardcore meets mainstreamBut there are great opportunities for expansion. We're now seeing a vast userbase of mature Western gamers clamouring for interesting and unusual titles. As a result, there's a growing number of publishers specialising in bringing 'cult' Japanese titles to European and American audiences. Set up in 2004,Rising Staris a key example. The Luton-based company has brought over the likes of Harvest Moon,Deadly Premonition,Half-Minute Heroand DeathSmiles, all to critical acclaim and decent sales. "There's a big fan base for Japanese games in Europe, especially for JRPGs," says marketing manager, Yen Hau. "There are a lot of people who appreciate their authenticity, their quirkiness. We've worked with Cave, SNK, Grasshopper Manufacture… DeathSmiles was Cave's first retail release in Europe and it's done really well. That deal came though us asking our community what games they'd like to see over here. We have an open dialogue with our gamers and there was a real enthusiasm for this game. So we approached Cave at the Tokyo Game Show, that was how it started."The aim now for studios like Cave and Arc is to create games that can meet new audiences halfway. Over the last year we've seen fascinating hybrids like Marvelous Entertainment's Half-Minute Hero and Atlus'3D Dot Game Heroes, which have added a tongue-in-cheek, self-referential sheen to the JRPG genre, thereby generating appeal among non-converts. This philosophy needs to extend to the fighting game and shooter genres.And in some ways it already is. BlazBlue was devised very much as an entertainment experience first and a fighting game second. As Mori explains: "for BlazBlue I personally wanted to develop a fighting game with a much stronger entertainment value, a fighting game that could be enjoyed by all skill levels or gamer types, or simply for the characters, the music or the story. One of my biggest intentions was to make a game that was really fun to watch – that was where it really started." Mori is extremely serious and possessive about the BlazBlue story. He tells me that when a publishing house approached him with the idea of publishing a BlazBlue novel, they put forward five possible authors – Mori rejected three straightaway because he'd already had creative bust-ups with them, the other two he dismissed because they were trying to impose their vision on the Blazblue universe.But thereisa novel now, and there are even tentative hopes of an anime movie. I've also played the 3DS conversion of BlazBlue: Continuum Shift, which looks gorgeous, the paper-like 2D characters appearing almost ethereal against the deep background visuals. It is also highly likely we'll see a return of the Guilty Gear series this year, although Mori would not confirm it, and faintly admonished me for asking. He did, however, give a hint of a post-Blazblue future: "I personally want to continue developing 2D fighting games, to push what can be done in this space, but I'm also very interested in action games such as Bayonetta and Devil May Cry – and also in third person shooting games like Gears of War." Hmm, we saw Platinum Games make an impressive, idiosyncratic impact in this area with Vanquish – could Arc be next?Meanwhile, Cave is creating new gameplay systems to unlock its codified genre to newcomers. "With Deathsmiles, from the beginning, we had the goal of involving new players who were not necessarily shooting fans already," says Ikeda. "The game includes a system that allows players to shoot both left and right, but there will still be enemies appearing from behind. To give balance to that, we put a little pop-up into the game which lets you know when an enemy is about to appear behind you. We also introduced a life point system, which doesn't penalise the player as heavily when their character runs into an enemy."2D futureThere are plenty more 2D titles on the way in 2011. Treasure is releasing Bangai-O HD: Missile Fury as well as a hotly anticipated conversion of its legendary shooter, Radiant Silvergun, while Arc System Works is overseeing the home console ports of Arcana Heart 3, a beautiful arcade fighting game from Examu featuring an all-female roster. And of course, Square Enix is still active in 2D via its many re-releases – Final Fantasy IV: The Complete Collection is due on PSP later this year.While Mori is protective of the arcade and its importance in the Arc process, it seems that Cave is open to the new opportunities afforded by digital distribution. It has a version of Guwange on XBLA and Espgaluda II has been converted to iOS. Ikeda sees a future in which his studio must adapt to the 'softer' tastes of a worldwide audience. "Currently we are concentrating on porting older titles originally developed for the arcade to home systems and smart phones. However, what you will see in the future are releases on platforms other than arcade hardware, and game designs based on those platforms. The direction of shooting games at the moment is influenced by a demand for games that don't 'play hardball' but have gameplay that can be engaged in a more accessible manner, so you may see shooters heading that way."Still," he adds slyly, "'playing hardball' has its own appeal..."2D now!Five 'hardcore' Japanese titles for the interested newcomerDeathSmiles(Cave, Xbox 360)Visually stunning side-scroller, with interesting gothic design, immersive game system and bags of scoring depth. You can pick up the UK deluxe edition on Amazon for less than twenty quid. Alternatively, you can also download Cave's startlingly frenzied Guwange from XBLA.BlazBlue: Continuum Shift(Arc System Works, PS3, Xbox 360)Incredibly stylish fighter with gorgeous hand-drawn sprites and some amazing fighting styles. If you've never played a 2D fighting game before it comes with a highly entertaining tutorial that explains all the basics and is fun to play through. Again, you can find this online for £20 and it's worth every penny.Bangai-O Spirits(Treasure, Nintendo DS)An astonishing small-screen sequel to Treasure's Dreamcast classic, Bangai-O. You control a robot through 160 exhausting side-scrolling levels, and there's a map editor so you can create your own missions. This is £6.99 on Amazon! £6.99!Muramasa: The Demon Blade(Vanillaware, Wii)Based on a old Japanese folk tale, this is a simply gorgeous side-scrolling hack-'em-up with hand-drawn 2D characters and lush pseudo-3D environments. From the makers of cult classic PS2 RPG, Odin Sphere.Half-Minute Hero(Marvelous Entertainment, PSP)Absolutely inspired retro-style RPG shooter, in which each level and boss encounter must be completed in 30 seconds. Lovely visuals and bundles of chaotic charm. The sequel, Half-Minute Hero Second, is yet to be confirmed for UK release.This article was amended on 8 March, 2011. The original refered to Eikichi Kawasaki's company as PlayAsia, it is Playmore. The Arc System Works series is Guilty Gear, not Guilty Gears. This has been corrected.
It's the end of day three of the TED 2011 ideas festival in Long Beach, California, and we have seen things that look like they were created by Steven Spielberg, a CGI team, and several million pounds of special effects, but actually, it was just the future.I know this sounds like hyperbole, but today I went at Stig-like speeds around an elevated parking lot in a self-driving car and saw a man hold a human kidney. Which he'd just made.It's the last day on Friday, and I'm expecting big things. A 3D hologram of the baby Jesus. Which is actually the baby Jesus. And a time machine made from a DeLorean car. At the very least.Here's my latest roundup.Unlikeliest true sentence, ever."I"m just going to show you a kidney we printed earlier." Yes, a human kidney. Printed.Anthony Atala, a professor of regenerative medicine, gave what must be one of the most gobsmacking TED talks. A few years ago, he worked out how to engineer human tissue with a desktop inkjet printer using cells instead of ink and he is now using these machines to make actual human organs, which have been successfully implanted into people.One of those people is Luke Massella, who came on stage to explain that he was born with spina bifida, and at the age of 10 suffered kidney and bladder failure. A decade on he's a fit and healthy college student. And according to the session's host,Juan Enriquez, Atala is also one of the nicest and most modest men you could ever hope to meet.How a woman who was in a wheelchair for 19 years walked againIf you cross the gospel of Luke – in which Jesus makes a crippled man walk again – with Robert Downey Junior in Iron man, you get some ideaEythor Bender's TED talk.Bender, the CEO of Berkeley Bionics, and his team have created an electronic exoskeleton and to demonstrate it, a woman who was paralysed from the pelvis down, 19 years ago, rose up out of her wheelchair and walked.Scientist with the most understanding spouseI'd love to have been a fly on the wall whenDeb Roydiscussed with his wife how he was going to wire every room of their house with cameras and microphones which would record every move they make and every word they spoke.That's the one conversation between the couple that seems to have gone unrecorded, because Roy, the head of the cognitive machines group in the MIT Media Lab, is conducting a mind-boggling experiment.He wired the house to coincide with the birth of his first child, and he's sifting through the vast quantities of data, to uncover previously hidden patterns and behaviours, including what he calls "the birth of a word".Listen to this. It's a remarkable audio sequence that shows the precise process of how his son first came to say the word "water".Greatest Essex boy to have graced the TED StageIt could only be Jamie Olivier. He returned on Thursday to report on the progress of his "wish". He won the TED prize last year, which came with the award of $100,000 to make "one wish to change the world", and vowed to fight childhood obesity. This time last year, he received a standing ovation. And on Thursday, when he came back to report on his progress, he got another. Go get 'em, Jamie.Fact most likely to make the parents of any teenage boy go and check his hard drive. NowThe average boy watches 50 porn clips a week.Philip Zimbardo, the scientist who carried out the astonishing and infamous Stanford prisonexperimentin the early 1970s, quoted this figure in a talk he entitled "the demise of guys".Zimbardo still likes to stir things up, and argued that boys' brains are being digitally rewired for constant arousal through gaming and porn, and they're failing as men both socially and sexually.How much you can get for the title of a TED talk on eBayMorgan Spurlock speaks during the Worlds Imagined at session TED2011.  Photograph: James Duncan Davidson/TEDExactly $7,100. The film-maker,Morgan Spurlock, put the "naming rights" of his TED appearance up for auction a few weeks ago in order to illustrate the point of his talk and the subject of his new film: the product placement industry.The Greatest Movie Ever Sold was this year's Sundance hit and Spurlock told the story of the companies that dared to allow themselves to be featured in his film. We need risk, he argued, because in risk lies opportunity. And the title of the talk? "Embrace Transparency, brought to you be EMC. Turning big data into big opportunity."Best way to spot an alienGo tosetiquest.organd join the search for extra intelligence. This is the wish of Jill Tarter, a former winner of the TED prize, who is searching the heavens for signs of intelligent life, and she needs your help to scour the masses of data being beamed down to earth by a range of high-powered telescopes."Any one of us could make the discovery that changes our view of the universe," she said, and is appealing for more"citizen scientists".Most mindblowing innovation from GoogleJeez. When will those guys just give it a rest? Forget Google Earth and Google Art, and check out the weird, wonderful, and potentially world-changingGoogle self-driving car. A Google engineer, Sebastian Thrun, told the audience how, at the age of 18, he lost his best friend in a car accident and has dedicated himself to saving a million lives a year by eradicating driver error.The prototype car has been driven (which is to say, it's driven itself) 140,000 miles, including around San Francisco and from San Francisco to Los Angeles, andhaving experienced it in action,there is only this to say:it rocks.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The US Justice Department is reportedly studying whether attempts by owners of the H.264 video patent pool to find out whether Google's free and open-source VP8 codec infringes their patents are unfair.It has opened an antitrust probe to find out whether the MPEG LA group or its members are trying to stifle the alternative format, which Google is pushing as a cost-free alternative for video on the web,according to the Wall Street Journal.Google has the heft online tomake its own VP8 video codec widely used, because the YouTube web site is the most-viewed video site online. But the MPEG LA group, which has created a "patent pool" of 1,700-odd patents around the H.264 encoding system and which charges companies to use them, is now understood to be investigating whether VP8 and the "wrapper" system it uses, called WebM, infringes any of its patents.In turn the US Justice Department is investigating whether that patent uncertainty is being used to cripple adoption of VP8.MPEG LA would not confirm to the WSJ whether it knows that it is being investigated, but told it that it isn't trying to kill off a competitor; instead, it said, it is "simply offering a service for patent holders and is agnostic about which video format prevails"."We are effectively a convenience store" for licensing patents, Larry Horn, MPEG LA's chief executive, told the WSJ. "We have no dog in that fight."Google doesn't charge any royalties for VP8 and has not filed for any patents on it. But in February MPEG LA issued a call for companies to tell it about patents that it thought were infringed by VP8. "I can tell you: VP8 is not patent-free," Mr. Horn told the WSJ. "It's simply nonsense."At stake is whether H.264, which is widely used and for which decoding software is built into many products, prevails over VP8, which Google is offering for free, but which has seen little adoption. Microsoft and Apple have both held off writing software that would decode VP8 video into their browsers, partly because the format protocols are still developing, and partly because they are wary about the possibilities that VP8 infringes on H.264 patents, which would leave them liable for damages. In addition, both companies are members of MPEG LA. Only the Mozilla foundation, which produces the widely-used Firefox browser, and Google in its Chrome browser, have adopted VP8 and WebM and produced decoders for it which work in the browser for video playback.Google recently announced that it will drop support for H.264 decoding in the Chrome browser, and only offer native decoding for VP8 and WebM formats.
