Games currently on release includeKinect Sports Rivals(Xbox One), a set of futuristic sports games you repeatedly fail to control by waving limbs around, demonstrating how appalling Microsoft's motion-sensing system is; the much-anticipatedGoat Simulator(PC) puts you in the cloven hooves of the world's favourite omnivore, not to forage but to destroy, wreaking comedy-grade chaos in a small town;Dynasty Warriors 8: Xtreme Legends(PS3, PS4, Vita) is an expansion of the most recent episode of this pulpy ancient Chinese hack'n'slash; excellent giant robot-orientated shooter,Titanfall(Xbox 360) finally makes its way to Xbox 360 having helped sell a lot of Xbox One consoles; andThe Elder Scrolls Online(PC &amp; Mac) may be riddled with bugs, but it also brings the scale and richness of Skyrim to a massively multiplayer online game. It's about time.
Bioshock Infinite: Burial At Sea Episode TwoXbox 360, PS3 &amp; PCNow that Ken Levine – the creative force behind the Bioshock series – has closed the studio that made it, this is the franchise's swansong. In it you play former sidekick Elizabeth, who isn't quite as handy with guns as hero Booker DeWitt, making stealth and smacking enemies over the head from behind your best options. New additions include the ability to see enemies through walls and a microwave gun that makes them explode. Weaving its plot back to the original, this is a fitting ending with satisfying twists and a definite sense of resolution.2K Games, £11.99Surgeon SimulatoriOSAfter around a minute's medical training, which teaches you how to pick up and aim a surgical instrument, your baptism in blood is a heart-transplant operation undertaken solo and without further instruction. The intentional clumsiness of the controls means you'll bludgeon and hack many patients to pieces before stumbling across a way of keeping enough blood inside their haemorrhaging bodies to survive the procedure. Converted from a PC game (and surprisingly not made by the minds behind Goat Simulator), this is just as hilariously brutal on iPad and comes with extra eye and dental transplant ops.Bossa Studios, £3.99Advance WarsWii UAdvance Wars' bouncy, cartoon vision of conflict is actually a 21st-century reinvention of chess. Taking turns with your enemy to move your masses, you have to bear in mind their strengths and weaknesses, the terrain you're attacking on and the intermittently recharged super-power of your commanding officer. This was the first Advance Wars to emerge outside Japan, and while its chunky visuals look ludicrous on a big TV, played on the Wii U gamepad this is just as enthralling as it was in 2002; its battles rely on perfectly balanced mechanisms, rather than the plethora of extra features that cluttered later iterations. This is still one of the best games ever made.Nintendo, £6.29
Amazon is reportedly preparing to release a smartphone with 3D-type imagery which will compete against devices produced by Apple and Samsung.The online retail giant has showcased the hardware to developers in Seattle and San Francisco in recent weeks in advance of a rollout later this year, the Wall Street Journalreported on Friday.Citing people briefed on the company&apos;s plans, the paper said Amazon planned to announce its foray into hardware in June and to start shipping phones in September, ahead of the holiday shopping season.Amazon made no immediate response to the report.The phone will apparently employ retina-tracking technology embedded in four front-facing cameras, or sensors, to make some images appear to be 3-D, similar to a hologram, without the need to wear special glasses.The Seattle-based company hopes the feature will enable the product to stand out in a crowded and competitive field that is dominated by Apple and Samsung.On Twitter a technology analyst,Kurt Marko, said: “So the ecosystem battlelines have been set [with] Amazon to enter the phone market. Which walled garden will flourish: Amazon, Apple or Google?”Amazon has long been rumoured to be working on a smartphone to pair with its Kindle Fire range of Android tablets and compete with offerings from Google and Apple.Last year, the Financial Timesreportedthat Amazon was working with HTC to produce a range of Android-powered smartphones – a collaboration which if confirmed could see HTC expelled from the the Open Handset Alliance (OHA), a consortium of mobile phone makers.The Wall Street Journal report made no mention of HTC, nor design or pricing.Amazon has made strides in designing and making hardware, including a wand which people can use to scan product barcodes at home, enabling them to re-order merchandise without logging on to computers.Last week,it unveiled the FireTV set-top box.
Lawyers for computer hacker Andrew “Weev” Auernheimer said they were racing to get him out of prison after a circuit judge on Friday vacated his conviction on identity theft and conspiracy charges.Auernheimer, a self-described internet troll and hacker,was found guiltyin November 2012 conspiracy to gain unauthorised access to AT&amp;T public servers, after he obtained thousands of email addresses of iPad owners. He currently is serving a 41-month federal prison term in Pennsylvania.On Thursday, the US court of appeals for the third circuit threw out Auernheimer’s conviction, ruling that New Jersey, where he was tried, was an improper venue for the case. The issue of venue is particularly sensitive in computer fraud trials, which by nature transcend physical jurisdictions.“We’re scrambling right now to figure out how to get him out,” said defense attorneyTor Ekelandin a telephone interview. “Right now we’re just focused on getting him out, because they’ve been holding him in a special housing unit, which is a 6x11 cell, where he only gets out one hour a day.”Ekeland, who took on Auernheimer’s case in November 2011 after his wife met Auernheimer at the Occupy Wall Street protest, said the defense team was gratified by the circuit court’s decision.“It’s awesome news. It’s everything we’ve been working really hard for for the last couple years,”Ekelandsaid. “We always said, from day one, that the venue was improper in New Jersey, it was one of the first things we raised with the government. We stuck with that through trial.”Auernheimer was charged with a felony under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), the same statute that was used to prosecute internet activist Aaron Swartz. Critics say the law was meant to prosecute larger crimes and its use in hacking cases was an intimidation tactic by the government.Auernheimer’s legal team argued at trial that his prosecution under the CFAA was improper, but Ekeland said he was just as happy to see the conviction vacated on venue grounds.“In terms of venue, it’s an incredibly important concept, and the government’s prosecution here just threw that out the window,” Ekeland said.“If the court had ruled the other way, you would have had universal venue in these kinds of cases, computer fraud and abuse cases, and that would have had huge implications for the Internet and computer law.“I think this is a very, very important venue decision when it comes to the Internet and computer law, and I’m quite happy about it.”Ekeland said he never got a full explanation from the government of why it brought the case in New Jersey. The circuit court found an “absence of any apparent connection to New Jersey, noting that at the time of the alleged crime, an alleged accomplice of Auernheimer’s “was in San Francisco, California, and Auernheimer was in Fayetteville, Arkansas. The servers that they accessed were physically located in Dallas, Texas and Atlanta, Georgia.”“When I asked them about [venue] in one of our first meetings, I thought they would show me something,” Ekeland said. “But they never showed me anything, so I kept pushing it all the way through trial.“And we pushed it on appeal, and we won on it.”
The debate around the Facebook group Women Who Eat on Tubes has thrown up a number of interesting questions when it comes to privacy.On Friday, its founder claimed Facebook deleted the group, but the social network said it was deleted by accident. The group has since been reinstated and turned into a private group by one of its administrators.Tony Burke, the group&apos;s founder, has defended the group as &quot;art&quot; and &quot;observational study&quot; while its critics have called it sexist and inappropriate. The group itself is not unique – there are a slew of Facebook groups, Tumblrs and Subreddits which feature photographs of people taken without their knowledge.Where do you draw the line when it comes to taking photos in public? Is everything fair game if you&apos;re doing it in public? Or should social media sites be cracking down on people who post pictures without people&apos;s knowledge?Have your say in the thread below.
Amazon has purchased digital comics firm Comixologyfor an undisclosed sum, the companies announced on Thursday night.Comixology is the biggest provider of digital comics, selling content from four of the big five US comic publishers – only Dark Horse holds out – through its own app, as well as more than 70 other publishers and many more self-published creators.The company produces its own app, Comics by Comixology, which is available on iOS, Android, Kindle Fire and Windows Phone. It offers the same comics through its website, with an HTML5 comics reader, and it produces white-label apps for a number of major publishers: the Image Comics, Boom! Studios Comics, Marvel Comics and DC comics apps are all made by Comixology.After the acquisition, Comixology will continue to be run separately from the Amazon, the firm tells the Guardian. &quot;Amazon has a long history with subsidiaries like Goodreads, Zappos, Audible and IMDb, of helping them grow and, over time, learning from each other and improving together.&quot;In a statement on its website, the company&apos;s CEO and co-founder, David Steinberger, reiterated the message. &quot;Comixology will retain its identity as an Amazon subsidiary and we’re not anywhere near done &apos;taking comics further&apos;. We are confident that – with Amazon by our side, who shares our desire for innovation and a relentless focus on customers – we’ve only just begun.&quot;The firm also sought to reassure users that their comic collections, some of which are in the thousands of dollars, were safe after the acquisition. &quot;Of course [they are safe]! Our goal is to build on each other’s strengths and create the best service for all comic and graphic novel customers.&quot; But it declined comment on whether it would &quot;guarantee&quot; that customers would always be able to read the comics they had purchased.Although the biggest provider of digital comics, Comixology is by no means the only player in the space. It faces competition from a number of publishers who offer their comics direct to the consumer: Dark Horse has its own application, whileImageand2000 ADboth sell PDFs of their comics, without copy protection, on their websites. 2000 AD also offers its latest releases throughan in-house iPad app.A number of smaller companies are also attempting to hold their own against Comixology&apos;s dominance. Comics Plus, by iVerse, lacks Marvel and DC&apos;s content, but still sells books by IDW and Boom! Studios, whose licensed content includes popular niches such as Transformers, Magic the Gathering and Adventure Time.London and Tokyo-based Sequential is attempting to dominate the top-end of the market, selling literary graphic novels by creators like Alison Bechdel, Eddie Campbell and Jeff Lemire. It&apos;s also the only digital comics seller to secure a deal with Jonathan Cape, the comics-publishing imprint of Random House.Madefirehas another approach again: the company sells comics by a number of creatorswith motion features added on top. It also has exclusive work by creators including Watchmen artist Dave Gibbons and Lucifer writer Mike Carey.“Amazon and Comixology share a passion for reinventing reading in a digital world,” said David Naggar, Amazon Vice President, Content Acquisition and Independent Publishing. “We’ve long admired the passion Comixology brings to changing the way we buy and read comics and graphic novels. We look forward to investing in the business, growing the team, and together, bringing comics and graphic novels to even more readers.”•Amazon bags Game of Thrones author for its Jet City Comics imprint
Google will open up its Glass “Explorer Program” for one day only to allow US residents to buy the smartglasses before general release.A limited, but unspecified, number of the Google smartglasses will cost $1,500 plus sales tax and be available for 24 hours via online ordering on a first-come, first-served basis from 6am PDT (2pm UK time) for adults who live in the US.But Google is giving no indication of when, or whether, availability will be extended to other countries other than stating that it wants as many different demographics to test and give input into the development of Glass as is possible.Special research casesGoogle hasn&apos;t made Glass generally available outside the US, though a number of people have bought it there and then used it in other parts of the world while travelling. A few specific applications have been granted outside the US, including Newcastle University&apos;s research into Parkinson&apos;s disease, which has recently beengiven access to Glass as part of research funding.The Guardian understands that one of the primary reasons Glass is not available outside the US is due to the requirements of localisation for language, accent and regional differences in units – although Google&apos;s voice search is currently available in localised versions in many countries outside the US including the UK.There may be privacy and legal concerns to expanding Google Glass&apos;s footprint outside the US. Even in America, Google faces preemptive attempts to block the use of Glass while driving, with a number of states seeking to pass laws banning it -which Google is lobbying against.European privacy legislation might be more severe over the use of Glass to film or photograph people without their specific consent in countries such as Germany. The company didn&apos;t respond to a request to explain why sales have been restricted to the US.“Every day we get requests from those of you who haven’t found a way into the program yet, and we want your feedback too,” the Google Glass teamsaid in a Google Plus post.The latest edition of Glass will come with spectacle-style frames, rather than the Star Trek-like single band across the face. Google Glass is a voice-controlled set of smartglasses that uses a prism placed above the right eye to create a virtual display just out of eyeline.Glass is capable of displaying contextual information based on the wearer&apos;s location, time of day and links to Google&apos;s services through an Android smartphone. It is also equipped with a camera that will record video and capture photos on command.No friends neededThe move marks the first time Google will make Glass available for general sale, even if in limited numbers. Previous purchasers had to have been referred by friends with Glass, participated in smaller, group-based campaigns including university groups, or applied for a set of the smartglasses as a developer.Google recently announced that Italian Ray-Ban and Oakley sunglass manufacturer Luxottica was partnering with the search giant todesign and create new frame stylesfor Glass to make them look more stylish.Glass “Explorers” have come under fire from the general public and media for anti-social behaviour, recording video without warning and taking pictures. Google recently published guidance onhow not to be a “glasshole”while wearing the smartglasses, attempting to prevent its brand and product being tarnished by poor behaviour.But some businesses and disciplines have explored its use. Virgin Atlantic has experimented with staff using it for identifying and greeting upper class passengers at Heathrow - with data about their tickets and timings shown in the small screen above the right-hand eye. Doctors at Bech Israel Deaconess medical centrehave also been triallingits use in hospitals.• Google hits back at Glass haters withmyth-busting blog post
Samsung’s latest iteration of smartwatches comes in three flavours, all of which are a big improvement over the previous generation. But do they do enough to justify a space on your wrist, or supplant a normal watch (or even rival smartwatch)?For the Gear 2, Gear 2 Neo and Gear Fit Samsung has – shock! – dumped Google’s Android for its own Tizen open-source software, although you’d be hard-pressed to tell the difference.The Gear 2 is the flagship smartwatch in Samsung’s current lineup, while the Gear 2 Neo lacks a camera, and the Gear Fit is more of a fitness band than a smartwatch per se. Are they capable of bucking a trend thatsees one-third of owners ditching their wearableswithin six months?Slimmer, faster, lighter... better?Samsung Gear 2 review - looks and feels more like a watch. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Gear 2 is a refinement of the &quot;unripened fruit&quot; that was theGalaxy Gear smartwatchreleased last year. It has slimmed down, removed bulky additions from the microphone and camera from the strap and looks much more like a conventional watch.The subtle changes make quite a bit of difference to the appearance of the smartwatch, and allow it to fit under a shirt cuff much more easily. As a watch, it functions much better than its predecessor, which is important if you’re trying to replace a traditional watch.Samsung seems to have appreciated that a watch is a piece of jewellery, and that some users will thus want to customise it. The new Gears are available in a range of colours and straps, while the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo have standard watch straps, so users aren’t limited to the colours and types Samsung sells.A bright, high-resolution 1.63in SuperAMOLEDscreen makes the watch easy to read on theGear 2, while a responsive touchscreen makes it relatively easy to use. Simple swiping gestures (left or right between the multiple home screens) make navigating between functions and menus pretty intuitive once you realise that a swipe down is akin to the back button on Android.A single button on the Gear 2 turns the screen on and off, with a double tap launching an app of your choosing. The screen also lights if you lift your wrist to read it.Samsung Gear Fit review - a curved display fits to the contour of your wrist. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianTheGear Fithas more band-like design, with a narrow curved display that fits to the contours of the wrist. The screen is bright, so it&apos;s easy to read small snippets of text or alerts, while touch navigation is enhanced with more familiar back and OK buttons at the top and bottom of the screen when needed. The app functions are on a virtual carousel - keep swiping up or down and you&apos;ll eventually reach your starting point again.A single button on the side of the Fit will light the display, and can be set for a double tap app, but again the screen will light up if the wrist is moved to look at it.SpecificationsGear 2Processor:1.0 GHz dual coreScreen:1.63in Super AMOLED (320 x 320)Dimensions:36.9 x 58.4x 10.0 mm, 68gCamera:2-megapixelConnectivity:Bluetooth 4.0 LESensors:accelerometer, gyroscope, heart rate monitorGear FitProcessor:1.0 GHz dual coreScreen:1.84in curved Super AMOLED (432x128)Dimensions:36.9 x 58.4x 10.0 mm, 68gConnectivity:Bluetooth 4.0 LESensors:accelerometer, gyroscope, heart rate monitorThree-day batteryOne of the biggest improvements Samsung’s made to the new Gear smartwatches over the old Galaxy Gear is battery life. The new Gears will last three days on a charge with heavy use, but that still means you have to charge your watch twice a week.In comparison,Sony’s Smartwatch 2lasts about three days on a single charge. The Pebble, with its black-and-white e-ink display, manages five or more.For charging, there&apos;s a small clip-on adapter that provides a microUSB port which can be charged by any normal USB charger. A full battery charge takes only an hour or two.The new Gears are waterproof, although only to 1m deep for 30 minutes – so they&apos;re not for your swimming workout. (Even doing your swimming strokes will put excess pressure on them that will breach the limit.)Samsung Gear Fit review - built in pedometer that links to Samsung's S Health app. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAll three devices have a heavy focus on fitness tracking, packing accelerometers for activity and step counting as well as built-in heart rate monitors. They feed data into Samsung’s improved S Health app for tracking your activity and general wellbeing.The heart rate monitor works well as long as you keep still and do not talk during measurement, but the pedometer function was very inaccurate compared to a dedicated wrist-worn fitness tracker like the Misfit Shine - it recorded two miles even though I&apos;d walked three by the latters&apos; measurement. The Gear Fit will also track your sleep, but its chunky body will make it uncomfortable to sleep with for some.Notifications, replies and shouting at your watchSamsung’s own apps have tight integration with the Gears, allowing short replies and other simple functions to be performed beyond simple notifications. You can accept and reject calls via the Gears, as well as activate Samsung’s S Voice digital assistant using the built-in mic of the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo – although shouting at your watch still feels and looks ridiculous.Samsung Gear Fit review – alerts from apps like Gmail display small summaries of the email or text message. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianOther apps can have their notifications displayed on the screen of the smartwatches, pulled directly from the Android notification tray; so they are simply text alerts.Some work better than others, and can be programmed to flash up on the screen when they come in. The problem comes when two emails or messages come in at the same time and the alert simply says &quot;2 messages&quot;. They can often be scrolled through as one block of text, but it is hard to see where one message starts and another ends.The built-in Samsung software handles notifications better than most other smartwatches currently available,including the Sony Smartwatch 2.Samsung Gear 2 review - a built in heart rate monitor beneath the main body of the watch works well as long as you keep still and don't talk. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAll three smartwatches can perform standard watch duties while not connected to a smartphone or tablet, including a stopwatch, timers, and fitness monitoring using the pedometer, activity tracker and heartrate monitor.Both the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo can also play music while not attached to a smartphone, connecting directly to a pair of Bluetooth headphones and playing music stored on their 4GB of internal memory – great for a run.The Gear 2 has a 2-megapixel camera at the top of the screen that faces out at right angles from the strap. It produces average photos, similar to those shot by the front-facing cameras on modern smartphones, and I’m not quite sure why you wouldn’t pull out your smartphone to take photos. Then again, the best camera is the one you have with you - even if using it involves contorting your wrist.IR remoteThe Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo both have an IR emitter above the screen, so you can change TV channels and control other electronics remotely direct from the watch. It works OK, but is a bit fiddly.Price: two can buy as cheaply as oneOn their own, the prices are substantial: the Gear 2 will costs around £250 (although official pricing isn&apos;t yet available), the Gear 2 Neo £170 and the Gear Fit £170 from retailers like Carphone Warehouse.For comparison, theSony Smartwatch 2costs around £100 and thePebblearound £90. Most Gears will not be bought standalone, however, and are likely to be bundled cheaply or for free with the purchase of a Samsung phone.Verdict: better, but still hard to justifySamsung Gear 2 review - Gear 2 and Gear Fit only officially compatible with select Samsung Android smartphones and tablets. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSamsung has two distinct products in the Gear 2 and Gear Fit. TheGear 2is the evolution of the Galaxy Gear, which has slimmed down, got lighter, faster, easier to use and more comfortable to wear. Every facet shows clear improvement, and it now works much better as a timepiece.The problem is still that it doesn’t offer a lot in the way of utility to justify replacing something people often cherish (a real watch) or simply don&apos;t wear, and for £250-odd it certainly isn’t going to be cheap; if it&apos;s bundled cheaply or for free, there&apos;s no clear user wish for it. Having to charge it every three days can also get annoying, as it’s just another thin that has to be connected to the mains.But the Gear 2 is probably the best smartwatch available right now for Samsung owners, given the tight integration with Samsung’s own apps and decent notification handling from third-party apps. Samsung hopes to build and ecosystem around the Gear 2 and its Tizen software, which could add much-needed utility in the future.Right now, it would be a good value-add bundled with thepurchase of a new Galaxy S5or other Samsung smartphone. But I can’t recommend spending £250 on it standalone.Samsung Gear Fit review - measuring your heart rate takes just a few seconds. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianTheGear Fitis a more interesting proposition, however. It can do most of what the Gear 2 can do, handling notifications, pulling watch duties, monitor your health and fitness, with the added benefit of sleep tracking (if you can stomach wearing it to bed. It is also slimmer and could sit alongside a traditional watch.In many ways the Gear Fit is more appealing, especially considering it&apos;ll likely cost in the region of £60-80 less than the Gear 2, but is still in its infancy. I also found that its activity tracking and pedometer functions were noticeably less accurate as a dedicated fitness tracker like the Misfit Shine, but that can probably be improved by better software.Overall, the Gear 2 is a step in the right direction for smartwatches, but is still difficult to justify buying unless you do not have a watch and have £250 burning a hole in your pocket. The Gear Fit, however, is definitely worth looking at if you are after a fitness tracker and would like smartwatch functionality wrapped in – as long as you have a supported Samsung smartphone, because neither the Gear 2 or Gear Fit is compatible with any other manufacturers’ smartphones.Pros:Lighter, slimmer, clear screens, heart rate monitors, three-day battery, waterproofCons:Expensive, limited use cases, another device to charge, no third-party appsOther smartwatch reviews•Sony Smartwatch 2•Pebble smartwatch
Update:A spokesperson for Facebook has clarified the situation. Facebook say the group was accidentally deleted this morning but was reinstated and changed to a private group by one of the group&apos;s administrators.The founder of controversial Facebook group Women Who Eat on Tubes claimed Facebook removed the page – but the group was actually accidentally deleted before being reinstated on Friday morning.Tony Burke, a filmmaker who set up the page on which users post surreptitious photos of women eating on the London Underground, claimed Facebook took the group down on Friday morning. He appeared on Radio 4&apos;s Today programme alongside Lucy Brisbane McKay, who is organising a protest against the group in the form of a picnic on the Circle Line.Burke, who has consistently said in interviews that the group is &quot;art&quot; and &quot;observational study&quot;, told the programme: &quot;As of this morning, Facebook has taken the group down.&quot;Actually, we&apos;re talking about something posthumously.&quot;He added: &quot;[The protest] is irrelevant now because they&apos;re protesting about something that doesn&apos;t exist.&quot;Buta closed group with the same name, description, member size and administrators as the original Women Who Eat on Tubes is still up on Facebook. A closed group is a private group and only members can see the content posted. A spokesperson for Facebook has said the page was accidentally deleted and later reinstated as it does not breach any of the site&apos;s terms and conditions.Only a group administrator can change the group&apos;s status from open to private. Any new members now have to request to join the group before they can view and post content.A separate Tumblr with the same name, which Burke took credit for on Radio 4,is still upwith all its content available to anyone.Brisbane Mckay, a student,whose Circle Line protest on Mondaymay be attended by more than 300 people, said: &quot;I don&apos;t think women particularly want to be seen as wildlife eating on the tube.&quot;We don&apos;t want to be the subject of your art.&quot;You can listen to the entire interview below.The group was started in 2011, with its numbers swelling to well over 20,000 in recent weeks following widespread media attention and criticism. While Burke claims he chose to concentrate on women because he believed more women ate on the tube, critics have said the group actively encourages shaming women who eat in public and is sexist.What do you think? Should Facebook shut the group down? Have your say in the comments below.
Sony on Friday urged its customers to stop using the new model of its Vaio computers as soon as possible, over fears it could catch fire.In the latest product glitch for the struggling electronics group, the company is notifying owners of the Vaio Fit 11A, which launched in February, that their computers may have a faulty battery pack that is at risk of overheating and catching fire. A formal recall is expected soon.The computer manufacturer said it had shipped 25,905 of the Vaio Fit 11A in 52 countries since its launch, including 7,158 in Europe, 2,088 in China, 3,619 in Japan and 497 in the US.Sony said three PCs had caught on fire around the battery pack, which was manufactured by Panasonic Corp.The setback comes just weeks after Sony announced in February itsplans to sell off the Vaio computer divisionto Japan Industrial Partners. The Japanese investment fund will take over the planning, design and development of PC products, leaving Sony free to concentrate on smartphones and tablets in July.Sales of desktop computers are in decline across the industry as consumers switch their activity to laptops and phones.•Sony considering selloff of Vaio PC business as sales dwindle
My bet is that the vast majority of the Windows XP users reading this did not update their computers/operating systems by 8 April. What actions should they take to minimise their exposure to attack, while they consider their options/save up?WhitesocksMicrosoft has shipped its final update for Windows XP, which means all the new security holes will not be patched. Nobody knows what will happen next, but malware writers are expected to target the remaining machines. If you are still running Windows XP, it would be a good idea to make it as secure as possible. Unfortunately, there is no &quot;magic bullet&quot;. The things you can do to protect XP apply to all versions of Windows. However, because XP will now get more insecure every month, you need to take protection much more seriously.It&apos;s a huge problem. There are roughly 1.5 billion PCs in the world, andNetMarketSharereckons that 27.7% are still running XP. That&apos;s more than 400 million machines. Since XP is fundamentally much less secure than Windows 7 (48.8%), Windows 8 (11.3%) or even Vista (3.0%), it&apos;s a very attractive target for malware writers. (For comparison, all versions of Mac OS X add up to 7.6%, with Linux at 1.5%.)The quickest way to make a Windows XP machine almost completely secure is to prevent it from accessing the internet. This works for some business PCs that are used for specific purposes, such as controlling machine tools, but isn&apos;t practical for most users. However, an alternative is to install a copy of Linux on the same PC, or boot Linux from a Live CD, and use that for browsing and email. Dual-booting two operating systems is tedious and time consuming, but at least you can get online while continuing to use the XP software that has presumably prevented you from upgrading to a more recent version of Windows.Microsoft&apos;s solution was to provide an XP Mode in Windows 7 Pro. This let you run Windows 7 as your main operating system, while simultaneously running a free &quot;virtual&quot; copy of Windows XP. The price of Windows 7 Pro means this isn&apos;t a solution for most home users: you&apos;d be better off putting the money towards a newer -– perhaps secondhand – PC.So, let&apos;s look at what you can do to run an XP machine normally, but more safely.Protecting XP on the netThe quickest and simplest way to make XP more secure on the internet is to use it from a limited account. Most people use &quot;administrator&quot; accounts, because these let you do whatever you like. The problem is that any malware that gets control of your admin account can also do whatever it likes. The solution is to use a &quot;limited&quot; account, which also limits what most malware programs can do.Of course, if you need to install some software or make system changes, you will have to switch to an admin account. To make this a little more palatable, tick the box that says &quot;Use Fast User Switching&quot; when you set up the limited account. If children or accident-prone adults share the same PC, they should definitely be given their own limited accounts.All XP accounts should be protected by passwords, though many people don&apos;t do this.You should also download and use a more secure browser than Internet Explorer 6, 7, or 8. Microsoft has chosen not to provide its own more secure browsers, IE10 and IE11, to XP users, at some sacrifice in market share. However, there are several alternatives including Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. Generally, I prefer Firefox, as it consumes far fewer resources than Chrome, handles more tabs, and doesn&apos;t crash as often. Against that, Chrome is probably more secure because its &quot;sandbox&quot; means malware writers need two exploits to penetrate it: one for Chrome and another to get out of the sandbox.When you have installed Firefox, Chrome or Opera, add a browser extension calledHTTPS Everywhere. The &quot;S&quot; indicates that it uses encrypted communications to talk to websites, whenever possible. Its main purpose it to improve privacy, but it also makes browsing more secure.Finally, for this section, be careful where you go. Most commercial sites tend to be safe, but sites that offer free stuff – pirated music, movies and software, wallpapers etc – either may not be professionally run or may be making their money by other means. Websites can make a lot of money from &quot;drive by&quot; installations of advertising programs and other unwanted software.Keeping software up to dateYou will no longer be able to update Windows XP, but that makes it even more important to keep all your other programs up to date. In my experience, the simplest way to do this is to run Secunia&apos;s freePersonal Software Inspector (PSI)to check for and install updates. In particular, make sure you keep Adobe Flash, Adobe Acrobat and Oracle&apos;s Java up to date, as these have poor security records. Best of all, uninstall all versions of Java completely, and see if you can manage without it. If not, you can always install the latest version when you need it. (Java has nothing to do with the browser scripting language, JavaScript.)Indeed, it&apos;s a good idea to run the Add/Remove Programs utility and a utility such asSlimCleanerto see if you can remove any other software you don&apos;t need. The fewer programs you have, the fewer things there are to attack.Many people update their browsers and desktop software, but completely forget about updating their browser plug-ins. This is dangerous because Flash, Java and similar plugins are in the front line. You should therefore visit Mozilla&apos;sCheck Your Pluginspage. This also provides trusted links to the newer versions that need to be installed.Qualysalso offers a browser-checking site. The option to &quot;Scan without installing plugin&quot; is quick but not as thorough as the plugin version.Again, uninstall any plugins you don&apos;t need. This will make your browser slightly more secure, and it will probably run faster.Note that Microsoft has also stopped supporting Office 2003, and this is now vulnerable software. If possible, upgrade to a more recent version. If you aren&apos;t willing to pay the (very reasonable) price, you can use the free but less powerful online Office web apps that are part of Microsoft&apos;s free OneDrive cloud storage. If you only need to read or create relatively simple documents, the free and open sourceLibreOfficemay be a viable alternative.If there&apos;s a program you can&apos;t either update or replace, you can run it in a protected sandbox by using another free program calledSandboxie. You could also use it to protect your browser or social networking programs. However, only the Pro version (€15 per year) lets you run multiple sandboxes at the same time.Security softwareIf you are still going to use Windows XP, you should also beef up your anti-malware software. While Microsoft will keep updating Microsoft Security Essentials, you should either replace that with something stronger or add extra protection by using Malwarebytes Anti-Malware. There are plenty of free replacements: see theBest Free Antivirus Softwaresection at Tech Support Alert (aka Gizmo&apos;s). If you are willing to pay for an anti-virus suite, Kaspersky Internet Security 2014 and Bitdefender Total Security 2014 are worth a look.If you&apos;re not buying a suite, it&apos;s also worth replacing Windows XP&apos;s firewall. Again, Tech Support Alert has auseful guideto the main options. For XP, I&apos;d suggest the Comodo Firewall with the Maximum Proactive Defense feature installed. It uses aHost Intrusion Prevention System (HIPS)that tries to stop malware from working by monitoring its behaviour. There will be an annoying period where you have to tell it which things are safe, but extreme suspicion is justified in an unsupported operating system.Finally, for this section, there are now programs that monitor and/or analyse websites and block ones that might be malicious. They also help to protect you from phishing attacks and clickjacking. You can&apos;t use Microsoft&apos;s SmartScreen filter, which is included with IE10 and IE11 and built into Windows 8. However,Web of Trustis a community-based substitute. The newMalwarebytes Anti-Malware Premium($24.95 per year for three PCs) also does some ferocious site blocking.It remains to be seen whether all of this will be enough to protect Windows XP in the long term. It will certainly make your online experience more annoying. That&apos;s part of the price of using unsupported software in a world where most of us do online shopping and banking, where malware can encrypt your hard drive and hold your PC to ransom, and where identity theft can have devastating consequences.Frankly, it would be better to buy an upgrade to Windows 7 or Windows 8 – now that 8.1 Update 1 deals with the vast majority of complaints about the original version – or install a version of Linux. Update 1, released on 8 April, also runs in less memory (it can run on tablets with only 1GB) so it should also work better even on older PCs.Note: I&apos;ve adapted this question froma whitesocks commentrather than the usual email to Ask Jack. With around 400m PCs running XP, I felt the topic was too important to ignore.
The image has become an archetype of modern video-game marketing. A grinning, pan-generational family, arms flailing as they enjoy the latest motion-control game in their large, well-lit living space. It’s an easy cliche to notice, but back when Wii Sports enchanted the masses with its tennis-themed tech-demo dressed as a game, Nintendo&apos;s promo shot wasn’t so far from the reality. Wii Tennis delivered, and ever since, every new motion-control system has debuted with a sports minigame compilation conceived to prove its worth.And so we come to Kinect Sports Rivals, jogging off the start line four months after the launch of Xbox One and its inescapably bundled Kinect 2.0, but ready and willing to help make the case for motion control.Rare brillianceThings start well for developer Rare. The first time Kinect Sports Rivals comes to life, it demands that new players make a submissive stoop towards their TV. A few minutes later, Kinect 2.0 has scanned a range of physical details and pasted them together into an impressive caricature. Skin tone, hairstyle, glasses, build, height and more are all captured, without any traditional player inputs. Not a single choice or button press is required for Rivals’ first conjuring trick. With that opener, Kinect 2.0 quickly establishes itself as far superior to its Xbox 360 forbearer.After the game has introduced its island setting, and a colour palette and an exuberantly sunny atmosphere taken straight from the monitors of 90s arcade games, it is time to straddle an imaginary jetski and race.It’s an ungainly mime, legs akimbo and hands grasping invisible handle bars, but as soon as you cut through the waves, it’s easy to forget posture. Called &quot;wake racing&quot; throughout Kinect Sports Rivals, jostling in the swell and pulling stunts is both enjoyable and responsive. Leaning while turning the imagined handlebars works well to simulate steering, and opening and closing a fist to replicate throttle control feels like a thing of magic. Even if you don’t have a vast, stark and brightly lit living room, the jetski responds. It’s certainly a thing of novelty that admittedly pales in comparison to the best racing games, but it is well crafted and entertaining nonetheless.Rising problemsRival’s climbing game is almost as immediate and fun as the wake racing. Presenting the player with simple cliff-face races, it demands much grabbing in the air for handholds, again using finger motions to grip and release. The ascents mix a little strategy with a dainty pace, but also show the first signs that Kinect Sports Rivals has rather too many control flaws. Occasionally, a handhold grip fails to register, or the most graceful real-world motions are interpreted by the game in a way that tangles the virtual climber into a contorted, dangling mess.But it is in the football and shooting range minigames in which Rivals’ problems truly manifest. In each case it&apos;s a great shame, as the ideas themselves are solid. The shooting range sees the plastic light guns of the past switched for that versatile playground weapon, the finger gun. The concept of downing targets with a bullet from the index digit is beguiling, but the reality is an otherwise well-balanced gallery shooter let down by disappointing inaccuracy.The football meanwhile, is probably better compared to foosball, as the pitch is scattered with the members of two teams whose positions are near fixed. The active player assumes the role of any athlete with the ball at their feet, hopping between the psyche of strikers, defenders and even the keeper, in time with the ball. As such, taking responsibility for passing, saving and shooting for goal is the player’s sole task. It would be a smart re-appropriation of the sport, but ball control can become wildly erratic, as Kinect 2.0 seems to sway like a pendulum between accuracy and imprecision.Game, set and twitchRivals also includes those motion control stalwarts, tennis and bowling. Each delivers a straightforward interpretation of their respective sports, but as far as control is concerned, again they are simply inconsistent.The interface problems are a disappointment, as each individual game notionally has much going for it. While tennis and bowling are pedestrian in structure, throughout there are enough ideas and novelties to keep things appealing. Visually, Kinect Sports Rivals is a polished beast, while its audio clout delivers a nostalgic echo from arcades of the past. There’s also a reasonable spread of game modes to engender variety.But in a motion control game it is simple; control is paramount. When Kinect 2.0 behaves, Rare’s creation can be plenty of fun, especially in a social setting. But its lack of consistency breeds a sense of distrust in players, and with that the fun fades. It seems that flawless hands-free motion control applicable to a variety of living room environments continues to remain just out of our reach.• Xbox One: Kinect will be different this time, says Rare• Xbox One: hands-on with the new controller and Kinect• Xbox One: USS Enterprise or HAL?
The Samsung Galaxy S5 is the latest flagship smartphone from the Korean electronics giant, its next-generation salvo in the war with Apple, Sony and HTC, but is it enough?Looking almost indistinguishable from its predecessor, the S4, the Galaxy S5 was pushed out several weeks early in Samsung’s product refresh cycle amid sales that failed to live up to expectations.Samsung appears to have leveraged a modicum more restraint across the board with the Galaxy S5. Its marketing and launch event for the flagship smartphone was much less extravagant than the Galaxy S4’sall-singing all-dancingunveiling in New York’s Times Square in March 2013 and that change of tact has been carried over to the smartphone itself, much to its benefit.Plastic? FantasticSamsung Galaxy S5 review - Samsung has stuck with its plastic smartphone body, but given the S5 a dimpled back. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSamsung has steadfastly stuck to its guns with the Galaxy S5, keeping the plastic construction and body from the previous generation and only altering the back from shiny plastic to a vinyl-like back cover.As a consequence, the Galaxy S5 looks cheap compared with some of its metal- and glass-clad competitors, particularly theHTC One M8and the iPhone 5S. It also looks almost identical to the Galaxy S4, but with a dimpled plastic back that feels a bit like the vinyl seats you get in airports. TheGalaxy Note 3released in October last year had a similar textured back.Attractiveness is certainly subjective, but in my opinion some of the Galaxy S5 colours look much better than others. It is available in white, black, blue and gold, but the white colour looks particularly cheap with the chromed plastic edging.Despite being plastic, Samsung’s build-quality shines in the Galaxy S5 with almost no flex in the body and a very solid feel in the hand. The S5 is light at 145g compared to the160g HTC One M8, but heavier than both the130g Google Nexus 5and the smaller112g iPhone 5S.The Galaxy S5 has a larger display than its predecessor at 5.1in, but you would be hard-pressed to tell by looking at it. The screen is particularly good for anAMOLEDdisplay, with very wide viewing angles, and is sharp and vibrant and very close in quality to that of the high-end LCD screens like those found on the iPhone 5S and HTC One M8.One-hand operatingThe size of the screen is at the absolute limit for one-handed use for me, but some will certainly struggle to reach all corners of the screen without dropping the phone. The power and volume buttons are easily reachable on the side, while Samsung has also included a &quot;one-handed&quot; menu option to help by moving things like the keyboard over to one side of the screen.Samsung Galaxy S5 review - right on the limit of one-handed use. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianFor the winter months, users can also adjust the screen’s touch sensitivity so that it can be used through some gloves.Unlike most other Android smartphones, beneath the display the Galaxy S5 has capacitivesensor buttons for Back and Menu, flanking a physical home button. The home button acts as a fingerprint scanner (more on that later). Unlike pretty much every other Android manufacturer (including Google&apos;s Nexus models), Samsung chooses to put the menu button on the left and the back button on the right. This can be very irritating if switching from another phone manufacturer. And you can&apos;t reprogram them.The buttons are also very easily activated by your palm when holding the phone, making accidental presses a frequent, annoying occurrence.Taking a leaf out of the Samsung Galaxy S4 Active’s book and Sony&apos;s Xperia range, the S5 is waterproof with an &quot;IP67&quot; rating - meaning it can be immersed in up to 1m of water for 30 minutes. That entails a rubber gasket-sealed door for the microUSB port in the bottom of the phone, and one within the back cover. While it is unlikely you’ll want to go swimming with it, you should be OK if you drop it down the toilet or spill coffee on it.SpecificationsScreen:5.1in full HD Super AMOLEDProcessor:2.5 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16/32GBOperating system:Android 4.4 “Kitkat”Camera:16MP rear camera, 2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE, USB 3.0 and GPSDimensions:142.0 x 72.5 x 8.1mmWeight:145gExtreme juice savingThe Galaxy S5 uses the same top-end chip from Qualcomm, the Snapdragon 801, as the rest of the latest top-end smartphones including the HTC One M8 and the Sony Xperia Z2.It means the Galaxy S5 is both fast and fluid, but also relatively light on the battery. There’s no perceptible lag anywhere while using the phone, while apps load more or less instantly.Battery life will take you through a full day of heavy use emailing, tweeting browsing and playing music over Bluetooth; I had with 20% left in the tank without using any power-saving functions. For normal users the Galaxy S5 will easily last a day, perhaps two – and with power-saving modes active, more than that.The Ultra Power Saving Mode is really impressive, capable of eking out a rated 24 hours worth of standby time from just 10% battery and a likely much more than that. Though it does that by, in effect, transforming the phone into a glorified feature phone.Samsung Galaxy S5 review - Ultra Power Saving Mode switches the display to black and white, while simplifying the software. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianWhen the Ultra Power Saving mode is activated (which you have to do – it&apos;s not automatic, unlike HTC&apos;s), the S5 switches the screen to black and white, turns off all non-essential features and allows access to just a few apps, including voice calls, email and a browser. Users can chose to add a few more apps such as Facebook and Twitter, but the selection is limited.The super-efficient mode allows the phone to be useful for much longer, and could be invaluable for when you need your phone to last waiting for a call while out and about.Having a removable battery also means users could carry a spare and swap it in as needed. And as battery life diminishes over the life of the smartphone, users can just replace the battery themselves rather than relying on a service centre.Samsung Galaxy S5 review - rubber seals the back and stops water getting into the delicate electronics. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Galaxy S5 comes with 16 or 32GB of built-in storage, plus a microSD card slot which can add up to 128GB additional storage for music, movies and photos. Like the Galaxy Note 3 before it, the S5 packs USB 3.0 for faster file transfers, but Samsung strangely fails to ship a USB 3.0 cable in the box - there&apos;s only a standard USB 2 microUSB cable.TouchWiz: the triumph and the terrorSoftware is where Samsung has struggled the most. The companyadmitted that its software needed workand dedicated half of its research and development effort to improving it in November last year. Sadly, while the software is somewhat refined on the Galaxy S5 compared to its predecessor, it still has some way to go to match the quality or experience of its competitors like Google, Sony, HTC and Apple.Samsung calls its customisations to the standard Android experience &quot;TouchWiz&quot;, and frankly they add clutter and confusion to the experience. The primary settings menu, for instance, is a list of 61 icons, stacked in rows of three, under nine categories. Or you can format them as a long list – or in an even more confusing tabbed interface.Want settings? Samsung brings them all with TouchWiz. It brings a few decent features to Android, but looks cheap and chintzy compared to others. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianWhile they are much more logically organised than previous iterations of TouchWiz, finding the right icon for the right setting can be arduous, and is needlessly complicated compared to the standard Android settings menu. (There is a search menu for settings, at least.)On the homescreen, the bottom row of icons forming the apps dock, plus the homescreen page number indicator, needlessly take up a quarter of the screen. This feels like wasted space.Samsung’s also added some odd, sluggish animations, such as the transition effect to its own My Magazine app – a Flipboard-powered social news app much like HTC’s BlinkFeed that sits on the left of the primary homescreen. This makes the Galaxy S5 feel slow even when its underlying hardware certainly isn’t.Samsung also duplicates functionality with its S Voice voice-controlled assistant. Android already comes with the Google Now personal digital assistant – so the Galaxy S5 has two voice assistants that do not interoperate.Quite a lot of the gimmicky features, which peaked with the Galaxy S4 (remember its &quot;wave to turn a page&quot; feature?) have been removed or at least minimised on the S5 – a big step forward towards producing a phone with features people actually need, rather than ones they just immediately turn off.Samsung’s additions to Android aren’t all bad. The Ultra Power Saving Mode, for instance, is something neither standard Android nor Apple’s iPhone has and is of real benefit. And you won&apos;t find the Settings search on other customisations.Overall, TouchWiz is improved over previous iterations but still makes the Galaxy S5 feel less premium than its competitors and for the most part detracts rather than adds to the standard Android experience.Fingerprint scannerOne of the Galaxy S5’s main selling points is its fingerprint scanner which is hidden beneath the home button. Unlike Apple’s Touch ID, which requires the user to simply touch the iPhone 5S’s home button, you have to swipe your finger or thumb across the sensor to unlock the Galaxy S5. (Or use one of the other unlock methods, such as a PIN, pattern or &quot;Face Unlock&quot;.)Samsung Galaxy S5 review Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAs long as you ignore the instructions and swipe your thumb or finger in the orientation you would if you were unlocking the device in use, then the scanner works fine and successfully unlocks the device first time about 95% of the time. I found it much faster than entering a lock code or using Face Unlock, and never had to resort to entering a passcode.The scanner can remember three different fingers, but it would be good to have it remember at least four to cover both left and right handed use – left and right thumbs and index fingers.Samsung’s partnership with PayPal also means you can authenticate payment for shopping using the fingerprint scanner, which Samsung says is the first of many extended applications for the fingerprint beyond simply securing your phone.Heart rate sensor and S HealthSamsung’s push into health and fitness through its S Health app and Gear smartwatches has been bolstered by the integration of a heart rate sensor on the back of the S5 directly below the camera and next to the flash.Samsung Galaxy S5 review Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt works well enough as long as you don’t move or talk while measuring your heart rate – but it is a bit of a gimmick and something you might only use occasionally. It doesn’t get in the way during normal operation, so there’s no real downside to having it on the back of the phone.S Health, Samsung&apos;s health monitoring system, has been improved: as well as collating heart rate data (on the back, remember?) can now act as a pedometer and activity monitor using the S5’s built-in sensors.However I found it inaccurate compared to dedicated fitness trackers such as the Misfit Shine or Fitbit: I walked 3.5 miles and it insisted I&apos;d done a mile less.Camera: make it snappier pleaseThe 16-megapixel camera on the Galaxy S5 is great for the most part. Its autofocus takes just 0.3 seconds and generally gets it right first time, although there were a few occasions where like most cameras I found it missed the target.Image detail was good – much better than the HTC One M8’s UltraPixel camera for instance – thanks to the high megapixel count. But low-light performance wasn’t as good with grainy photos being produced in dim lighting.Samsung’s real-time HDR mode displays what the image is going to look like in a viewfinder before capturing a photo. That&apos;s a real boon which its competitors cannot manage.The only real detractor is that the camera can take up to three seconds to start up, which is an eternity when you’re trying to capture a spontaneous photo.Samsung Galaxy S5 review – selective focus allows users to refocus the image after shooting to either the foreground or background. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThere are also a couple of gimmicky modes, including a selective focus shooting mode that captures different focal lengths of image and allows users focus either on the near ground or far ground after capturing the image. It doesn’t work as well as HTC’s Duo Camera, but with practice can produce some interesting shots.The Galaxy S5 can also shoot 4K ultra-high definition video, but it will quickly fill up the phone’s storage space, even on an SD card, and can’t be viewed at full resolution on the phone nor, indeed, most computer monitors or TVs.Remote controlThe S5 has an infra-red emitter embedded in its top left edge so you can control their TV or other remote-controlled appliances using the WatchOn app, introduced with the S4, which turns the smartphone into a universal remote. Let us know if you&apos;ve ever used it.Gear 2 and Gear Fit smartwatchesSamsung Galaxy S5 review Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Galaxy S5, like others in the Samsung Galaxy family, is compatible with Samsung’s new smartwatches, the Gear 2 and Gear Fit, both of which arelooked at in detail in a separate article.PriceThe Samsung Galaxy S5 is undoubtedly a top-of-the-line smartphone, and is priced accordingly. The 16GB variant costs £579 SIM-free (without a mobile phone contract), which is £279 more expensive than the Google Nexus 5, £49 more than the HTC One M8 and £29 more than the Apple iPhone 5S.Verdict: decent – but not greatWith the Galaxy S5, Samsung has attempted to turn down the gimmicks and boost the useful features. For the most part it has succeeded. The fingerprint scanner is genuinely useful (as long as you get the setup orientation right), as is the waterproofing, and the Ultra Power Saving Mode is fantastic.The camera is also solid, if not quite the best on the market at the moment – that crown is still held by Nokia’s 1020 PureView.It&apos;s powerful, but lasts all day on a single charge without activating any power modes. The screen is bright, crisp and colourful.But it&apos;s Samsung’s software, which is still not up to par with that from Apple, HTC or standard Android, and the plastic build that lets it down. Both are relatively subjective qualities, and some will be very happy with them, but compared to its premium competition from the HTC One M8, iPhone 5S and Sony’s new Xperia Z2 it feels and looks cheaper.The 5.1in screen will also be too big for some people to comfortably handle in one hand, and verges dangerously into phablet territory. (Strictly, itisa phablet according to the definition used by some research companies, where anything over 5in counts.)Overall, the Galaxy S5 is a solid Android smartphone – but isn’t quite as complete a package between hardware and software as some of its competitors. Samsung fans will undoubtedly love it; others might want to look elsewhere.Pros:Powerful, great power saving mode, useful fingerprint scanner, good camera, waterproofCons:Substandard software, plastic construction, very big footprint, cheap feelOther phone reviews• HTC One M8 review•Moto G review•Google Nexus 5 review• iPhone 5S review
The personal computer market shrank for the eighth quarter in a row in the first three months of the year, despite commercial buyers upgrading machines to escape the end of support for Windows XP.GartnerandIDCpublished figures for the first quarter which showed that market shrinking by between 4.4% (Gartner) and 1.7% (IDC). The companies put the total for Q1 shipments at 76.6m (Gartner) and 73.4m (IDC).Both agreed that China&apos;s Lenovo remained at the top of the business, ahead of HP, and that Taiwan&apos;s Acer saw a falloff in sales of between 15% and 20% compared to last year, though it remained in fourth place worldwide behind Dell.Global PC shipments from 3Q 1998 to 1Q 2014. Source: IDC. Photograph: /PRMeanwhile the PC market is becoming more concentrated, the data shows. According to IDC data, the proportion of Windows PC sales from outside the top five makers - Lenovo, HP, Dell, Acer and Asus - has fallen from over 50% in the first quarter of 2009 to 35% now.'Other' PC makers (excluding Dell, HP, Lenovo, Asus and Acer) as percentage of Windows PC shipments since 3Q 1998. Source: IDC. Photograph: /PRThe pressure on consumer-focussed PC makers is growing Acer has been struggling to regain profitability, while Asus reported first-quarter revenue down 3%, though it has not yet disclosed profits.However Asus leads the market for &quot;hybrid&quot; computers which combine tablet and notebook functionality, said IDC. IDC doesn&apos;t include tablets with detachable keyboard such as Microsoft&apos;s Surface in its PC figures.Mikako Kitagawa at Gartner forecast that as tablet penetration hits 50% in the US later this year some consumers could start to look again at PC buying.Growing pressureFor smaller PC makers, the intensifying pressure on profit margins in the consumer PC business has already forcedSony into quitting the business, with the buyer deciding to retreat to Japan. Korea&apos;s LG is also mulling a withdrawal as its home government cuts back on PC purchases. &quot;As well as Acer and Asus, only Apple, Toshiba, Samsung, Sony and Fujitsu had single-digit market share in 2013 - together capturing 31.4% of the market,&quot; Loren Loverde of IDC told the Guardian. &quot;Sony and Fujitsu were the smallest of these top vendors, with 2.5% and 2.2% of global shipments in 2013, each about half of Samsung&apos;s volume.&quot; Apple is slightly larger than Samsung, with about 5% of shipments.Analysts expect that the prolonged slump in consumer buying of PCs will create more pressure on smaller PC makers, and lead to mergers or exits, much as happened around 2000 when market conditions changed and forced the exit of Gateway and a number of other vendors.A key driver during the quarter was companies replacing ageing PCs as Windows XP approached the end of Microsoft support at the start of April. That drove growth among business buyers in the developed world, where the installed base of PCs is larger and older. &quot;The upside in the first quarter arose primarily from demand in mature commercial markets. Commercial refresh projects, which had already been protracted, received a last push from the impending end of Windows XP support, particularly in Japan,&quot; IDC noted.For Gartner, Isabelle Durand, principal research analyst, said: “The end of support for Windows XP has boosted commercial desktop sales, driven in part by delayed government buying in major western European countries. The professional PC market looks stronger overall, as business and governments adjust to a more favorable economic environment. We also expect to see the impact of XP migration to continue throughout 2014.”But in the Asia/Pacific region, where PCs are comparatively newer and the installed base smaller, saw shipments decline by more than 10%.StagnantThe US market was stagnant, with shipments of around 14m; IDC reckoned it shrank slightly, while Gartner figured it saw a 2.1% increase. Apple, Toshiba and makers outside the three big corporate suppliers - HP, Dell and Lenovo - all saw year-on-year declines.But &quot;the passing boost from XP replacements, constrained consumer demand, and no clear driver of a market rebound are expected to keep growth below zero going forward,&quot; said Rajani Singh, IDC&apos;s senior research analyst for personal computing.Desktop, laptop and ultrabook sales have been in a prolonged slump for two years as consumers have turned to smartphones, tablets and &quot;phablets&quot; to accomplish computing tasks at home and on the move. With consumer sales previously making up half of the PC business, that has intensified competition among PC makers for corporate contracts, which are often less profitable.•PCs lumber towards the technological graveyard
The developer who introduced the &quot;Heartbleed&quot; vulnerability to the open-source code used by thousands of websites has told the Guardian it was an &quot;oversight&quot; – but that its discovery validates the methods used.Robin Seggelmann, a programmer based in Germany, submitted the code in an update submitted at 11:59pm on New Year&apos;s Eve, 2011. It was supposed to enable a function called &quot;Heartbeat&quot; in OpenSSL, the software package used by nearly half of all web servers to enable secure connections.His updatedid enable Heartbeat, but an &quot;oversight&quot; led to an error with major ramifications. But it accidentally created the &quot;Heartbleed&quot; vulnerability, which has been described as a &quot;catastrophic&quot; flaw which laid the contents of thousands of web servers open to hackers.It has also been discovered in Cisco and Juniper routing gear, which could mean that hackers could capture sensitive data such as passwords passing over the internet.Seggelmann worked on the OpenSSL project during his PhD studies, from 2008 to 2012, but isn&apos;t involved with the project any more.He told the Guardian that the mistake has nothing to do with its festive datestamp. &quot;The code… was the work of several weeks. It’s only a coincidence that it was submitted during the holiday season.&quot;I am responsible for the error,&quot; he continued, &quot;because I wrote the code and missed the necessary validation by an oversight. Unfortunately, this mistake also slipped through the review process and therefore made its way into the released version.&quot;How Heartbleed worksThe flaw which actually leaks data in the Heartbleed bug is almost painfully simple.It relates to a function called Heartbeat which exists in &quot;Transport Layer Security&quot; (TLS), the system used to protect confidential data when surfing the web. Heartbeat is used to keep connections open, even when no data is being shared.When it works properly, a user&apos;s computer sends a Heartbeat packet to the server. The packet simply contains a chunk of random data, and a note saying how much data it&apos;s sent; the server receives the packet, and then sends back exactly the same data, confirming that it&apos;s listening.The problem which can be exploited in a Heartbleed attack involves the attacker&apos;s computer lying about how much data it has sent: it sends over a single byte of information, but tells the server that it has sent 64KB instead. The server makes a note, and knows that it has to send 64KB back, but doesn&apos;t have a full 64KB of data.What pushes the error into a full-blown catastrophe is that the server then fills the rest of the packet with any other information which its memory at the time.A computer&apos;s memory is where it stores information about the tasks it&apos;s working on, and so the data which it pulls into the Heartbleed packet is related to the other queries it&apos;s responding to. At Yahoo, that included usernames and passwords of users logging in at the same time; at DuckDuckGo, it was the full text of search queries. The researchers who discovered the bug alsosay it can include SSL keys, which would let an attacker decrypt conversations captured months before.Open sourceOpenSSL is an open-source project. The software is developed by a small community of engineers, giving their time for little or no reward, and releasing it free of charge to anyone who needs it.For security software, that model is typically seen as advantageous, because the more people examine a line of code, the more chance there should be of some weakness coming to light. Additionally, it prevents &quot;security by obscurity&quot;, whereby the bulk of the protection comes from people not knowing how the security software works – which can result in the whole edifice tumbling down if that confidential information is released or discovered externally.But the Heartbleed bug apparently managed to go unnoticed for two years. Not only was Seggelmann&apos;s error not picked up by the OpenSSL volunteer who incorporated his edits into the codebase, it wasn&apos;t spotted by anyone else until this month. Eventually, two separate teams of researchers, from Google and Codenomicon, found it simultaneously.But Seggelmann defended the process. &quot;I don’t see it as a failure of open source,&quot; he said. &quot;On the contrary, the publicly accessible code made it possible that the error has been discovered and published. I can only assume that it took so long because it’s in a new feature which is not widely used and not a conceptual, but a simple programming error.&quot;Instead, Seggelmann blamed the lack of resources that OpenSSL has to work with. &quot;OpenSSL is definitely under-resourced for its wide distribution. It has millions of users but only very few actually contribute to the project.&quot;•Heartbleed bug: what do you actually need to do to stay secure?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSecurity enhancements for search users &gt;&gt; Google Ads Developer BlogWe've long worked to keep your searches on Google secure. We provided SSL encryption for signed-in searches in 2011 and have rolled that out to searches from the omnibox in the Chrome browser. Today, we are extending our efforts to keep search secure by removing the query from the referrer on ad clicks originating from SSL searches on Google.com.Advertisers will continue to have access to useful data to optimize and improve their campaigns and landing pages. For example, you can access detailed information in the AdWords search terms report and the Google Webmaster Tools Search Queries report.This isdiscussed on Search Englne Land, but what isn't addressed anywhere is: how does stripping out the search term make asearchmore secure? Surely what you're securing is the connection between the searcher and Google. If you move on from Google to the advertiser, over a link that might or might not be secure, how is yoursecuritycompromised by the search term being passed on or not?On the other hand, though, Google gets to see everything - what people search for and what they click - while advertisers see less and less, with only Google's dashboards showing them data about keyword performance.High-tech U.S. farm machines harvest Big Data, reap privacy worries &gt;&gt; ReutersThe original "plow that broke the plains" enabled American farms to grow massive swathes of wheat and corn with its lightness and durability. The modern machines are using data to take another giant step in efficiency and output.But as big agricultural companies pour money into data storage and analytics tools that aim to turn micro detail on crops and furrow-by-furrow weather into more grain for less pain, concerns are growing about how the data might be used and how secure such a gold mine for traders is.China's banks to close all bitcoin sites' trading accounts &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaChina's bitcoin exchanges are being issued with formal notices stating that their bank accounts must be closed by 15 April. China's BTCTrade exchange announced today that it has been contacted by its bank and told to remove all funds prior to the deadline or else the assets will be frozen. It appears that exchanges are being informed directly and privately, as the People's Bank of China has not issued a formal directive.In contrast, BTC China has not received a notice from its bank, notes CoinDesk. Bitcoin prices are plummeting as the news emerges – the price is down to $410 right now on London-based Bitstamp.This corroborates what we reported on 27 March.China was a huge market for bitcoin because of its facility for evading currency controls.FTC notifies Facebook, WhatsApp of privacy obligations in light of proposed acquisition &gt;&gt; Federal Trade CommissionThe director of the Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Consumer Protection notifiedFacebook and WhatsApp about their obligations to protect the privacy of their usersin light of Facebook's proposed acquisition of WhatsApp.In a letter to the two companies, Bureau Director Jessica Rich noted that WhatsApp has made clear privacy promises to consumers, and that both companies have told consumers that after any acquisition, WhatsApp will continue its current privacy practices."We want to make clear that, regardless of the acquisition, WhatsApp must continue to honor these promises to consumers. Further, if the acquisition is completed and WhatsApp fails to honor these promises, both companies could be in violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Act and, potentially, the FTC's order against Facebook," the letter states.4K vs. UHDTV: Clearing up the Confusion &gt;&gt; CableLabs4K Is UHDTV – SometimesUnfortunately, due to marketing, the term 4K was already being identified with televisions at the time of the SMPTE document release, and has never been supplanted by UHDTV. Thus, consumers find themselves wondering what the difference is. Now we are starting to see UHDTV 4K or 4K UHDTV labeled TVs.  In both of these cases, regardless of the term used, the actual resolution is 3840×2160.We hope this clears up the confusion.Google Glass - the details &gt;&gt; Life as a Healthcare CIOJohn Halamka:I'm now able to publicly write about the work that Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center has been doing with stealthy start up, Wearable Intelligence. We've been working over the past 4 months on pilots that I believe will improve the  safety, quality  and efficiency of patient care through the integration of wearable technology such as Google Glass in the hospital environment. I believe that wearable tech enables providers  to deliver better clinical care by supporting them with contextually-relevant data and decision support wisdom.Glass might be Google's first business-only hit.The Samsung Galaxy S5: when a committee builds a smartphone &gt;&gt; Yahoo TechDavid Poge:why does the company feel compelled to shovel on these gimmicks that never worked and never will — that few will use, that weigh down the phone with clutter? Why can't the company appoint a Steve Jobs — somebody with a certain amount of taste and the authority to say, "That's a horrible design," or "We really don't need two different email programs and two different photo apps"?Among Android phones, the S5 joins the HTC One (M8) (shown below) at the top of the heap. The HTC is much better looking, it has superior speakers, and it gives you twice the storage for the same price (32 gigabytes instead of 16); its one weakness is the camera, which isn't as good as Samsung's.HTC will really want to pick up some upgrading SGS3 users.Tablet ownership up 63% as digital adspend hits record high &gt;&gt; MediatelMore than one in four British consumers now owns a tablet, with advertisers spending a record £6.3bn in 2013 to reach people across devices, according to the latest Internet Advertising Bureau UK (IAB) digital adspend report, conducted by PwC.36% of people accessing the internet now do so via a tablet, according to UKOM and ComScore, with UK tablet ownership growing 63% year on year in February 2014 to almost 18 million.Research from the IAB reveals that 57% of tablet owners say it is their 'go-to' device to surf the internet at home, with 66% saying that it is easier to go online using a tablet.Having passed 16% penetration, tablets are now entering the "early majority" phase of adoption.LG G Watch release date: by July and less than £180 in the UK (hands-on pictures) &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintLG has confirmed to Pocket-lint that its new LG G Watch, powered by Google's new Android Wear operating system, will be available before July and for less than £180 in the UK.Showing the device at a product showcase in Weybridge, the prototype of the final version, which wasn't working, was sporting the final design, giving us a chance to have a quick feel of the new watch ahead of the official launch later this year.Not better-looking than a Pebble, and not cheaper.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Ever since waves of Indian graduates poured into Silicon Valley in Northern California in the 1970s and 1980s, talented Indians have made breakthroughs, pushed boundaries and held positions of power in the world of technology and media.Almost all the big US technology companies have technology pioneers of Indian descent, including the fathers of the USB and technology blogging.Satya Nadella in February becameMicrosoft&apos;s chief executive, replacing Steve Ballmer, which instantly propelled him into the highest-profile slot, but he is by no means the first Indian to make waves in the technology industry.Ajay BhattOne of the most unsung technology pioneers is Ajay Bhatt, an Indian-American computer architect who is credited as being the father of the USB standard – something that almost every computing device uses today in some form or another.Born in 1957, Bhatt graduated from Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda in India and then went on to received a master’s degree from The City University of New York before joining Intel in 1990.He became Intel’s chief client platform architect, but not before co-inventing USB, as well as several other crucial standards in graphics and computer architecture holding 31 US patents.In recognition for his contribution to the PCI Express standard, which underlies several of the modern computer connection standards including the high-speed Thunderbolt connection, Bhatt received an Achievement in Excellence Award in 2002.Intel's 'Rockstars' of technology advert featured an actor portraying the father of the USB, Ajay Bhatt.In 2009, Intel proclaimed Bhatt as a rockstar of tech through a TV advert - despite Bhatt being played by an actor it pushed his profile into the public spotlight.Vinod DhamIntel was not short of talented Indians. The father of the famous Intel Pentium processor, Vinod Dham, originally hailed from Pune in India.The Intel Pentium processor was a massive leap forward in processing power and lead to the chips built into laptops and computers today.Photograph: Pacdog/flickrDham, born in 1950, graduated in electrical engineering from the Delhi College of Engineering is 1971, later moving to the US and gaining a master’s degree in electrical engineering at the University of Cincinnati in 1977.He specialised in solid state electronics – the technology underlaying the storage found in every smartphone and tablet computer as well as many laptops – working on flash memory at NCR Corporation before joining Intel. There he led the development of the Pentium processor, as well as co-inventing Intel’s first flash memory technology, before rising to the rank of vice-president of microprocessors.Dham left Intel in 1995 ending up at Intel’s largest rival in the computer chip business AMD, before moving onto a series of startups and then becoming a venture capitalist focused on early stage startups in India.Vinod KhoslaBorn in 1955 in Delhi, India, Khosla was inspired into a career in technology by reading about the founding of Intel in 1968 at the age of 14. He gained a degree in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi before moving to the US to obtain a masters in biomedical engineering from Carnegie Mellon University and a masters from the Stanford Graduate School of Business in 1980.Vinod Khosla, electronic engineer turned venture capitalist.Photograph: TechCrunch/flickrIn 1980, leaving academia, Khosla joined electronic design automation company Daisy Systems before leaving in 1982 to co-found Sun Microsystems along with Stanford alumni Scott McNealy and Andy Bechtolsheim, as well as Bill Joy. There Khosla served as Sun’s chief executive until 1984.Khosla joined Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, a venture capital firm, as a general partner in 1987 investing in technology firms and Indian finance companies. Khosla then left the company in 2004 to start his own venture capitalist firm, Khosla Ventures, which manages around $1bn of investment capital and invests in clean technology and information technology startups.Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair joined Khosla Ventures in 2010, advising on environment-focused investments.Sundar PichaiIndian talent is woven into the core of the software technologies most people use every day. One of Nadella’s suggested rivals for the job of Microsoft’s chief executive was Sundar Pichai, currently the man overseeing Android, Chrome and apps at Google.Google's Street View Cars capture the real-life images knitted into the on-the-ground photos integrated into Google Maps. Photograph: Toussaint Kluiters/EPABorn in Tamil Nadu, India in 1972, Pichai attained a degree in technology from Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur before gaining masters degrees from both Stanford University and the University of Pennsylvania.Pichai worked at technology company Applied Materials and consultancy firm McKinsey &amp; Company before joining Google in 2004. There he initially led the development of the company’s software, including the Chrome browser, Chrome OS, Drive, Gmail and Maps. He also announced Google’s open-source video format VP8 and WebM in 2010.When the father of Android, Andy Rubin, move away from Android to take up the lead of Google’s robotics efforts, Pichai was given oversight of the Android mobile software in 2013.Sabeer BhatiaAnother pioneering web service, Hotmail, was founded by an Indian technology talent who emigrated to the US in the 1980s.Sabeer Bhatia, co-founder of Hotmail, the enormously successful free internet email service bought by Microsoft. Photograph: Sherwin Crasto/APBorn in 1968 in the northern Indian city of Chandigarh, Sabeer Bhatia moved to the US in 1988 to study at the California Institute of Technology transferring from the Birla Institute of Technology and Science. Bhatia then went on to obtain a masters in electrical engineering from Stanford University.Leaving academia, Bhatia briefly worked for Apple as a hardware engineer before moving to a Cannon subsidiary FirePower Systems Inc. He was struck by the fact that software was accessible on the internet via a browser, which birthed the idea of email in the browser.Bhatia linked up with a colleague, Jack Smith, to launch Hotmail in 1996, which became one of the biggest email providers in the world and was bought by Microsoft in 1998. In 1999, Bhatia then left Microsoft and founded an e-commerce firm, Arzoo Inc, before starting a free messaging service called JaxtrSMS.Vic GundotraAnother high-profile, Google engineer from India is Vic Gundotra, who is known as Google’s social tsar and the man behind the Google+ social network.Google's Vic Gundotra is the man behind Google+ and Google's social strategy.Photograph: privateidentity/flickrGundotra, born in 1968 in Mumbai, India, had been a Microsoft man since 1991. He rose up the ranks eventually becoming the general manage of platform evangelism, promoting Microsoft’s services to independent developers. He also played a role in Microsoft’s strategy to compete with Google’s online services with its Windows Live services, including instant messaging and email, which likely lead to his later move.In 2007, Gundotra joined Google and became vice president of social, instrumental in the development of Google+ and its integration into almost every aspect of Google’s services.Amit SinghalAway from Google’s higher profile senior management, a somewhat lesser known Indian talent is Amit Singhal, who oversees Google’s core business of search - something around 1.1 billion people use every month.Amit Singhal rewrote Google search engine in 2001. Photograph: David McNew/Getty ImagesBorn in 1968 in Jhansi, India, Singhal gained a computer science degree from IIT Roorkee in 1989 before moving to the US and receiving a masters from the University of Minnesota in 1991. Singhal continued his academic career at Cornell University attaining a doctorate in 1996 and working with the father of digital search, Gerad Salton.Having joined AT&amp;T Labs in 1996, Singhal worked on search technologies, including information and speech retrieval. He then moved to Google in 2000 to join his friend, Krishna Bharat who was himself an Indian research scientist and the creator of Google News.Singhal now oversees search for Google, responsible for the algorithms that deliver search results, and rewrote Google’s search engine in 2001. In 2011 he was inducted as a Fellow of theAssociation for Computing Machineryand given the Outstanding Achievement in Science and Technology Award at The Asian Awards.Ruchi SanghviIndia’s software talent in big US companies is not limited to search. Born in 1982 in Pune, India, Ruchi Sanghvi became Facebook’s first female engineer, joining the social network in 2005.Ruchi Sanghvi, Facebook's first female engineer now works at Dropbox.Photograph: TechCrunch/flickrSanghvi moved to the US and gained a bachelors and masters degree in electrical computer engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in 2004. She worked at Oracle before breaking the male-dominated engineering mould by joining Facebook in 2005.At Facebook Sanghvi was one of the primary engineers working on the first iteration of what was set to become the mainstay of Facebook, the News Feed. It was launched in 2006, but Sanghvi and team were rebuked by users and critics alike for its privacy implications. That lead her and her team to a 48-hour coding session, rapidly creating the first iteration of Facebook’s complicated privacy controls.Later that year, Sanghvi was made a principal product manager at Facebook, overseeing the company’s software platform as well as the News Feed, but left Facebook in 2010.In 2011, Sanghvi co-founded a collaboration startup called Cove along with another Indian Facebook engineer and Carnegie Mellon University alumni Aditya Agarwal. File syncing service Dropbox announced in 2012 that it had acquired Cove, which led to Sanghvi joining the company, where she is currently the vice president of operations.Padmasree WarriorSanghvi may have been Facebook’s first female engineer, but she was by no means the first female Indian engineer to make it big in technology.Padmasree Warrior, Cisco’s chief technology officer, worked for Motorola for 23 years.Photograph: Cisco Australia-NewZealand/flickrBorn in 1961 in Vijayawada, India, Padmasree Warrior gained a degree in chemical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi in 1982 before moving to the US and graduating from Cornell University with a masters in chemical engineering.From Cornell Warrior started her 23-year-career with Motorola in 1984. Starting out as only one of a few women at the company’s Arizona facility, she rose through the ranks. Warrior served as general manager of Motorola’s Energy Systems Group, as well as chief technology officer of its Semiconductor Products department and general manager of Thoughtbeam before it was shut down.In 2003, Warrior became a senior vice president and Motorola’s chief technology officer, before being promoted to executive vice president in 2005. Under her tenure, Motorola won the National Medal of Technology from the President of the United States for the first time in 2004.Warrior remained chief technology officer at Motorola until 2007, where she left to take over the same role at Cisco Systems, which she holds to this day.Shantanu NarayenIndian technology talent also sits at the top of the creative tools industry. Shantanu Narayen, born in 1963 in Hyderabad, India, currently serves as Adobe Systems chief executive; a software and services company the develops the world famous Photoshop among other products.Shantanu Narayen, Adobe’s chief executive, started his career at Apple before co-founding a pioneering digital photo sharing company.Photograph: privateidentity/flickrGrowing up in Hyderabad, Narayen went to Osmania University in India and gained a degree in electronic engineer before moving to the US. There he obtained a masters in business from the University of California, Berkeley and a masters in computer science from Bowling Green State University in Ohio.Narayen started his computer graphics career at Apple before moving to Silicon Graphics to be its director of desktop collaboration products. He then left Silicon Graphics to co-found the pioneer of digital photo sharing over the internet, Pictra Inc.In 1998 Narayen started his 16-year career at Adobe, joining the company as vice president of worldwide product research. He was later promoted to executive vice president before becoming chief operating officer of the company in 2005 at the age of 41.Narayen was one of the driving forces behind Adobe’s $3.4bn acquisition of multi-media company Macromedia in 2005 before being appointed chief executive of Adobe in 2007.President Barack Obama recognised Narayen in 2011 by appointing him as a member of the new Management Advisory Board, which was established by an Executive Order in 2010 to advise on how to implement the best technology practices within the government.Om MalikIndian pioneering talent is not isolated to software and hardware engineering, however. Om Malik, one of the forefathers of professional technology news blogging, is another shining example of Indian expertise at the forefront of technology.Om Malik, one of the fathers of the technology news blog.Photograph: Christopher Michel/flickrMalik was born in 1966 in New Delhi and gained a degree in chemistry fromSt Stephens’ CollegeinNew Delhiin 1986. Launching out into a writing career in news, initially as a typesetter in India, Malik moved to New York in 1993 working for India Abroad and Forbes.In 1994 Malik showed his entrepreneurial spirit launching an events site for Indian emigrants calledDesiParty.com, and then launching the South Asian targeted Masala magazine and website that same year.Malik left Forbes in 1999 to dabble in venture capital investments, but returned to writing in 2000, moving to San Francisco and joining Business 2.0 magazine. But it wasn’t until 2001 that Malik launched his own blogGigaOM, published by the newly created GigaOmniMedia. One of the first tech blogs it is consistently ranked among the top technology news sites in the world.In 2006 Malik went full time on GigaOM, transforming it from a one-man-band into a multi-writer news site, later adding other blogs including Earth2Tech and The Apple Blog to a newly formed GigaOM Network of blogs.The other blogs in the network were eventually rolled into the master GigaOM blog, while Malik launched a professional research arm to complement the consumer side of technology news.•Why Satya Nadella&apos;s selection as Microsoft CEO isn&apos;tactually great for Indians
The struggling handset and services company BlackBerry may stop selling handsets if it cannot do so profitably, its chief executive officer John Chen says, as he looks to expand its corporate reach with investments, acquisitions and partnerships.&quot;If I cannot make money on handsets, I will not be in the handset business,&quot; Chen told Reuters - and said that the timeframe for the decision was &quot;short&quot;.But in ablogpostafter the interview he insisted that &quot;I want to assure [customers] that I have no intention of selling off or abandoning this business any time soon. I know you still love your BlackBerry devices… we will do everything in our power to continue to rebuild this business,&quot; he added. &quot;Rest assured, we continue to fight.&quot;He suggested to Reuters that it should be possible to make money from as few as 10m shipments per year. That compares to the company&apos;s peak in its fiscal 2011 year, when it shipped 52.3m and recorded an operating profit of $4.6bn.By contrast in its just-ended fiscal year to the end of February, itshipped 13.7m handsets, but recorded operating losses of nearly $7bn, including around $3.7bn in writedowns on unsold inventory of its newer BB10 handsets.But Richard Windsor of the Radio Free Mobile consultancy warned that &quot;Chen thinks he can make money shipping 10m units a year. This looks like a tall order given that Android vendors Huawei and LG Electronics are struggling to keep their heads above water shipping 50m smartphone units last year.&quot;Windsor suggested that &quot;the [BlackBerry] handset business is likely to fail no matter what [Chen] does. The handset business takes no prisoners when it comes to profitability and BlackBerry is one of the weakest, most vulnerable players out there.&quot;Chen has already outsourced the manufacture of handsets to Taiwan&apos;s Foxconn as a cost-saving measure.Pricing advantageHowever BlackBerry could have a pricing advantage as Chen focuses on corporate and government customers, its original core business. Many, including high-level government users, have become highly dependent on its security, which could mean that the company effectively has a captive market. BlackBerry&apos;s BB7 and BB10 software is the only one approved for use in more secure government systems for documents above the &quot;Restricted&quot; level.Chen, who took over in November 2013 having previously engineered a turnaround at software company Sybase, said BlackBerry was also looking to invest in or team up with other companies in regulated industries such as healthcare, and financial and legal services, all of which require highly secure communications.Small acquisitions to strengthen its network security offerings were also possible, he said. &quot;We are building an engineering team on the service side that is focused on security. We are building an engineering team on the device side that is focused on security. We will do some partnerships and we will probably, potentially do an M&amp;A [merger and acquisition] on security.&quot;He said security had become more important to businesses and government since the revelations about US surveillance made by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden.Chen acknowledged past management mistakes and said he had a long-term strategy to complement the short-term goals of staying afloat and stemming customer defections.&quot;You have to live short term. Maybe the prior management had the luxury to bet the world would come to it. I don&apos;t have the luxury at all. I&apos;m losing money and burning cash.&quot;In March, the embattled smartphone maker reported a quarterly net loss of $423m and a 64% drop in its revenues to below $1bn for the quarter, the first time it had been so low since 2007. It also saw cash outflow of around $500m.That underscored the magnitude of the challenge Chen faces.Chen said BlackBerry remains on track to be cash-flow positive by the end of the current fiscal year, which runs to the end of February 2015, and to return to profit some time in the fiscal year after that.Lone survivor?Windsor warned that without the handset business, BlackBerry will be thrown back onto its pure software and services business - and will be competing with &quot;mobile device management&quot; (MDM) companies such as Airwatch, Mobile Iron and Good Technology, which are all aiming to provide security services for smartphones and tablets used in businesses, but apply them to iPhones and Android phones as well as BlackBerrys. &quot;I doubt whether BlackBerry will survive on its own as a pure MDM vendor,&quot; Windsor said.Chen said his long-term plans for BlackBerry included competing in the burgeoning business of connecting all manner of devices, from kitchen appliances to automotive consoles to smartphones.Chen said he was not sure how long it would take for the &quot;machine-to-machine&quot; or &quot;M2M&quot; world to become a mainstream business, but he said he was sure that was coming.&quot;We are not only interested in managing BlackBerry devices. We are interested in managing all devices that you would like to speak to each other,&quot; he said. &quot;To achieve our dream of being a major player in M2M requires more partnerships with others,&quot; including telecom companies eager to participate.Chen was recruited by the board last November after attempts to find a buyer for the company last summer foundered, and its then-chief executive and former chief operating officer Thorsten Heins was fired, having overseen the late release of BB10-powered phones - which flopped in the market.BBM promiseChen said he was not fazed by recent acquisitions of companies offering similar services to BlackBerry Messenger (BBM), such as Facebook&apos;s $19bn purchase of mobile messaging service Whatsapp.&quot;We are not going to go up against Whatsapp. We are going to be more focused on secure communications, secure messaging,&quot; he said of BBM.Chen said he was determined not to lose focus on the corporate and other customers that helped it build its global reach in the first place, and would not be tempted back into the much larger but more fickle consumer smartphone race.&quot;We are not going to spend any more money to maintain the latest version of Angry Birds,&quot; Chen said, referring to the popular consumer mobile video game.•BlackBerry hangs up on T-Mobile US after spat between chief executives
Yes, it is beyond worrisome that a bug this big existed for so long. Butthe discovery of Heartbleed– a truly mind-boggling flaw in OpenSSL, the widely used web security technology run on open-source code – led to one of the most rapid responses I&apos;ve ever seen in the encryption world.We&apos;re not nearly finished repairing this gaping hole in our online safety, withpotentially hundreds of thousands of email accounts and sites relying on a secure connection exposed to Heartbleed. And, yes, the National Security Agency probably knew about it before you did. But still, thousands of sites have moved quickly to mitigate at least some of the immediate damage.So why is everyone pointing fingers at the beleaguered developers of OpenSSL? Because someone should have found this programming error two years ago? Sure, but don&apos;t blame this tiny team of volunteers; go change your password (butonlyif yourfavorite siteshave beenupdated). These aren&apos;t just some lazy coders letting your bank account login leak into the online slipstream; they&apos;re heroes, who have worked tirelessly during the past few years on software that can be freely downloaded and modified, that brings online safety, at a low cost, to all of us. And, seriously,there are only like 17 of them.The last thing we want to do, as some fear-mongers have suggested this week amidst&apos;the worst thing to happen to the internet&apos;, is turn over our communications infrastructure from open-source software to for-profit companies that want to extract cash from the ecosystem. The more eyes we have on open programming instructions, the more likely someone will find a bug.But free and open-source shops like OpenSSL can&apos;t afford more eyes. There are vital components of our vast online identities that rely on a handful of volunteers who have gotten anywhere near enough financial and in-kind support from the rest of us who use their tools.The first thing we should do is pay our heroic techies of modern-day privacy.Speaking of which, some future Edward Snowden will have to tell us whether the NSA found the Heartbleed flaw before researchers at Google and a Microsoft and Facebook-backed security company independently found it in recent days. But given how vital encryption is to online safety, we have to assume that the best and best-funded minds in online surveillance and hacking have been relentlessly probing OpenSSL over the years of its existence.If the NSA has known about Heartbleed for a long time – or even a short time – then the surveillance-staters have possessed a kind a skeleton key to entire swaths of the internet. Part of the NSA&apos;s mission, supposedly, is to protect us from things like this very bug. But it&apos;s clear, based on the Snowden revelations, that the government&apos;s concern for our individual privacy and security takes a distant back seat to its ability to spy on anyone and everyone.So don&apos;t be surprised to learn someday that the NSA and/or other western security agencies have been exploiting Heartbleed at home and abroad without bothering to alert us. Nor, for that matter, should you be shocked to learn at some point that well-heeled criminal cyber-gangs or the Chinese government&apos;s talented hackers spotted the bug before white-hat hackers revealed it.We need to create and maintain more of our valuable collective projects like OpenSSL, no matter what the spies and black-hats do.I&apos;d like to see major tech companies and commercial interests – Google and Wells Fargo, among many others – donate cash and programming talent to these open-source security projects. The major philanthropies should also get involved, given how vital it has become to preserve an open internet for social and political purposes. Ideally, government agencies – at least the ones we can trust more than not – should be involved, too.As the trusted cryptographer Matthew Greentold Farhad Manjoo of the New York Times: &quot;If we could get $500,000 kicked back to OpenSSL and teams like it, maybe this kind of thing won’t happen again.&quot;Of course, projects like OpenSSL need more than development help. There&apos;s code scrutiny, to ensure that the absolutely critical stuff gets amply supportedandvetted. The business community, foundations and government need to find organized ways to provide that as well, and the government actually gave OpenSSL a major blessing several years ago when it granted what&apos;s calledFederal Information Processing Standards(or Fips) certification to the software. Butas Green noted in 2012, the Fips process doesn&apos;t really assure code quality.So maybe we&apos;ve escaped a cyber-Chernobyl. But let&apos;s not get reactionary; let&apos;s let the coders get our backs.
Heartbleed is acatastrophic bug that affects thousands of sites and servicesacross the internet, but what is it, and what do you need to do about it to protect yourself from cybercriminals?According to security researchers, around half a million sites worldwide are rendered insecure by the bug. &quot;Catastrophic is the right word,&quot;commentedBruce Schneier, an independent security expert. &quot;On the scale of 1 to 10, this is an 11.&quot;Heartbleed has grabbed the attention of the world’s media, but there has been a lot of misinformation bandied around. Here’s a quick rundown of the important bits you should know about.What exactly is Heartbleed?Heartbleed bug logoHeartbleed is the nickname given to a bug in a piece of security software used by almost every secure website on the internet.It is a flaw in a software package calledOpenSSL, which is used by banks, shops, email providers and a plethora of other services across the web to secure a connection between the user and the service.Web servers that useSSLsecurely send an encryption key to the visitor, which is then used to protect all other information coming to and from the server.Most people will recognise this secure connection as the little padlock symbol in the top left-hand corner of the web browser.What does the bug do?SSL is crucial in protecting services like online shopping or banking from eavesdropping, as it protects users from so-called man in the middle attacks, where a third party intercepts data during transit and uses it to discover confidential information.Heartbleed allows miscreants to read data assumed to be sent securely over the internet. That means that usernames and passwords as well as other confidential data could be read by cyber criminals. Heartbleed has also been implicated as one of the ways the USNational Security Agency(NSA) has been able to read secure data as part of its Prism online surveillance programme.How long has this been an issue?The bug was introduced into the OpenSSL software in March 2012 and has been out in the wild for the past two years.It has only now been revealed, but criminals and the NSA have been able to exploit the bug since its inception in 2012. It is unknown whether any criminals have actively been exploiting the bug to steal user data, however.Am I affected?Hundreds of thousands of sites and services across the internet use a secure connection between a user&apos;s computer and the website, and of those thousands, a large proportion of will be hit by Heartbleed.There is a very high chance that at least one service that you use will be affected, but the degree to which it is affected will be different between sites and services. For instance, secure password manager LastPass was affected by the Heartbleed bug, but subsequent layers of encryptionmeant that user data was never exposed.The end result is that user data could now be intercepted and stolen across a myriad services that people use every day, including internet shopping sites, email accounts, online banking andeven news websites.What’s happening now?The Heartbleed bug is quite easy to fix, but requires all the sites and services affected by the vulnerability to update their software and their security certificates.Some, like Google, Yahoo and most banks, have already done that, but others will take time to roll out the fix.What should I do?For the majority of users, their data is only at risk from Heartbleed when they use the sites and services. The advice currently being issued by security experts is to avoid using any site or service hit by Heartbleed until they have fixed the bug.It is advisable, therefore, to avoid logging into internet banking, online shopping or anything that has a credit card or personal data attached until you can verify that they have fixed the issue.A couple of tools areavailable on the internettocheck whether sites are still vulnerableto the Heartbleed bug.Do I need to immediately change all my passwords?There have been a lot of knee-jerk warnings in the media stating that you should immediately change all your passwords.This advice is wrong.It is advisable to change all your passwords, but only once the sites have fixed the Heartbleed bug, especially if you reuse the same password across multiple sites and services. Changing your password before will only put that new password at risk of being stolen through the Heartbleed bug.Once a site has fixed the Heartbleed bug, picking a secure new password for each service is crucial. Apassword should be complex, but memorable and should be unique for each different site or service.If I just ignore it, will it all be all right in the end?Heartbleed is certainly one of the most serious security bugs to hit the open internet, but panicked reactions have made it worse.The Heartbleed bug will be fixed, if it hasn’t already been, by all the sites and services that most users use on a day-to-day basis. At that point changing your password should make your accounts secure once again, and users can then go on about their daily basis as they have done before.Vigilance over the next weeks and months over important accounts, including banking and shopping sites is advisable, just in case someone has managed to steal your credit card details while the bug was wide open.•What do I need to do if my email gets hacked, and how do I stop it happening again
If you've beenaffected by the Heartbleed bug, and in all fairness you probably have, you'll know what a catastrophic faff you're about to undergo. Changing your passwords, and failing to remember whatever new arbitrary combination of numbers and letters you once briefly assigned meaning to; realising that changing your password might be futile; and, on the off-chance that your email has already been hacked, ringing your dad and reassuring him that you're definitely not being imprisoned in Manila and that he probably shouldn't wire any money to your captors.You need to do all this because hackers are all notoriously self-interested; if they've got their hands on your personal data they're going to use it to nefarious ends. Call me naive, but I think the Heartbleed flaw offers hackers the perfect chance to show everyone how benevolent they can be. This is their moment to actively improve the world by infecting computers with positive viruses that help people. Viruses like these:Facebook privacy updateKeeping up with Facebook's privacy settings is a pain in everyone's bum. Every couple of months Facebook will suddenly decide that anyone with an internet connection should be able to see that photo of you from five years ago where you're sicking up a multicoloured cocktail on to a Mediterranean beach donkey at midnight. As a result you're forced to log in and manually reaffirm what you're prepared to share online. Imagine if there was a virus that could automatically keep all your images private forever. Wouldn't that be great?Tasteful Spotify overseerNobody in their right mind would ever play one of their Spotify playlists at a party, because there's a huge likelihood something will go wrong and you'll end up blaring out Will Smith's Willennium in its entirety, forcing you to leave shamefaced and alone. But what about a virus that scans your playlists for any sources of potential embarrassment and deletes them before a soul can hear them. Never again will anyone you secretly fancy laugh at you for liking S Club 7's underappreciated ballad Never Had a Dream Come True. It's too late for me, but goodhearted hackers can make sure it's not too late for you.Tumblr self-destructThe world is full of teenagers filling up Tumblr with Tom Hiddleston gifs, hand-drawn Justin Bieber fan art and photos of borderline-pornographic burlesque dancers. One day soon these teenagers will apply for jobs. Their potential employer will Google their name, find their Tumblr, become overwhelmed with a mixture of embarrassment and outrage, and the teenager will never work again. It's a timebomb of self-perpetuated unemployment waiting to happen. But why doesn't someone create a virus that deletes all trace of your Tumblr account on the stroke of your 18th birthday? Everyone would be saved. Thanks for keeping the economy alive, hackers!Reconcile usGmail already reads your emails, so why can't a kindly, twinkly eyed hacker take this to its logical conclusion? Let's say the phrase "How could you cheat on me like this?" pops up in a message. Reconcilr would see this phrase, automatically contact Interflora on your behalf, use your stolen credit card data to order a huge bouquet and send it to your outraged partner. Bingo. Everyone's happy again because everyone loves flowers, regardless of where they came from. Great job on stopping all divorces forever, hackers.Flickr remindrJust a virus that sends emails to remind you that the Flickr account you started in 2004 still exists.What's that, a street parade for hackers? Where do I sign?
First we had a singing nun, now we&apos;ve got a singing priest.Irish priest Father Ray Kelly has taken YouTube by storm with a cover version of Leonard Cohen&apos;s Hallelujah. The surprise performance was filmed at a wedding in his parish in County Meath.For his pitch-perfect performance, Father Kelly updated the lyrics so they were more suitable for a wedding. According to the multi-talented priest, bride and groom Leah and Chris O&apos;Kane were completely taken aback by his surprise performance.He told the Irish Times: &quot;Locally, most people know I sing at weddings, but Leah and Chris aren’t from the parish. I told them at the rehearsal I would sing for them, but I think they were a bit taken aback.”Now the musical maestro is adjusting to his new life as an internet celebrity and said he was &quot;absolutely flabbergasted&quot; by all the attention. “I’ve only been on YouTube once or twice in my life so it was a surprise to see the video and see how many views it has, I’ve been floored by the reaction,&quot; he said.The video, uploaded on Wednesday, had amassed more than 30,000 views by midday on Thursday.It seems there&apos;s something about singing clergy.In March, Sister Cristina Scuccia wowed the net and judges on the Italian version of The Voice with an astounding cover of Alicia Keys&apos; song No One.
A new charger that can fully charge a smartphone in 30 seconds will be available in under three years costing $30, according to StoreDot an Israeli university spin off.A prototype of the charger was shown off at Microsoft’s Think Next conference in Tel Aviv, where it completely recharged a Samsung Galaxy smartphone in around 30 seconds using a charger the size of a laptop power supply.StoreDot's prototype recharging a Samsung smartphone in just 30 seconds.The charger was developed from technology from the Nanotechnology department of Tel Aviv university. It uses StoreDot’s patented organic compounds, called “Nanodots”, instead of the standard lithium-based chemicals used in current battery technology, to store energy rapidly in a compact form.Rapid charging in late 2016 for $30StoreDot plans to make chargers compatible with a range of smartphones and other electronic devices like tablets and laptops. It has already received $6m of venture capital funding for the work, which itsaysoriginally grew out of research into Alzheimer&apos;s disease a decade ago that discovered &quot;nano-structures&quot; associated with it. Further research led to the new technology.The prototype charger is about the size of a standard laptop power supply, but StoreDot expects its dedicated engineering team to be able to shrink the technology to a more manageable size.StoreDot plans to enter production of the 30 second charger by late 2016 with an estimated cost of $30 or roughly twice the price of a standard USB smartphone charger today.• Sugar batteryoffers hope of green-powered gadgets within three years
The developer behind a &quot;fake&quot; Android antivirus app that was downloaded thousands of times has told the Guardian it was a &quot;foolish mistake&quot; and that users will be refunded.Jesse Carter, whose Deviant Solutions uploaded the app on Sunday 28 March, insisted that &quot;we never intended to scam our customers on Google Play&quot; with the non-functional app.Called &quot;Virus Shield&quot;, the app shot into the Google Play paid charts. It sold for $3.99 and was downloaded more than 30,000 times between being uploaded on Sunday 28 March and being taken down on Sunday 6 April, according to app store monitoring firm Appbrain.Ostensibly, it searched the user&apos;s phone for viruses, while also promising not to affect battery life. But in fact the app did precisely one thing: it changed its icon when pressed, to make it look like it was active. WhenAndroid Policeexamined the app, they found it didn&apos;t even contain any code to do anything else.The app vanished from the store, but it&apos;s unclear whether that was due to action by Google - whosedeveloper termsstate that that apps &quot;must not contain false or misleading information in any content, title, icon, description, or screenshots&quot; - or Carter, who told the Guardian that the decision was his.&quot;One of our developers simply made a foolish mistake,&quot; Carter told the Guardian. &quot;The app version that was decompiled by AndroidPolice was not intended to be released. It was an early placeholder that our ui designer created. There was a mix-up between the version that contained the antivirus code for our app.&quot;He added: &quot;After reading the article created by AndroidPolice, we immediately unpublished our app from the marketplace to upload the intended version. However, our Google Play Developer account was suspended before we could make said amendments. We have not withdrawn any earnings received from Virus Shield and intend to refund all purchases. We may possibly upload the intended version of the app for free to everyone.&quot;The app was pulled from the store before the 15th of the month, the date when Google processes developer payments. That suggests that Carter won&apos;t receive any of the funds.Google declined to say what action it would take over the app. It does not proactively review apps before they appear on the store. When asked why Virus Shield had been removed, a spokesperson for Google said: &quot;We remove applications that violate our policies, such as apps that are illegal or that promote hate speech. We don’t comment on individual applications – however, you can check out ourpoliciesfor more information.&quot;Daily Tech reportsthat Carter is a 17-year-old Texan, who made a name for himself hacking popular MMORPGs such as Runescape. But Carter says that &quot;the information posted about me on most of these news articles is all false, by the way.&quot;Despite not protecting users against viruses, or doing anything at all, the app was the third most popular paid app on the entire Google Play store, and the most popular new app.It even received high marks from users: its average star rating was 4.7 out of 5. Like the Tornado Warning app parodied inthe popular XKCD cartoon, users apparently responded well to the &quot;benefits&quot; of the app, such as low battery usage, no advertisements, and very fast operation – without being overly concerned that it didn&apos;t get rid of viruses.Although users can get refunds for apps within 24 hours of downloading them, it&apos;s unclear how many did so. Since Carter has not withdrawn any money, and says his developer account was suspended, the $90,000 from its sales will remain in Google&apos;s bank account until refunded.•Millions of Android app downloads infected with cryptocoin-mining code
Remember that time British prime minister David Cameron got mocked mercilessly for hislook-I&apos;m-on-the-phone-to-Obama tweet?It seems world leaders haven&apos;t learned from it just yet. Australian prime minister Tony Abbott has now become the butt of Twitter jokes after he tweeted a very similar picture on Wednesday of him speaking on the phone to Angus Houston, who is coordinating the search for the missing Malaysia airlines plane.Just got an update on the search for#MH370from JACC Chief Coordinator Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston (Ret&#39;d)pic.twitter.com/Gnmq5zSmgg&mdash; Tony Abbott (@TonyAbbottMHR)April 9, 2014The inevitable Twitter japes followed, though sadly minus comedian Rob Delaney and the inimitable Sir Patrick Stewart. Responses featured everything from bananas to an irate-looking cat.@TonyAbbottMHRme toopic.twitter.com/OgAWrZq971&mdash; RRR (@burntsugar)April 9, 2014Hey@TonyAbbottMHRtone. Tone. TONE. TOOONNEEEEE I am on the line now u wot m8pic.twitter.com/PNpItKrtF2&mdash; Fakeed™ Butler (@fakeedbutler)April 9, 2014@fakeedbutler@mtats@gordypls@TonyAbbottMHRsorry guys my phone was out of battery, here now.pic.twitter.com/KZtbap6iQB&mdash; Bec (@Brocklesnitch)April 9, 2014.@na_cotic@thombus@TonyAbbottMHRI&#39;m patched in what&#39;s the sitreppic.twitter.com/Oz3R5CeSq9&mdash; Dame Key Lime Pie (@MrJosh9000)April 9, 2014Obviously, this dog got involved..@TonyAbbottMHRpic.twitter.com/mLQjIk1Sis&mdash; Ben Cuzzupe (@BenCuzzupe)April 9, 2014Of course, Abbott&apos;s call was actually about something quite important – the search for missing flight MH370. You can find the latest updates as the search zone narrowshere.
Greg Christie, one of the named inventors of Apple&apos;s &quot;slide to unlock&quot; system on its iPhone, is leaving the company in a move that will concentrate software design under Jonathan Ive.But sources inside Apple say that the move is not acrimonious, with Christie due to leave by the end of the year rather than immediately, as would be expected if he had been forced out. However Ive and Christie are said to have disagreed on some design decisions for software – a field which Christie had worked on for 20 years.The move comes at a critical time for Apple, as it is preparing to finalise elements of the next version of its iOS software, iOS 8, ahead of an expected public unveiling at its Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June in San Francisco, and full release in autumn this year.The introduction of the radical redesign of iOS 7 last year was the first time that Ive had been deeply involved in software design, having led the product and hardware design teams for more than a decade. Ive was promoted after Scott Forstall, who had led the iOS group from its inception, wasfired by chief executive Tim Cookafter the debacle over the introduction of Apple&apos;s Maps app in September 2012.The iOS 7 redesign rejected &quot;skeuomorphism&quot; - making onscreen objects mimic the appearance of real-life ones, such as calendars, baize gaming tables or lined note paper - and Ive called it &quot;an important new direction&quot;.Prolific in patentsChristie joined Apple in 1996 to work on its ill-fated Newton &quot;personal digital assistant&quot;, but then remained to become a key player in its software side, surviving a wide-ranging clearout of existing staff when Steve Jobs returned and took over the company in 1997. He is listed as an inventor on nearly 100 patents, and has a further 31 pending approval at the US patent office.Christie&apos;s departure was firstrevealed by 9to5Mac, which said the departure was due to &quot;friction&quot; between Ive and Christie after the British designer was given overall responsibility for both hardware and software design at the end of 2012. The site said that the redesign of the iPhone and iPad software to produce iOS 7, released in September 2013, led to clashes over design direction and that Ive &quot;circumvented Christie&apos;s leadership of the team during the new operating system&apos;s development&quot;.But sources at Apple signalled that Christie&apos;s departure was less dramatic, and that after 18 years at the company he had decided to retire and cash in his shares. Sources say that Christie&apos;s departure had been announced inside the company some weeks earlier, andaccording to Techcrunchhad been &quot;planned for even longer… to allow for a transition of leadership inside the Human Interface group.&quot;In a statement, Apple said: “Greg has been planning to retire later this year after nearly 20 years at Apple. He has made vital contributions to Apple products across the board, and built a world-class Human Interface team which has worked closely with Jony for many years.”Christie testified as one of the key designers behind the &quot;slide to unlock&quot; patent at the ongoing Apple-Samsung trial in San Jose last week, and also gave interviews about the process of designing the iPhone to the Wall Street Journal and NPR.He has been seen as critical in the design both of iOS 7 and of Apple&apos;s desktop software Mac OSX.•Steve Jobs gave designers two weeks to sort out iPhone software
Facebook will remove chat from its iPhone and Android app, forcing users to download its separate Messenger app if they want to continue sending and receiving private messages.The social network began notifying users in the UK, France and other European countries on Wednesday that they will need to install the company&apos;sstandalone Messenger appin order to continue using Facebook chat on their smartphones in the next two weeks.&quot;We have built a fast and reliable messaging experience through Messenger and now it makes sense for us to focus all our energy and resources on that experience,&quot; the company said in a statement.Faster messaging landgrabFacebook plans to eventually require that users in all countries install the Messenger app, spokesman Derick Mains said, though he could not provide a specific timeframe for the change.The free, standalone Messenger app is faster than the messaging service that is, for now, built into the main Facebook&apos;s mobile app. Facebook users can also access more features in the Messenger app, such as the ability to make voice phone calls over Wi-Fi in some countries and send text messages on Android.Facebook faces increasing competition from anew crop of fast-growing mobile messaging apps, such as Line and WeChat as well as established brands such asBlackBerry&apos;s BBMand Google Hangouts.The social network acquired one of its biggest messaging competitors, WhatsApp,for $19bn in February, which then announced it would beadding voice calling to its servicelater that month at Mobile World Congress.Mobile to expandFacebook&apos;s move to encourage users to install a separate messaging app on their phones could help boost the popularity of Facebook Messenger, but could also cause a backlash if consumers view the action as heavy-handed. It will also directly compete with WhatsApp.Facebook has increasingly moved into the mobile space, seeing it as a way tocontinue expanding its 1.2 billion-strong user base. It has developed or acquired a catalogue of standalone apps in addition to its main app over the past few years.In January,Facebook launched Paper, a photo-heavy news-reading app that has earned positive reviews. Facebook also acquired photo-sharing app Instagram in 2012, whichrecently reached 200 million users.• Facebook&apos;s main iPhone app hasbeen revealed as one of the main culprits of poor battery life
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJony Ive shakes up Apple's software design group, iPhone interface creator Greg Christie departing &gt;&gt; 9to5MacThe design shakeup at Apple will result in Christie soon leaving the company, with all software designers now working directly under Ive with the rest of his industrial design team instead of within Federighi's engineering group. Sources say that Christie's upcoming departure is significant and stems from a falling out with Ive.When Ive tasked Apple's Human Interface team with redesigning iOS 7 to include an entirely new look, Christie and Ive reportedly clashed over design direction, after which Ive is said to have circumvented Christie's leadership of the team during the new operating system's development.Apple confirmed the departure buttold the FT"Greg has been planning to retire later this year after nearly 20 years at Apple."Christie testified at the latest Apple-Samsung trial about the invention of the iPhone, and gave an interview to the Wall Street Journal and NPR about the process ahead of the trial - he's listed as an inventor of "slide to unlock".Does the Galaxy S5 have temperature and humidity sensors? &gt;&gt; OpenSignalAlthough the S5 is not officially released for another 2 days, we've seen numerous S5's sending us data – almost 70 in fact, from 15 countries (Korea we expected to see as the S5 is already on sale there, the US, Israel, Brazil are also included). Among the data we collect is a one-off scan of device specs, this forms the basis of ourAndroid Fragmentation reports, we also provide this data to device testing firms and OEMs.Across all 69 Galaxy S5's, covering 9 distinct precise models (e.g. SM-G900L, SMG900V) not a single one provides humidity or temperature APIs. Unless Samsung has included these sensors but made them invisible to developers – which would be perverse – these sensors are not present.They aren't - because you can't make a phone waterproof while also having humidity sensors.Chinese Ministry of Commerce approves Microsoft-Nokia deal &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogDavid Howard, deputy general counsel at Microsoft:The Chinese Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) on Tuesday announced that it has approved our purchase of Nokia's Devices and Services business subject to certain conditions. MOFCOM's decision effectively adopts Microsoft's current patent licensing practices. In reaching its decision, MOFCOM concluded after its investigation that Microsoft holds approximately 200 patent families that are necessary to build an Android smartphone.Would love to know what functionality those 200 patent families read on.Apple closes US ad-spending gap with Samsung &gt;&gt; WSJ DigitsLast year, Apple spent about $351m on total U.S. wireless phone advertising, up 5% from $333m, according to Kantar Media. It spent more on TV ads last year than its entire 2012 budget, spending $339m on TV ads in 2013, up 15% from 2012 TV ad spending.Samsung spent about $363m on all US mobile phone ads, down 10% from $401m, the only top device maker that cut U.S. ad spending.At No. 3, Nokia went on a marketing binge as it announced a merger of its devices and services business with Microsoft, and spent $221m, more than 15 times what it spent in 2012.Motorola, the No. 4 largest ad spender, more than tripled spending to $189m after it became part of Google in mid-2012. Google is currently in the process of selling Motorola to Lenovo.Rounding out the bottom three, BlackBerry more than doubled its ad spending to $90m as the company received a $1bn cash infusion from some of its investors; HTC invested about $76m, up from $46m in 2012; and LG Electronics spent about $51m, compared with $38m a year earlier.Out of those, you'd have to say Nokia got the worst bang for its buck, and LG by far the best, in terms of increased sales.There won't be another iPhone-class product, not for Apple, not for anyone, not for a long time &gt;&gt; iMoreRene Ritchie:We've all seen the reports. The iPhone by itself is more profitable than many of Apple's competitors are in total. iPhone is as profitable as companies with oligopoly control over fossil fuel resources. It's a singular phenomenon.The iPad doesn't make as much money as the iPhone. And, no iWatch, iTelevision, iEspresso maker, or any other consumer electronics product is going to either.Yet article after article, analyst after analyst insists Apple simply must release their "next big thing" and now or, doomed. 60 days to release an iWatch or doomed. Has to sell 65m units a year or doomed. Haunted. Doomed.Sensible. The smartphone has been the fastest-adopted technology ever* (data for the wheel not available).Forget wearable tech, embeddable implants are already here &gt;&gt; CNN.comSmartphone mapping features are great for getting directions, until you lose signal. But you could avoid getting lost in the woods with a guiding system embedded in your body.Electronic engineer and biohacker Brian McEvoy has designed the first internal compass, and will be the first test subject. The 'Southpaw' - inspired by the North Paw bracelet - works by sealing a miniature compass inside a silicon coat, within a rounded Titanium shell, to be implanted under the skin. An ultra-thin whisker juts out, which is activated when the user faces north, to lightly brush an alert on the underside of the skin."For a disc shape, it would be best located near shoulder", says McEvoy, ahead of the procedure. "I don't foresee any safety issues". Materials and shape have been chosen for the body's tolerance of them, but the Minnesota biohacker is working with experts to minimize risk before going under the knife.Apple seeks revival of standards suit against Google's Motorola &gt;&gt; San Jose Mercury NewsIn the case on appeal, Apple claimed that Motorola Mobility violated that [fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory, or FRAND licensing] pledge on technology for wireless and 3G transmissions. Motorola Mobility demanded "a rate that was more than 12 times what Motorola was charging other licensees for the same technology," Apple said in a 23 July filing with the Federal Circuit.Motorola Mobility demanded 2.25% of the sale price of the iPhone, or about $12 per phone, even though it has "only a small percentage of the thousands of patents declared essential to the relevant standards," Apple said.Motorola Mobility, in a 5 November filing with the court, argued Apple was late to the smartphone business and is trying to avoid paying anything to the innovators that came before it. Mountain View, California-based Google inherited the case through its $12.4bn purchase of Motorola Mobility in 2012.Apple "seeks to free-ride on the contributions of the technology companies that cooperatively advanced wireless communication while seeking a new set of rules to govern standard-essential patents," Motorola Mobility said.Google hangs on to the patents, so presumably hangs on to the case, when Lenovo closes the deal. Motorola had a $2bn demand over FRAND patents knocked down to $14m by a US judge in 2012.Apple iWatch captivates US teens, new survey shows &gt;&gt; Fortune TechBefore anyone gets too excited about the results of the teen survey Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster released Tuesday, the numbers need to be put in some kind of socioeconomic context.For one thing, American teenagers tend to be richer - a lot richer - than teenagers in the rest of the world. For another, the sample of roughly 7,500 American teens Piper Jaffray polled tends to come from middle and upper-middle class families. Inner-city teens don't go the kinds of high schools Gene Munster visits.He didn't ask them about a TV. Shocking.Five things HTC's Sense 6.0 does better than stock Android &gt;&gt; Android CommunityNate Swanner:One of the first Android skins, Sense has come a long way from the clunky blanket it once was. Mature and sensible, there are some things we think Sense does just a bit better than Android proper.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
On the screen we see two combat-hardened soldiers, men who have fought alongside each other, who have become comrades and friends, and who are now lovers. The moments in which the two finally open up to each other and admit their feelings are played in a simple and tender way. This isn&apos;t about two men being gay, it is about two people who realise they love each other. The interaction is so gentle, it is one of the most touching and beautiful depictions of a gay relationship I’ve ever known in modern media.So where did this exchange of feelings take place? On television in some late night Channel 4 drama? In a cool art house movie? No, it was in a video game – the science fiction adventure, Mass Effect 3 by Bioware.Over the past couple of years games have crept ever closer toward mainstream culture. Once perceived as the brain rotting preserve of teenage boys and socially inept adults, they are now viewed as just another modern artform. Bafta has accepted games into its remit, Moma displays them in its galleries, the NFTS teaches game design at its hallowed Beaconsfield campus. And as games become more authentic and expressive, developers are starting to explore meaningful social issues.Most notably perhaps, aspects of LGBT life have begun to enjoy more prominence. There was the heartbreaking side-story in The Last of Us, with apocalypse survivor Bill mourning the loss of his partner Frank during the game&apos;s devastating plague. He was later named asone of the most intriguing characters of 2013by GLAAD. There&apos;s also Sir Hammerlock in Borderlands 2 and the Peter Gatien-like night club owner Gay Tony, in Rockstar&apos;s Grand Theft Auto IV: hardly a rounded character, but then, in GTA, who is? The larger representation of other lifestyles and choices is a good thing, and can only lead to more acceptance.Meaningful choicesIn the aforementioned Mass Effect 3, players have the option of starting relationships with both gay male and female characters. “I believe that by the 22nd century, declaring your gender preference will be about as profound as saying, &apos;I like blondes&apos; – it will just be an accepted part of who we are,&quot; says Dusty Everman, the writer given the task of penning the relationships in ME3. &quot;So I tried to write a meaningful human relationship that just happens to be between two men… When Cortez says, &apos;I lost my husband&apos;, every player knows his sexuality, so precious word budgets aren’t spent to establish that fact.”Bioware&apos;s determination to reflect a variety of sexual identities has, not surprisingly, met with some resistance. In 2011, after the release of the studio&apos;s fantasy adventure game Dragon Age 2, a particularly irate fan took to the official forum to complain that straight male gamers were being neglected. The missive was in response to a sequence in the game where a male character makes amorous advances towards the player’s avatar.Bioware’s responsewas wonderfully cutting. “We have a lot of fans, many of whom are neither straight nor male,&quot; wrote designer David Gaider. &quot;They deserve no less attention...”Certainly, Bioware is one of the companies leading the charge with LGBT relationships in their games. But tellingly, in the earlier games, they limited this to lesbian encounters. In a straight male dominated world, relationships between women characters can, and have been, misused as titillation – yet because they are less threatening to male viewers, they have also been used as a way of showing same sex couples without instigating a storm of negative backlash. In the past year, two game companies at opposite ends of the design spectrum, have managed to weave female homosexuality into their titles in beautifully nuanced ways: Naughty Dog with the DLC for its blockbusting action adventure, The Last of Us, and The Fullbright Company, with its debut release, Gone Home.Feeling at homeWhy did these very different studios choose to tell stories of self-discovery and burgeoning sexuality? “The scope of Gone Home called for it to take place within a single, non-supernatural or fantastical American family home, so any conflict in the story would have to stem from the family dynamics within,&quot; explains Kate Craig, one of four members of the FullBright Company. &quot;Seeing someone your family disapproves of is one sure fire way to start that ball rolling, and in the 1990s, during the &apos;Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell&apos; years in the US, a story about the relationship of two teenage girls was a really interesting answer to that.”Unfortunately, as with Dragon Age and Mass Effect, Gone Home has faced criticism and prejudice from those who do not want to see homosexuality depicted in games. “There’s been some negative feedback,&quot; says Craig. &quot;Some of that may be valid or worth considering – mom’s story feels undeveloped, for example – and some of it less so – anything aggressively against the idea of a game with women or LGBTQ characters as leads. Part of making a game is learning to recognise when there’s something to a piece of negative criticism, and when, perhaps, it’s better to keep scrolling.”As Craig says, the aggression of those who are against any progress in the depiction of LGBT themes, often manifests itself in the comments sections of the large gaming websites, or in the official forums of offending titles. But homophobic insults also erupt into the games themselves. When I put out a question on twitter about receiving bigoted abuse while playing games, a large majority of the responders singled out games like Call of Duty, Battlefield and Halo where words like &quot;Faggot&quot; and &quot;homo&quot; are routinely used by players to insult each other, and to round on anyone who may seem different.Dealing with abuseNick Rego, an Editor for IGN in Dubai, has come across abuse in a game that is usually considered to be more welcoming: World of Warcraft. &quot;I joined a guild and signed up on their forums to learn more about WoW and pick up tips,&quot; he explains. &quot;In my forum bio I added a few of my hobbies and used the word &apos;gaymer&apos;. During one of the early dungeon raids, I wasn&apos;t doing too great and in the voice chat one guy said, &apos;Why did we let this f**king gay f**got join our guild?&apos; He went on a little mini rant about how shit I was at the game and that I needed to be kicked out of the guild. I messaged one of the mods but they didn&apos;t seem to really care that much and said I should just ignore the guy and keep on playing.&quot;Ignore the comments, carry on playing, disable voice chat, or simply don’t load up multiplayer. These are often the options suggested to LGBT gamers when dealing with a stream of homophobic abuse online. But as the games themselves are starting to embrace LGBT themes, players and developers are feeling ever more emboldened to fight back. For the last couple of years, the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco has run anAdvocacy trackwhere industry insiders have been able to voice concerns, ideas and hopes around LGBT representation in the industry, culminating this year with Manveer Heir from Bioware Montreal, giving a talk entitles,&quot;Misogyny, Racism and Homophobia: Where Do Video Games Stand?&quot;.Gaymers strike backMatt Conn, is the CEO and Creative Director ofGaymer X, the first ever gaming and geek convention dedicated to the LGBT Community. The inaugural event took place last year in August, and a second is planned for this year in San Francisco. Gaymer X is the result of a hugely successful Kickstarter campaign that received widespread acknowledgment and support from the gaming press as well as companies like EA and Microsoft.But has enough is being done to combat the hostility &quot;gaymers&quot; face? “Honestly? I don&apos;t feel like the gaming public as a whole has made that societal shift towards true acceptance,&quot; says Conn. &quot;I see the press and game companies beginning to come around – realising that if everyone can play, there&apos;s much more money and market in the gaming world for them to be a part of. But the general &apos;gamer&apos; population has been slow to truly accept that diversity is going to be a larger part of gaming moving forward.”If it&apos;s up to the game makers to guide their audiences, the first steps towards creating that environment are now being taken. Last year, Electronic Arts, one of the biggest game development and publishing companies in the world, organisedFull Spectrum, the first ever event focused on LGBT issues within gaming. “EA has a long history in supporting the [LGBT] community, both as an employer and in our games,&quot; says Sandy Goldberg, a corporate communications manager at EA who was part of the team that set up Full Spectrum. &quot;For our customers and employees that are part of or support the community, we have a commitment to foster a safe and friendly gaming environment, a place to have fun.”A future togetherThe Full Spectrum event is groundbreaking. The first time a major player in the gaming industry has come forward and started a discussion on issues that games companies will often try and side step. “The event was designed to trigger a conversation around the issues facing the LGBT community in games – from the development of content, to creating an inclusive work environment to hate speech inside of game forums” says Goldberg. “These are very broad topics, so the event was designed to address and discuss a myriad of issues and inspire those attending to share their thoughts and experiences outside of the event so we can start to look at solutions to these issues”Change doesn’t happen overnight, it takes time, momentum and often a little nudge from the right people. With events like Gaymer X and Full Spectrum, as well as games like Gone Home, The Last of Us and Mass Effect, and the support of companies like EA, Naughty Dog, and Bioware, the changes will happen.As Matt Conn says, “I think it&apos;s important for people to know that we&apos;re not trying to come and tell them how to live or game, but that everyone, whether straight, gay, female, trans, or disabled, deserves a seat at the table when it comes to games and creating a fun, safe environment for everyone.”•Gone Home – and how games can tell stories about everyday lives•LGBT content in video games: here come the old bullies• Are gamers really sexist?
In a rare jump by a retail executive onto the masthead of a media outlet that covers her industry, Bobbi Brown, the makeup mogul, will take over Yahoo’s beauty section later this month, the company announced on Wednesday.As editor-in-chief ofYahoo Beauty, Brown “will lead editorial direction, original content and the expansion and re-imagination” of the section, Yahoo said in a statement. Brown was quoted as saying that she would keep her role at her cosmetics company and that she was “confident that the two positions will inform and strengthen each other”.Brown is the founder and leader of Bobbi Brown cosmetics, whichis estimatedto bring in more than 10% of the annual sales of parent company Estée Lauder. Theaverage of estimatesof annual sales at Estée Lauder through June 2014 is $10.7bn. Yahoo itself is less than half that size in terms of sales.It was unclear whether any editorial restrictions would be put in place on Brown’s coverage, as Yahoo editor, of Bobbi Brown products – or on her coverage of competing cosmetic companies’ products.&quot;The thing that&apos;s surprising about this is it creates an absolutely obvious conflict of interest,&quot; said Kelly McBride, co-author of The New Ethics of Journalism and senior faculty member at the Poynter Institute. &quot;The reason that people would turn to Yahoo Beauty is for independent news and analysis on a specialty topic. If you have an editor who has a vested financial interest in a product line, news consumers are automatically going to assume that that product line gets preferential treatment. And so it doesn&apos;t even matter if it actually does get preferential treatment, the perception alone will damage Yahoo&apos;s credibility.&quot;Yahoo might try to address the situation by explaining its editorial process in a transparent way, McBride said, and by consistently delivering &quot;what the audience needs when the audience needs it&quot;.Asked to comment on the matter, a Yahoo spokesman released this statement: &quot;Yahoo has very strict editorial guidelines and Yahoo Beauty will adhere to these standards just like all of our sites.&quot;Brown&apos;s career began in the 1980s, when she worked successfully as a makeup artist in New York City, but her brand began in the early 1990s, when she launched her eponymous makeup line and quickly established a range that catered for an ethnically diverse customer base.At a time when mainstream makeup ranges were dominated by bright colours aimed at white women, Brown showed an awareness of black and Asian skin tones years before her competitors by basing her ranges of a wide range of understated neutral colours.Brown&apos;s ethos has always been about making the professional seem accessible for women everywhere. Years before YouTube tutorials became the norm, Brown appeared on TV showing women how to apply eyeliner and pick the perfect shade of foundation. The Bobbi Brown Makeup Manual became something of bible for makeup lovers.“As [editor-in-chief], I’ll work to curate smart, strong content that will teach women how to be their best selves,” Brown saidin a statementreleased by Yahoo. “Of course, it goes without saying that this new role will never take me away from my first love – Bobbi Brown Cosmetics. I’ll continue as Chief Creative Officer of the company, and am confident that the two positions will inform and strengthen each other.”It is not unprecedented in the world of media for economic stakes to overlap uncomfortably with editorial interests. In awidely followed2011 case, Michael Arrington, a founding editor of the influential technology site TechCrunch, came under fire for launching a $20m venture capital fund to invest in tech companies. Arrington was subsequently ousted from his editorial perch by parent company AOL. “It is very, very clear that they are distinct entities and Michael will have no influence on coverage,” AOL editor-in-chief Arianna Huffington told the New York Times’ David Carr at the time.The announcement of Brown&apos;s hiring came a week after reports that Yahoowould undertake a major overhaulof its women-focused lifestyle section, currently known as Shine.Under CEO Marissa Mayer, who took over in July 2012, Yahoo has gone on something of a shopping spree for big-name talent to lead its various media sections. Last November the company hired Katie Couric, the ubiquitous television news personality, as &quot;global anchor,&quot; reportedly for a $6m salary. Yahoo also has hired David Pogue, formerly of the New York Times, as a technology columnist, and Josh Wolk, formerly of Vulture, as entertainment editor.
Internet security researchers say people should not rush to change their passwords after the discovery of a widespread &quot;catastrophic&quot; software flaw that could expose website user details to hackers.The flaw, dubbed &quot;Heartbleed&quot;, could reveal anything which is currently being processed by a web server – including usernames, passwords and cryptographic keys being used inside the site. Those at risk include Deutsche Bank, Yahoo and its subsidiary sites Flickr and Tumblr, photo-sharing site Imgur, and the FBI.About half a million sites worldwide are reckoned to be insecure. &quot;Catastrophic is the right word,&quot;commentedBruce Schneier, an independent security expert. &quot;On the scale of 1 to 10, this is an 11.&quot;But suggestions byYahooandthe BBCthat people should change their passwords at once – the typical reaction to a security breach – could make the problem worse if the web server hasn&apos;t been updated to fix the flaw, says Mark Schloesser, a security researcher with Rapid7, based in Amsterdam, Netherlands.Doing so &quot;could even increase the chance of somebody getting the new password through the vulnerability,&quot; Schloesser said, because logging in to an insecure server to change a password could reveal both the old and new passwords to an attacker.The bug exists in a piece of open source software called OpenSSL, which is meant to encrypt communications between a user&apos;s computer and a web server. But security researchers have no way to prove whether or not the flaw, which has existed since at least March 2012, has been exploited.The bug&apos;s age, and its presence in software to which anyone can submit an update, has led to speculation that it could have been inserted and then exploited by government spy agencies such as the US&apos;s National Security Agency, which is known to have programs aiming to collect user data. &quot;My guess is accident, but I have no proof,&quot; Schneier commented.Tumblr, which is affected, issued a warning to its users on Tuesday night. Although the firm said it had &quot;no evidence of any breach&quot;, and has now fixed the issue on its servers, it recommends users take action.&quot;This might be a good day to call in sick and take some time to change your passwords everywhere — especially your high-security services like email, file storage, and banking, which may have been compromised by this bug,&quot;it says. The advice to change passwords was repeated elsewhere,by groups including the BBC.But Rapid7&apos;s Schoessler cautioned against doing that. &quot;The estimate is that the larger providers all get patched within the next 24-48 hours [Thursday to Friday afternoon] and I would agree that people should change their credentials when a provider has updated their OpenSSL versions.&quot;Users can check whether a specific site remains vulnerable to Heartbleed witha tool put together by developer Filippo Valsorda.The Heartbleed vulnerability is only found in a few recent releases of OpenSSL, a software library that lets web servers initiate secure conversations.In affected versions, it lets attackers potentially read content out from the active memory of a web server.While some servers have fixed the OpenSSL flaw, the cascading nature of the problem means that they may not be fully safe. The flaw lets a determined attacker steal the private key to a site&apos;s SSL certificate, the code that enables all communications with the server to be held securely.Sites which have updated OpenSSL but are still using the same certificate as before –such as Deutsche Bank&apos;s main consumer portalin Germany – may show up as secure on initial inspection, but remain easy for attackers to penetrate.&quot;Risk to users exist until organisations have updated OpenSSL, acquired a new certificate, generated and deployed new SSL keys, and revoked old keys and certs,&quot; says Trey Ford, global security strategist at Rapid7. &quot;Until this is done, attacks may still be able to steal cookies, sessions, passwords, and the key material required to masquerade as the website.&quot;Yahoo was one of the sites worst affected by Heartbleed, but the firm has now fixed its main properties, including subsidiaries Flickr and Tumblr, and says it is &quot;working to implement the fix across the rest of our sites&quot;.&quot;We’re focused on providing the most secure experience possible for our users worldwide and are continuously working to protect our users’ data,&quot; a Yahoo spokesperson added.•&apos;Heartbleed&apos;: hundreds of thousands of servers at risk around the world from catastrophic bug
Trigger warning: discussion of rape and sexual violenceSpoilers for Metal Gear Solid V: Ground ZeroesThere have been plenty of Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes reviews, some of which have been greatly revered and lauded as brilliant pieces of writing but, barringthe Telegraph’s review, they have all failed to do so much as acknowledge the existence of tape number 4 [a discoverable in-game artifact] which depicts rape and child rape in the form of an audio recording.Yes, the same publications that questioned the implied rape in Tomb Raider,who were disgusted by the torture scene and sexism in GTAVand raged about the oversized breasts in Dragon’s Crown,didn’t think it necessary to highlight the fact that a tape depicting rape is used as a reward for the completion of a mission in Ground Zeroes. Or, that in spite of ESRB’s inclusion of a sexual violence warning, PEGI have included this under the &quot;violence&quot; content warning and as such no mention of sexual violence appears on the box or in game.Instead, publications have focused on dismissing the fact that the main mission can be completed in 10 minutes on a speed run and convincing readers not to write it off just yet, it really is worth playing, oh and there’s even some depth in its depiction of Guantanamo Bay. The length of the game is the main talking point, not the rape or child rape, not the fact that this is used as a reward, not the fact that there is no warning that this will happen. Every other detail of the game engulfs this miniscule, unimportant tape.It’s easy to question the function of sexual assault as a catalyst for story progression in Tomb Raider. It’s easy to say that the world of GTAis sexist. It’s even easier to criticise overtly sexual, even comical, depictions of women. But to criticise Kojima? Someone whose stories we’re not supposed to take any notice of and we’re supposed to just humour and pat him on the head and say &quot;It’s OK, we don’t expect you to tell meaningful stories&quot;. That is, seemingly, extremely difficult.Sound effectsThe tape in question is picked up as an extra during one of the missions, is just under 10 minutes long and depicts the torture and interrogation of Paz and Chico and the dual rape of Paz and Chico (Chico is forced to rape Paz but as he’s a child and is forced by Skullface into the act, is also raped by Paz). The thing that immediately jumps out and makes me extremely uncomfortable is the fact that I’m discussing a game which has a character called &quot;Skullface&quot;. A character who looks like a zombie and seems to be evil for the sake of evil, from a series which is known for its ludicrous, over-the-top antagonists. This character forces two people to have sex with each other against their will, this caricature is used as a vehicle to incorporate difficult themes like rape and sexual assault into a series which is renowned for being playful and not taking itself seriously.The tape in itself is a catalogue of poor writing and voice acting, with Skullface’s typical American &quot;baddie&quot; voice and the oft-quoted series of increasingly disturbing lines, said to Chico after Skullface has stripped Paz: &quot;Do you like what you see?&quot; &quot;It’s like… fruit. Does she look sweet or sour? A man has to know these things. Time for a taste test. Either you take her now or you are strung up next.&quot;These all add up to make what could have been an evocative scene extremely cringeworthy and sickening to listen to; it feels like the subject matter is not being taken seriously in the slightest and instead, the game is doing its best to create snappy, easily quotable lines of dialogue rather than anything even bordering on meaningful. It’s laden with childish comments from Skullface about Chico needing to become a man and references to Paz as Chico’s &quot;girlfriend&quot; or a girl he’s trying to impress. Paz is put into the submissive, controllable role of &quot;girl&quot; and removing her independence as a grown woman and placing Skullface into the familial father role, with Chico fulfilling the role of child and Paz as the mother, controlled and &quot;girled&quot; by Skullface.This in itself sets the tone for the tape. It’s childish. It contains no nuance at all, it’s a child’s idea of what rape is like. An evil man does an evil thing. It’s as simple as that, and of course the woman (or girl) is at least partly to blame as she specialises in &quot;deception and deceit, what better proof she’s a real woman&quot;.The degradation continuesAfter beating them both, Skullface rips off Paz’s clothes and comments to Chico, &quot;Repulsive, isn’t it?&quot; Following this, it’s deliberately unclear whether Skullface rapes Paz but the sound is more like thrusting than punching, and as the ESRB rating states, &quot;a female character is sexually assaulted by male characters&quot;, it is certainly suggested that he does. Skullface then offers up Paz to Chico, like a piece of food on a plate ready for his consumption with no personal autonomy or voice of her own. This interaction is extremely Oedipal, like the father handing over his sexual, phallic power to his son and allowing him to realise his Oedipal desire for his mother (in this case, with Paz as the role of the mother due to the age gap between Paz and Chico).When Kojima finally grants Paz a voice, she, a 25-year-old woman, initiates a sex act with Chico, a 13-year-old boy, immediately after they have both been raped. She asks him to move closer to her, seems to kiss him and, in spite of Chico’s protestations, asks: &quot;You want to do it here?&quot; heavily suggesting that Paz is initiating sex with Chico. This casts Paz as an evil, deviant, sexually aggressive woman who deserves punishment. This is furthered by the change in her appearance from Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walker where she had an extremely feminine look, compared to her more masculine, short-haired appearance in Ground Zeroes, allying her with the male aggressor and making her seem more dangerous (because of course, feminine women can’t be dangerous).The whole thing is tacked on, a silly extra that Kojima uses for additional shock value. It has no bearing on the story and is used primarily as a tool to further our idea of Skullface as an evil character and secondly to portray Chico as the ultimate victim and Paz as a perpetrator, erasing her status as a victim and instead casting her as a sexually manipulative woman who, as Skullface says, will &quot;get what she deserves&quot;.The bomb sceneThis is particularly potent as it links to both the consequent rape and ending of the main mission. Skullface deems Paz to be &quot;the kind of woman you’ll want to avoid&quot;, which we’re pushed to agree with, and he punishes her sexuality by putting a bomb inside her stomach and her vagina. This captivation with inserting large objects into the only woman in the game is disturbing to say the least. Kojima seems fascinated by putting Paz through as much pain as possible, deemed acceptable to us as a player because of her actions towards Chico, portrayed as the ultimate innocent.The entirely unbelievable end scene – where she’s held down by Snake and Chico while a doctor reaches around inside her as one of them holds her intestines in – is an extremely ritualistic scene, bringing to mind sacrificial practices. While the extreme violence of the removal of the bomb from her stomach is not entirely believable, Paz’s pain is undeniably real and the detail that she’s not given any anaesthetic is undoubtedly deliberate, to further enhance the pain she’s subjected to.The scene borders on the pornographic, the build up with close ups of the stitching being slowly removed, moving on to close ups of hands inside Paz’s stomach, her blood and intestines glistening in the garish lights of the helicopter and of her face as she screams in agony. It’s almost as though Kojima revels in the pain she experiences, casting it as a complete necessity – no, there’s no time for anaesthetic, maximum pain must be ensured for some unspoken reason.The only way that Paz can redeem herself of her actions towards Chico and our realisation of her as a sexually manipulative woman and reach salvation, to become accepted by Snake and his team as &quot;one of the good guys&quot;, is to become a martyr and literally destroy her genitals (and her entire body). She saves them from the destruction that her sexuality would otherwise bring and embraces her sacrifice as she dives out of the plane with crossed arms, facing Snake the whole time, able to be at peace with herself in the knowledge that she thinks she’s saved them.Context and warningI find it extremely distressing that there is no clear warning of the content either on the box or anywhere around the tape which is simply called &quot;interrogation&quot; and seriously hope that if there is any similar content in the forthcoming Metal Gear Solid: Phantom Pain, that there will at the very least be trigger warnings on the box. I was already feeling extremely wary about Phantom Pain, and the content from Ground Zeroes combined withthe Phantom Pain trailerandKojima’s comments about the character, Quiet, have hardly absolved the pit-of-the stomach worry that comes to mind when I consider Kojima’s reasoning for Quiet’s outfit. Right now I have no hope for the way that child soldiers, or any of the female characters in Phantom Painwill be portrayed, Ground Zeroeshas presented no tact or maturity in its representation of tough issues and, unfortunately, I don’t expect that to change in the Metal Gearseries any time soon.The whole of Ground Zeroesis simply a catalyst, a backstory for the upcoming Phantom Pain. Paz and Chico’s rapes function only to further Snake’s story, to give him a reason for revenge and to have been in a coma. They are victims for the sake of the progression of another character; the scenes are careless, clumsy and childish. In his desperation to achieve “what movies and novels have achieved”, Kojima has created a piece of work that shows complete disdain for the only female character in the game, a fetishisation of Paz’s pain and has failed to create any meaningful portrayal of sexual violence.• This is a slightly edited version of the blogpost&quot;Chico&apos;s Tape 4&quot;, which originally appeared on Ria Jenkins&apos; site,Introskeptive.
It&apos;s been rumoured for months, of course, but now it seems Sony has let the post-apocalyptic cat out of the fungus-covered bag: Naughty Dog&apos;s critically acclaimed action adventure seems bound for PlayStation 4.A banner ad momentarily placed on the Sony Entertainment Network store yesterday showed The Last of Us: Remastered, for $59.99, together with the &quot;day 1 digital release&quot; logo. The advert was spotted by a NeoGaf user anda screen grab posted to the gaming discussion site. An official confirmation is expected on Thursday.The story comes two weeks after Sony&apos;s Eurasian software market managerlet slip that Last of Us would be coming to PS4 in the summer. He also indicated that the well-received story DLC, &quot;Left Behind&quot; would be included with the release.Released last Summer, The Last of Us received glowing reviews and has sold 6m copies on PlayStation 3. The game&apos;s developer, Naughty Dog, recentlywon five awards at the Video Game Baftas.It is unlikely this will be the last major PS3 or Xbox 360 title to be graphically updated and re-released on the new consoles. The super hero fighting game Injustice: Gods Among Us is already out as an &quot;Ultimate Edition&quot;, while veteran developer Biowarehas discussed bringing its Mass Effect series to the machines.• Last of Us – review• Last of Us: Left Behind – review
Facebook is to roll out a “privacy checkup” service to make sure users know when they are publicly sharing data.It is just one of a number of changes Facebook is making to improve its privacy settings after carrying out surveys about privacy with 4,000 people a day across 27 languages.Facebook's privacy checkup will make sure those still sharing things publicly realise that their data is available to anyone. Photograph: FacebookThe company admitted that it had failed to properly educate users about how Facebook goes about protecting user privacy, including when friends onwardly share your restricted posts which are then limited to just your mutual friends.&quot;Some people have felt Facebook privacy has changed too much in the past, or we haven&apos;t communicated as well as we could have,&quot; saidFacebook’s privacy product manager, Michael Nowak, at its headquarters in Menlo Park, California.&quot;Now we&apos;re thinking about privacy not just as a set of controls or settings, but as a set of experiences that help people feel comfortable,&quot; he said.Privacy first, nowFacebook is attempting to change its public privacy-forsaking image fuelled by early stances taken by its founder Mark Zuckerberg, whosaid in 2010 that privacy was no longer a social norm.The social network has changed the way it approaches user privacy. Two dedicated privacy teams now handle settings and security across the whole of Facebook, rather than each product team handling it individually.Facebook’s privacy engineering manager Raylene Yung said that the social network is taking data privacy very seriously. It performs 80 trillion checks on its systems every day to prevent data leaks and make sure that user posts are only shown to those the user selects.Changes comingFacebook is also changing the way users choose who their posts will be shown by moving the “audience selector” to the top left of its iPhone app, and giving it more prominence so users can switch between posts that are &quot;public&quot; and &quot;just for friends&quot; more easily.The audience selector for new posts will be given more prominence in the Facebook iPhone app as well as on the desktop. Photograph: FacebookThe audience selector on the desktop version of Facebook will also be simplified by making the two most popular choices of Public and Friends more prominent, with other choices available via a drop-down menu.Facebook has had a torrid history of constantly changing privacy settings, which it hopes to avoid, promising that it heavily researches privacy changes, however minor, before making them for its 1.2 billion users.• Facebook&apos;s iPhone apprevealed to be the cause of battery life woes
British scientist Prof Stuart Parkin has won the2014 Millennium technology prizeworth €1m (£824,400) for research that has led to a phenomenal increase in the storage capacity of digital devices and heralded the era of cloud computing.The Watford-born physicist told the Guardian he planned to use the money to buy a house in Halle, Germany, but was aiming for a low-key celebration."I will celebrate the award by inviting my fiancée to the Vendôme restaurant in Schloss Bensberg, one of our favourite restaurants in Germany for very special occasions," he said.The physicist joins past winners including the inventor of the world wide web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, Linux creator Linus Torvalds and pioneer of dye-sensitised solar cells Michael Grätzel.Launched in 2004 and presented every two years, the Millennium technology prize is awarded by Technology Academy Finland and is backed by Finnish industry and the Finnish state. This year's ceremony takes place in Helsinki on 7 May."It's fantastic," said Parkin. "It's a great prize. Wonderful scientists and technologists won it before, so of course I am greatly honoured to have been chosen."An IBM Fellow based at the Almaden Research Centre in California and director of the Max Planck Institute of Microstructure Physics, Parkin was selected as winner for his "pioneering contribution to the science and application ofspintronic materials, his work leading to a prodigious growth in the capacity to store digital information," the committee said.Reacting to the announcement, Prof Mark Miodownik, an engineer and materials scientist at University College London, said: "Music, literature, film and television have all become an important part of our digital lives, this has only been possible because of the brilliance of people like Stuart Parkin, who has pioneered the magnetic materials that squirrel it away into the interstices of atoms ... If you carry around your whole digital life in a portable hard drive you have people like Stuart Parkin to thank."Parkin's major achievement was the application of a phenomenon known as giant magnetoresistance (GMR) to create extremely sensitive devices that can detect tiny magnetic fields.This is of great importance in magnetic disk drives where information is stored as "bits" – zeros or ones – represented by regions of the disk magnetised differently. The more sensitive the detector is, the smaller the magnetic regions and fields need to be to store the information. This means more data can be packed on to a hard disk drive."It's enabled us, essentially, to store all information that we have – in digital form. And this wasn't possible before," said Parkin. "What this little sensing device enabled was a 1,000-fold improvement in the storage capacity of magnetic disk drives without changing their cost."GMR was independently discovered by physicists Albert Fert and Peter Grünberg in the late 1980s; theyshared the Nobel prize for physics for their work in 2007. The phenomenon arises when atomically thin layers of magnetic and non-magnetic materials are stacked on top of each other.In a simple arrangement, a non-magnetic layer (typically copper) is sandwiched between two magnetic layers. These magnetic layers behave like bar magnets pointing either north or south.When a current is induced in this sandwich, electrons move through the layers. The degree of hindrance they experience is different depending upon an intrinsic quantum mechanical property of them called "spin".This 'spin' can be aligned to the direction of the bar magnet or against it. Electrons with a spin in one direction will move more freely, so the flow of the current can be controlled by the relative arrangement of the bar magnets of the top and bottom layers.Parkin's achievement was to develop a device based on such "spintronic" effects in which tiny magnetic fields from magnetised regions that store data within the disk drive can rotate the direction of magnetisation in one of the layers of the sandwich. The result is a sensor that rapidly experiences large changes in resistance as it reads the disk drive.In contrast to the expensive and difficult techniques used by Fert and Grünberg to create the layers, Parkin made use of a simpler technique known as sputtering."I showed that you didn't need these very exotic techniques but one could actually [use] a much simpler technique which was compatible with mass manufacturing," he said. Importantly Parkin also showed that GMR is a more common phenomenon than initially thought, and can be seen at room temperature.The spin-valve read head was commercialised by IBM in 1997, but Parkin went on to develop the technology further in the form of magnetic tunnelling magnetoresistance – a closely related approach that is even more sensitive to tiny magnetic fields and is now replacing spin valves.The boom in storage capacity has facilitated the rise of numerous internet-based services, from Twitter to iPlayer, that make use of cloud storage based on magnetic disk drives.Parkin is keen to see nanotechnology yield further innovations. "I think atomic layer engineering will enable us to create interesting new technologies in the future – not only for storing data but for computing and manipulating data," he said."One of my main interests is in trying to build what I would call cognitive devices, devices that we could use for memory or logic that in some sense are inspired by how we compute in our own brain."Dr Andrew Ferguson of Cambridge University's Microelectronics Research Centre, said: "Prof Parkin is an outstanding experimental physicist who has pushed forward the frontier of spin-based electronics with numerous discoveries that are important for computer memory technology. The award of the Millennium technology prize will be extremely well received across scientific and industrial communities."The science minister, David Willetts, said: "Congratulations to Prof Parkin. The success of this British born scientist demonstrates how the world of science and innovation is a truly global endeavour. I hope his achievement will inspire and encourage others to support our work to stay ahead in the global science race."
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear fromBenjamin Edelman,associate professor at Harvard Business Schooland an expert in the public and private forces that shape our internet architecture and the business climate it creates.  Edelman tellsCharles Arthurabout his research into the opaque licensing of Android and the little known Mobile Application Distribution Agreements, known as MADA contracts.  He questions these contracts and their effect on a mobile handset market where Google's Android is such a dominant player.Also on the show Aleks is joined byJuliette Garside,Alex HernandSamuel Gibbsto discuss poor broadband for the rich in London; Mozilla's CEO Brendan Eich's sacking over his views on gay marriage; and Airbnb's decision to pay a hotel room tax in the US.
Apple is working on a new set-top box besides its existing Apple TV, new documents reveal.Aregulatory filingmade by Comcast and Time Warner Cable to the US Federal Communications Commission pitchingtheir planned mergerspecifically mentions that Apple is exploring the &quot;development of an Apple set-top box&quot;.Apple tablets are viewing platforms for cable services even while Apple offers an online video service, Apple TV, and explores development of an Apple set-top box.The rumour that will never dieApple haslong been rumouredto be about toupdateto its Apple TV streaming television box to add the ability to stream broadcast television and channels through specific apps.Areport by the Wall Street Journalthis year indicated that Apple was working on a set-top box in partnership with American cable companies to offer streaming TV – but that lack of agreement on content licensing was holding up its release.The plannedmerger of Comcast and Time Warner Cable in the USmay have delayed Apple’s new offering, as content deals will be crucial to the its success.Apple is also expected to add a gaming feature to a new set top box, competing with rivals from Roku, Google and the recently released Amazon Fire TV, which streams content from Amazon’s extensive on-demand video library as well as games via the Amazon app store.• Google Chromecast is more than just a media streamerpowered by apps for Android, iPhone and Google Chrome
Google is looking at enhancing itsChromecaststreaming stick with an information dashboard for the weather, local news and personal photos.Examination of the code of a recent update to Google’s Chromecastby asjmcguire on Reddithas revealed dormant components geared up for pulling data about the local weather from the internet and displaying it in simple icon form, as well as other at-a-glance information.The current Chromecast screen, which is displayed when not streaming media or using other apps via a smartphone or computer, shows a rotating selection of images predefined by Google as well as a clock.Slideshows, weather and news?Other snippets of dormant code in the Chromecast software hints that Google will allow users to display their own photos from their online libraries instead of the Google preselected photos.The update also brought the ability to stream YouTube live broadcasts via the Chromecast, as well as improvements to Netflix streaming.The Chromecast could see Google leverage its services such a Google News, Google Now and Calendar on a larger screen.Chromecast app developers havealready started experimenting successfullywith dashboard-like information screens, replacing the simplistic default Chromecast screen showing news tickers, weather and other information.“We’re always experimenting with new features, but have nothing new to announce,” said a Google spokesperson in response.• Google’s Chromecast ismuch more than just a streaming stickpowered by the open market of Android, iPhone and Chrome apps.Here are 11 of the best.
It's Wednesday.
Twitter is rolling out an update to its profile pages that look very similar to Facebook, complete with tweet highlights and large pictures.The update, visible through the web version of Twitter, allows users to customise their profile pages with their favourite tweets, a larger profile photo and wide cover-image, mirroring the design update Facebook made to its profile pages in 2013.“Moment by moment, your Twitter profile shows the world who you are. Starting today, it will be even easier (and, we think, more fun) to express yourself through a new and improved web profile,” said the Twitter designer David Bellonain a blog post.Users will be able to pin tweets to the top of their page, while tweets that have seen more retweets, replies or favourites will appear slightly larger.Viewers of other people’s profiles will also be able to filter the displayed tweet timelines to exclude pictures and videos or view tweets and replies.The new profile page updates are currently available for a select group of existing users, including asmall list of celebrities, while new users will start with the new profile design when they sign up for a Twitter account.The update will be rolling out to existing users in the coming weeks.• Twitter buys aUK ‘social TV’ firm SecondSyncfor enhanced ‘second screen’ experience
Hundreds of thousands of web and email servers worldwide have a software flaw that lets attackers steal the cryptographic keys used to secure online commerce and web connections, experts say.They could also leak personal information to hackers when people carry out searches or log into email.The bug, called &quot;Heartbleed&quot;, affects web servers running a package called OpenSSL.Among the systems confirmed to be affected are Imgur, OKCupid, Eventbrite, and the FBI&apos;s website, all of which run affected versions of OpenSSL. Attacks using the vulnerability are already in the wild: one lets a hacker look at the cookies of the last person to visit an affected server, revealing personal information. Connections to Google are not vulnerable, researchers say.SSL is the most common technology used to secure websites. Web servers that use it securely send an encryption key to the visitor; that is then used to protect all other information coming to and from the server.It is crucial in protecting services like online shopping or banking from eavesdropping, as it renders users immune to so-called man in the middle attacks, where a third party intercepts both streams of traffic and uses them to discover confidential information.Bleeding dataThe Heartbleed bug – so called because it exploits a failure inan extension called heartbeat– not only lets attackers read the confidential encrypted data; it also allows them to take the encryption keys used to secure the data. That means that even servers which fix the bug, using a patch supplied by OpenSSL, must also update all their keys or risk remaining vulnerable.More worryingly still, the bug can cause servers to leak other information stored on the server which wouldn&apos;t normally be available at all. For instance, one developerreportsthe ability to see searches made by other users on privacy-focused search engine DuckDuckGo, while anotherreportssimilar data leakage from Yahoo. Worse still, Yahoo has been found to be leakinguser credentialsdue to the bug. Yahoo did not return requests for comment.That data leakage means that servers vulnerable to Heartbleed are less secure than they would be if they simply had no encryption at all. &quot;This allows attackers to eavesdrop communications, steal data directly from the services and users, and to impersonate services and users,&quot; explained security group Codenomicon, which discovered the flaw.Hidden in plain sightThe vulnerability wasintroduced in 2011, apparently by accident when the opensource code was updated, but the error was only spotted recently. That has raised fears that some attackers may already have been exploiting it to steal information. &quot;Unfortunately it is not clear at the moment that there is any way to know whether this has already happened, since the vulnerability has been around for two years,&quot; explains Matthew Bloch,the managing director of hosting company Bytemark.It is the third serious bug in cryptographic connectivity discovered this year. In February, Apple revealed that asimple programming mistakemeant that since September 2013 its iPhone, iPad and newer Mac OS X software all failed to check the security of websites they connected to. It issued a patch for the software in February.Weeks later a similar flaw was discovered in the open source TLS system,leaving thousands of apps open to eavesdropping. That was reckoned to have been there since 2005.Stay offline?For users, the simplest thing to do may be to refrain from engaging in sensitive activities on the internet for a few days. Typical responses to security breaches, such as changing passwords may even serve to exacerbate the problem. While there aretestswhich will show whether a particular website is vulnerable, checking every site is cumbersome, and the most popular web-based test is suffering under heavy load.The issue is widespread. &quot;We count at least a few hundred thousand servers using affected library versions so that it poses a significant threat,&quot; says Mark Schloesser, a security researcher at penetration testing firm Rapid7. &quot;As the same problem affects other protocols/services such as mail servers and databases, we assume that overall we&apos;re looking at millions of vulnerable systems connected to the public internet.&quot;•Yahoo fixes Flickr invitation bug that leaked real names and email addresses
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe decline of the mobile web &gt;&gt; Chris DixonResources are going to app development over web development. As the mobile web UX further deteriorates, the momentum toward apps will only increase.The likely end state is the web becomes a niche product used for things like 1) trying a service before you download the app, 2) consuming long tail content (e.g. link to a niche blog from Twitter or Facebook feed).This will hurt long-term innovation from a number of reasons.He's right - but users clearly don't want to go in that direction.Rethinking what we mean by 'mobile web' &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball:John Gruber responds to Dixon's concern:let native apps be good at what they're good at, too. Like water flowing downhill, users gravitate to the best experiences. Saying that we're worse off for the popularity of native mobile apps is like saying water should run uphill.The single biggest slice in Flurry's statistics is "gaming", at 32%. Does anyone really think that mobile games would be better off written to run in web browser tabs? Lamenting today the falling share of time people spend in web browsers at the expense of mobile apps is no different from those who a decade ago lamented the falling share of time spent reading paper newspapers and magazines at the expense of websites.Samsung Galaxy S 5 review &gt;&gt; AnandtechThis is "the benchmark page", which has39different benchmarks. The GS5 comes out top in just two; it's often second, behind either HTC's One M8 or Apple's six-month-old iPhone 5S. Are we reaching a plateau in the "raw performance" curve.Farewell, Farecast: Microsoft kills airfare price predictor, to the dismay of its creator &gt;&gt; GeekWireOne of the most popular features of the old Farecast travel search engine has taken its last voyage.MIcrosoft, which paid $115m for the Seattle-based company six years ago this month, has turned off the price prediction tool that informed travelers of the likelihood that airfare prices would rise or decline.When Farecast's price prediction technology launched in 2004, it grabbed headlines since it was one of the first and most understandable consumer Internet applications of "big data," a term that was not really in use. At the time, Farecast founder and former University of Washington computer science professor Oren Etzioni dismissed critics when he said that "computers are comfortable sifting through large volumes of numbers to find patterns."Turned off because Google now owns ITA Search, which charges for that flight data.The emerging global web &gt;&gt; SlideshareHeard of Taobao? Meilishuo? Know what you can buy for delivery on south Korean underground platforms? Stephanie Rieger's presentation gives an eye-opening vision into the emerging world of mobile and how it is changing peoples' lives. Long, but very worthwhile.We are the Microsoft Office for iPad team. Ask Us Anything &gt;&gt; Reddit IAmAFirst question: printing. Interesting revelation: Ballmer OK'd the plan to ship it. Also of interest:The Office for iPad apps are completely native! The core logic, such as Excel's recalc engine or Word's text layout code, is C++ code that we compile and share across all of our platforms. The UI is all completely native Objective C; we did not use Xamarin or C# to develop our UI. As for using C#, we do use some C# for internal tools. I imagine we'll continue to use the appropriate native frameworks for each platform (UIKit for iOS, AppKit for the Mac, etc).Adobe debuts Lightroom Mobile for iPad with powerful, on-the-go photo editing &gt;&gt; 9to5MacAdobe has emphasized that Lightroom Mobile is a starting point for introducing Lightroom to the iPad and not a copy-and-paste of the full desktop software. While gestures and taps have their advantages, Lightroom Mobile lacks the precision of the mouse and efficiency of keyboard shortcuts. The mobile application is also intentionally limited in certain areas to avoid an overwhelming experience.For example, Lightroom 5 supports a number of ways to tag a photo including flags, stars, and color labels, but Lightroom Mobile only supports flagging at launch. Adobe says it has found that many photographers also want stars and color labels as a part of their mobile workflow and it plans to include these features in a future update, but it's taking the Lightroom Mobile 1.0 experience as an opportunity to provide just the essential features and see what other features will be popular requests by photographers for upcoming updates.Weird how Android has the volume like Windows did, but continually gets headline apps like this one after Apple. (See also: Microsoft Office.)Samsung Gear Fit review: the smartwatch gets in shape &gt;&gt; WSJ.comJoanna Stern:While the Gear Fit offers plenty of fitness features, I can't help thinking Samsung has spread itself too thin. Over my 1½ weeks of testing, I found that the watch measured some of my body movements as steps, counting more of them than the Fitbit Force and Jawbone Up24. Samsung says that all trackers are at least a little bit off but it is working to improve that functionality. (I couldn't test the sleep tracker because a software update was delayed.)Unlike the others, Samsung does track runs, hikes and bike rides using the GPS in the paired device. But while I enjoyed being able to track my run's length and distance, finding that info in the S Health app was more exhausting than the run itself. The app doesn't compare with those from Fitbit and Jawbone, which are both very well designed and in tune with fitness needs.The Gear Fit's built-in heart-rate monitor—the feature that should win over the health nuts—doesn't work well either. To get a reading, you must keep your arm perfectly still. (Warning: Attempting to do this during spinning class could cause you to nearly fall off your bike.) Yet even when I was quite stationary, the watch had a hard time finding my pulse.Battery life wasn't great and charging was "a pain". Other than that, Mrs Lincoln...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The image, of course, is instantly recognisable. There he is on screen, in that familiar jumping stance, his face beneath a bowl of black hair, his shorts in that classic combination of yellow and black. This is Bruce Lee, the martial arts legend, appearing in the forthcoming fighting sim, EA Sports UFC. The star of Enter the Dragon will be available immediately to those who pre-order the title, or he can be unlocked by completing the game at Pro difficulty. Playable across four weight classes, gamers will be able to test Lee&apos;s formative mixed martial arts approach against contemporary UFC stars.EA&apos;s marketeers knew that gaming news sites would go nuts for this and they was right – the announcement was everywhere this week. Despite the fact that this complex icon of action cinema died over 40 years ago, his legacy lives on in games. Arguably, it started in 1984, with the launch of Datasoft&apos;s platform adventure, Bruce Lee, on 8bit machines like the Apple II, Commodore 64 and ZX Spectrum. The plot, which had the eponymous hero fighting through a wizard&apos;s temple to secure the secret of immortality, had little to do with Lee or his movies, but it was released at a time in which home video was making the actor&apos;s films easily available to a new generation of fans. And already there was an obvious synergy between Lee&apos;s highly choreographed, hyper-kinetic approach to action sequences and the potential of video games to explore and simulate combat.Big bosses, dirty fightingIn that game, the fighting was restricted to punches and flying kicks, but in Japan a new genre of fighting sims was emerging that would explore martial arts in much more depth. Irem&apos;s seminal 1984 beat-&apos;em-up Kung Fu Master made no reference to Lee – indeed, its Japanese title is Spartan X, which is exactly what Jackie Chan&apos;s movie Wheels on Meals was known as in Japan. However, the structure of the game – which has the player fighting through several floors of an enemy stronghold – is clearly a reference to Lee&apos;s final movie Game of Death, in which his character must battle different boss characters on five levels of a pagoda. Indeed, the whole concept of Game of Death, that a series of seemingly indestructible martial arts proponents all have a weakness that must be discovered and exploited, pretty much set the &apos;end-of-level boss&apos; structure of beat-&apos;em-up video games for the following 40 years.Lee is there too in Konami&apos;s 1985 fighting game, Yie Ar Kung Fu, which features a lone fighter, Oolong, facing down a range of differently armed enemies. The cabinet art for the coin-op machine features an unmistakably traced image of Lee performing a high kick, while the concept of various enemies coming at the protagonist with authentic weapons, from nunchaku to tonfa sticks, again parallels Lee&apos;s movies, in which he sought to bring variety, accuracy and legacy, into his action sequences. 1985 also saw the excellent home computer fighting sim, Way of the Exploding Fist, a monicker that conjures Lee&apos;s movie titlesandhis philosophy of directing inner energy into points of combustive power. The game even used a sample of Lee&apos;s high-pitched combat yelp in its loading sequence.Street fightersBut it is the modern fighting game genre that has drawn most from Bruce Lee&apos;s fighting style and iconography. In the Street Fighter series, Fei-Long employs Lee&apos;s Jeet Kune Do fighting style and wears his familiar black kung fu trousers and slip-on canvas shoes. Capcom&apos;s series also draws on the mystique and almost magical power that Lee portrayed in his movies and martial arts demonstrations; the supernatural moves such as the hadoken are effectively exaggerations of Lee staples like the &quot;one-inch punch&quot;. Meanwhile, in SNK&apos;s World Heroes series, Kim Dragon is a martial arts movie star, clearly based on Lee, who feels he needs to prove his skill in a real-life tournament. Maxi from Soul Calibur and Jann Lee from Dead or Alive also draw from the Lee mythos in their clothing, fighting styles and attitude.However, it is Martial Law in the Tekken series that really exemplifies the profound influence Lee has had on fighting game designers. Throughout the series, Law always has at least one outfit drawn from a Lee movie, including the legendary yellow jumpsuit from Game of Death, which was similarly appropriated by Quentin Tarantino in Kill Bill. Law also uses a number of throws and finishing moves drawn from Lee&apos;s action sequences, and even has a son, Forest, who carries on his legacy – a clear reference to Lee&apos;s own son, Brandon.A video showing the similarities between Martial Law's and Bruce Lee's fighting styles.In Tekken too, we see the same fetishisation of martial arts lore and mythology that Lee&apos;s appeal seemed to invoke among Western viewers. The characters are ridiculous international caricatures, defined mostly by fighting styles that border on fantasy; they are figures of weird comedy and incongruity as well as violence.Indeed, this is something most fighting games pull from Lee&apos;s canon – the idea that a plot can just be a group of disparate people meeting up for a fighting tournament. Every martial arts game ever made owes something to Enter The Dragon, Lee&apos;s multicultural beat-&apos;em-up, with its clandestine fight club, exotic locations, and the central conceit that everyone present has a past to escape and an ulterior motive to fight through. Lee&apos;s films, like the best fighting games, combine tension, threat and humour; blaxploitation star Jim Kelly, granite-faced military veteran Chuck Norris and basketball player Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, all provided interesting, almost comedic combatants hinting at the bizarre rosters to come in titles like Street Fighter, Tekken and Fatal Fury.Legacy of LeeThere have, of course, been other semi-official tie-ins. The passable movie conversion, Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story; the terrible Xbox brawler, Bruce Lee: Quest for the Dragon; the decent Game Boy Advance side-scroller, Bruce Lee Return of the Legend. But none of these really explored the legacy, atmosphere and style of Lee&apos;s movies like the truly great fighting games. To 1970s audiences in the West, Bruce Lee symbolised the &apos;otherness&apos; of Asia and this is something the likes of Street Fighter, Soul Calibur and Tekken exploit and explore with their own characters, their own themes.Bruce Lee&apos;s addition to UFC is interesting because it paints the actor not as some cult chopsocky star, but as a serious proponent and originator of mixed martial arts. Lee&apos;s style took in everything from austere classical systems to street fighting – so of course he should be here, going up against athletes he no doubt inspired.Really, this shows how adaptable this pop culture legend is and how, like all true icons, Lee can be molded and re-interpreted to fit the tastes and concerns of each new generation.•Tekken over – Japan&apos;s gaming future• Guardian of the Bruce Lee legacy
The personal and financial details of thousands of Australians held by companies and government departments could be leaked after the discovery of a security flaw in a widely used encryption service.OpenSSL, which runs an encryption service used by millions of websites in Australia and across the world,urged customersto update their software after the weakness dubbed the “heartbleed bug” was found.A website has been createdthat explains the impact of the bug, which was discovered by Neel Mehta, from Google security. The site says usernames and passwords from instant message and email services could be compromised.“The heartbleed bug allows anyone on the internet to read the memory of the systems protected by the vulnerable versions of the OpenSSL software,” the website says.“This compromises the secret keys used to identify the service providers and to encrypt the traffic, the names and passwords of the users and the actual content.“This allows attackers to eavesdrop communications, steal data directly from the services and users and to impersonate services and users.”OpenSSL is used by several federal government departments to secure its sites.Guardian Australia contacted the departments of Immigration and Border Protection, Human Services and Health – all agencies that hold sensitive personal information – to ask whether they had been affected by the bug and what was being done to update software.A spokeswoman for the Department of Human Services said: “The Department of Human Services does not use OpenSSL for any of its internal systems.”“The department does provide software underpinned by OpenSSL to health professionals for secure communications with Medicare. However none of the versions of OpenSSL identified as being compromised are currently distributed by the department.&quot;The Department of Immigration and Border Protection and Department of Health did not respond by deadline.
Facebook&apos;s app has been identified as one of the main causes of battery life problems with Apple&apos;s iPhone.Two developers working separately have identified Facebook&apos;s repeated polling of its systems for new posts and data as a principal cause of battery drain. &quot;Disable Background App Refresh for Facebook or other apps you don&apos;t absolutely need to stay up-to-date all the time,&quot; saysScott Loveless, an ex-Apple Genius bar employee who says he routinely dealt with battery life complaints in that job.Apple’s iPhone has a relatively small battery with a capacity of 1,560 milliamp-hours (mAh), compared to other flagship smartphones which can have capacities of 2,600mAh. Short battery life has thus become a primary user complaint, prompting Apple toissue advice on battery careand a plethora of articles and tips on how to extend an iPhone’s battery life.Loveless found that the Facebook app will if allowed constantly use Apple’s location services and background app refresh – a feature that keeps apps up to date by periodically polling the internet for new data such as tweets or Facebook posts.Digging into processesUsing Apple’s developer tools for monitoring app activity, Loveless analysed Facebook’s iPhone app and found behaviour that explained the diminished battery life he was seeing on his iPhone 5S.“During testing, Facebook kept jumping up on the process list even though I wasn&apos;t using it. So I tried disabling Location Services and Background App Refresh for Facebook, and you&apos;ll never guess what happened: my battery percentage increased,” explained Loveless.“It jumped from 12% to 17%. Crazy. I&apos;ve never seen that happen before on an iPhone.&quot;The explanation for the apparent increase in charge, he says, is that the load on the CPU had dropped - meaning that the battery would now last longer.“I have confirmed this behaviour on multiple iPhones with the same result: percentage points actually increase after disabling these background functions of Facebook,” Loveless says.Not aloneSeparately, Sebastian Düvel, a German iOS app developer also discovered in November last yearthat Facebook persistently ran in the backgroundand drained an iPhone’s battery using the same developer tools as Loveless.He also identified background Facebook polling, especially by its Messenger function, to be a principal drain on resources. But he also noted in an update in March 2014 that turning off Background App Refresh cured the problem.The cause of the battery drain is unlikely to be a bug or flaw in programming, but rather collateral damage in app’s attempts to maintain a connection to Facebook’s servers. The social network introduced an instant messaging function with Facebook chat and Messenger, and later added voice calling over Wi-Fi for users in the US and select other regions, both of which need persistent or frequent connections to the internet.Facebook alsobought the text message replacement app WhatsApp for $19bnin February, which similarly requires an open internet connection to have messages pushed to the smartphone.For iPhone Facebook users, Loveless suggests turning off the location services and background refresh features for the Facebook app in the iOS settings application, which should prevent it from draining the iPhone’s battery while behaving normally in general use.He also suggestsleaving apps that have been used in memory rather than quitting them in the multitasking interfacedisabling push email temporarilydisabling &quot;annoying&quot; push notifications (because they wake the screen)simply ignoring the battery percentage (because checking it turns on the screen and uses power)having the phone checked at an Apple Storeswitching the phone to Airplane mode when in an area with poor phone receptionFacebook’s Android apps have also been frequently implicated in battery drain issues, with some going as far as suggesting thatditching the Android apps and using the mobile websiteis the most affective way of preventing battery issues.•Apps have become more popular than the open web on mobile phones
The European court of justice has declared the data retention directive illegal, torpedoing UK government schemes for the so-called &quot;snooper&apos;s charter&quot; of wide-ranging collection of phone and internet data.In a judgment delivered on Tuesday, the ECJ, Europe&apos;s highest court,declaredthat the directive is &quot;invalid&quot; because it &quot;interferes in a particularly serious manner with the fundamental rights to respect for private life and to the protection of personal data.&quot;The decision, following requests from the Irish and Austrian courts, is a blow to Theresa May&apos;s plans to push through a data retention scheme which would collect and store data from UK citizens&apos; internet and phone use for up to 12 months for later examination.Any criminal cases which rested on acquisition of data through the directive could also be called into question, because the court decided that &quot;the declaration of invalidity takes effect from the date on which the directive entered into force&quot; – that is, 2006.A Home Office spokesperson said: &quot;We are considering the judgment and its implications carefully. The retention of communications data is absolutely fundamental to ensure law enforcement have the powers they need to investigate crime, protect the public and ensure national security.”The ECJ said that it weighed the needs of law enforcement to be able to keep and access data, but judged that &quot;by adopting the Data Retention Principle, the EU legislature has exceeded the limits imposed by compliance with the principle of proportionality.&quot;The idea of a &quot;snooper&apos;s charter&quot; that would allow the government to order internet service providers and phone companies to collect and store data for up to two years has been a source of controversy within the UK&apos;s coalition government, with the deputy prime minister, Nick Clegg,telling the home secretary, Theresa May,in December 2012 that it was unworkable in.The pressure group Privacy International called the ECJ ruling &quot;strong and unequivocal&quot;, saying that &quot;the right to privacy provides a fundamental barrier between the individual and powerful institutions, and laws allowing for indiscriminate, blanket retention on this scale are completely unacceptable.&quot;As the court states, it is not, and never was, proportionate to spy on the entire population of Europe. The types of data retained under this hastily enacted directive are incredibly revealing about our lives, including our daily activities and whom we have relationships with. It is right and overdue that this terrible directive was struck down.&quot;European governments will now have to to draft new legislation on data scrutiny to help prevent serious crimes such as terrorism, while also narrowing the law&apos;s scope to conform with the verdict.&quot;Data retention for the purpose of investigating serious crimes is necessary and that remains the case,&quot; the German interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, told reporters after the ruling, urging quick agreement on more narrowly defined new legislation.Germany, the most populous of the EU&apos;s 28 nations, did not implement the directive amid court challenges and domestic political differences.The 2006 legislation required telecommunication firms to store phonecalls or online communication records for at least six months and up to two years. The data typically reveals who was involved in the communication, where it originated, when and how often but not its content.Still, the Luxembourg-based court ruled the legislation provided &quot;very precise information on private lives,&quot; including daily habits and social relationships that represented a &quot;particularly serious interference with fundamental rights&quot;.The Green European parliament lawmaker, Jan Philipp Albrecht, called the ruling &quot;a major victory for civil rights in Europe&quot; and insisted the data collection also &quot;totally failed to lead to any noticeable improvement in law enforcement.&quot;The EU court said also the legislation&apos;s failure to ensure the storage of communication data in the EU alone also represented a potential breach of privacy laws.James Welch, legal director for Liberty, said: &quot;Knowing the every detail of our communications creates an extremely intimate portrait of our lives. In this hugely welcome and significant judgment, the court criticised the blanket nature of the obligation to retain communications data and the lack of safeguards, particularly as to who can authorise access. Mass snooping of this type has no place in an internet-age democracy – our government must clean up its act.”
