As far as alternative music distribution channels go, it looks like music games are the new internet. Last autumn, Metallicahintedthat they would premiere the first single from their forthcoming album as a Rock Band download. Now, aging LA rockers Mötley Crüe have beaten them to it, announcing that their comeback track, Saints of Los Angeles, is to be immediately available on Xbox Live and will arrive in two days time on PlayStation Network. Rock Band owners (in the States, of course) can purchase the track for 99 cents and then play along with their heroes in EA's music game.Imagine the shambolic performances as talentless weirdos struggle to get to grips with even the most basic chords. But enough about the band, gamers should manage it quite easily.I'm here all week.
Aleks Krotoskiand regularsJemima KissandCharles Arthurare back in the pod with their latest digital wonderings. (Bobbie's been banned for a week for being on too many podcasts.)What's new: Peter McOwan of Queen Mary, University of London discusses new research into robot-supported living. We delve deeper into the aggressive tactics being deployed in the three-strikes-and-you're-out battle between the music industry and internet service providers.Plus, the latest news and your insights from our blogs. And who has made the coveted Comment Of The Week?·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives&#183;This article was amended on Tuesday March 24 2009 to correct the University at which Peter McOwan is a professor.
Thenewsthat Mario Kart Wii has hit the top of the UK sales chart is no surprise. MK is one of the few games that unites both core Nintendo fans and the new Wii demographic. I've been playing it over the last few days and erm, it's been fine. Multiplayer is as amusing as ever. But, to be honest I've been ever so slightly underwhelmed. And looking at theaverage review scoresit looks like I'm not the only one. Hardcore games mag Edge gave it a 6/10 while 8/10 is common across the main gaming sites. Sure, 8/10 or the equivalent is clearly a solid score, but the Mario Kart brand - sorry - has historically reviewed higher. So what's happened? Has there been some kind of gamer backlash?Look at thewheel peripheralincluded with the game. It's neat and cleverly designed, perfect for more casual gamers. But personally I've found it lacks the sensitivity and feeling of control that the old style pads had. Nintendo clearly realised this by offering numerous controller options - classic, gamecube etc - but have obviously designed the courses with the wheel in mind. The game just doesn't feel as challenging as older editions of the series.Is Mario Kart Wii the first of the classic Nintendo franchises to be dumbed down for the new broader gaming audience? Or am I just suffering a grumpy old gamer moment? Answers on a SNES controller to the usual address...
You'll havenoticed the claims of Psystarthat it will be selling an "OpenComputer" (smart, avoiding the use of the Apple trademark in the "OpenMac" name it previously used) that will, in effect, be an Apple clone.But we thought we'd look further, because if the company's going to make these big claims about what it can do, why, that's interesting; but what sort of company is behind it?The Psystar site talks a lot. OK. The site was registered in 2000, according towhois, but what's odd is that searches onGoogleand onLive.comdon't turn upanythingabout the company before this week. Zip. Zero. Nada.I called the Miami Chamber of Commerces and its Better Business Bureau. They've never heard of it.I called the company. The automated system asked if I want Sales? Support? Human Resources? Let's have a laugh and call HR. No reply. (This was 11.45am their time.) Did I want to leave a message?Press the pound key when done.I did. "Error."Call again - let's try Support this time. A man answers, doesn't give his name, and refers pretty much all questions to press@psystar.com. While he's on, why isn't there any reference to Psystar online before this week? "We're a small IT company, doing solutions anywhere from small office networks to enterprise-level networks." The company's latest product, he said, was a storage area network.OK, so who are the clients? Why no mention in any forums or press releases of the wonderful work Psystar has done for these small and large businesses? Most people are delighted, after all, to pump out words about what they've done. Butzerohits? "We were a local company with little to no presence on the web," he explained. Uh-huh. But the website has been around since 2000, andmoved hosts in 2005.He referred us again to the press email address. OK, did Psystar offer a 24-hour support line? (Eventhe teams in The Apprenticedo that. For your laundry, no less.) "No." Oh. Were there many people doing support for Psystar? "I'm not support." But I thought... "I'm just answering the phones." Oh.Sent an email to Psystar. No reply so far.And then we thought we'd look closer at the location they're in. And that's where things gotreallystrange.The address had changed completely.Earlier in the day, it was giving 10645 SW 112 St, Miami FL 33176. (Happily, I took a screenshot.)And now, while I'd been writing this post, it's moved - to 10481 NW 28th St, Miami, FL 33172.OK, that's got to be the weirdest thing I've ever seen in years of covering technology. The first address, on Google Maps, looks like youraverage row of suburban houses.The second - new! - one looksfar more office-y, or at least industrial.But you know what's most interesting? Apple's complete silence on this. It hasn't said a word. I suspect that it's waiting to see if anything emerges from this. It hasn't stopped the Mac world working itself into a lather, poring over EULAs and talking about EFIs; it's just nobody seems to have bothered to pick up a phone and call.But forgive me for being a bit sceptical, but isn't it far, far more important whether the company has been around, has a reputation, and is going to deliver a machine? Isn't it?(Updated to add link back to original post about OpenMac; slight grammar cleanup.)Wednesday update:Psystar hasmovedagain.
GameCamp is a communal exercise: EVERYBODY is encouraged to join in. That means you should be prepared to give a talk, take part in a discussion or run a session.Running a session doesn't mean you need to prepare a speech – the day is meant to be informal and fun – but you should have a reasonable grasp of the subjects you are interested in. This is a chance to try things out or test ideas, NOT just to run through the same presentation you've used before.In fact, some of the best presentations at BarCamps have avoided pitches altogether. Like 'How To Make A World-Class Martini (with tasting session)'. You might want to organise your session around the best Guitar Hero techniques, your top Open Source Game picks, or your latest theory on game design. We like people who are prepared to get stuck in, try new things and bring some fun to proceedings.However, since there are going to be more than 100 attendees and a maximum of 50 sessions during the day, there won't be enough time for everyone to lead a talk or run a discussion. But you can join in just by taking part in the conversation or helping out as a volunteer. We like that too.HOW SESSIONS WORKWe let you decide what the order of the day is: in the morning, once everyone has registered, you'll get a chance to add your session to The Grid – the editable conference schedule that's posted on a wall at the venue. This cacophony of blu-tac and sheets of A4 paper will list all the rooms and times that are available for the day, letting everyone see at a glance which sessions are coming up, and decide on the ones they're most interested in attending.There will be a series of half-hour sessions spread throughout the day, with a 15-minute break between sessions. We'll take a 45 minute break for lunch at about 1.30pm and bring everyone back together at the end of the day to wrap things up.WHAT DO I DO?If you find that you don't fancy attending any of the sessions at a given moment, don't despair. There's plenty of breakout space to talk to other Campers, as well as gaming areas and other things to do.If a session turns out not to be what you expected don't be afraid to say goodbye and find something else. With so much going on during the day, we don't want anybody to waste their time when they could be at another session they could give more to.Equally, if you're running a session and somebody leaves, don't take it personally. Remember, it's about quality, not quantity.
I've been collecting a list of stories about targeted advertising, ISPs, legislation and so on in my browser for some weeks now (which I'll dump at the end here), but the most interesting I've seen lately comes (via John Naughton) from Landon Fuller, whodiscoveredsomething interesting about the Meraki system, which providesfree wireless access throughout San Francisco, using the network name "Free The Net".However...I was surprised that Meraki is adding advertising to my web site (where's my cut?), but that's just the beginning. Meraki is sharing your location with every site you visit. To display their advertising, Meraki adds a small piece of JavaScript to every page...This will be familiar to Phorm-watchers, as that's how the company experimented withtracking in an (undisclosed) trial with BT in 2006.Fuller notes the dangers inherent in this:This is a new twist on the cross site scripting problem -- because Meraki's script is injected directly into the site that I'm visiting, a simple piece of javascript, added by the web page's author, can fish out your current location. In fact, I wrote a small piece of javascript to do just that.If you're browsing from a Meraki wireless access point, Where's Waldo will automatically redirect you to a Google Map of your location. Try it out. Once a page has your location, there's nothing to prevent your browser from sending the data somewhere else.Phorm's system is now focussing on cookies, of course, but this is an interesting demonstration that it's not alone in wanting to serve targeted ads.Far from it: let's have a roundup of targeted advertising fun from all over.A member of the New York assemblywants to make it a crimefor (certain) web companies to use personal information about you for advertising without your consent. In New York, anyway, but since this is the interweb, complying in NY would mean complying everywhere (in the US).Search engines should delete data after six months, even if not based in Europe,says EU privacy panelNY Times Bits blog:how should ISPs tell you if they want to track your surfing?(I've dropped the Map CapiTaliSatioN that American papers specialise in.) Mentions a company called NebuAd, which "started operation last fall" (= autumn) and "seems to be going out of its way to avoid being noticed by the users it monitors". The writer notes that "It's early, but so far Phorm appears to be more committed to openness than NebuAd." One to watch out for.
In this week's programme, we welcomePeter McOwanfrom Queen Margaret University in Edinburgh to discuss a new Europe-wide research initiative onthe future of robot-supported living.We also delve into the latest tactics being deployed in the three-strikes-and-you're-out battle between the music industry and internet service providers, hearing fromMatt Phillips, head of communications at the BPI.And we've got the latest news from the technosphere and your insights into what's been going on in the world (channeled via comments on our blogs).• Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme...•Join our Facebook group
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Three Scottish stories of interest today.The first arrived on my RSS doorstep yesterday -Games to be taught in Scottish Schoolsshouted the headline from MCV. The crux:Scottish schoolchildren are to be taught the basics of video game design as part of the country's new national curriculum ... the move is to designed to 'create the next generation of young programmers'.Hey, it worked forthe BBC with its Micro initiativein the early 1980s, and look at the thriving UK industry today.The second story landed inmy Twitter feedviaPDA's Jemima Kiss: Mike Butcher writes,Scotland confirmed as UK's gaming hub as Realtime Worlds pulls $50m:That's a lot for a games company. Admittedly Realtime has an exclusive partnership with Microsoft Game Studios and its first title, Crackdown for Xbox 360 in early 2007, sold about 1.4m copies. But the money looks likely to head towards it's online games development. Realtime Worlds already runs All Points Bulletin, a massively multiplayer online game. I can tell you right now, VCs are highly interested in that space.Money is pouring in north of the border - already home to theUniversity of Abertay at Dundee's flagship games courseand theDare to be Digitalgame design competition.So the third bit of news is actually a bit of a backhand plug. Jemima and I will be in Edinburgh to discuss these and other stories next Friday for a Scottish-based edition of The Guardian'sTech Weekly podcast(join the Facebook group!). We have a limited number of places for the Coffee Morning, so if you're interested in getting your penneth in,sign up for the event on Upcomingand come discuss.
Google's AppEngine launch had a lot of us squealing aboutlock inbut Portland-based developer Chris Anderson seems to have proved us wrong. He's launchedApp.com, which enables AppEngine applications to be run on Amazon's rival web services platform.It makes no claim to be a finished product, it's a proof-of-concept. On hisblog, he says:Host your App Engine applications on my new site, AppDrop.com, it's lotsa fun, and pretty much works. I didn't build it to scale, or for extra security - but it is open source, so if you are up for it, there are links to the GitHub projects from the App Drop homepage. It should be relatively straightforward to build your own App Engine host.A good report atWaxy.orghas links to "Anderson's Fug This application running onGoogle App Engineand the identical code running onEC2 at AppDrop".Another effort is theGoogle App Engine Elastic Server(beta).
Asus says that it will launch the Eee PC900 range in the UK on May 1, and clicking the image above will give you a good idea how it stacks up against the popular Eee PC 700. Asus says:ASUS Eee PC magic continues with its next generation dubbed ASUS Eee PC 900. It offers several stunning updates and improvements. The screen size grows from 7" to 8.9"; the RAM size grows from 512MB to 1GB, all supported with larger storage of up to 20GB. All the new models are Windows ready and come with a built in webcam (growing from 0.3m to 1.3m pixel), 4GB of SSD and a superb battery life of 3.5hrs. Finally, the weight stays below 1kg making it the ideal fusion of mobility and computing.Of course, the fact that there's an announcement doesn't mean there will lots of supply: that remains an unknown.So, do you reckon the 900 is worth the extra over the 700? And which version will sell best -- Windows XP or Linux -- bearing in mind that they are the same price?
br/&gt;The competition has been sponsored by the local housing association and Pinnacle Housing, which has contributed toward some modest prizes of HMV tokens for the 8-16 year-olds and £100 for the winner of the adult competition. A youth club worker has lent his projector, several police offers have donated consoles and TVs.So what's the idea behind the event? It's simple; games are seen as a great way of breaking down barriers between young people and the police."The area in Hackney that I work has suffered a disproportionately high volume of crime and anti-social behaviour," explains one of the organisers, community support officer Nunu Miah. "Our particular current concern is serious youth violence. We have made a concerted effort over the last six months to reduce this and most importantly engage with the local Youths. As you can probably imagine, this is paramount but is proving problematic. A lot of the kids join gangs, but they won't talk to us about it. We're hoping this is a way to open communications. We want to let them know we're here to help them."The officers have publicised the competition in person, approaching kids where they congregate, usually around the Gilpin Square shopping centre; they're expecting around 60-70 competitors in the younger age group and 35 in the over-16s band. If it's a success, there are plans to run a similar event in the nearby Kingsmead Estate, and then other areas across Hackney.Can videogames play a role in building stronger relations between the police and youngsters vulnerable to gang-related violence? It's a heartening thought - two demonised cultures, together in a positive story. I wonder if the Daily Mail are sending a reporter?
If you plan to give a talk, you will need to bring any props or gubbins with you. While there are facilities for slideshows, experience suggests that the less you rely on technology the better.There will be free wireless internet access on the day, but if you want to take advantage of it you'll have to bring your own laptop.We'll have consoles set up around the venue for impromptu gaming sessions, but you are more than welcome to bring your own titles, board games or RPGs. You need to look after them yourself, however: we cannot take any responsibility for damage to your property during GameCamp.Last of all: if you want an official GameCamp T-Shirt, we're running a Make Your Own scheme. Just bring along a top that fits and we'll help you turn it into a one-of-a-kind memento.
GameCamp is being put together by volunteers in their spare time, so they can always do with more help.Anyone who turns up early will be expected to chip in and help set things up.If you stick around for a bit at the end of the day to help us clear up, we'd love you forever.And along the way if you find any opportunity to help the day go more smoothly – pointing people in the right direction, clearing up, helping out – please take it.
Fictional robots always have a personality: Marvin was paranoid, C-3PO was fussy and HAL 9000 was murderous. But reality is disappointingly different. Sophisticated enough to assemble cars and assist during complex surgery, modern robots are dumb automatons, incapable of striking up relationships with their human operators.But that could soon change. Engineers argue that, as robots begin to form a bigger part of society, the new machines will need a way to interact with humans. In short, they will need artificial personalities.This week, engineers, psychologists and computer scientists from across Europe will begin a major project that aims to develop the first robot personalities."What we're looking at here is long-term interactions between people and robots in real situations," said Peter McOwan of Queen Mary, University of London, coordinator of the &pound;6.6m, EU-funded Lirec project. "The big question is: what sort of properties does a synthetic companion need to have so that you feel you want to engage in a relationship with it over an extended period of time?"Lirec - Living with Robots and Interactive Companions - consists of 10 university partners from seven countries that will run for just over four years.Phones and computers have shown how people can develop relationships with inanimate electronic objects. The next generation of digital servants will deepen these relationships.In future McOwan imagines robots as helpers around the house, acting as companions or integrating with the web to order groceries online. "We're also looking at support for the elderly," he said."One of the projects is the 'spirit of the house', where there's an entity monitoring to make sure no one's fallen over, that they've taken their pills."Giving the "spirit of the house" a human-like persona, by using sophisticated programs that can learn their users' preferences, would make it more trustworthy for people interacting with it. "You are interacting with a digital entity that is far more naturalistic than sitting with a keyboard and a mouse," he said.Kerstin Dautenhahn, a professor of artificial intelligence at the University of Hertfordshire, has developed Kaspar, a robot in the shape of a two-year-old boy, which can make facial expressions and play games such as peek-a-boo.Dautenhahn has also set up a flat in Hatfield, where a home-help robot interacts with volunteers, to study longer-term relationships between people and machines. Research has found that the look of a robot should depend on the person it is mostly interacting with. "People who are more extroverted say they enjoy interacting with a humanoid robot," said Dautenhahn. "People who are more introverted are more comfortable with a more mechanical robot."McOwan is confident people will be willing to form relationships with the robots. "We anthropomorphise all over the place when it comes to interacting with computers - they're either spiteful or friendly or whatever."The key will be to replicate the verbal and non-verbal cues people use to communicate. "What we hope to do is produce something within which you feel there is something you're bonding with."Dream machines1495Leonardo da Vinci has the idea of a "mechanical knight".1738French inventor Jacques de Vaucanson builds a mechanical duck.1921The word "robot" coined by Czech artist Josef Capek, from the Czech word for "compulsory labour".1950sUnimation introduces first commercial robots (for car factories).1969Victor Scheinman, a Stanford AI lab student, creates the Stanford Arm, a predecessor of all robot arms.1998The Furby robot is a bestseller.1999Sony releases its AIBO robot pet.2000Honda introduces its humanoid Asimo robot.2003Nasa launches robotic Mars explorers, Spirit and Opportunity.
They are as much a part of the national landscape as the London Routemaster bus or Gilbert Scott's red telephone box, but this year the last of the classic black FX4 "Fairway" taxi cabs could be erased from our streets. Mann & Overton, the main dealership for the modern replacement, the TX4, is offering FX4 operators up to &pound;3,000 - 10 times the market value of their old cab - if they trade it in for a new TX4.Sadly, for those of us who would like to emulate Kate Moss - she has been spotted behind the wheel of her own Fairway - this generous offer does not mean there will be a healthy supply of cheap classic cabs to snaffle up: M&O; say, with chilling finality, that they will "scrap ... all the old Fairways we take in under this amazing deal".The classic cab was launched under the Austin badge exactly 50 years ago and 42,000 units were produced over a 39-year period. It survived the ructions of the British Leyland years to become the Carbodies FX4 when the firm that had made the bodywork took over responsibility for the entire design.Famed for its unmistakable engine rattle and nifty 25ft turning circle, the FX4s were designed specifically to comply with transport regulations in London but ended up being driven in cities throughout Britain. They have gradually been made safer, comfier and faster (the first ones would only do 60mph; not much good for the M4 Heathrow run) and, compared with the Noddy-car looks of the new TX series, there is a undeniable nobility about the FX4.Black cabs have always been available to private buyers who wanted a bit of anonymity, and the right to drive in taxi lanes. Sid James, Sir Laurence Olivier, Stanley Kubrick and the Duke of Edinburgh drove their own personal cabs long before Moss was outed as an FX4 enthusiast.Stephen Fry drove a black cab to avoid paying parking tickets. Bez of the Happy Mondays used the money he earned on Big Brother to have a condemned FX4 "pimped" and fitted with a V8 engine. Arnold Schwarzenegger shipped one out to California, and the eccentric millionaire Nubar Gulbenkian had one converted to look like a Victorian hansom cab, complete with carriage lamps.You can find decommissioned FX4 taxi cabs on eBay and elsewhere for &pound;500. Just like the ones Mann & Overton will be so heartlessly crushing, they have plenty of life left in them. It seems wasteful, but M&O; say reducing emissions and providing "an improved taxi service fit for the 21st century" are the motivations behind this generous offer. Shifting a few more shiny new &pound;31,000 TX4s won't go amiss either.&#183;This article was amended on Monday April 14 2008.
During 2007, the following websites ranked #1 by visits among all United Kingdom websites in their respective categories, saysHitwise:Automotive - Classifiedswww.autotrader.co.ukAutomotive - Dealershipswww.carcraft.co.ukAutomotive - Manufacturerswww.bmw.co.ukAviation - Commercial Airlineswww.easyjet.comCommunity - Humanitarianwww.raceforlifesponsorme.orgComputers and Internet - Electronicswww.sony.co.ukComputers and Internet - Hardwarewww.euro.dell.comComputers and Internet - Social Networking and Forumswww.bebo.comEntertainment - Artswww.tate.org.ukEntertainment - Movieswww.odeon.co.ukEntertainment - Photographywww.pixmania.co.ukFood and Beverage - Lifestyle and Referencewww.bbc.co.uk/foodFood and Beverage - Restaurants and Cateringwww.beerintheevening.comGovernment - Centralwww.metoffice.gov.ukHealth and Medical - Health Insurancewww.norwichunion.comMusic - Companieswww.sonybmg.co.ukNews and Media - Printwww.telegraph.co.ukSports - Footballwww.liverpoolfc.tvBusiness and Finance- Banks and Financial Institutionswww.lloydstsb.com- Business Directoriesmaps.google.co.uk- Business Informationwww.moneysavingexpert.com- Employment and Trainingwww.jobcentreplus.gov.uk- Insurancewww.moneysupermarket.com- Propertywww.rightmove.co.uk- Stocks and Sharesuk.finance.yahoo.com- Telecommunicationswww.bt.com- Utilitieswww.uswitch.comLifestyle- Beautywww.avon.uk.com- Datingwww.gaydar.co.uk- Familywww.genesreunited.co.uk- Weddingswww.hitched.co.uk- Womens Siteswww.handbag.comShopping and Classifieds- Apparel and Accessorieswww.next.co.uk- Appliances and Electronicswww.currys.co.uk- Automotivewww.ebaymotors.co.uk- Bookswww.whsmith.co.uk- Computerswww.euro.dell.com- Department Storeswww.amazon.co.uk- Flowers and Giftswww.iwantoneofthose.com- Grocery and Alcoholwww.tesco.com/grocery- Health and Beautywww.boots.com- House and Gardenwww.diy.com- Intimate Apparel and Accessorieswww.annsummers.co.uk- Musicplay.com- Rewards and Directorieswww.kelkoo.co.uk- Sport and Fitnesswww.halfords.com- Ticketingwww.ticketmaster.co.uk- Toys and Hobbieswww.toysrus.co.uk- Video and Gamesplay.comTravel- Agencieswww.expedia.co.uk- Cruiseswww.pocruises.com- Destinations and Accommodationwww.laterooms.co.uk- Mapswww.multimap.com- Transportwww.easyjet.comDespite the success of Amazon, Expedia, Play.com etc, the idea that the web would bring in new online players to replace the old faithfuls (Boots, Tesco, WH Smith etc) doesn't seem to have been realised. Otherwise, any surprises?
I've spent the weekend playing what I predict will be the biggest selling game this year. No, not GTA IV - though clearly that will sell millions - butWii Fit. Nintendo's fitness board add-on to the Wii hits that sweet spot between gaming and self-improvement that Brain Training hit so successfully on the DS. But is it worth 70 quid and will it make you "fit"?Beforehand my concerns were all about the board itself. If Wii Fit had any aspirations to be more than just a toy then Nintendo had to get this right. Within seconds of opening the box it's clear that they have. The Wii Fit board is weighty, sturdy and quite wide (reminiscent of large bathroom scales). Assuming you are 23 stone or under then you can use the Fit. The board works by measuring pressure from the soles of your feet, which allows it to gauge your position and weight. It is remarkably sensitive, picking up small shifts in balance very effectively.Socks off - lycra pants optional - and you're away. First up you choose your Mii - you have created one right? - and then stand still as the board tells you your weight and Body Mass Index. Once you've got over the shock/relief you get to set a target - lose 5 pounds in a month etc - and then you're free to go. Much like the Brain Training games you get a chance to do a daily test to measure your Wii Fit age. My "age" is 40 at the moment - I'm actually 34 - but I'm blaming the fact that the tests so far have all been based on balance rather than strength or cardio. Plus it takes a while to get used to the board, and I had a couple of pints the night before and... yes, Wii Fit makes it much harder to get your usual excuses in.The test is fine but the freeplay training section is where you will spend most of the time. Here you can choose between strength, cardio, balance and yoga events and work out for as long as you want. I'm half-marathon fit and pretty active but clearly not very flexible. Press-ups and lunges were fine, holding the warrior pose was much harder. So for me the yoga and balance areas were really beneficial. Luckily the combination of on-screen instructor and board make most of the workouts enjoyable/doable/tolerable (delete where applicable). The only occasional niggle involved events such as press-ups and stomach crunches - the latter done with your foot on the pad - that take your eyes away from the screen. For these events a handy whistle marks when to start and stop the rep, but it will take practice to properly co-ordinate.The cardio events are a bit more of a mixed big. Hula Hoop - stand on the mat and wiggle those hips - is easy to play and perfect for parties. Ski-jump - bend knees, lift heels - is more fiddly but amusing enough. Jogging though is a disappointment. Taking place off the board, jogging has players running on the spot with the wiimote in hand or pocket. Initially this seems fine, with nice touches such as other Mii's jogging alongside and giving encouragement. But the controller sometime fails to pick up speed variances - cheating is easy here, although why would you bother? - and this is one of the few events I've tried so far that feels a bit gimmicky.What else? Potentially sensitive weight and BMI data can be password protected - ideal if you want to dig the game out with your friends and hide your vital statistics. Players can also choose a male or female instructor to motivate them through the exercises.Of course, the fitness stuff is only one part of the Wii Fit package - Nintendo have included plenty of more traditional games in the package. Most involve balance - guiding your Mii across a tightrope - while the slalom event sees you veering your body side to side down the virtual slope. The football heading game is the easiest to pick up and play and points at a potential future for new standalone games that use the Wii Fit board. Most traditional gamers will be better off waiting for these titles to appear but Wii Fit is not just for the gym bunnies.Only a few days in then but I'm enjoying Wii Fit so far. Clearly you shouldn't ditch that gym membership just yet - the cardio events are the game's weak point. But as a well made fitness tool with some entertaining minigames Wii Fit is hard to beat. Tempted then? Or is GTA IV the next big game in your life?
null
Nobody has time to listen to all the music that is released, so there are publications that filter the flood before it reaches the mainstream. At one time, New Musical Express and Rolling Stone magazine defined what was cool. Today, it'sPitchfork.Like earlier taste-setters, Pitchfork operates in the grey area where bands appeal to more than the few thousand fans of specialist sites, but haven't been picked up by MTV and other purveyors of commodity musical experiences. The current buzz is around albums such as Visiter (Dodos), Street Horrrsing (Fuck Buttons), Hercules and Love Affair, and Vampire Weekend. It's not Britney Spears, R.E.M. or the Foo Fighters, and the site hasn't even reviewed Linkin Park's albums. Pitchfork is more about what might take off tomorrow than yesterday's news.Which is not to say Pitchfork discriminates against popular beat combos. For example, Lily Allen got a sympathetic review ("Alright, Stillisn't anything else but a fantastic success") and a score of 8.3 out of 10. Even Justin Timberlake's noxiousFutureSex/LoveSounds("revelling in melodramatic gestures is among the album's attractions; even the handful of glutinous ballads are admirable for their lack of restraint or proportion") was rated an impressive 8.1.However, some acts have achieved fame for scoring 0.0, including Kiss, Sonic Youth, The Flaming Lips and Travis Morrison. And that's not the worst. Wikipedia notes that for Australian band Jet's second album,Shine On, "Pitchfork Media posted a totally anomalous review containing only a video clip of a chimpanzee urinating in its own mouth". So it goes.Five a dayPitchfork was founded as an online fanzine by 19-year-old Ryan Schreiber in 1995, and started daily updates the following year. It has grown organically to the point where it now publishes about five album reviews a day (written by a handful of staff plus freelance reviewers), news stories and interviews. Last month it startedPitchfork.tvas a channel for videos, Pitchfork Live performances, and its own interviews and reports. It is also involved in music festivals.Schreiber is now in his 30s, and his taste has become broader. This has helped bring in new readers, and according to Alexa.com, the site now has around 300,000 visitors a day. Many people must come across it — as I did — through its popular lists. These include the Top 50 Albums of 2007 (and earlier years), The 200 Greatest Songs of the 1960s, 100 Awesome Music Videos, and the 20 Worst Album Covers of 2007. It's now doing reader polls as well.Today, Pitchfork is more polished, more professional and more responsible than it used to be, and deservedly more popular. It is even making money. But it's also less idiosyncratic and has lost some of the roughness that helped give it a cutting edge. The same kind of thing happens to indie bands when they hit the mainstream.Whether Pitchfork will turn into a rich dinosaur like Rolling Stone remains to be seen, but it looks like staying sharp for at least a few more years.
Psystar is offering anOpenMacmade of standard PC parts on its Web site for $399.99 -- and it's claimed to run the latest version of Mac OS X. Indeed, it says:If you purchase Leopard with your OpenMac we will not only include the actual Leopard retail package with genuine installation disc, but we also include a Psystar restore disc for your OpenMac and we will preinstall Leopard for free so you can begin to use your computer right out of the box.According tothe blurb:With the OpenMac you can run OS X natively as if you had purchased an expensive Apple computer except that, while paying less, you receive more. Apple's entry-level computer, the Mac Mini, is a small and not very powerful machine. When comparing base configurations, the Mac Mini costs 150% of the price of the OpenMac while offering poorer performance, smaller storage space, and RAM. Not only that but the Mac Mini doesn't have the option for an nVidia GeForce 8600 video card like the OpenMac does so playing games on it is a lost cause.MacRumours.com says"the technology appears to be derived from theosx86project" and suggests that this "will certainly draw the attention of Apple. The use of Leopard on non Apple-branded hardware is a violation of its End User License Agreement (EULA) and is specifically prohibited."Obviously the barrier to running Mac OS on cheap hardware has fallen as Apple has moved away from the original Mac design to adopt Windows PC industry standards. In the 1980s, Apple managed to block the use of Mac ROM chips to run Mac software on cheaper but faster Motorola 680x0-based Atari and Amiga computers, and after Steve Jobs regained control of Apple in the 1990s, he shut down official cloners like Power Computing because they offered cheaper, better Macs than Apple. Apple also failed to deliver on a project it had agreed with IBM and Motorola to produce standard hardware under theCHRP(Common Hardware Reference Platform), that would run Mac OS on machines from all three.After decades of ducking and blocking, it seems somewhat unlikely that Apple will now allow competition on its proprietary platform. But it will be interesting to see how it reacts.Charles Arthur adds:in an update, I'vetried to find out more about Psystar, which seems peculiarly elusive (or mobile). And fixed the spelling here to be consistent: it's Psystar.
NewspapersNormally I use the internet to read the news, but at the weekend I buy the Sunday Times, which enables you to catch up with what's been going on in the week. I'm a huge fan of Top Gear and love the column that's written by the Clarkson guy. I also read the London free papers, though they seem to concentrate more on celebrity gossip and that's not really my thing.MagazinesI read industry magazines, such as Broadcast, Variety and Screen International. Also, as I used to be a musician, I buy some of the magazines relating to electronic music production, like Computer Music. I buy Mojo and Billboard, too, from time to time.BooksI'm a huge fan of two British writers. The first is Mike Gayle, I'm just finishing his Wish You Were Here. It's about a guy who goes on holiday with a friend having just broken up with a girl. The other writer I really like is Nick Hornby and, especially his novel High Fidelity, which is also one of my favourite films. When you're a teenager there are hundreds of books written for you but when you get to your late 20s/early 30s there really aren't that many, particularly if you happen to be a man, so I like writers such as Mike Gayle and Nick Hornby because I identify with their characters.TVI love Top Gear, of course, which is one of the greatest shows in the world. I mean, how can you have a programme about cars - a subject that must have been dealt with in every country in the world - and manage to make it interesting? I also like some of the American imports, such as CSI, although I've watched so many episodes over the past year that I'm starting to become a bit fed up with it. And I'm really enjoying Dirty Sexy Money and The Sarah Connor Chronicles. In terms of British programmes, I'd never heard of Gordon Ramsay before I moved here but I've watched a few of his shows. If you watched too many, though, I'm sure you'd get bored because it's pretty much the same programme every time, but he's a funny character.RadioTo be honest with you, I don't really listen to the radio. Normally I use the website Last.fm to listen to music depending on my mood, whether that is soul, rock or indie. And when I'm not using Last.fm, I'll go to iTunes radio and pick one of the stations.AdsI try to avoid them. The television I watch is pre-recorded so when there's a break I just fast-forward. My major exposure to ads is at the cinema and the ones that warn you about talking over the phone when you're driving are really, really strong. The ad that starts with a child leaning against a tree is horrible - but not in a bad way. It's very touching. The other one that's very good, I think, has a split screen with a man talking to his wife - and then he has a crash. You can't be indifferent to an ad like that. In Portugal adverts don't tend to be so hard-hitting and explicit.New mediaI like Yahoo a lot, as well as Google. Recently, too, I've begun to use Wikipedia. I'm not a big fan - there is no verification for the information, of course - but I tend to end up there. I also like imdb.com and Variety's website.&#183;Nuno Bernardo is the creator of Bebo's online drama Sofia's Diary&#183;This article was amended on April 17 2008. Nuno Bernardo is the author of Sofia's Diary, not Sofia's Party as we mistakenly stated. This has been corrected.
We don't have room inprintfor all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. This week people were worked up about XBoxes and (inevitably?) Phorm. More on the clickthrough..TIM WHISKERSThank you for publishing the article on Tin Whiskers. This is something the public needs to understand. Too much attention has been given to well meaning people who are pushing the environmental agenda politically but with very little science behind what they are trying achieve. Almost all the lead used in industry is used in car batteries and there are good recycling programs for that lead. We now have programs to recycle electronics such as cell phones and that is a very good step forward,and should be the way we handle the lead problem. However some of the green community captured the public attention and pushed through the no lead on electronics, when there was not sufficient test data available (actually there was a lot of data on US Military aircraft) . Now we are finding the problems of having a political agenda and not one based on science and facts. One small problem the no lead people have not address is the increased amount of energy used to process the electronic parts that use no lead. All the processing ovens in the world have had to be changed out or modified so they can run 60 deg C higher. While this might not sound a lot, just think of thousands of ovens running 24 hours a day consuming electricity, which is probably generated by coal. So to get the lead out of electronics we burn millions of Kilograms of coal, that pollutes our skies. Steven J. Adamson, President IMAPS, Market Manager, Asymtek&gt;&gt; Amazing how doing the right thing can turn out to have a downside.skuds.orgNEUROMARKETING&gt;&gt; Budweiser doesn't make me more popular with the ladies, nor the life of the party (unless the lady is a urinal, and the party is the hopping mens room culture). Car X doesn't make me a sexy, rich, race car driver. Nikes and Gatorade don't make me any less of a nonathletic geek. And the last time I drank a liquor that was advertised I didn't get suave, unless suave really means rowdy, sweaty, and hitting on fat chicks. Advertising usually goes for cheap psychological gimmicks, rather than actually explaining why Pepsi is better than Coke, or telling me why a crappy plastic mop is better than the one I own. In short, they lie. Advertising is just manipulation, and I, for one, do not like to be manipulated.science.slashdot.org&gt;&gt; It's an interesting study, but it doesn't really help marketers. Not least because it's a lab task, and no money was involved, but also because the benchmark to which brain activity was compared was what people said they'd buy. In other words, the 'gold standard' to which the other evidence was compared in this study, was simply asking people what they'd buy - no different to what traditional market research already does.mindhacks.com/blogXBOX&gt;&gt; There's no doubt that Microsoft intends on backing digital distribution, and has done so for quite some time. But with the way he suggests that disc formats will be looked at as being so irrelevant within the next 18 months, why did Microsoft ever bother with HD DVD? So we could all have a worthless add on once digital distribution becomes the blatantly obvious platform of choice.filefront.com&gt;&gt; That little HD DVD experiment was pricey! But when you are Microsoft, what are trivial things like money? Nothing! Just look how smug Xbox 360 UK boss Neil Thompson is. Think the death of HD-DVD keeps him up at night? No way. This guy sleeps like a baby. No, he sleeps like two babies.kotaku.com&gt;&gt; Fine, sir. Thanks. Game Guy's glad your heart is in the right place. Now, how about Microsoft's quality control? Game Guy's on his fourth XBox 360. The previous three died leaving a red ring of death to mark their passing. But he's among the lucky ones; some heavy-duty Xbox users have casualty lists reaching into double digits. In the time Game Guy has gone through four Xboxes, he has had one Sony PlayStation 3, one Nintendo Wii. And now, with Mr. Thompson offering only apologies, Game Guy has one more good reason to avoid Xbox.stltoday.com/blogzone&gt;&gt; I will agree that online distribution is the future, but it's a future that's ten years distant.hornymelon.comCRITICISING PHORM AND APPLEA good piece, but perhaps you've still missed the point that Phorm can't do very much about their bad PR because Phorm is an inherently bad idea. If I meet someone who wants to mug me on a darkened street one night, then having him explain beforehand exactly how he proposes to mug me isn't going to make me one whit happier about the idea. And so it is with Phorm. While we might not know the exact technical details, I think it's undeniably clear that they propose to look over my shoulder at every web page I read. Even if (thankfully) they can't read the https ones. But what if I didn't mind this, and gave my consent as a customer for them to do this? That still leaves the other end of the connection - those website providers whose carefully crafted pages I have chosen to visit. And because I have chosen to visit them, those pages will be data-raped by Phorm for keywords. Just so that Phorm's advertisers, whose sites probably compete with the one I visited, but aren't attractive enough, or high profile enough, can have another way to try to reach me. If you had invested time, effort and care in building a good website, only to have that happen without your permission, and possibly even without your knowledge, how would that make you feel? Not good, I know. Now, the Guardian, in a most praiseworthy way, have decided you want none of this. Kudos to you. Bur apart from The Guardian, what happened to our major institutions eschewing things that were merely immoral? Let alone caring that Phorm is probably illegal; do I detect the shade of Richard Nixon here? Roy Brown, LondonI applaud the Guardian Group's decision to have nothing to do with traffic intercept technology. This system is a direct intrusion into customer's privacy and, if allowed, will totally alter the direction in which the internet develops. It raises so many questions on a most basic level about who decides what users see or where they might go on the net. As a Virgin Media and a TalkTalk customer I am concerned. Simon Atyeo, London&gt;&gt; In a move reminiscent of Pontius Pilot, TalkTalk are playing the "we're just the conduit card and the security of your digital property is nothing to do with us" card. Okay, well I can sort of accept that especially since the music industry doesn't seem to be coughing up the requisite greenbacks to fund an army of net-watches. And yet here we have BT spying on all of our browsing habits in order to target us with specific advertising. That's the same bloody thing isn't it? Oh now I see what I missed - one of them costs money and the other one makes it.pickled-hedgehog.com&gt;&gt; Bummer. I kinda like BT.blog.joeandrieu.comSONOS POINTSComparing US and UK/EU prices is always a complicated matter and never straightforward. The real alternative to the Sonos that will leave pennies in your pocket is theSqueezebox Duet. And the amount of power that the Sonos consumes in standby isabout 5 watts. Otherwise a fair article. Alasdair Wilkie, WokinghamI would be very interested to see a review of the competingLogitech Duet- cheaper and does much of the same stuff - but is it any good? John Davies, London [We'll try to get one - Tech. Ed]VIRTUAL SPORTS&gt;&gt; Of course, the other view is that these gamers should be out playing real sport and developing real team spirit. But given 2012 is just around the corner, and the host nation is permitted to introduce a new sport, perhaps this is a chance for Britain to dominate in something other than rowing.mccann.co.ukCELLUON LASERYour review of the Celluon laser keyboard (March 20th) was good but could have mentioned two useful extra points. 1. It doesn't currently work with the PlayStation3, which is a real shame. The PS3 occasionally cries out for a keyboard - eg when surfing on the browser - but you don't really want a big keyboard sitting in your living room on the coffee table, so a laser keyboard would have been ideal for occasional use. 2. BlackBerry users need to check before purchase their settings to see if Bluetooth devices are allowed [to do] keystroke injection. (Settings/advanced options/applications then edit default permissions option on any programme listed. Expand the interactions list, then check that keystroke injection is enabled.) Mine wasn't, my work IT couldn't be bothered to enable it (too much hassle, they said). I know have a lovely looking laser keyboard which works neither with my PS3 nor my BlackBerry. Such is the curse of the early adopter occasionally. Jim Frayling, London
Using MapCruncher to put a seating plan onto the Microsoft Live Maps view of theNew York Giant's stadiumMicrosoft'sVirtual Earth blogjust announced some nice new features for its online mapping products -- and got a load of complaints from UK users, who have been summarily downgraded to theMultimap offering that Microsoft bought in December.A comment fromOzsays:I gave up using Multimap when Google Maps came along because it was so outdated. Then when Windows Live Local turned up I switched to that as it blew everything else away and linked in with all my other Live applications as well. Now, out of nowhere, Microsoft have gone and linked up with Multimap in a huge backward step. Unfortunately this step will mean people pay no attention to all the great improvements which have just been implemnted at the same time. When you get redirected to Multimap there is no help whatsoever for Live Local users - I can't even find the collections I've spent months setting up.UK users can continue to us Live Maps by pretending to be Americans (http://maps.live.com/?mkt=en-us), but this breaks all the existing UK links.AsJimberlainpoints out:Working for an IT dept in a school, I had recently put all the teachers onto live maps, taking most of them away from Google earth. Live maps had better coverage of our local area, and displayed nicely on the interactive whiteboards we have... Every laptop and computer has got a bookmark to the live maps service, and thanks to the idiot who made this decision it looks as if i'm going to have a busy morning on Monday explaining to the geography department why it doesn't work any more.Steve Goodman's advice is to "BRING IT BACK!!!!!!!":If you don't, you may as well just redirect UK users to Google Maps, as that's what they will type into their browsers ten seconds later when they see what you've done!Monday morning update: Microsoft has already listened and acted to restore Live Maps...
Many people wondered why HP used a Via chip in the subnotebook we used to call theCompaq 2133but now know as the HP Mini, especially as Intel was on the point of launching its tiny Atom system. Well, it was the pragmatic choice at the time, as CNet'sCraveblog reports:The Via C7-M offered what HP needed now, according to Robert Baker, a notebook product marketing manager for HP. "Via gave us that right mix of performance and price for the type of environment that this product is going into -- content consumption."And HP would have missed some of the key education market if it had waited:"The other key thing was we were designing for education. We had to bring the product to the market now. A slip of a month kills you," he said. Educators need to get their hands on units "so they can make decisions for purchases they'll roll out during the summer when they're doing the vast majority of their purchases."HP will, however, consider other processors such as the Atom when it's time to refresh the lineup. "There will be an interim refresh about six months in. If the Atom is the right processor, that's what we'll go with. We'll look at everything in the market at that time," he said. Via is slated to bring out a higher-performance "Isaiah" processor in the June time frame. HP will also look at that, he said.It will be interesting to see how Isaiah stacks up for performance, of course. But customers are much more familiar with Intel'sbranding.
"Eriksson, a researcher at the Swedish security firm Bitsec, uses reverse-engineering tools to find remotely exploitable security holes in hacking software. In particular, he targets the client-side applications intruders use to control Trojan horses from afar, finding vulnerabilities that would let him upload his own rogue software to intruders' machines," saysWired's blog.Eriksson talked about the idea at last week's RSA security conference.
There are no more tickets left for GameCamp.If you weren't able to get a ticket, then we're sorry. But please don't turn up on the day — we can't accommodate any more people, honest. Still, don't despair: if our first GameCamp is a success, there will definitely be more in the future.
City Cyclopscitycyclops.comIn Truth Serum - the brilliant weekly comic strip thats hosted on this website - the stars are about as far from traditional superheroes as it is possible to get. Here, the crime-fighting residents of the fictional town of Manchester wear soiled, ill-fitting costumes and have character flaws and afflictions rather than super powers. One hero, The Wet Nurse, suffers from severely lactating manboobs; another, The Defensestrator, refuses to leave his living room and can only attack enemies by throwing objects out of his window should they happen to pass by.The villains are equally feckless; the special powers of one are rooting through bins and sucking tobacco from cigarettes.The humour, meanwhile, is dark, twisted and very funny.Hooked on houseshookedonhouses.wordpress.comSeveral days after Heath Ledger died, the New York apartment he rented for $23,000 (&pound;11,500) a month was back on the market for an extra $2,000. Pictures of a vacant loft in the same building appeared on many websites including this American blog, which admits to finding it a bit ghoulish. Still, readers' kitchen makeovers aside, this site serves as an excellent, nosy guide to the homes of the rich and famous. Interiors include Michael J Fox's new pile, Eddie Murphy's preposterously large mansion and Dolly Parton's ridiculously tiny childhood shack. There's also a guide to where the US election candidates live and a regular celebrity homes quiz. Plus, should you want to get the stainless steel look on a tight budget, this is the place.Blog Roll: The ApprenticeUnreality TVunrealitytv.co.ukGossip on this year's contestants plus YouTubery of their latest cock-up.Nick de Lacy-Browndelacy-brown.comThe first candidate to be fired in series four is also a pleasantly disturbing artist.Celebrity Apprenticenbc.com/the_Celebrity_apprenticeClips from the American celeb show starring Lennox Lewis, Gene Simmons and some bloke called Piers Morgan.Paul Torrisipaulfans.netNever too shy to blow his own trumpet, the property tycoon from series one has made a gangster movie. Step aside De Niro.Ruth Badgerruthbadger.comSeries two's Badger lady is now the superserious CEO of a consultancy helping businesses increase their profitability and all that.Ansell Henryansellhenry.co.ukHe could have played football for Millwall if it wasn't for his knees, you know, but then he wouldn't have met Alan Sugar.
Here's part two of my occasionally random selection of the best videogames ever, picking up from where we left off last week, in chronological order...Road Rash(1991, EA)Road Rash was a Mega Drive motorbikin' game with a twist: you could swerve across the road to punch the other riders in the head, simply because you didn't like them. All your opponents had irritating names, which made developing pointless vendettas a breeze. Few things in life have satisfied me as much as repeatedly smacking preppy, clean-cut Biff in the face until he hurtled into an oncoming taxi at 100mph.Doom(1993, id software)The king of all first-person shooters. Doom represented a huge technological leap forward, with graphics and multiplayer gameplay options that were way ahead of their time. But, most of all, Doom was scary. Really bloody scary. Flickering lights, horrifying monsters, pitch-black rooms and blood-curdling sound design. The snarling, bull-like "pinky" beasts that galloped over and bit your face off without warning are the most unsettling enemy in videogame history.UFO: Enemy Unknown(1993, Microprose)It runs on the PC. It's a turn-based strategy game. It's got a "suburban alien invasion" vibe straight out of the X-Files. Bored already? Your own yawning mouth is lying to you. UFO (also known as X-COM) was one of the creepiest, most addictive and absorbing games of the 90s. Today, turn-based games are out of favour and UFO itself is a forgotten relic - a shame, because if it was released next week on Nintendo DS, it would be a bestseller. Someone needs to resurrect it.Tekken 2(1996, Namco)In 1996 I spent weeks sitting hunched over a PlayStation controller in my living room, fighting flatmates and friends in an uninterrupted Tekken trance. It's a hypnotic orgy of violence in which martial artists, thugs, robots, wrestlers and pandas knock 10 bells out of each other for no good reason; cue punches, kicks and harrowing acts of cartilage-grinding chiropractic violence that almost made you pity your opponent. Wonderful.The Grand Theft Auto series(1997-2008, DMA/Rockstar)Controversial series of "sandbox" games that gift the player an entire city in which to misbehave. It began in 1997 as a cheeky mayhem simulator with a top-down, 2D viewpoint and a ZX Spectrum vibe. In 2001, it graduated to 3D and became an unstoppable blockbuster. The sun-kissed San Andreas is my favourite GTA, at least until the next-gen GTA IV arrives in a few weeks. Few Brits realise these games are made in Scotland: we should be far prouder of this stuff than we are.The Orange Box(2007, Valve)Must-have compilation containing both Half-Life 2 (the best first-person shooter since Doom) and Portal (one of the most inventive brain-ticklers ever conceived). Playing Half-Life 2 is a bit like starring in a sci-fi horror remake of Die Hard, but better, while Portal is a description-defying 3D puzzle that folds your sense of spatial awareness in on itself. Utterly fantastic.The Burnout series(2001-2008, Criterion)Another great British creation. Forget the stuffy gearstick-porn of Gran Turismo, Burnout provides the most thrilling racing experience around. Not in the slightest bit realistic, and better for it, it's the spiritual successor to Road Rash - ramming your opponent off the road at mind-mangling speed. The most recent entry, the free-roaming Burnout Paradise, is fun, but punishes the player at every turn with an abysmal navigation system; 2004's Burnout Takedown remains the high water mark.Super Mario Galaxy(2007, Nintendo) All the Mario platformers are superb: Galaxy happens to be the most recent. A dizzying, challenging, ingenious romp, it's like having liquid joy poured into your head via the eyeholes. Anyone who believes videogames to be a mindless waste of time should play this. As surreal and inventive as Python; as much pure entertainment as 100 Tom and Jerry cartoons, it's a bona fide work of modern genius.
Formerly just a coast-to-coast US highway, the i10 is now also a cut-price city car from Hyundai. You probably wouldn't fancy it much for the long haul across Texas. In fact, I didn't fancy it much for the long haul up the A12 to Essex. But for picking up the shopping in downtown Jacksonville, or similar, it could be just the job.The i10 is the second model (following the well-received i30 hatchback) to feel the force of Hyundai's bold new naming policy, which does away with fancy and sometimes forlornly hopeful terms such as Sonata in favour of a crisp, digital entertainment-age "i" and a number. And doubtless we would have intelligent and important things to say about the place of the i10 within Hyundai's re-envisaged brand strategy if we didn't need to break off to scream, have you seen the price of this mother?Here's what you'd ordinarily consider yourself lucky to get on a car costing this little: a steering wheel, a seat to sit on, four matching tyres, all inflated, a roof that's not woven out of coconut matting and a full complement of doors, all operational. Here's what you automatically get on the lowest-billed i10: all of the above plus, incredibly, air-conditioning, central locking, ABS, electric front windows and a six-speaker, MP3-compatible hi-fi system big enough to drown out the sound of the engine and the rush of air past your relatively high-sided windows. Oh, and four airbags, front and side. Which, in this traditionally reckless segment of the market, borders on charity. Because, frankly, when a car sells for less than &pound;6,500, you have no real right to expect passenger safety provision to amount to much more than an Elastoplast and a box of tissues.In addition, your i10 arrives with the reassurance of an unlimited five-year warranty - from which we can infer they're pretty confident it's not going to conk out or leave its exhaust pipe behind the first time you mount a speed bump in it.Now, the range of engines available is either alarmingly narrow or refreshingly uncomplex, depending on how you feel. Basically, it's the 1.1 litre or another car - you can't even ponder whether to get a diesel version. (Hyundai makes one for other markets, but not the UK.) Still, even the petrol engine is frugal and deeply humble about fouling the air, falling within the &pound;35 road tax band and qualifying for free admission to the London congestion zone from October.There are indubitably prettier urban knockabouts. The i10 has been crafted on to a slightly longer than average wheelbase with a view to providing adequate space for five people and a decent boot, but has been rescued from unwanted bulkiness by simply cutting it off almost immediately after the wheels at both ends. The result is an almost vertical rear hatch and a sense that it could slip easily into an episode of Fifi &amp; The Flowertots.But the point is, you pay for pretty, and you don't pay nearly so much for plain. Would you be happy in it, humming regularly between Edinburgh and Exeter? I suspect not, unless you had a backside of steel and were already deaf. Would you be content deploying it on rapid-burst, quick turn-around, hard-parking, inner-city missions? Certainly. And did I mention how cheap it is?Hyundai i10Price&pound;6,495Top speed95mphAcceleration0-62 in 15.6 secondsConsumption56.5mpgCO2 emissions119g/kmEco rating8/10At the wheelSharon OsbourneBound forAsdaIn a wordBargain
At Which? we understand the huge potential of the internet to provide information to consumers (Spending on online ads rises by 38%, April 8). But we have watched while an ever-growing number of companies have used the internet irresponsibly to advertise junk food to children. Almost half of all eight- to 17-year-olds who use the internet have an online profile on a social networking site. Our research shows that 61% of parents are concerned about their children being targeted by companies promoting unhealthy food without them knowing about it, such as via text messaging and the internet. This is why we are supporting the MP Nigel Griffiths' food products (marketing to children) bill, which proposes tighter restrictions on non-broadcast media promotions and will receive its second reading in parliament on April 25.Clare CorbettCampaigns project manager, Which?Existing UK law means that anyone copying purchased CDs or downloads to play on a different music player is infringing copyright (Home copying, April 7). This is unworkable, unfair and widely out of step with how people live their lives in the digital age. The NCC shares Feargal Sharkey's hopes that the UK's bedrooms are full of "hormone-ridden 17-year-olds" writing something like Teenage Kicks. However, current restrictions on the use of creative works inhibit innovation by placing unreasonable and unrealistic restraints on consumers' post-purchase activities and making it difficult for other creators to build on existing works. If this important market is to remain innovative, we need an approach which provides a fair return to creators and investors, while imposing the minimum possible constraints on competition and consumer choice.Philip CullumNational Consumer Council
I recently gave my girlfriend my old Mio Digiwalker SatNav. She mainly used it as a diary organiser, which worked fabulously until the battery ran down and lost all her information. I need to restore her faith in gadgets and, as her own mobile is on its last legs, would like a phone with SatNav and organiser. I have &pound;400 to spend.Getting that hat-trick of features won't be too difficult, but there is not a wide field from which to choose - despite the avalanche of SatNav systems for cars, there aren't many handsets on the market with built-in GPS. Still, you could start by looking at the HTC P3470 or Samsung's i600 - two satellite-enabled smartphones that run on Windows Mobile, so they're much of a muchness in terms of PDA functions. You could consider a BlackBerry - models such as the 8800 have built-in GPS, and plenty of people swear by them. Nokia, too, has a couple of popular GPS phones: the all-singing, all-dancing N95 and the sleeker, smaller N82. Before you splash out, though, don't discount asking your network about an upgrade - it's likely to cost you a lot less than buying off the shelf. That way, you can save the cash, restore your girlfriend's faith in technology and take her out for dinner as well.Email your problems to:gadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
MondayWii new home for point n' click adventuresGameCity 3 detailsN-Gage livesGamesblog suggestionsTuesdayGames-aggression link questionedRock Band hits Europe - for a pricemore art for gamersWednesdaySuper Mario Bros on the webSo what about that red ring of death? Xbox boss tells allBBC iPlayer on WiiNokia game design competitionEconomic downturn: when do YOU stop buying games?ThursdayComment is Free: Naomi Alderman on violent gamesReviews and other stuffDevelop 100FridayWhat was the best game opening ever?COuld have made something of your lifeGames Pitch: Doof.com
There are still some places left for the meeting next Tuesday at which Kent Ertugrul, chief executive of Phorm, will put himself forward for questions from the audience at an event being organised by 80/20 Thinking, the private consultancy set up by Simon Davies, director of Privacy International.As well as Ertugrul, the speakers will include Dr Richard Clayton of Cambridge University, (who hasrecentlypronounced hisopinionson Phorm's legality or otherwise), DrIan Brownof Oxford University, Marc Burgess, the chief technology officer at Phorm, and Davies himself.The cost: free, but you're requested to notify in advance by emailinginfo@8020thinking.comThe date: Tuesday April 15. The time: 6.30pm onwards. The place: The Lecture Theatre, Brunei Gallery, School of Oriental &amp; African Studies, Thornhaugh Street, Russell Square, WC1H 0XG (see map below)View Larger MapYou can find pretty much the same details but a different page on80/20's own site.So, here's your chance: there's been a lot of comments about what you think of Phorm, but have you taken the chance to really quiz its implementors? Remember, talk is cheap - action is what counts.(Need a briefing on Phorm? Here's theoriginal articlefrom the Technology section of March 6.)
This week we welcomeDoof.com's Heidi Foster into the gamesblog's elevator of infamy to describe their online gaming-social networking community.If you're making a game and want us to know about it, send your idea to gamesblog+at+gmail.com and we'll throw you and your idea into the gamesblog fray.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.A huge variety ofonline games, the chance to compete against old and new friends. Think about a bingo hall where all your friends meet, you all sit down and chat while you play, and you feel a bit smug when you beat Doris from number 47. So then you feel a bit bad so you buy her a little virtual present - you can do that on doof, or you can send her a rude picture that is a bit naughty. We do have kittens and baby sheep as well, if you think that's her thing. The best thing is you can do it from your armchair/desk/bed/commute home.How do players control the game?We are home to around 50 games, all unique - they share the concept of easy to learn and hard to master. The aim is to give our members games that are easy to drop into when they have a spare five minutes, or 45 minutes on a Friday afternoon when they know the boss can't see their screen.What is your background?I've been involved in Online Community since 1995, as an avid consumer of all things online, until I was employed at AOL UK in 1999 as an assistant technical producer. I moved to the Community Department in 2001, and was there until 2006. I was the UK Community Manager at Habbo.co.uk until March this year. Now I head up the community here at doof. I am an avid game player, and have been since I got my dirty little paws on a Vic 20 aged 11.Name your competitorsThe beauty of doof is the fact that we arepretty unique- a site that mixes casual gaming and all the fun bits of social networks, so we have a few competitors, but no direct competition so far - but in terms of games, Pogo, Kongregate, King - all these sites use casual gaming as a platform. Myspace, Bebo and facebook are the obvious ones in the social networking front - but again we are the ones that meet in the middle of the Venn diagram of social networking and casual gaming, and we quite like being there!How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?We're currently at about 400,000, and that number is growing at a phenomenal rate, truly showing the power of word of mouth online. Where do we want to be in 12 months? Top of the tree, still forging ahead, still providing engaging and fun times to a legion of loyal members. It's an exciting time!What's your biggest challenge?Keeping on top of demand - pushing Flex (the technology on which doof is built) to its limits whilst offering just the right amount of UI to members without overwhelming them, engaging such a diverse demographic.Are indie games the latest killer app?Diversity is the name of the game (excuse the pun), in a world of tabbed browsers, and an audience that can mutltitask like never before, being original enough to grab and hold attention is the winning formula. So, yes, they are.Are you the next big thing?Without question.
Regular gamesbloggercavalcade(also known as my greatest critic) has alerted me to his latest single,Could Have Made Something of Your Lifewiththe doyouinverts, "a synergistic collective, formed in the swirling dust and matter of Perth and Kinross in Scotland, UK".Anyone who's ever dreamed of living out their dreams in MMORPGs (to paraphrase the lyrics) will find an amused giggle in this. Well worth a listen. See if you can help them unlock Fame Rating Number 9.Cheers cavalcade. And after this brief truce, may we once again be mortal enemies. Better the devil you know, eh?More on his dubious attitude towards computer games culturehere.
"Visual WebGui is a new AJAX framework that took a different approach to web application development, specially designed to simplify building highly complex applications like Outlook Web Access (OWA). Visual WebGui makes it possible for developers to create web applications by using full WinForms server side API that includes design-time capabilities. By adopting the WinForms object module and development concepts Visual WebGui has completely simplified the development of web applications. Alowing you to program as a VB/WinForms programmer and not as a web programmer makes much more sense when developing web applications like Outlook Web Access," says theWebGuisite. Also:Visual WebGui is completly free to use and deploy for non-commercial purposes and is will [sic] also be available as an open source project in SourceForge.net. The Visual WebGui site has multiple free license that you can apply to in order to use it freely in your production site.WebGui 6.0.1was launched last week. What's new (as of last month) is the move to combine WebGui with Silverlight 2. "We are going for a fully enabled enterprise platform for creating on-line Vista like applications,"says the site.Although we are taking it to the Vista direction in terms of look and feel, it does not have to stop there... We will be publishing Quick Starts and samples of fully customizing the UI... very soon... The degree of customization in the Visual WebGui - Silverlight combination will be very impressive as you will be able for example to extend a list box with a picture with as little as two lines of code... it goes without saying that the UI look and feel can be completely restructured...Obviously this is a Microsoft-based corporate solution: it uses Visual Studio, ASP.net, Silverlight, WinForms etc. Obviously there are dozens of Ajax frameworks for Web developers. But this looks like a relatively simple way for corporations to knock out Vista-style Web apps on their existing Microsoft platform.Has anyone tried it?
At first sight you might not see many similarities between a field of sugar beet and the adware company Phorm, which has developed a service that targets adverts to web users according to their browsing habits. But they exist. And lessons from the field of sugar beet should certainly give the company pause for thought. Why? Because the field of sugar beet isn't there any more.Just under a decade ago I was taken with a group of other journalists from national newspapers out to a field somewhere in East Anglia. Quite where we weren't allowed to know, because the field was planted with genetically modified sugar beet - in what was known as a "field trial" - and the company running the field trial feared that if we publicised where it was, protesters would come and tear it up before they had been able to find out what effects the crop had on the surrounding ecology.I covered the saga of GM crops very closely. I quickly became familiar with the concept ofvolunteer plants(stray crop plants from neighbouring fields that shoot up and chuck seeds about while the real crop is growing quietly) and gene transfer. I'd known about the process of genetic modification for some time: you either inject a new gene into the cells of your target plant, or find some clever plant virus that will do the job for you.Good news for farmersThe attraction of GM crops was that they would be resistant to various herbicides and pesticides (specifically, those made by the company selling you the GM seeds), so you could more quickly kill off stuff that impeded your crops' growth. In short, good news for farmers, as long as they were willing to be tied to the GM crop company.What wasn't known was what the effect on other plants, or indeed animals, would be of having all this extra genetic material. Would the herbicide-resistant genes spread to weeds (some are surprisingly close relatives of the food we eat), meaning we'd have a generation of weeds we couldn't kill? Would insects and animals that relied on weeds in fields die for lack of food? Would bees spread GM pollen far enough to make a difference? The ecological impact was unclear.But what was most unclear, we journalists kept pointing out, was the benefit to the person in the supermarket. We were being asked potentially to sacrifice a chunk of the ecosystem so that a GM company could grow rich and farmers could have a slightly easier time (while giving up some independence to the GM company). Was that really a sensible tradeoff? Would shoppers notice if sugar cost £330 per tonne instead of £340?The companies had well-briefed PR people, endless diagrams, plenty of money. They went on a PR offensive. Ranged against them were disparate groups whose only certainty was that they didn't like being told what to like, and who still couldn't see any clear benefit to them. At a time when organic food was becoming more popular, why head in the other direction? We had plenty of food; the real problem was that we had too much processed food. The debate got ugly, allegations were made, bad experiments were carried out which destroyed reputations, and exaggerated claims were made on both sides.PR blitzkriegThat last paragraph could so easily apply to what Phorm is doing. It has hired PR companies as though they were going out of fashion. It has ferried CEO Kent Ertugrul around newspaper offices to make his case. It has applied to government departments to approve its product. It has asked independent consultants to review its product, seeking a clean bill of health.And yet the question still remains: what are you offering that we couldn't get anyway? Targeted advertising, Phorm replies, and an anti-phishing service. But the latter benefit sounded hollow whenDr Richard Clayton, a security researcher at Cambridge University, told us in the Tech Weekly podcastthat BT could offer anti-phishing without having to sign up with Phorm. And my colleagueJack Schofieldwill tell you that there are plenty of free anti-phishing systems out there: built into Internet Explorer 7, from Google, or through the Firefox browser.Which leaves us only with targeted advertising. My only experiences of targeted advertising have left me with chills, to be honest. It's either foolish (the offers to "get best prices on plutonium on eBay!" when you're researching the dynamics of nuclear fission) or worrying (offering life insurance when you hit a particular age, warning of what's ahead). Phorm suggests it could be so much better. My response: I'm happy with things now. Sure, advertising is imperfect —50% is wasted, in the famous aphorism. But it leaves the way open to serendipity. And it also leaves you feeling that you're not being microscopically scrutinised. Think of the relief that Tom Cruise feels in the film Minority Report when the adverts stop speaking directly to him and he knows he's no longer "visible".Gut reactionGM crops aren't grown in the UK now. It's unfortunate for Phorm that it has chosen to persuade people using a method that doesn't work — because their gut reaction tells them they don't trust it.Is there a solution? I still think that to go with a true opt-in, where people actively have to choose to use its system, is the only way for Phorm to redeem itself in the eyes of the majority. (Some, rather like green pressure groups over GM, won't accept even that concession.) Phorm's system — like GM — is so complex that only a small group of people will fully understand it.History doesn't have any hopeful parallels, I'm afraid. Even though Phorm has enough money, at its current spending rate, tokeep going for another four years, it should be mindful of what happened with GM. Monsanto was once one of the biggest names in crops; it was the main company pushing GM in the UK. Then its share price crashed and it had torestructure, merging with Pharmacia and Upjohn in 1999.Don't assume, however, that this means Phorm will be churned up by the combine harvester of history. Last year GM crops were being grown more widely than ever before,on 114m hectares in 23 countries (including 12 developing countries), an increase of 12 million hectares on the previous year.The EU is still blocking imports and cultivation, but it's looking increasingly like a rearguard action. Monsanto is bigger than ever. And Phorm is well-funded, and looking abroad to implement its systems. This is a battle that is far from over.
Photo by Abe Shelton from The New York TimesThe New York Times has a cute photo (above) of a group of women who are all called Angela Shelton with an article headlinedNames That Match Forge a Bond on the Internet.Everyone goes "name surfing" from time to time, so all the Angela Sheltons bump into what other Angela Sheltons are doing. Sometimes they find each other, andone of them(a superhero Goddess) has written a book about it. The NYT story says:In "Finding Angela Shelton," a book published this month, a writer named Angela Shelton describes her meetings with 40 other Angela Sheltons. Keri Smith, an illustrator, has posted drawings of six of her Googlegängers on her blog. There are name-tally Web sites likeSameNameAsMe, and Facebook coalitions including nearly 200 people named Ritz (their insignia is a cracker box logo) and a group aiming to break a world record by gathering together more than 1,224 Mohammed Hassans.Obviously there will be fewer people called, say, David Belbin or Algernon Moncrieff than something common like Tom Jones or Gordon Brown.The NYT adds a bit of science:A psychological theory called the name-letter effect maintains that people like the letters in their own names (particularly their initials) better than other letters of the alphabet.In studies involving Internet telephone directories, Social Security death index records and clinical experiments, Brett Pelham, a social psychologist, and colleagues have found in the past six years that Johnsons are more likely to wed Johnsons, women named Virginia are more likely to live in (and move to) Virginia, and people whose surname is Lane tend to have addresses that include the word "lane," not "street."Apparently, " The number of Virginias who move to Virginia, for example, is 36% higher than could be expected by chance."What you don't want is for "your" name to be the same as someone who becomes well known for the wrong reasons, like Ted Bundy or Harold Shipman.An article in the Wall Street Journal almost a year ago (You're a Nobody Unless Your Name Googles Well) pointed out that some parents now Google potential baby names in the attempt to get something that stands out.Have you thought of changing your name to one that Googles better? Adding an initial could be enough, if you can get people to use it....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
First impressions are important. Too often these days your initial experience of a new game world is an achingly dull tutorial mission, or a lengthy cut-scene ripped off from some old John Woo movie. Sometimes you just want to hit start and find yourself in the middle of a battlefield with a live grenade landing to your right and a rabid bear coming at you from behind. True, this has never actually happened in the history of gaming, but you know what I mean.So regardless what the rest of it was like, what have been your favourite game openings? Which titles have dropped you right in it, in the best sense of the phrase?
Microsoft's attempt to take over Yahoo is threatening to turn into a "rumble in the jungle", according to one investor, as both sides seek to bolster their positions.The battle has taken a series of complex twists, with the possibility of the internet's most powerful names lining up on either side. Microsoft is rumoured to be on the verge of a collaboration with News Corporation and Yahoo is hoping for help from AOL and Google."The AOL-Yahoo thing reminds me of two men drowning, both grabbing on to each other," Michael Holland, of New York investment fund Holland &amp; Co, told Bloomberg. "It usually doesn't end in a pretty way, a smart way or an effective way."Yahoo is struggling to strengthen its defences in the face of determined pressure from Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, which began with a surprise unsolicited $44bn (&pound;22bn) approach in February. The Silicon Valley company is reported to be discussing a deal with Time Warner that would see the AOL brand combined with Yahoo, giving it a vital cash injection and allowing it to buy back its own stock to protect it against a hostile takeover.At the same time Yahoo is conducting an "experiment" with Google, which also owns a stake in AOL, that will see the search engine test its advertising systems on Yahoo's website. Although both companies played down the deal, many see it as an attempt by Yahoo to draw yet another significant internet player into its camp.Microsoft is said to be creating its own alliances. Reports suggest that the company is in "sensitive" talks with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation - the owner of the world's most popular website, MySpace - about a partnership.Most analysts yesterday were predicting that Microsoft will prove irresistible in the long term, even if it is forced to pay more for the deal."There will be more rumble in the jungle," said J&uuml;rgen Lukasser of Austrian investment group Constantia Privatbank. "Microsoft will have to raise its bid.""We continue to believe that a Microsoft-Yahoo deal is the most likely outcome, and continue to believe that it will happen at a higher price than the initial bid," said Citigroup analyst Mark Mahaney. "A combined News Corp-Microsoft bid very likely means a higher bid."The suggestion that News Corp is considering a tie-up with Microsoft will be a blow for Yahoo. The company's chief executive, Jerry Yang, held talks with Murdoch soon after the bid was an- nounced, but failed to reach an agreement over a deal that would have seen Yahoo gain control of MySpace in return for a stake in the company. Instead, News Corp could line up on the other side in order to complete its plans for Fox Interactive Media.Yahoo's board rejected Microsoft's initial offer amid claims that it was too low. The decline in Microsoft's share price has since reduced the offer's value by $2bn.Yahoo and Microsoft have had some conversations, but there has been no progress. This week Yang and his chairman, Roy Bostock, wrote to Ballmer attacking what they called the "counterproductive and inconsistent" tactic of threatening a proxy takeover.An informal survey this week of some of Yahoo's institutional investors suggested most of them would eventually cave in to a Microsoft bid, but others suggested the decision would not be so easy."Choosing between Microsoft and Google must seem like sailing between Scylla and Charybdis for Yahoo," said Christa Quarles, an analyst with Thomas Weisel Partners. "Though given independence seems to be the overarching goal, tacking toward Google may be the better short-term solution."
What's your favourite piece of technology?My iPod. I was late to the game, I've only had one for about six months.How has it improved your life?I've been reunited with a lot of old music I grew up on. In an odd sort of way, the iPod reinvigorated my interest in music.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use it every day when I write. I listen to horror movie soundtracks and write horror stories. It's become an amazing tool.What additional features would you add if you could?If it would rub my shoulders, I'd be very impressed.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?At the rate things are moving these days it's hard to imagine that it won't be obsolete someday. I imagine my iPod will be a museum piece some day like Betamax machines are. Have you seen an original VCR lately? They're the size of Buicks.What one tip would you give to non-iPod users?Don't be scared of new technology. It's taking over and we might as well surrender and enjoy the ride.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?A little of both. I like all the new technology — my Mac, my iPod, my game systems, my bank card — but I am also very aware that I am becoming too reliant on technology.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I bought a remote-controlled robot — this is back in the 80s, people — and my girlfriend at the time made me return it because I used the rent money. It was cool though. I programmed it to deliver a cocktail to my roommate.Mac or PC?PC for almost 20 years. Now I'm on Mac and my blood pressure is much lower, thank you.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Never Again, by Fu Manchu.Will robots rule the world?Yes, but we'll all be too slow and mushy by then to do anything about it. I suggest we start practising kneeling to our robot overlords right now.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A laser gun to stop the robots!30 Days of Nightis available on DVD and Blu-ray from Monday April 14
Industry magazine Develop has released its fourth annual list of the100 top developersin the world, based on UK game sales. Nintendo is at number one thanks to the success of Wii and DS, while the first UK entry is at number 10 in the shape of Lego production line, Traveller's Tales.The first independent European developer appears at number 16. It was a bit of a surprise to see Oxford-based veteran, Rebellion up there, but when you look at what they've been quietly working on - smash hits like The Simpsons Game, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Star Wars: Renegade Squadron - it all makes perfect sense.As the press release points out, there's generally good news for the European industry here, despiteconcernsthat Canada is nicking all our best talent:Development teams in the UK and mainland Europe claim 36 places in the list between them, having generated £284m at UK retail in 2007 - higher than Canada's 12 studios and £221m revenues.If you've got limited web access at work, here's the top ten for you:1. Nintendo 2. EA Canada 3. Ubisoft Montreal 4. Konami 5. Infinity Ward 6. EA Blackbox 7. Maxis 8. Bungie 9. Sega Studios Japan 10. Traveller's Tales
Phorm can't seem to get the hang of staying out of the news (possibly because it's now hired a small army of PR people). So here's your roundup on what's been going on.Latest is its preliminary results for the full year to December 31, and notes from the first quarter of 2008, in which the notable points include a $30m (£15m) equity fundraising; OIX (its advertising portal) and Webwise "successfully launched in February 2008", "significant progress made with the advertising and publishing community", "advanced talks with other ISPs both in the UK and internationally", "positive initial feedback from a number of regulatory bodies" and - on March 19 - another $65m equity fundraising.OK, but as Sir Alan Sugar would ask, what about the numbers?Operating losses for 2007 were $32.8m (post-tax $32.6m), making a loss per share of $2.74. The balance sheet showed net assets on December 31 of $15.1m (of cash and equivalents: $16.6m) and "virtually no debt". Net cash used was $22.4m, and mostly funded by the equity fundraising, after issue costs, of $35.2m.Which means that at that sort of burn rate, even if (big if) there's no cash inflow, Phorm could carry on for nearly fouryearswithout needing more money.There's also plenty about high-powered appointments to the board - from Coca-Cola, BT, aQuantive (an ad-serving company lately acquired by Microsoft) and AT&amp;T. If the pedigree of your board members was cash in the bank, Phorm would be rich. But that's not how companies are, or should be, judged.An interesting quote from Ertegrul:Our technology complies with all relevant data protection and privacy laws including RIPA (Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act) and the Data Protection ActAnd:Furthermore, we have initiated a dialogue with the Information Commissioner's Office who are pleased with the way that we have engaged with technical experts and concerned individuals following the announcement of the service.But what's the ICO got to say? Looking at itsstatement, we note that it saysRegulation 7 of PECR [Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003]will require the ISP to get the consent of users to the use of their traffic datafor any value added services. This strongly supports the view thatPhorm products will have to operate on an opt in basisto use traffic data as part of the process of returning relevant targeted marketing to internet users. Whether or not the Phorm products are a concern for the Commissioner will depend on the extent to which the assurances Phorm has provided so far are true.[emphasis added - CA]If Phorm has to go opt-in, I suspect that would leave it grounded before it starts. If anyone has figures on how many people opt in to services (as opposed to opting out), I'd love to hear.And finally in this roundup, Phorm's marketing team has been caught wiki-fiddling. Specifically, altering the Wikipedia page about it to make it, um, morefriendly. But as you'd expect, this was noticed and almost instantly reverted. Theside-by-side before and after comparisonis interesting, but it's more fun to look at thePhorm-edited versionand theone before it; a notable change being that the quote by the Guardian's advertising people is shortened significantly ("Our decision was in no small part down to the conversations we had internally about how this product sits with the values of our company" vanishes).Phormadmitteddoing this, telling the Register it "wanted to clarify a number of inaccuracies". Hmm, but it hardly fits with theNPOV, does it?To sum up: doing well for cash, bad for PR, but possibly holed below the waterline by the ICO demand. We'll see how this all pans out.
When Google announced its AppEngine on Monday, I asked (below): "Doesn't this sound like a tribe of cannibals opening a nursery school?"The basic idea is that you write your application for Google's hosting system using Google's operating system, Google's API, Google's database (Bigtable), Google Accounts, Google's email service and so on. As I pointed out, this will enable Google to know your business backwards, so they can buy you, and you'll already be integrated into Google's infrastructure. This will help avoid some of the problems that Google seems to have had with some of its previous acquisitions such as Writely (written in Microsoft.net), Dodgeball, Grand Central, Jaiku, Jotspot and even Blogger.Although Google is based on open source code, Google can change it without publishing the changes, so it's basically still proprietary. You have no idea what changes Google has made, and you have no way to stop Google making further changes that will affect your application. Furthermore, as Ars Technica points out, once you have written your Google application, you have no reasonable way of getting it out and moving it somewhere else. It's a lobster pot.AsArs Technicasays:Perhaps the most blatant downside is being locked into Google's platform. Existing projects will have to be ported or written from scratch, and those that rely on traditional relational databases will probably have difficulty making the transition. Even more difficult would be transitioning your application to your own servers if you choose to leave Google's tender embrace. Once you've created an established application on top of Google's authentication service and stored all your data within the company's datastore, removing all this code and data and moving it to another location would appear to a be fairly onerous task.Tim Brayhas a different analogy but it adds up to the same thing. He says you're signing up to become a sharecropper on the Google plantation:What a devil's bargain; Google will make your identity pain go away and qualify a high proportion of the world's Internet users to use your app. But you're gonna be on the plantation forever; deal with it.And because you are, in effect, Google's prisoner, you will have no choice but to pay whatever charges Google imposes for handling traffic. Ars Technica again:[AppEngine] sounds great to small developers with small sites, but what happens when your cool idea takes off and you've got thousands or millions of users? You'll be paying a lot of money to Google each month -- with no easy way out. No matter how much your user base and technology is worth, almost no company will be willing to purchase your idea because of the high cost of migrating that code out of Google.For those who want more info, RedMonk analyst Stephen O'Grady has producedClouds Rolling In: The Google App Engine Q&amp;A.Steve points out that systems vendors "including HP, IBM, Microsoft, Sun and so on" are losing developers "every week or month they delay their own cloud computing strategies". This includes the hypothetical Microsoft service possibly calledRed Dog, or possibly not.
A manentering an adult video store, his arms tucked behind his back; two womensunbathing in their front gardenat Stanford University; a girl bending over the front seat of her van to reveal a black thong. All these and more have been captured by Street View, Google's most recent addition to its growing mapping application empire.So far launched in 27 American cities including New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, Street View allows users to swoop down to pedestrian level and view a 360-degree photographic panorama of the buildings, roads and unfortunate passers-by caught in the eye of Google's vans. The site has inspired hundreds of thousands of "Street View Tourists" who participate in scavenger hunts, "celebrity crib spotting" and post advice on where to spot the vans that take the pictures for it. Househunters, too, have been able to explore potential neighbourhoods for local restaurants, supermarkets and schools.But as bloggers trawl the site for the newest and most bizarre stills caught by Google's roving photographers, hundreds of Americans have complained, seeking to have more than just their faces removed. One couple, Aaron and Christine Boring of Pittsburgh, in Pennsylvania, have sued, claiming that the panoramic pictures of their residence, on a private road, have caused them "mental suffering" and diminished the property's value.While Google does not preannounce its mapping strategy, it told the Guardian it will be focusing on "major metropolitan areas" and that it will "leave it to the imagination" whether London will be one of them. But although London has the dubious title of the most surveilled city in the world, and with more than 4.2m CCTV cameras in Britain, not everyone will welcome the Street View vans.Simon Davies, director of surveillance watchdog Privacy International, confirmed it would be taking legal action as soon as Google began any Street View operations in the UK. "Google shouldn't be cavalier about that," Davies said. "I would predict we could stop Street View with one complaint. But Google has a messiah complex."It's a strange embodiment for a messiah. Each Street View van has a roof camera, and photos - taken by 16 lenses - are stitched together to produce a 360-degree image. Immersive, the Canadian company that makes the Street Map cameras, says that while "spherical video" currently only collects photographic stills, its full-motion video capabilities could, in time, stream live footage. The latest version of Microsoft's Live Search Maps, a real-time satellite view, was launched last October, although it currently does not zoom close enough to capture people.Mapping the costThe vans map for five hours each day around noon; outside those times, the sun is too low in the sky to generate useful photos. (This may naturally limit how far into northern and southern latitudes at which Street View can be used.) At $45,000 (&pound;22,000) per camera, and anything between $125 and $700 per mile of video footage, Google's mapping venture does not come cheap.With such a huge investment already under way, Google has been keen to quieten its critics. "Street View only features imagery taken on public property and is not real time," it said in a statement. "This imagery is no different from what any person can readily capture or see walking down the street."Both American and British privacy laws state that a person has no reasonable expectation of privacy in a public place. But recent CCTV guidelines, published by theInformation Commissioner- which could apply to Street View - state that "signs should be placed so that the public are aware that they are entering a zone which is covered by surveillance equipment". This could prove impossible for Google's unmarked vans as they go about their task.Legal forecast: stormyIn addition, under UK law, permission must be obtained before broadcasting images of private citizens. Google does have a service which allows unwitting "Street View celebrities", as they have become known in the blogosphere, to email requests to have themselves removed or their faces blurred. But Davies warns that publishing the images in the first place could be illegal. Worried pedestrians may also not know where to look for themselves. "You don't think of where you walk to work every day or where you were Friday night," says Rebecca Jescke, spokesperson for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an internet civil rights group based in San Francisco. "Under US law what Google is doing is legal, but it doesn't mean it is very polite."Street View has also raised national security concerns in the US. Last month, the Pentagon banned Google from making close-up images of military bases after it was revealed that pictures of the Fort Sam Houston army base in Texas included access control points and other potentially risky details.But other sorts of security may be at risk. After what appeared to be a drug deal in central Chicago was broadcast over several blogs, the offending images were immediately removed. Last year, Californian Mary Kalin-Casey caused disquiet when she commented to technology site Boing Boing that she could spy her own cat, Monty, through her apartment window: she said she could even tell it was a tabby. If American audiences are anything to go by, the complaints will be louder than the compliments.One result may be telling, though. The pictures of Aaron and Christine Borings' house have been removed from Street View. But will Britons choose to go down the same road?
Almost nine out of 10 UK web users watched video online in December, according to comScore, whose data revealed the dominance of YouTube.In the UK, 28.7 million web users, or 87% of the online population, watched video in December, accessing 3.1m videos.YouTube, owned by Google, is still the market leading video site in the UK, US, Canada, France and Germany.But the UK figures are good news for the BBC, now the second most popular source of video in the UK, indicating the popularity of video even before the full launch of the web TV catch-up service the iPlayer.The service ran as a limited trial from July 2007 until the consumer launch on Christmas Day.In the first three months of this year, the corporation reported growth of 25% month on month and yesterday said 17.2m downloads and streams had been generated in March.The popularity has escalated discussions between the corporation and internet service providers over how to fund the rising costs of delivering video over the internet.Microsoft's sites, which include MSN, were the third most popular network for video. Yahoo was listed fourth and MySpace's parent company Fox Interactive Media was the fifth most popular video network in the UK.ComScore, which recently extended its video measurement service outside the US, said Canada has the highest reach of video by web users, with 89% of the population or 19 million users regularly watching video online during December. They typically watched 112 videos during the month.The US has the largest number of users, with 124.4 million but the smallest proportion of video users at 78%.ComScore said the figures show the viability of video as a medium for advertisers and marketers who want to reach an engaged but often elusive online audience."Recent years have seen an explosion in online video viewing, not just in the US but globally, representing a robust online advertising opportunity for marketers," said Jack Flanagan, the executive vice-president of comScore.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
In 2003, Eric Horvitz, president of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence, was trying to avoid traffic jams by using his satnav to negotiate the back streets of Seattle. "The result was a nightmare," reportsThe New York Times. "It was awful," he said. "Everything seemed to be backed up."Since Horvitz worked at Microsoft Research, he decided to do something about it. The result is Clearflow:an ambitious attempt to apply machine-learning techniques to the problem of traffic congestion. The system is intended to reflect the complex traffic interactions that occur as traffic backs up on freeways and spills over onto city streets.The Clearflow system will be freely available as part of the company's Live.com site (maps.live.com) for 72 cities in the United States. Microsoft says it will give drivers alternative route information that is more accurate and attuned to current traffic patterns on both freeways and side streets.The story ends:"I consider this to be the moon mission of our machine-learning research," Mr. Horvitz said. "I'm still buzzing with the glow that this is actually possible."How well it works, of course, remains to be seen....Horvitz has a paper on Machine Learning, Reasoning, and Intelligence in Daily Life (PDF).
Wikipedia is just an incredible thing. It is fact-encirclingly huge, and it is idiosyncratic, careful, messy, funny, shocking and full of simmering controversies - and it is free, and it is fast. In a few seconds you can look up, for instance, "Diogenes of Sinope", or "turnip", or "Crazy Eddie", or "quadratic formula", and you will have knowledge you did not have before. It is like some vast aerial city with people walking briskly to and fro on catwalks, carrying picnic baskets full of nutritious snacks.More people use Wikipedia than Amazon or eBay - in fact, it is up there in the top-10 rankings with MySpace, Facebook and YouTube. Why? Because it has 2.2m articles, and because it is very often the first hit in a Google search, and because it just feels good to find something there - even, or especially, when the article you find is a little clumsily written. Any inelegance, or typo, or relic of vandalism reminds you that this gigantic encyclopedia is not a commercial product.It was constructed, in less than eight years, by strangers who disagreed about all kinds of things but were drawn to a shared, not-for-profit purpose. They were drawn because, for a work of reference, Wikipedia seemed unusually humble. It asked for help, and when it did, it used a particularly affecting word: "stub". At the bottom of a short article about something, it would say, "This article about X is a stub [3]. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it." And you would think: "That poor sad stub: I will help. Not right now, because I'm writing a book, but some day, yes, I will try to help."And when people did help they were given a flattering name. They were "editors". It was like a giant community leaf-raking project in which everyone was called a groundsman. Some brought very fancy professional metal rakes, or even back-mounted leaf-blowing systems, and some were just kids thrashing away with the sides of their feet or stuffing handfuls in the pockets of their sweatshirts, but all the leaves they brought to the pile were appreciated.And the pile grew and everyone jumped up and down in it, having a wonderful time. And it grew some more, and it became the biggest leaf pile anyone had ever seen, a world wonder.And then self-promoted leaf-pile guards appeared, doubters and deprecators who would look askance at your proffered handful and shake their heads, saying that your leaves were too crumpled or too slimy or too common, throwing them to the side. And that was too bad. The people who guarded the leaf pile this way were called "deletionists".But that came later. First it was just fun.Wikipedia flourished partly because it was a shrine to altruism. It also had a head start: from the beginning the project absorbed articles from the celebrated 1911 edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica [4], which is in the public domain. And not only the 1911 Britannica. Also absorbed were Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography, Nuttall's 1906 Encyclopedia, Chambers' Cyclopedia, Aiken's General Biography, Rose's Biographical Dictionary, Easton's Bible Dictionary and many others.But the sources and the altruism do not fully explain why Wikipedia became such a boom town. The real reason it grew so fast was noticed by co-founder Jimmy "Jimbo" Wales [5] in its first year of life. "The main thing about Wikipedia is that it is fun and addictive," Wales wrote.Brion Vibber [6], who was for a while Wikipedia's only full-time employee, explained the attraction of the encyclopedia at a talk he gave to Google employees in 2006. For researchers it's a place to look stuff up, Vibber said, but for editors "it's almost more like an online game, in that it's a community where you hang out a bit, and do something that's a little bit of fun: you whack some trolls, you build some material, etc". Whacking trolls is, for some Wikipedia editors, a big part of why they keep coming back.Say you are working away on the Wikipedia article on ageing. You have got some nice scientific language in there and it is really starting to shape up: "After a period of near-perfect renewal (in humans, between 20 and 50 years of age), organismal senescence is characterised by the declining ability to respond to stress, increasing homeostatic imbalance and increased risk of disease. This irreversible series of changes inevitably ends in death." Not bad! And then somebody - a user with an address of 206.82.17.190, a "vandal" - replaces the entire article with a single sentence: "Ageing is what you get when you get freakin old old old." That happened on December 20 2007. A minute later, you "revert" that anonymous editor's edit, with a few clicks; you go back in history to the article as it stood before. You have just kept the ageing article safe, for the moment. But you have to stay vigilant, because somebody might swoop in again at any time, and you will have to undo their harm with your power reverter ray. Now you are addicted. You have become a force for good just by standing guard and looking out for juvenile delinquents.Some articles are vandalised a lot. On January 11 this year, the entire fascinating entry on the aardvark [7] was replaced with "one ugly animal"; in February the aardvark was briefly described as a "medium-sized inflatable banana".This sounds chaotic, but most of the time the "unhelpful" or "inappropriate" changes are quickly fixed by human stompers and algorithmicised helper bots. Without the kooks and the insulters and the spray-can taggers, Wikipedia would just be the most useful encyclopedia ever made. Instead, it is a fast-paced game of paintball.When, last year, some computer scientists at the University of Minnesota studied millions of Wikipedia edits, they found that most of the good ones - those whose words persisted intact through many later viewings - were made by a tiny percentage of contributors. Enormous numbers of users have added the occasional enriching morsel to Wikipedia, but relatively few know how to frame their contribution in a form that lasts.So how do you become one of Wikipedia's upper crust, one of the several thousand whose words will live on for a little while, before later verbal fumarolings [8] erode what you wrote? It is not easy. You have to have a cool head, so that you do not get drawn into soul-destroying disputes, and you need some practical writing ability, and a quick eye, and a knack for synthesis. And you need lots of free time - time to master the odd conventions and the unfamiliar vocabulary (words such as "smerge", "hatnote", "meat puppet" [9] and "fancruft"), and time to read through guidelines and policy pages and essays and the endless records of old skirmishes - and time to have been gently but firmly, or perhaps rather sharply, reminded by other editors how you should behave. There is a long apprenticeship of trial and error.The first thing I did on Wikipedia (in January 2008, under the username Wageless) was to make some not-very-good edits to the page on bovine somatotropin [10]. I clicked the "edit this page" tab, and immediately had an odd, almost lightheaded feeling, as if I had passed through the looking glass and was being allowed to fiddle with some huge engine or delicate piece of biomedical equipment. It seemed much too easy to do damage; you ask, "Why don't the words resist me more?" Soon, though, you get used to it. You recall the central Wikipedian directive: "Be bold." You start to like life on the inside.After bovine hormones, I tinkered a little with the plot summary of the article on Sleepless in Seattle, while watching the movie. A little later I made some adjustments to the intro in the article on hydraulic fluid. After dessert one night, my wife and I looked up recipes for cobbler, and then I worked for a while on the cobbler article, though it still was not right. I did a few things to the entry on periodisation. About this time I began standing with my computer open on the kitchen counter, staring at my growing watchlist, checking, peeking. I was, after about a week, well on my way to a first-stage Wikipedia dependency.But the work that really drew me in was trying to save articles from deletion. Here's how it happened. I read a short article on a post-Beat poet and small-press editor named Richard Denner, and saw that the article had been proposed for deletion by a user named PirateMink, who claimed that Denner was not a notable figure, whatever that means. Another user, Stormbay, agreed: no third-party sources, ergo not notable.Denner was in serious trouble. I tried to make the article less deletable by incorporating a quote from an interview in the Berkeley Daily Planet - Denner told the reporter that in the 60s he'd tried to be a street poet, "using magic markers to write on napkins at Cafe Med for espressos, on girls' arms and feet". (If an article bristles with some quotes from external sources these may, like the bushy hairs on a caterpillar, make it harder to kill.) And I voted "keep" on the deletion-discussion page: "What harm does it do to anyone or anything to keep this entry?"An administrator named Nakon - one of about 1,000 peer-nominated volunteer administrators - took a minute to survey the two "delete" votes and my "keep" vote and then killed the article. Denner was gone. Startled, I began sampling the "AfDs" (the Articles for Deletion debate pages) and the even more urgent "speedy deletes" and "PRODs" (proposed deletes) for other items that seemed unjustifiably at risk; when they were, I tried to save them. Taekwang Industry, a South Korean textile company, was one. A user named Kusunose had "prodded" it - that is, put a red-edged banner at the top of the article proposing it for deletion within five days. I removed the banner, signalling that I disagreed, and I hastily spruced up the text, noting that the company made "Acelan" brand spandex, raincoats, umbrellas, sodium cyanide and black abaya fabric. The article didn't disappear: wow, did that feel good.So I kept on going. I found press citations and argued for keeping the Jitterbug telephone, a large-keyed mobile phone with a soft earpiece for older callers; and Vladimir Narbut, a minor Russian Acmeist poet whose second book, Halleluia, was confiscated by the police; and Sara Mednick, a neuroscientist and author of Take a Nap! Change Your Life; and Pyro Boy, a minor celebrity who turns himself into a human firecracker on stage. I took up the cause of the Arifs, a Cyprio-Turkish crime family based in London; and Card Football, a poker-like football simulation game; and Paul Karason [11], a suspender-wearing guy whose face turned blue from drinking colloidal silver; and Michelle Leonard, co-writer of a glam hit called Love Songs (They Kill Me) ...All these people and things had been deemed non-notable by other editors, sometimes with unthinking harshness. When I managed to help save something, I was quietly thrilled - I walked tall, like Henry Fonda in 12 Angry Men [12]At the same time as I engaged in these tiny, fascinating (to me) "keep" tussles, hundreds of others were going on, all over Wikipedia. I signed up for the Article Rescue Squadron, a small group that opposes "extremist deletion, having seen it mentioned in John Broughton's invaluable guide, Wikipedia: The Missing Manual. And I found out about a project called WPPDP (for "WikiProject Proposed Deletion Patrolling") in which people look over the PROD lists for articles that should not be made to vanish. Since about 1,500 articles are deleted a day, this kind of work can easily become life-consuming. I was swept right out to the Isles of Shoals [13]. I stopped hearing what my family was saying to me - for about two weeks I all but disappeared into my screen, trying to salvage brief, sometimes overly promotional but nevertheless worthy biographies by recasting them in neutral language, and by hastily scouring newspaper databases and Google Books for references that would bulk up their notability quotient. I had become an "inclusionist".That is not to say that I thought that every article should be fought for. Someone created an article called Plamen Ognianov Kamenov. In its entirety, the article read: "Hi my name is Plamen Ognianov Kamenov. I am Bulgarian. I am smart." The article is gone, understandably. Someone else, evidently a child, made up a lovely short tale about a fictional woman named Empress Alamonda, who hated her husband's chambermaids. "She would get so jealous she would faint," said the article. "Alamonda died at 6:00pm in her room. On August 4 1896." Alamonda is gone, too.Still, a lot of good work - verifiable, informative, brain-leapingly strange - is being cast out of this paperless, infinitely expandable accordion folder by people who have a narrow notion of what sort of curiosity an online encyclopedia should be able to satisfy in the years to come.Anybody can "pull the trigger" on an article, as Broughton phrases it. It is harder to improve something that is already written, or to write something altogether new. There are some people on Wikipedia now who are just bullies, who take pleasure in wrecking and mocking people's work - even to the point of laughing at nonstandard "Engrish" [14]. They poke articles full of warnings and "citation-needed" notes and deletion prods till the topics go away.In the autumn of 2006, groups of editors went around getting rid of articles on webcomic artists - some of the most original and articulate people on the net. One openly called it the "web-comic articles purge of 2006". A victim, Trev-Mun, author of a comic called Ragnarok Wisdom, wrote: "I got the impression that they enjoyed this kind of thing as a kid enjoys kicking down others' sandcastles." Rob Balder, author of a webcomic called PartiallyClips, likened the organised deleters to book burners.As the deletions and ill-will spread in 2007 - deletions not just of webcomics but of companies, places, websites, lists, people, categories and ideas, all deemed to be trivial, "NN" (non-notable), "stubby", undersourced, or otherwise unencyclopedic, Andrew Lih, one of the most thoughtful observers of Wikipedia's history, told a Canadian reporter: "The preference now is for excising, deleting, restricting information rather than letting it sit there and grow." In September 2007, Wales - himself an inclusionist who believes that if people want an article about every Pok&eacute;mon character, then hey, let it happen - posted a one-sentence stub about Mzoli's [15], a restaurant on the outskirts of Cape Town. It was quickly put up for deletion. Others saved it, and after a thunderstorm of vandalism (as when the page was replaced with "I hate Wikipedia, its a far-left propaganda instrument, some far-left gangs control it"), Mzoli's is now a model piece, spiky with press citations. There is even, as of January, an article about "Deletionism and inclusionism in Wikipedia" - it, too, survived an early attempt to purge it.I think I am done with Wikipedia for the time being. But I have a secret hope. Someone recently proposed a Wikimorgue - a bin of broken dreams where all rejects could still be read, as long as they weren't libellous or otherwise illegal. Like other middens, it would have much to tell us over time. We could call it the Deletopedia.Footnotes[1]WikipediaA free, multilingual, open-content encyclopedia project operated by the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation, launched in 2001[2]Nicholson BakerBorn January 7 1957, American writer of fiction and nonfiction, whose books include The Mezzanine (1988) and Checkpoint (2004)[3]StubA Wikipedia stub is an article of only a few sentences which is too short to provide encyclopedic coverage of a subject[4]Encyclopaedia BritannicaThe 29-volume 11th edition of 1911 is regarded as one of the greatest encyclopedias ever published, although much of its content is now out of date[5]Jimmy 'Jimbo' WalesBorn on August 7 (or 8) 1966 in Huntsville, Alabama, he founded Wikipedia in 2001 with Larry Sanger[6]Brion Vibber DayJimmy Wales declared June 1 a Wikipedia holiday to celebrate the achievements of Brion Vibber[7]AardvarkThanks to online vandals, the Wikipedia entry was changed to describe the animal as a 'medium-sized inflatable banana'[8]FumaroleAn opening in the Earth's crust - usually located near a volcano - that emits steam and gases[9]Meat puppetA new user invited to an internet discussion solely to influence it[10]Bovine somatotropinA protein hormone produced in the pituitary glands of cattle. It is also called bovine growth hormone, or BGH[11]Paul KarasonAmerican man whose face turned blue from drinking colloidal silver to treat his dermatitis[12]12 Angry MenA 1957 film directed by Sidney Lumet, in which Henry Fonda tries to persuade his fellow jurors of the innocence of the accused in a murder trial[15]Mzoli'sA restaurant in Cape Town, South Africa, which got a Wikipedia entry thanks to the encyclopedia's co-founder Jimmy Wales© 2008 Nicholson Baker.&#183;Nicholson Baker's new book,Human Smoke: The Beginnings of World War II, the End of Civilisation, will be published by Simon &amp; Schuster on May 6. Nicholson Baker will be at Borders bookshop, Magdalen Street, Oxford at 7pm on Tuesday April 29.&#183;Are you addicted to Wikipedia?blogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
