Internet traffic in Sweden – previously a hotbed of illicit filesharing – has fallen dramatically in the first day of a new law banning online piracy.The country – home to the notorious Pirate Bay website, whose founders are awaiting a court judgment on whether they have broken the law by allowing people to find films, games and music for illicit downloads – has previously been seen as a haven for filesharing, in which people can get copyrighted content for free.As many as one in 10 Swedes is thought to use such peer-to-peer services.But the so-called IPRED law, which came into force on Wednesday, obliges internet service providers to turn over details about internet users who share such content to the owners of copyrighted material, if a court finds sufficient evidence that the user has broken the law.That seems to have spooked some Swedes. By 2pm on Wednesday, internet traffic in Sweden had fallen by about 30% compared with the previous day. Statistics collected by Netnod, the Swedish clearing house for internet traffic, showed a dramatic drop in traffic. Compared with the previous level on Tuesday of about 120 gigabits of data passing over the network every second, on Wednesday it was down to 80Gbps.The fall in data may be due to people being worried that their ISP will track their data and that they may be sued for copyright infringement, which usually carries penalties equivalent to thousands of pounds.Filesharing systems such as Bittorrent carry enormous amounts of data over the internet; some estimates have suggested that illicit downloads make up at least half of all traffic passing over the network.In Sweden, the lawyers for a number of publishers of crime novelists including the late Stieg Larsson have brought a lawsuit seeking to identify a person who had stored about 2,000 digitised audiobooks on a server to make them available for free. While piracy of physical books is not a serious problem, audiobooks – which can be very profitable – are comparatively easily copied from CD.The chair of the Swedish Publishers' Association, Kjell Bohlund, said such filesharing "has hit writers, publishers, and internet book retailers financially, and there is a longer-term risk that publication will decline".Sweden is still awaiting judgment in the case of the Pirate Bay, where four men involved with either running or owning the site are accused of assisting copyright infringement. The hearing ended almost a month ago and the judge is expected to deliver a verdict soon.The new Swedish legislation is similar to that being sought by copyright owners such as record labels and film studios for the UK and France. In the UK, the government previously threatened ISPs with legislation if they did not reach an agreement with copyright owners on a "three strikes and you're out" policy, by which ISPs would send letters on behalf of copyright owners to people suspected of illegal downloads. The idea foundered though on questions of legal liability and cost for the ISPs and the content owners; they are now considering other options.Lars Gustaffson, chief executive of the record labels' international organisation the IFPI, told the Swedish news agency TT: "It will be interesting to see what the court determines to be sufficient proof. We are naturally examining [the book publishers'] evidence and comparing it with ours."The move has not pleased the Pirate Party, a libertarian political party that has tried to get elected on a platform opposing copyright laws.In a statement, the party said citizens must be responsible for building a knowledgeable society as politicians could not see that the internet was a revolution on a par with writing and conventional publishing. "Politicians have failed to keep the internet open, free, and anonymous," said Rick Falkvinge, leader of the Pirate Party.It has urged people to remove encryption on their home wireless networks, so that anyone might connect to them, on the basis that this means that downloading cannot be tied to an individual; it claims there is a precedent in Danish law for this.However, Swedish police oppose the idea on the basis that it could make the spread of material such as child pornography easier and harder to trace.
One of the interesting things about Google's approach to technology is that it uses shipping containers packed with tens of thousands of cheap home-made PCs instead of rooms full of expensive mainframes. However, it hasn't previously revealed any of the details. That's what it did at a conference yesterday, andCNet's Stephen Shankland has published the story and photos.Among the secrets: each server has two processors and its own 12-volt battery to supply power if there's a problem with the main source of electricity. Also, each shipping container holds 1,160 servers and can consume 250 kilowatts."Early on, there was an emphasis on the dollar per (search) query," [Urs Hoelzle, Google's vice president of operations] said. "We were forced to focus. Revenue per query is very low."Mainstream servers with x86 processors were the only option, he added. "Ten years ago ... it was clear the only way to make (search) work as free product was to run on relatively cheap hardware. You can't run it on a mainframe. The margins just don't work out," he said.The story says:The Google server was 3.5 inches thick -- 2U, or 2 rack units, in data center parlance. It had two processors, two hard drives, and eight memory slots mounted on a motherboard built by Gigabyte. Google uses x86 processors from both AMD and Intel, [Google server designer Ben Jai] said, and Google uses the battery design on its network equipment, too.It will be interesting to see if Google does anything with Intel Atom processors. This is something Microsoft Research is exploring (seeYouTube video).Atoms are much less powerful than the Xeon chips usually used in servers, but they are much more power efficient.Power efficiency is critical because it costs more to power the servers, over their lifetime, than it does to buy them.
It's been a few years since the original Operation Flashpoint, a scrupulously realistic shooter, emphasising tactics and squad command over idiotic blasting. This summer its back in the form of sequel, Dragon Rising, with a 135 square-mile battlefield and a great chunk of the Chinese PLA to fight against. There are no scripted missions; instead, you're drafted in on the fly, to patrol, to provide cover, to operate as part of a major force.But now that Call of Duty: Modern Warfare has changed the landscape of simulated war, what can Codemasters' sequel do to complete? And how close can a game ever really get to replicating battle? I put these and many other questions to lead AI designer, Clive Lindop...What do you think have been the major changes in the military shooter genre since the first game?Well one of the most significant changes has been a clear shift away from World War II games to modern combat. Within that, the number of games focusing on working within units as opposed to single 'hero'-style gameplay has also dramatically changed. Players now look for much more detailed and epic experiences in their games, this is reflected in the reward structures, world detail and multiplayer capabilities games now deliver.In terms of design, players now have much more detailed control of the men around them, their equipment and combat systems. Certainly my belief is there is a sea of change within the games industry about treating the audience as being more capable and intelligent, able to handle complex game play. There is less 'leading the player by the hand' and much more self-reliance, exploration and ability to change the world around them. This is true of everything from FPS, to adventure RPGs and RTS. It's a very interesting time in the games industry as it transitions from its electronic entertainment roots into a mainstream media, with detailed narratives, epic worlds and engaging content.The major emphasis is its realism. It seems that the team is, in some ways, treating the game like one of the Codemasters driving sims, getting into the mechanics and physics of modern combat, with lots of weapon specs, ballistics effects, etc. Would you say this is the case?Certainly in terms of attention to detail and faithful simulation of things like weapon systems, bullet behaviour and more, we are in the tradition of Codemasters simulation work. I think overall the games that Codemasters Studios are producing are adding to our core simulation with even greater detail, at the same time we are adding the physical human experience of racing or combat to our titles. It is a very interesting time to be at Codemasters and see the evolution we are making on the next generation platforms and the latest PC hardware.What sort of research have you carried out into modern warfare for the game? Have you spoken to the military and/or tried out the weapons and vehicles yourselves?Our research was wide ranging, from the technical end of the spectrum this included such things as weapons ballistics, training manuals and technical drawings. Operation Flashpoint is not simply a simulation however, we wanted to deliver something of the human experience of being in combat. To that end we interviewed British and American serviceman returning from tours in both Iraq and Afghanistan, to gain insight into their experiences. By combining both of these pools of information we hope to achieve something more human and immersive than just a pure simulation.Have their been any occasions where you've watched armed combat on the news, or read books on the subject, and sort of semi-guiltily thought, 'hey that would work brilliantly in the game'?Journalism in conflict zones has significantly changed in the last 10 years; we now have an audience who are used to seeing frontline combat on a regular basis, up close and in detail. So even without in-depth knowledge of tactics and weapons, at a subconscious level, players have a sense of what looks and feels real. 10 years ago, cinema was the primary source of depictions of warfare, but thanks to the advent of 24 hour news coverage and YouTube the public have unprecedented access to real footage. Taking that into account, we have made the presentation of the game a documentary style of delivery, grounded and gritty.The game seems to be more open-ended than the standard linear military shooter - how are you directing the player's journey? Is this really a combat theatre as sandbox, or do you have choke points to direct the action?No, there are no choke points; the direction given to the player mirrors that of real military. Specifically, we issue the player orders and objectives, but how the player achieves these objectives is entirely up to them. The environment allows entirely free-form action by the player; the war evolves and changes in response to even the smallest decision the player the makes. In this way, replaying the same mission generates different results every time. We have to have this kind of adaptive tactical environment for the player to exist in, to simulate how rapidly combat can shift and change, as well as deal with the player's ability to choose his own tactics and routes.In what specific ways are you using AI to create a relevant challenge within an open-world environment? Some sand box titles have struggled in this area.The AI has had to be much more capable and advanced than that normally seen within an FPS. Since the game environment is entirely freeform simply scripting events and the AI was impossible.The AI is therefore a dynamic decision making system based upon real military tactics, using a series of perception systems, morale systems and evaluation systems to assess the enemy it is fighting, the terrain surrounding it and the capabilities of its own men. Thus the AI reacts on a moment-by- moment basis to a rapid evolving tactical environment, choosing different tactics and even walking away from fights to come back with a new plan.Certainly one of the areas the AI expands upon is its human behaviour, the desire to survive rather than suicidally rush the player, to rethink its plans and adapt. One of the most difficult things to achieve in AI is making errors of judgement. At a basic level the AI can be omnipotent and it knows everything occurring in the game world. Our behaviour modelling controls what the AI knows and allows it to make over-confident or over-cautious decisions as well as fundamental errors in tactical judgement. We want an enemy that the player can judge on a human level, not just a rule set to learn and defeat.In terms of military realism, what have been your key concessions to the unreality of videogames? The cliché about active duty is that it's 99% boredom and 1% panic and fear, but this wouldn't make for a great game experience...Fundamentally the game occurs during combat operations; the periods inbetween, when your unit would be resting, is effectively when the player is within the interface between missions. That being said, even in the thick of battle, action ebbs and flows, there are periods of tense anticipation, of moving through hostile country preparing to come under fire any moment. Once combat does occur it can be quick sharp fire fights or prolonged engagements. Part of the dynamic nature of the game is that the pacing and events are constantly shifting.How much of an effort have you gone to ensure this isn't a game about a lone Rambo soldier obliterating the enemy?It is fundamentally impossible to be the lone super soldier from the moment the game starts. The game is unflinching in its depiction of how devastating and lethal even a single bullet can be on the human body. Running around as if you're bulletproof will very quickly see you brought down by enemy fire. Instead, in gameplay testing, we've seen players fall back on survival instincts, using cover and suppression fire.Very quickly, normally in the first 10-15 minutes of game play, players have grasped that the game is very different from standard shooters. The key to survival is not running around or 'bunny hopping', it is tactical thinking, working together and using the environment around you to gain an advantage.One thing modern military shooters are only just touching on is the ethics of war. There were sequences in Call of Duty World at War and Modern Combat where you were forced into taking morally dubious actions in order to progress. Was there a debate going on in the team about these issues? What points of view came up, and how were they resolved?Within war there are moments of morally ambiguous choice, the decisions made are often driven by necessity but at other times the complex reactions to a uniquely high pressure environment. Invariably, these choices arise when civilians are caught in the crossfire or sacrifices must be made for a greater objective, I generalise, but these complex situations are difficult to replicate.If there is no meaningful consequence to the player of these decisions they become pantomime, presenting either a clearly black and white choice with little penalty for the black choice, or they are so blurred that there seems little difference between one choice or another. In Operation Flashpoint we decided not to place the player in deliberate moral 'scenes'; instead the player has a more vivid relationship with the men around him, since they have their own desire to live and their own emotional reaction to combat. If the player is to succeed they must look after their men and not sacrifice them as pawns.Your opponent in the game is the Chinese PLA. How did you decide on this scenario?We originally sought a scenario which would offer us two opponents of equal strength in a conventional war; we also wanted a real world scenario which had not been explored by other media. The plotline and basis for the game's backstory was written a couple of years ago and it's strange how real world events have caught up with it. To summarise, we have a scenario in which the PRC (People's Republic of China) is in economic collapse and reverts towards hard-line communism in the face of massive civil unrest. Reaching out for a desperately needed oil supply, the PLA invade an island which is part of the Russian Federation.In terms of political ramifications, it is an issue of perspective. I'm often asked the question, will the Chinese be offended by being the 'bad guys'. I don't see them as the bad guys and I'm sure they do not either. As a westerner playing the game, the automatic presumption may be that we are the good guys therefore the enemy we are fighting must be, by default, the bad guys. I think geopolitics have become much less clear-cut since the end of the cold war. Certainly with our involvement in Iraq, some have a sneaking suspicion that we may be the bad guys in that scenario. As I said, it depends where your perspective is originating. Within the game we pass no judgement, to abuse a frequently used quote from Tennyson, like soldiers in real life:  'Theirs is not to reason why; theirs is but to do and die'.Obviously CoD Modern Warfare has been the most important over the last few years - have you been inspired by that game?Certainly Modern Warfare demonstrated the popularity of the genre and introduced many innovative game play features, however there is little to cross-reference with Operation Flashpoint. While CoD is a superb arcade shooter, it still exists within very small fixed environments and uses relatively traditional AI. OFP on the other hand is a different proposition entirely; a huge open world where combat occurs at realistic ranges, this includes an extensive range of vehicles as well.Certain FPS conventions are universal of course, but the realistic nature of OFP and the scale mean it's a fundamentally different experience, with no single route to follow or sequences to complete; it's a free-form piece of game play more in common with chess or an RTS at times. This vivid recreation of real world combat is what sets the game apart. I think in many ways OFP is a complimentary experience to the furious instant pace of games like CoD, offering a different way of experiencing modern combat gaming.How do you deal with injury in the game? Some titles, of course, have medics and an option to revive injured comrades. Are there more authentic possibilities?Our wound system is grounded in reality, if you suffer a wound it can be stabilised but it can not be 'magically' removed. A particularly severe wound can be unrecoverable; there is also the possibility that even with medics near by enemy fire is too heavy for them to get to you. Games are always treading the line between realism and game play, these are ultimately entertainment products. I think we have found a good balance in which there is a very real penalty to be being wounded but there is also a team surrounding you who can render assistance. In terms of authenticity, Flashpoint has always been at the more realistic end of the FPS spectrum and we're happy to stay there.Do you think players of OF2 will learn anything about genuine combat from the game?I hope so; I believe it will give people at least a small appreciation for what our troops have to face in real combat. Certainly the respect you gain for them is very genuine. Facing that kind of environment and still being able to think and act is truly impressive. Personally I'd dig a very deep hole and stay in it!
Millions of Facebook users could be unwittingly giving away personal information because of the way in which the social networking website's privacy settings work, researchers said this week.In astudypresented to a conference in Nuremberg, a team from the University of Cambridge's computer laboratory showed how Facebook public profiles could be used to find out personal information despite appearing to contain only a few details.The researchers used a computer programme to sift through tens of thousands of public profiles – visible to internet search engines such as Google – in order to build detailed maps of people's relationships.In the paper, calledEight Friends Are Enough, the Cambridge team pointed out that it was possible to reconstruct somebody's friends list – which Facebook calls the "social graph" – in a way that could allow marketers, governments and even criminals to understand the private relationships between different people."People don't even think this graph data, these connections between people, is private information, but it's very useful for certain kinds of individual," Joseph Bonneau, the paper's lead author, told the Guardian."It's something the intelligence services realised some time ago – when they wiretap a phone, the most useful information is who calls who, not what's actually said."Identity fraudsters and phishers – scammers who pose as one of their target's friends, encouraging them to click on a message that downloads a virus onto a computer – are among the prime candidates for abusing such information."If you have a person you're targeting, you can use the Facebook public listing to look at their friends, compromise them and then see your target's information," Bonneau said."It's a good way for marketers to get hold of your information: not your complete social graph, but enough to do what they want."In the early days of Facebook, it remained closed to non-members, reducing the chance that unsavoury elements could guess their information.But as it has sought more users and financial success, the site – which now boasts almost 200 million members worldwide – has slowly introduced more public-facing aspects.Since the middle of 2007, it has automatically made some parts of a user's profile publicly available.The resulting pages are accessible to anybody on the internet and contain a user's name, eight of their friends and details about the products and organisations they use.Although members can opt out of the scheme, their accounts are automatically made public by default.As a result, the paper suggests, just a tiny percentage of users choose to remain private and protect themselves from the attacks it describes.Facebook responded by saying that its publicly searchable pages were only introduced "after extensive privacy review"."Public search listings are a way for those users who wish to allow people to find them in search engines to share limited elements of their Facebook profile," said a spokesman for the company. "Their creation, continued presence, and the particular elements contained within them are entirely configurable by users.""Changes as to the presence or content of a public search listing may be made easily by any user on the privacy settings page."However, Bonneau said it was not in Facebook's business interests to change the way the system worked."If people weren't automatically opted in, then very few of them would choose to make themselves public – it's a useless feature for people who are already on the site," he said."They really want that feature because it encourages people who aren't members to sign up and, in the social networking world, growth is king."Regardless of Facebook's policies, however, the idea of privacy on social networks could be entirely moot in some cases.According torecent reports, the British government is planning to force internet providers and websites to retain huge swaths of online information, including the data stored on social networking sites."What we want to monitor is that so-and-so is logged on to that site and spoke to so-and-so," a Home Office spokesman told the Guardian."It's the who, when and where, not the content."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Why does my PC makes a grinding sound on boot up? It is worse in cold weather or when the PC has not been on for a week. It stops after a minute or so.Chris MyersGrinding noises are always bad news, but the most common cause is a failing fan, and that's what it sounds like. Your PC may have several fans to cool the processor, a fast graphics card, the case and the power supply (PSU).You will prob­ably need to open the case and listen to find out which fan it is. Replacements are available but if the culprit is the PSU fan, you may need to replace the whole PSU. If the noise is coming from the hard drive, make sure your work is backed up because it may be starting to fail.It may be possible to free up a fan with a tiny drop of oil (but don't use WD-40).Dan's Data has a page on fan maintenancethat will help. A UK company offers a lubricant calledFanLube, but I have no idea if this makes any ­difference.
I have purchased music for my iPod over a number of years, using iTunes on my husband's Mac. Everything on that laptop has been lost. I still have all my music on the iPod, but cannot work out how to transfer it back to the Mac.Svetlana KirovJS: Apple has a support document,Copy­ing iTunes Store purchases from your iPod or iPhone to a computer, which explains the process. Briefly, when your iPod's icon appears in iTunes, you can chooseTransfer Purchases from iPodfrom the File menu. Otherwise, a lot of iPod utilities allow you to copy files across, includingOllie's iPod Extractor 5.1, which is free.
When I tried to download AVG 8.5 it said I needed to update my Roxio Easy CD Creator. The latest version is $99, which I am unwilling to spend as I rarely use it. Is there any free software you would recommend for burning CDs/DVDs?Colin JohnsonThe clash with AVG software has often been discussed on the Roxio forums, and apparently Roxio fixed it "years ago". If you go to theRoxio software update pagethen you should be able to update the Roxio drivers.However, as you ask,CDBurnerXPis a good free Windows program that can burn CDs, DVDs, and Blu-ray BDs.
I have a Fuji digital camera with an xD card, and a Panasonic TV set with an SD slot for showing pictures. I cannot seem to get an adaptor.Doreen DanielThe xD (eXtreme Digital) card was introduced in 2002, two years after SD (Secure Digital), and is proprietary to Fuji and Olympus. There are now four different xD formats, storage is limited, and the cards are expensive. In contrast, the SD card offers more memory for less money and is used by hundreds of companies. Unless a reader knows of an adaptor, your best bet is probably to buy an all-in-one card reader such as theABCand copy your photos from the camera's xD card to an SD card.
Some years ago, I used to use Corel Draw to manipulate images, including scanned JPEG files. Is there a free download or an economical package I could use now?Howard ShawJS: CorelDraw is a vector graphics ­editor, and version 14 came out last year. If that's what you want, have a look atInkscapeandCreative Docs: both are free. If you want to do image manipulation, you might be better off withPaint.net. There are also free examples ofSerif Software's DrawPlus and PhotoPlus, which might be worth a look.
Do you have any views on the best use of a second physical hard drive with Windows? I use video editing software, which generally says that a second hard drive is fairly important.William HudsonI think the days of the second hard drive have gone, for most users. They were handy for backups when drives were smaller, and they're still useful for video rendering, where there's an advantage to having a big open space to write to. But cheap USB hard drives and network drives are now more useful options, and much easier to install.Well, does anyone have a better idea?
I bought a Philips GoGear MP3 player with ArcSoft download software. It says I can't download YouTube videos because I have not got an FLV codec.Alkesh PatelThe FLV codec is used to decode and play movies in Adobe's Flash Video format. Installing a codec such as PlayFLV should enable you to play FLV movies in Windows Media Player, and FLV codecs are generally included in the codec packs for Media Player Classic and VLC. However, this won't make the movie play on the GoGear, which uses conversion software on the PC to translate movies into the specific video format(s) the MP3 player can handle. You will have to check the manual, but it may only support Microsoft's WMV format.You can, of course, download many YouTube files manually. If the name appears as get_video in the Save As dialogue box, you should change this to something more sensible (eg Sonim-Asunaro_Ginga.flv) before saving the file. Once you have the FLV file, you can convert it yourself using a free program such as Super ©). Alternatively, you could use Wondershare's $25 YouTube Downloader, which will convert FLV files to a number of formats. Either way, choose a format that your GoGear can actually play: converting the file twice will reduce the quality.Note: This item appeared in print on Thursday 26 March, but last week I was away on a computer-free holiday....
Why is there no longer a laptop with an integral printer? In 1996 I bought the first Canon printbook and in 1999 I purchased the last version. I work in off-the-beaten-track countries and carting around a separate printer is a bind.Michael MeadowcroftI don't remember a laptop with a built-in printer since the Canon NoteJet, and I don't expect to see any new models now that wireless printing is generally simple. You might find theBrother MW-140BT Mobile Printermeets your needs, at a price. It uses Bluetooth to print on small bits of paper (roughly 4" x 3") and can automatically reduce A4 documents to A7. If not, we're waiting for the result ofBrother's takeover of Pentax's mobile printer business, mentioned in January.Note: This item appeared in print on Thursday 26 March, but last week I was away on a computer-free holiday....
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday 4 April 2009.Below we wrongly suggested that MessageLabs supplies network security for parliamentary computers and is therefore potentially responsible for a Conficker worm outbreak. In fact, MessageLabs provides parliament with messaging security and its service focuses on email threats, not worms like Conficker that infect networks by other means.A trio of news pieces for you. The Conficker worm has got into the Houses of Parliament's network and infected computers there. MPs have been told, in awritten answer, that use by them of PGP, the commercial encryption system, is "not recommended" on the parliamentary network because it is "not compatible" with its current VPN (virtual private network). And, as I write, the database of MPs' expenses is being hawked around to newspapers, for a high price.If you needed any evidence that our legislators, and more particularly those who run their computer networks, are getting a short, sharp course in computer security, then those bits of information on their own would be enough.Let's start with the fact that any computer that could connect to the parliamentary network was actually able to be infected with Conficker. That's a double failure: first, the machine (a Windows PC, obviously) didn't have its Windows Update system turned on. That means that it's either running a version of Windows XP pre-SP2 (when Windows Update was turned on by default), or that it's one of those accursed "enterprise-­managed" machines, where the admins don't like keeping them up to date because it can break custom programs. (Ignore the fact that your system is insecure; updating it is so much more hassle. Until you get hit, and learn just what hassle really is.) But let's be generous. Let's assume it was a researcher's machine or infected USB stick, rather than an internet connection to the network, that brought Conficker in.But that implies a second failure at the network layer: that whateverantivirus system was running didn't detect Conficker, and so didn'tprotect the rest of the network against it. Explanations for how thishappened are thin on the ground – in fact, nonexistent – despitenumerous requests for enlightenment from the media to PICT (theparliamentary information and communication technology department).I'm sure people are trying to work out who is going to be hung out todry for this one, and it's a safe bet that PICT and the antivirusprovider are fighting like cats in a bag to make sure the other oneshoulders the blame.If I were a backbench MP, I'd feel worried by this development. Conficker may (it's not clear at the time of writing) be able to root around your files and dispatch them across the internet. MPs have a lot of private and sensitive correspondence on their systems; through no fault of their own, the parliamentary network may have put them in breach of the Data Protection Act. And what of privy counsellors, who get access to nationally sensitive information? Was any of that on the compromised systems?But the leakage of the database of expenses shows that things have gone badly awry. Tom Steinberg, founder of MySociety, took some vicarious pleasure from MPs learning the lesson of database security the hard way, ahead of the planned introduction of ID cards. "The utilitarian in me suggests it's much better to see 650 people slightly burned than millions destroyed," he tweeted.Everyone's been very worked up about Jacqui Smith's expenses. True, there's been a lot to get worked up about. But the continued failings of the government, of parliament, and of MPs to protect their own data and systems bodes badly for the future. In a world where MPs are dissuaded from using an important privacy tool, where databases can't be secured, where important networks are open to untrammelled infection – they want ID cards? Honestly?• This article was amended on Friday 3 April 2009. We wrongly suggested that MessageLabs supplies network security for Parliamentary computers and is therefore potentially responsible for a Conficker worm outbreak. In fact, MessageLabs provides Parliament with messaging security and its service focuses on email threats, not worms like Conficker that infect networks by other means. This has been corrected.
No – just ask the users of one of the web's biggest gaming sites. In the 10 years since Filefront.com launched, it had grown to become a major destination for gaming material and notable for hosting everything from videos and screenshots to downloadable demos and software patches. It was a treasure trove for gaming geeks, and hundreds of thousands of them had uploaded their own files to the site's servers to share with fellow fans.Then, last week, the site's owners announced the unthinkable: they were closing down the site. What first looked like a cruel April Fool's joke became real when the management slipped in thecrucial details: "If you have uploaded files, images or posted blogs, or if you would like to download some of your favourite files, please take this opportunity to download them before March 30th when the site will be suspended."The announcement presented users with a huge challenge – they had just five days to grab an enormous 48 terabytes of information stored on the site.Almost immediately, plans swung into action. Overseen largely by a group offormer Filefront staff members, who realised that hundreds of thousands of users would probably not succeed in simultaneously backing up all that data, copies of the site's vast archives were painstakingly made.Although initial progress seemed slow, within a few days the team said they had successfully copied most of the information and were getting ready to shift it elsewhere. "We're good," said oneAustralia-based user, before another  said that "Filefront is dead".But while Filefront's story is a great example of how an online community was able to save itself from destruction, it is also a lesson in the potential dangers of storing lots of valuable information online.Cloud computing has become one of the great online trends: just look at the virtually unlimited storage offered by Gmail and Yahoo Mail, for example.But while many of us opt for the convenience of using cloud services and storing information on the internet, we remain largely oblivious to the problems that could be caused if that data becomes unavailable. Just six weeks ago, Gmail users around the world gnashed their teeth when the service went down for a few hours, but few quit or chose to back up their emails instead.Ceding responsibility to the cloud is a problem that was highlighted last year by the free software advocate Richard Stallman, who stirred up controversy when he told the Guardian thatcloud computing was a dangerous trapthat took away users' control of their data.Cloud advocates may scoff. After all, companies such as Google and Yahoo are unlikely to fold, aren't they? Just ask Filefront's owner – the 82-year-old media conglomerate Ziff Davis … the lights can go out any time.
China's big thinkingBritain often whines about the abject state of present-day science – the loss of the Beagle space probe, for example (China's giant step into nanotech, 26 March). I think the most important lesson we need to draw is that science is hard. It costs a great deal of money, requires the investment of considerable political capital, and must be sustained over long periods of time. And when public funds are involved, other problems must be addressed – transparent processes need to be put in place, along with widely agreed-upon benchmarks and accountability-responsibility structures.mucho-suerte.livejournal.com• Yes, there are serious concerns over materials like long, thin multi-walled carbon nanotubes. But plenty of nanoparticles are likely to be no more harmful than their non-nanoscale counterparts. The issue here though is that I was Tom's [Mackenzie, the writer's] source on nanotechnology safety, and I screwed it up – I wasn't sufficiently clear or focused to provide him with the information he needed to place the story in a sound, science-based context.I'm not beating myself up over this (too much). It happens, and in many cases less-than-perfect science coverage in the media gets absorbed into the bigger story and evens out over time – the biggest impacts being dented pride and the derision of one's colleagues.2020science.orgWell hello, AdaGreat to have Ada Lovelace, Lord Byron's daughter (Newly Asked Questions, 26 March). But how about her teacher, too, Mary Somerville. Women do need splendid role models! I'd love you to do an article in which you suggest Mary's fine statue but which has lost her name on her tomb in a closed cemetery in Naples be brought to Florence's "English" Cemetery where she could be by her husband, William Somerville. It was because of Mary's teaching that Ada could suggest to Charles Babbage using Jacquard loom cards with holes punched in them and the binomial theorem. And that I could write to you this letter.Julia Bolton Holloway,Florence, ItalyWhich road for Google?Both MixTape.me and Blip.fm have Amazon.com associate links beside each song, which is probably the best business plan in web 2.0 (Read Me First, 26 March). Rather than toss random ads for stuff we don't want on the page and cross their fingers, these sites present the immediate opportunity to buy something that, by definition, the user is interested in. This is targeted advertising done the right way, as opposed to the intrusive approach favoured by Google.newsome.org• While not dismissing the point, of all the people taking us "down the road to hell", Google ain't high on my list.twitter.com/fraserspeirsIE8 – good or bad?Jack Schofield should remember that IE8 scored a pathetic 20 out of 100 in the Acid 3 test, making it the worst browser for standards available (The new Explorer will appeal to ordinary mortals, 26 March). Calling it a "standards-based browser" is plain rubbish.James Looker,Chislehurst• I was wondering. After this week's issue should you not change the title of the Thursday supplement from 'Technology Guardian' to 'Technology Guardian (sponsored by Microsoft)'? :)Adam Wainwright,Long Eaton• The article from Jack Schofield about the new Internet Explorer read like a Microsoft press release rather than a fair and balanced piece. There is constant mention of support for current web standards, but no mention of the fact that its support is the worst of all modern browsers. Sentences like "IE8 doesn't compete with Firefox on geeky scripts" are needlessly pejorative.Jon Ramster,via email• Has Jack Schofield actually used the latest version of Internet Explorer 8? He claims in his article that it is "snappier and far more secure than IE6 &amp; IE7". Whilst it may be more secure, it is hardly snappier – unless snappier means slower. The general user consensus is that IE8 is slower than IE7 for opening new tabs.Friends disunitedHow "content producers" think they can get away with not spending money on content is baffling (Why ITV is losing Friends, 26 March).twitter.com/tom_murphy• Friends Reunited … Is anyone STILL using that?twitter.com/Vicky_BCaught on cameraI cannot work out a legitimate use for a camera "cunningly disguised as a bedroom alarm clock" (Technophile, 26 March). Or am I not devious enough?Colin Hall,Broughty FerryProgramming productioncodemonkeyramblings.comwrites (Java's not working, 26 March) that "there is nothing particularly special about the syntax or the libraries of the major dynamic languages that make them naturally better than Java". If that is the case, why do so many programmers report that their productivity increases significantly when using languages like Python or Ruby, compared with languages such as Java, C# and C++?Python and its siblings operate at a fundamentally higher level than Java, making it easier for programmers to translate their ideas into working code; however, they pay for this advantage with reduced program performance – which is why Java, C# and C++ are still needed in many situations.Nick Efford,Post townOut of the loopAnne Wollenberg is absolutely right about the provision and effectiveness of induction loops (Illegally left out of the loop, 26 March). But more attention needs to be focused on the point by Jonny Cotsen that many of the poor performers are the same people who never provide an email address for contact, expecting you to use a difficult (and often expensive) phone, made worse by the "press 1, press 2" rigmarole and eventual connection to an operator with an overseas accent who talks at high speed, and when you say you can't hear passes you to a similar colleague – I recently had five in succession from British Gas. As secretary of my local access group I regard this as equally discriminatory against disabled customers. I set out to complain to CEHR, but couldn't find an email address there either!David J Brown,York• Appeals to newspapers (including this one) for support for hearing impaired television viewers, unable to watch popular programmes on 5USA (Wire ; 30 Rock etc) owing to the channel's lack of subtitles have been fruitless.So it would be nice to see positive results from your excellent article 'Illegally left out of the loop, IT, 26 March), regarding the indifferent treatment of hearing-impaired in 'shops, banks, and other businesses'. But I won't hold my breath.Bob Jones,WorcesterFree data – sort ofBetter Connected (a DRMed copyrighted publication) tells councils to free their data (Free Our Data, 26 March).twitter.com/PSFbuzzIT challengesMichael Cross's article on the difficulties faced by the National Identity Scheme (Another grand IT project, another chance of fiasco, 19 March) doesn't put enough emphasis on a subtle distinction: that between the risk of the project being a 'fiasco' – failing to do what has been promised, in reasonable time, for proprtionate cost – and the risk of the project being stopped.From the point of view of the Home Office and its agencies, the former is meaningless: They can (and have) move the goalposts and fiddle the figures. They can (and have) keep as much as possible secret and vague, so that the project is not capable of evaluation. The only risk that matters to the scheme's management is the risk of it being stopped and of their empires shrinking or vanishing.By cutting up the project into conceptually segregated chunks for procurement, the IPS isn't reducing the technical risk to the project. It may even be increasing that risk. The chunks still have to work together, and the weakest will determine whether the grand project works.The risk that is being minimised is the risk to the unnecessary, poisonous, institution of the IPS and the jobs of its managers. Passports and other systems are being (and have been) re-engineered to provide the capacity and pretext to build the mass-surveillance systems of which ID cards form but a part. In a triumph of circular logic, it can be maintained that keeping the sub-projects going is "vital" to specifications in other fields – though those specifications were only introduced to enable the grand project.The same motive of pre-emptive fortification of the institution against political change also explains the agency's massive hiring of technical staff. Government staff are more difficult to sack than contracting firms. And the same circular logic applies: If you have a lot of project managers it is easy to maintain that they are doing something important, and keep them doing it.Guy Herbert,General Secretary, NO2IDGoogle out of viewI am surprised that some people have been able to get a response from Google at all (Ask Jack, 26 March). I have been trying for several days now to alert them to problems with Street View – via their feedback forms and report a problem. So far? Nothing – not even an acknowledgement. We live at the end of a cul-de-sac. I was standing outside my house when photographed by the Google car – so I am on it, and my neighbour's children, and all of our car licence plates: no blurring. In another nearby street – also a cul-de-sac – the same problem seems to have occurred: all number plates are clearly visible. Is this a pattern? It is clearly a flaw!John Morrison,AberdeenAmazing AmazonI love Amazon's attitude towards their cloud services (You can fire us on a minute's notice, 26 March). They piloted it, they pioneered it, they gave us what we want and they've found a whole new business – to lead in.blog.broadbandmechanics.com• I'll not condone Amazon's business practices, but your phrase '"fulfilment center" [sic]' didn't come out right (Jeff Bezos spends a week on the Amazon warehouse floor, 27 March). Presumably you're implying there's something euphemistic going on – that for some reason Amazon are trying to avoid using the word "warehouse".In the book trade, picking, despatch and delivery of orders is always called fulfilment. A warehouse is for storage, and is normally at a printer's or at a port.Whatever you feel about how Amazon treats its workers, you've got to admit that the accuracy and quality of their fulfilment is amazing – certainly it's way, way, ahead of most publishers' own distributors. They deal with huge numbers of product lines and orders really well – it's not a warehouse in the conventional sense, at all.Personally I'd applaud Bezos for getting down there and picking books – and presumably learning a lot about how his distribution works. "We wonder whether he took the same hourly pay" – do you really? Why the hell should he? Do you get paid varying rates according to whether you're writing / picture researching / editing / interviewing / reading a press release / cutting and pasting chunks of that press release into an article? No, it's all part of your job. Speaking of which, I've mine to do.Roly Allen,Lewes• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk
Before his arrest,Tom Bergestole lead roof tiles from several buildings in south-east England, including the Honeywood Museum in Carshalton, the Croydon parish church, and the Sutton high school for girls. He then sold those tiles to scrap metal dealers.As a security expert, I find this story interesting for two reasons. First, amongattemptstoban, or atleastcensor, Google Earth, lest ithelp the terrorists, here is an actual crime that relied on the service: Berge needed Google Earth for reconnaissance.But more interesting is the discrepancy between the value of the lead tiles to the original owner and to the thief. The Sutton school had to spend £10,000 to buy new lead tiles; the Croydon Church had to repair extensive water damage after the theft. But Berge only received £700 a tonne from London scrap metal dealers.This isn't an isolated story; the same dynamic is in play withother commoditiesas well.There is anepidemic of copper wiring theftsworldwide; copper is being stolen out of telephone and power stations – and off poles in the streets – and thieves havediedbecause they didn't understand the dangers of high voltage. Homeowners are returning from holiday to find the copper pipes stolen from their houses. In 2001, scrap copper was worth 70c (50p) a pound in the US. In April 2008, it was worth $4.Gasolinesiphoningbecamemore commonas pump prices rose. And used restaurant grease, formerly either given away or sold for pennies to farmers, is beingstolenfrom restaurant carparks and turned into biofuels.Newspapersandother recyclablesare stolen from pavements, andtreesare stolen and resold as Christmas trees.Iron fenceshave been stolen from buildings and houses,manhole covershave been stolen from the middle of streets, andaluminum guard railshave been stolen from roadways. Steel is beingstolen for scrap, too. In 2004 in Ukraine, thieves stole anentire steel bridge.These crimes are particularly expensive to society because the replacement cost is much higher than the thief's profit. A manhole is worth $5–$10 as scrap, but it costs$500 to replace, including labour. A thief may take$20 worth of copper from a construction site, but do $10,000 in damage in the process. And the increased threat means more money being spent on security to protect those commodities in the first place.Security can be viewed as a tax on the honest, and these thefts demonstrate that our taxes are going up. And unlike many taxes, we don't benefit from their collection. The cost to society of retrofitting manhole covers with locks, or replacing them with less re­salable alternatives, is high; but there is no benefit other than reducing theft.These crimes are a harbinger of the future: evolutionary pressure on our society, if you will. Criminals are often referred to as social parasites, but they are an early warning system of societal changes. Unfettered by laws or moral restrictions, they can be the first to respond to changes that the rest of society will be slower to pick up on. In fact, currently there's a reprieve. Scrap metal prices are alldownfrom last year (bit.ly/schneier22) – copper is currently $1.62 per pound, and lead is half what Berge got – andthefts are down too.We've designed much of our infrastructure around the assumptions that commodities are cheap and theft is rare. We don't protect transmission lines, manhole covers, iron fences, or lead flashing on roofs. But if commodity prices really are headed for new higher stable points, society will eventually react and find alternatives for these items – or find ways to protect them. Criminals were the first to point this out, and will continue to exploit the system until it restabilises.• Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer:schneier.com
Saving iPod tracksI have purchased music for my iPod over a number of years, using iTunes on my husband's Mac.Everything on that laptop has been lost. I still have all my music on the iPod, but cannot work out how to transfer it back to the Mac.Svetlana KirovJS:Apple has a support document,Copy­ing iTunes Store purchases from your iPod or iPhone to a computer(http://bit.ly/aj0152), which explains the process. Briefly, when your iPod's icon appears in iTunes, you can choose Transfer Purchases from iPod from the File menu. Otherwise, a lot of iPod utilities allow you to copy files across, includingOllie's iPod Extractor 5.1(http://bit.ly/aj0153), which is free.AVG v RoxioWhen I tried to download AVG 8.5 it saidI needed to update my Roxio Easy CDCreator. The latest versionis $99,whichI am unwilling to spend as I rarelyuse it. Is there any free software youwould recommend for burning CDs/DVDs?Colin JohnsonJS:The clash with AVG software has often been discussed on the Roxio forums, and apparently Roxio fixed it "years ago". If you go to theRoxio software update page(http://bit.ly/aj0154) then you should be able to update the Roxio drivers.However, as you ask, CDBurnerXP (cdburnerxp.se) is a good free Windows program that can burn CDs, DVDs, and Blu-ray BDs.Second hard drivesDo you have any views on the best use of a second physical hard drive with Windows? I use video editing software, which generally says that a second hard drive is fairly important.William HudsonJS:I think the days of the second hard drive have gone, for most users. They were handy for backups when drives were smaller, and they're still useful for video rendering, where there's an advantage to having a big open space&nbsp;to&nbsp;write to. But cheap USB hard drives and network drives are now more useful options, and much easier to install.PC grinding noisesWhy does my PC makes a grinding sound on boot up? It is worse in cold weather or when the PC has not been on for a week. Itstops after a minute or so.Chris MyersJS:Grinding noises are always bad news, but the most common cause is a failing fan, and that's what it sounds like. Your PC may have several fans to cool the processor, a fast graphics card, the case and the power supply (PSU).You will prob­ably need to open the case and listen to find out which fan it is. Replacements are available but if the culprit is the PSU fan, you may need to replace the whole PSU. If the noise is coming from the hard drive, make sure your work is backed up because it may be starting to fail.It may be possible to free up a fan with a tiny drop of oil (but don't use WD-40).Dan's Data has a page on fan maintenancethat will help. A UK company offers a lubricant calledFanLube, but I have no idea if this makes any ­difference.Card swappingI have a Fuji digital camera with an xD card, and a Panasonic TV set with an SD slot for showing pictures. I cannot seem to get an adaptor.P DanielJS:The xD (eXtreme Digital) card was introduced in 2002, two years after SD (Secure Digital), and is proprietary to Fuji and Olympus. There are now four different xD formats, storage is limited, and the cards are expensive. In contrast, the SD card offers more memory for less money and is used by hundreds of companies. Unless a reader knows of an adaptor, your best bet is probably to buy an all-in-one card reader such as theABCand copy your photos from the camera's xD card to an SD card.Image manipulationSome years ago, I used to use Corel Draw to manipulate images, including scanned JPEG files. Is there a free download or an economical package I&nbsp;could use now?Howard ShawJS:CorelDraw is a vector graphics ­editor, and version 14 came out last year. If that's what you want, have a look atInkscapeandCreative Docs: both are free. If you want to do image manipulation, you might be better off withPaint.net. There are also free examples ofSerif Software's DrawPlus and PhotoPlus.Backchat• Vicki Eves wanted to synchronise two PCs in different places. Martin Saunders and Rex Last recommendedSyncToy 2.0, a free Microsoft utility. "You just set it up and it synchronises quickly with two mouse clicks," added Rex. On the Ask Jack blog, two people tippedWindows Live Sync. Neil Skinner suggestedDropbox.
A 15-year-old programming whiz from Iowa and his father have created the world's first YouTube music player, mining the site's extensive library of music videos free of charge.David Nelson and his father, Mark, spent a year developing Muziic Player, a free downloadable player that allows users to organise, search, stream and create playlists from YouTube's catalogue of music clips. Since its worldwide launch last month, the player has been downloaded more than a million times, forcing them to add another server to handle the incoming requests for the player."My dad had the idea for creating a YouTube music site, but I said it should be done in a media player format," David said. "I imagined how great it would be to open up your desktop media player and have a library of millions of music videos."After giving it some thought, David realised its implementation was a definite possibility. "YouTube has a massive collection of user-generated music content, and holds contracts with the world's largest record labels that are compensated for the playback of supported media. It has undeniably the most extensive media library on the Internet."Muziic Player looks and works like iTunes, taking advantage of the content ID software built into YouTube to detect video submissions not supported by YouTube's contracts for removal. This also allows for compensation of artists and record labels that do hold contracts with YouTube. Unfortunately for UK users, YouTube's withdrawal of music videos from the UK site after a failure to reach a new licensing agreement with the Performing Right Society also applies to the Muziic Player, meaning users from the UK may be unable to view certain content with the player.But David believes his software has the ability to redefine the problems facing digital music. "Muziic fills a demand by streamlining this process and making it a whole lot easier to discover new artists and songs by using YouTube. It reinforces the idea that when done right, free, ad-supported music sharing websites and applications can provide artists and labels with full compensation and prove to be a profitable business for those streaming the content as well."But is the Muziic Player a profitable business? Although YouTube's API does not serve advertisements through the YouTube embeddable player used by Muziic, the player makes money through ads on theMuziic.comwebsite.
Gogo for AAAmerican Airlines has started installing Gogo high-speed internet on 300 of its planes.End of EncartaMicrosoft Encarta, the most successful encyclopedia on CD-Rom, will be discontinued by the end of the year.99s all roundSony has cut the price of the PlayStation 2 to $99.99 in the US and &euro;99.99 in Europe, but stays at &pound;99.99 in the UK.Capital, GoogleGoogle has launched a venture capital fund, Google Ventures, to finance "young companies with truly awesome potential".New resolutionCanon's latest EOS 500D digital SLR camera has a resolution of 15.1 megapixels and a movie mode for &pound;869.99 (body only).Glowing networkAOL is launching more than 30 websites in the MediaGlow network, the latest being a gaming site, Flytrap Games.Help defend usThe Cyber Security Challenge 2009 is offering cash prizes for technologies that can help stop terrorism "and other criminal acts in the digital/online space".Scotland with chipsA panel debate on the Future of Innovation in Scotland will be held on 16 April during the Edinburgh International Science Festival.
When the furore about Google Street View washed across the UK last month, Google must have been pleased. For a much more sinister invasion of privacy had gone unnoticed. A week before, Google had, without any fanfare, released 11 software applications for mobile phones that spell a fundamental change in our lives.Among the applications were functions such as text messaging, web browsing, a diary, Orkut - the company's social networking offering - and a program for Google Maps. Innocent enough, perhaps. But combined they would allow Google to know what you are doing all of the time. A truly Orwellian development that has been described by privacy campaigners as "a catastrophic corruption of consent".Far-fetched? Not at all.The mobile phone industry has for years seen the potential for a rich market to develop in location-based services if only it could get its customers to agree.Google, on the other hand, has decided to take advantage of that market and it has sought to do so by appearing to be helpful. The rationale is simple - offer a service for free and the customer will not notice that they have given a company the right to know where they are at any time.This is clearly the reason for the inclusion of Orkut in the package. If social networking can be united with mobile, and location can be offered as a service so friends know when they are near each other, then location-based marketing can be offered to clients.Record industry"Mobile is the key to understanding where a person is and what they have been browsing," says Neil Andrew, head of portal advertising for the mobile phone company 3, who makes it clear 3 would only do this with the consent of their customers.The industry's aim is to unite information on the customer's age, gender, web-browsing habits, home address and buying patterns with a record of their daily movements, and subject that to behavioural analysis techniques.This provides data on you - the customer - so powerful that the companies involved can predict what you are about to do next, and then sell that information to brands interested in marketing to you."Being able to predict what you do next and provide you with useful things at that moment is the holy grail," admits Shaun Gregory, the head of 02 Media.But that means that people using such services are making one of the greatest surrenders of privacy in history - which has excited warnings from senior figures in the data-mining industry."What is going on at the moment is the opening of a barn door into your personal habits," says Glyn Read, a former marketing director of SAS Institute, a leading behavioural analysis company."The value of understanding people's personal information is enormous - this will allow a form of subliminal advertising to develop," says Read, adding: "We are at the tip of an iceberg of what is possible. The real worry comes when governments start to demand access to this data."Read's comments are confirmed by his former company. "We have been working with all of the big banks and with the mobile industry on what can be achieved from mobile data," says Laurie Miles, head of analytics for SAS UK. "We can also collect data from people's voices to tell whether they are lying or not, so this gives us an opportunity to bring marketing and risk together."Up till now, the mobile phone industry has always had that information, but data protection rules have stopped it being used because their customers have not given permission for them to do so.Now, worried about a potential decline in revenue, the mobile industry wants to get around those rules. If we can be talked into signing up for our details to be used in mobile advertising, even if we don't understand what that means, then Gregory's holy grail will have been achieved.According to Informa, a market analysis company, by 2013 the global market in mobile content will be worth &pound;237bn to companies as diverse as media groups and sports manufacturers, whereas mobile advertising will only be worth &pound;8.37bn, according to the analysts Gartner, but up until now there has been a reluctance among customers to pay for data plans."One of the factors driving this sudden interest has been the increasing use of mobile broadband dongles on laptops, which has seen a sharp increase in data traffic," says Guillermo Escofet, an analyst from Informa's mobile content and applications Intelligence Centre. "The industry is looking for something that will compensate for falling revenue from voice."And there are wider implications for the market. "If you look at the potential from locational advertising and the leads you can get from that then it's larger than the content market itself. This will not be advertising as we have known it," says Andy Bovingdon, marketing director of the mobile analytics company Bango.Companies such as Nike and BT are already working on campaigns that will link the web and mobile services, for example providing you with routes to a sports event, help with parking, where you can eat and even sponsor a film for the children to watch on the way home. Blick, a UK mobile company, is already offering free airtime to those aged between 14 and 25 in return for signing up for advertising.While the mobile industry and Google are adamant nothing can happen without the customer's permission, users may not realise what they are agreeing to. If you sign up for any Google services, for instance, you are unlikely to realise you are giving permission for all of your data to be used for marketing.Google Latitude, for example, states that agreement to use the service means you are prepared to share your location with the people in your address book as well as Google, although Google states "it is not possible at the moment for us to access information from that program".The company continues: "Our terms and conditions do say we are allowed to use your information to provide you with services but there are practical considerations over whether we could do that with locational information. Our view is that we can use information to provide the services that you want."Giving them LatitudeGoogle's terms and conditions do not state directly how they will use your data, but instead direct you to a website. The company says: "We need to be accurate but rather than have a huge amount of detail on privacy and our use of user data we have put that on a separate page. There is a clear link from our home page to our privacy page." However, when we tried the link it was not active, and had to be cut and pasted into a browser.Hidden-away small print has drawn criticism from the Information Commissioner's Office. "We have launched a 'small print, big print' campaign to encourage companies to make it clear to people what they are signing up for," says a spokesman. "While what is happening at the moment may not be good practice, people are technically consenting."Google says it tries "to make it clear in all cases what we are doing with a specific program. Our policy is always that people should opt into the services we offer."But this position is not good enough for the campaign group Privacy International, which is planning to raise the matter with MPs next week. "This is a catastrophic corruption of consent. People are being told that they are signing up for marketing when in fact they are being opted into a massive surveillance strategy," says Simon Davies, director of Privacy International.SAS's Read goes even further: "People do not realise the huge potential of this information for controlling our lives. We are sleepwalking into a minefield."
The bosses of 20 of the world's largest mobile phone companies, who serve more than 1.6 billion people worldwide, have pledged to take wireless broadband services global in return for a loosening of regulation and the allocation of the required radio spectrum.In a letter to the leaders of the G20 nations, delivered yesterday, the operators and four equipment vendors, including the world's largest handset manufacturer Nokia, pointed out that the deployment of mobile broadband could create 25m jobs with no need for a government handout. "This boost to the global economy at this critical time will also enable widespread internet access, stimulating significant productivity enhancements and social benefits," the letter argues.The initiative, spearheaded by trade body the GSM Association, comes after the chairman of Telef&oacute;nica, C&eacute;sar Alierta, and the chief executive of Vodafone, Vittorio Colao, said in February that the mobile phone industry could help revitalise the global economy, given the right regulatory conditions."As mobile broadband repeats the productivity revolution of mobile phones, the global GDP impact could be a boost of 3-4%," the letter argued.The mobile phone industry is forecast to invest about $800bn (&pound;550bn) over the next five years, with $550bn of that amount earmarked for mobile broadband. But the letter said that to safeguard that investment, in order to "expand broadband extensively across the globe", it needs governments to allocate the necessary radio spectrum and also "deliver a stable, predictable and minimally intrusive regulatory environment".New radio spectrum is going to come up for sale over the next few years as part of the switch to digital television. But the mobile phone industry is trying to prevent a repeat of the auction of licences to run 3G mobile phone services which took place in the dying days of the dotcom boom. While those auctions garnered billions for Europe's governments they saddled the industry with so much debt that viable services only started in the last few years.The mobile phone companies are also increasingly concerned about tighter regulation, especially in Europe where telecoms commissioner Viviane Reding has scored some major successes. The operators have already lost a long-running battle with Reding over the cost of using mobile phones overseas and the cost of calling between mobile phone networks which has taken billions of pounds out of the industry.Signatories to the letter include Colao, Alierta, Orange chairman Olaf Swantee, AT&amp;T Mobile chief executive Ralph de la Vega, Sunil Bharti Mittal, head of Indian operator Bharti Enterprises, Deutsche Telekom boss Ren&eacute; Obermann, Phuthuma Nhleko who runs one of Africa's biggest operators MTN, and Ryuji Yamada of Japan's NTT DoCoMo.
Making waves, out of woodReuben Margolin went rafting, and watching the waves inspired him to make techno-kinetic wave sculptures from bits of wood, cardboard tubes and various "salvaged objects".New Storm in Sega worldAkihabara News visited Sega's Joypolis games arcade in Tokyo for the launch of its Storm-G machine. This isn't really a game but a bobsled simulator that turns riders upside down.Robot dancer outdoes JackoWhile England striker Peter Crouch is still trying to master the robot, the robots are outdoing Michael Jackson.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
There is a sea change in the games industry, and thank heavens to Betsy. It's no secret that the output of the games industry has hit me like a damp squib in recent years: my favourite pick in 2007 was a low-key Japanese romance and last year it was a web data tracking tool. After almost a decade working through the vast ocean of games technology, my interactive Babylon was a karaoke game. To say I was disillusioned with the populist zombie and gangster thrillers that consumers and critics crowed over was an understatement.But all that changed last week in San Francisco. The Games Developer Conference has injected new life into me, and for the first time in many years I am genuinely enthusiastic about games again. Why? Because the event proved that the old guard is being honourably discharged and the next generation of recruits - creative, inventive and innovative - is rising through the ranks.Around every corner there was evidence of countless small teams changing things and the big ideas they're using to do it: these young whippersnappers have had enough of the cranky old blockbusters with their inflated budgets and sprawling personnel. They want compact, bijoux and perfectly formed. They want a revolution.And the attendees were hungry to listen. Many sessions featured panellists with strong opinions against the status quo: I repeatedly heard people rail against the games and game cultures that would have historically meant the ends of their careers, and saw standing ovations instead of flying tomatoes.Nowhere was the shift more apparent than at the jam-packed Independent Game Festival's awards ceremony, now in its 11th year. Previously tacked on to the back of the mainstream Game Developers Choice awards, this year the IGF celebrated a crop of new stars: the teams behind World of Goo, Rom Check Fail, Flower and The Unfinished Swan. These developers' celebrated and experimental output was the result of flexibility and freedom, their popularity made possible because of socialised distribution platforms such as XBLA and PSN.The audience was elated at their newfound credibility; they were also palpably smug when their low-budget productions stood strong in competition with the AAA titles in the mainstream categories.This is the start of the next chapter in the computer games industry, no longer dominated by technological innovation but driven by new ideas and creative applications. Today's indie will be tomorrow's mainstream, but with the course the new stars are setting, I am hoping for a much more enjoyable interactive future.• This article was amended on Tuesday 7 April 2009. A commentary on the games industry went off the deep end when the author declared himself hit "like a damp squid" by the sector's failings in recent years. When correctly rendered as damp squib, this figure of speech is devoid of associations with marine life. This has been corrected.
Not so long ago, a colour laser was for those with Lehman Bros-sized printer budgets. Things have changed, and a single-pass colour laser printer such as the Dell 2130cn can be had for an affordable &pound;233 plus VAT. A laser printer would be your choice for frequent printing and also if you had to share the device: lasers are much quicker than inkjets. But inkjets can be more economical to run, especially if you take into account the power consumption - the Dell 2130cn is rated as 240V and 5A maximum.Inside the Dell resides a 400MHz processor, and 256MB of memory (expandable to 1.28GB), which is par for the course in this price range. Ditto the 20 pages a minute for black and white, and 16ppm for colour printing speed. If anything, those specifications and the 40,000-page monthly duty cycle are a little lower than what the competition offers, but still satisfactory.Putting the printer together - with the additional 250-sheet drawer, a duplexer and a Wi-Fi module at the back - was easy enough. However, those bits and pieces cost &pound;397 plus VAT, much more than the printer itself. I'm not sure how Dell justifies this, especially as having a duplexer to cut down on paper usage and wireless networking option to avoid cabling snaking around everywhere are must-buys. The software included with the printer is pretty good, with more settings and options than most people will have the patience to explore. You connect to it over USB 2.0 cable and via Internet Protocol (IP) over wired Ethernet or Wi-Fi, with or without encryption. Less impressive was the lack of Macintosh support, although with a bit of effort, the 2130cn worked with Macs over IP networking.Print quality from the 600 x 600dpi capable engine is very good overall: black type is easily legible even at ridiculously small sizes, with colour graphics looking vibrant and photographs natural, albeit not as good as the best photo inkjets. Hand-feeding envelopes and single sheets of paper was easy with the 2130cn and over a 500-page test run, I didn't experience a single jam even when using the duplexer.Toner cartridges are either expensive at &pound;32 and &pound;42 for the 1,000-page ones respectively for black and colour ones, or moderately expensive at &pound;42 and &pound;52 for the 2,500-page units. As with the add-ons, it appears Dell is making up for the low price of the printer itself with costly consumables, which mars the overall impression of solid workgroup workhorse.Pros:Good price; decent specs; good print quality; full of featuresCons:Expensive add-ons; no Mac support; power hungrydell.com
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 6 April 2009.In the article below we said that Linden Lab, the company behind the virtual world Second Life, had created a new version of Second Life that allows companies to run a private, protected Second Life server while still connecting to the main Second Life world. In fact, the current release does not allow these users to move from their private area into the public one, but an experimental version being jointly produced with IBM can.Two years ago, the virtual world Second Life was everywhere, as pundits and press alike rushed to proclaim it as the Next Big Digital Thing. Inevitably, the backlash began soon afterwards. The company behind it, Linden Lab, lost focus and fans; key staff left. Finally, last March, Second Life's CEO, creator and visionary, Philip Rosedale,announced that he was taking on the role of chairman of the board, and bringing in fresh leadership. But against an increasingly dismal background, who would want to step into his shoes?Mark Kingdon, apparently. For seven years he had been chief executive of the leading interactive marketing company Organic, founded in 1993, but was attracted to the job for two very different reasons. "From the time I was six, I wanted to be a fine artist, and I only decided to get into business when I figured I'd be a starving artist. So I look at it through the lens of the designer, and I see [Second Life] as just an incredible platform for creativity."More pragmatically, he adds: "I see what a phenomenally brilliant business model Second Life has. If you're a social media property today, your biggest challenge is figuring out how to monetise it. Because the experience and the economy are so closely linked, Second Life doesn't have the problem that other social media properties have." As a result, Linden Lab "is a company with an extraordinary balance sheet, a great and profitable revenue stream."Engineer a solutionAs well as Kingdon's general experience in running a large company, Rosedale was interested in one aspect in particular: "I come from a user experience background," Kingdon says. "In order to make Second Life a more broadly accepted experience, we have to make it a lot easier to use." Kingdon is addressing this problem by bringing in top engineers from companies such as Adobe, Intuit and Pixar. Altogether, he's hired 100 people since joining Linden Lab last May. He claims that the results are already showing."We reduced the hours lost to downtime by 50%, and I think we'll do the same again," he says, an important issue when many users were frustrated by the frequent non-availability of the service.Engineering improvements have also led to a growth in the number of concurrent users. When Kingdon joined last May, the maximum was 60,000. "It's 86,000 now," he says, "and we're projecting that it will be 100,000 concurrent by the end of the year." He also has ambitious plans for the total number of active users - defined as those who spend more than an hour a month using the service: "I'd like to see a Second Life that, instead of 640,000 active users" - today's figure - "has 6 million active users."Alongside these expansion plans, Kingdon is also reshaping the in-world experience, perhaps most dramatically with a plan to fence off "adult" content. He explains: "Our residents were asking for a more predictable experience." Or, as the official announcement put it: "Some residents are interested in pursuing certain 'adult' activities in Second Life that others would rather not casually encounter."One increasingly important group of users looking for more "predictable" experiences are companies, and it is here that perhaps the biggest turnaround in Second Life's fortunes has taken place. In 2006 - well before joining Linden Lab - Kingdon was recommending businesses explore Second Life as a marketing tool. Today, he sees things differently: "What has changed in my perception between 2006-07 and now is that I see Second Life more as a tool for collaboration and virtual meeting, and less of a large-scale branding tool."Kingdon cites two main reasons for companies' renewed interest in Second Life. "One is that a younger generation of worker is very tech-savvy, accustomed to using very flexible tools to communicate, collaborate and share. Then there's the tremendous pressure on businesses to be eco-friendly, not to travel as much and not to build physical buildings."One major technological improvement may also have contributed to the growing use of Second Life as a tool for collaboration. "Voice was a major accelerant for business and education," Kingdon says, referring to the capability of Second Life users to talk to each other in-world, using a headset. This was added in August 2007, in the teeth of some opposition. Today, more than 50% of Second Life participants are using this free service at any one time. "We're doing over 1bn minutes a month of in-world voice."Linden Lab is now aiming to build on this enthusiasm for communications: "There's been a huge amount of interest in Second Life as a collaboration and learning tool, to the extent that we've created a new product that's a behind-the-firewall product." This allows companies to run a Second Life server on their own intranet: they can still connect to the main Second Life world, but it provides them with a virtual space where confidential discussions can take place.Unreal estateThis approach seems to have supplanted Linden Lab's original idea, which was to make its server code open source to let others create compatible worlds (the Second Life viewer is already open source). Perhaps that fits in better with Kingdon's more pragmatic approach, as it ensures that Linden Lab retains full control of land sales - its main source of income - and provides it with a new revenue stream.But Linden Lab isn't the only one making real money from virtual worlds. One figure that Kingdon looks at every week is "cash-outs" - how much people take out of Second Life by cashing in the Linden dollars they make from in-world e-commerce, expected to hit $450m (&pound;318m) this year. "It's a sense of the health of the [Second Life] economy if people are able to generate a profit," he says. "I can tell you that the users generate more revenue out of the in-world economy than Linden Lab does. And we're a very nice and profitable company."After all the hype, maybe Second Life is finally starting to deliver.
The future of British government's largest digital data business, the mapping agency Ordnance Survey, looks set to enter the mainstream political agenda for the first time in a decade. On budget day, 22 April, the Treasury is expected to release the broad findings of the Shareholder Executive's review of the "trading fund" model of funding agencies such as Ordnance Survey and the Land Registry.The review is likely to shine a spotlight on anomalies created when government bodies function as businesses in the digital economy. It will present ministers with three choices - outright privatisation, a move to supplying data at marginal cost ("free data") or splitting the organisation up.Although several ministers are in favour of the free data model, plans for any such move will face a frosty reception.In an interesting twist, the government has revealed that, in the financial year that ended on Tuesday, it will require Ordnance Survey to increase its notional "profit" by 11%, to a 6% return on capital employed. The figure was revealed in answer to a parliamentary question by Adam Afriyie, the Conservative shadow innovation minister.On the Free Our Data blog, Michael Nicholson, chairman of the public sector information users' club Locus, comments that this figure greatly underestimates OS's returns. "Is this fair, or a form of indirect taxation?" he asks.Whatever the findings of the Shareholder Executive's review, Ordnance Survey is likely to use its ability to generate cash returns as an argument for continuing as a trading fund. However, the agency's apparent profitability will encourage calls for outright privatisation.Meanwhile, in the latest challenge to OS from web technology, an aerial photography firm this week unveiled a do-it-yourself mapping product.The People's Map, peoplesmap.com, allows users to create their own maps by drawing over aerial photographs. Getmapping, the company behind the venture, described the product as "the democratisation of the mapping process".The product appears to fall halfway between official Ordnance Survey developers' products and free "Wiki" type products such asopenstreetmap.org. A big selling point is simple licensing terms. The company says that maps generated on the system will be free for private non-commercial use apart from a delivery charge of &pound;25. Commercial users will have "fair perpetual licensing arrangements ... and entirely free of third party copyright" - a reference to the byzantine intellectual property regime surrounding many products containing OS-derived data.
From bloggers to major news outlets, content creators the world over are struggling to bring in enough cash to keep their businesses going. Micropayments have failed, online subscriptions are viable for only a minority of specialist publications, and advertising can be a hit or miss affair for smaller publishers.But one American startup,Kachinglebelieves it has a way to enable readers to financially support blogs and news sites they regularly visit with just a click.Medal winnersAfter registering with Kachingle, users decide on a maximum monthly donation, currently set at $5 (£3.50). When they see something they like, they simply click on the Kachingle "medallion" to initiate a donation. Kachingle tracks their reading habits, tots up how many times they visit each favoured site and divvies up the money proportionally at the end of the month.It's equally simple for site owners, who just need a PayPal account and a snippet of code to display the Kachingle medallion. The revenue split gives content providers 80% of the donations, with the rest covering Kachingle's costs and PayPal fees.But why would people choose to pay for content when they don't have to?Cynthia Typaldos, Kachingle's founder and chief executive, believes that the subtle peer pressure of seeing others donate will be a key driver. She citesstudies(PDF) that show people donate more to buskers if they see someone else give money first - eight times more, in fact."What's missing on the web are these social signals that people are extremely sensitive to. We believe we've got a mechanism to take those social signals and put them online," she says.When the service launches in June, a Facebook application will let users share the sites they publicly support. For each site, donors can choose to use their real name, a pseudonym or to remain anonymous.Typaldos believes that this declaration of support will become a significant part of people's identity, in the same way as music playlists on Last.fm or bookmarks on Delicious.When people give money, Typaldos says, "in return they get something: status, recognition and association that they can display to their peers or to the public. It says, 'This is who I am; this is what's important to me'."Kachingle is attractive to bloggers such as Simon Perry, editor of theDigital Lifestyles websiteand co-founder of two hyperlocal blogs for the Isle of Wight:VentnorBlogandOnTheWight. "I can't see a reason not to be involved with it," Perry says. He has tried a number of revenue models for his blogs, including Google text ads, donations, subscriptions, display ads and sponsorship, but without much success."Income is so hard to come by," he says, "so why not? This idea of 'Just run a blog and make a living' is a fallacy."Even though VentnorBlog gets more than 85,000 unique visitors each month, advertising revenue isn't covering costs. Google ads, he explains, are too general for a local audience and local businesses don't yet understand why it is important for them to advertise online.Typaldos says bloggers aren't the only people interested in Kachingle. She's had enquiries from a range of media companies, including newspapers, television and radio stations. But Charlie Beckett, director of the Polis thinktank at the London School of Economics, is not sure the concept will appeal to British media organisations. "It's very clever," Beckett says. "But the American market is very different from the British market, not just in the way that their media is structured, but people's relationship with it. I don't think we have the same voluntarism, the idea that you're active with your dollars."I can see it working in the blogosphere," he adds, "but I can't see it getting much purchase with the mainstream media corporations here."Bringing down the paywallBeckett says the idea is counter-intuitive. Publishers are often more attracted to paywalls than to opening up their content, but paywalls cut content off from Google and prevent what Clay Shirky calls"superdistribution", "content moving from friend to friend through the social network, far from the original source of the story". Paywalls also severely damage advertising revenue, and the income from subscriptions or micropayments is often less than could be earnt from the same content through ads.Unlike micropayments and subscriptions, Kachingle works alongside advertising, and has virtually no "mental transaction cost" - users don't have to decide if an article or site is worth the fee the publisher is asking. Users don't even have to delete sites they no longer wish to support - if they don't visit the site, it doesn't qualify to receive any cash from them.There's no doubt that Kachingle is going to be popular with content producers, but it remains to be seen whether people will "sprinkle change on" the content they love - as their slogan goes - or if they will keep their coins in their pocket.
Wikipedia looks more and more Jimmy Wales's one great success - because his other ideas aren't shining just now. In ablogposthe has announced that he is closing Wikia Search, which aimed to be a wiki-fied version of, well, a search engine, and compete with Google for all those lovely advertising revenues.That's not quite how the blogpost puts it, though. Instead, the title is "doing more of what's working", and begins "If there is one thing that I've learned in my career, it's to do more of what's working, and less of what's not."You can guess which of those Wikia Search fell into. The trouble seems to be that costs far outstripped revenues. And in this sort of economic climate, that's not a good thing. Here's how he dropped the axe:"..while I personally believe in the opportunity for free software to make serious inroads into the search space, our project, Wikia Search, has not been enjoying the kind of success that we had hoped.In a different economy, we would continue to fund Wikia Search indefinitely. It's something I care about deeply. I will return to again and again in my career to search, either as an investor, a contributor, a donor, or a cheerleader.But for now, we will be closing the doors on the Wikia Search project (as of March 31, 2009) and will be re-directing and refocusing resources on other Wikia.com properties, especially on Wikianswers.Seth Finkelstein, one of our regular columnists who keeps a close eye on all things wiki-related, had foreseen problems ahead when he wroteremarked in May 2008in Technology Guardian thatIt's important to keep in mind the distinction between the startup company Wikia Inc, with $14m (£7m) of venture capital, and the nonprofit Wikimedia Foundation that runs Wikipedia. Wikia was created by several high-level people involved in Wikipedia to commercialise similar concepts. But there is no significant financial connection between the for-profit Wikia and the charity that is the Wikimedia Foundation. However, Wikia benefits enormously from a "halo effect" due to Wikipedia's prominence and name recognition.And thatBy now it's a standard caution on Wikia Search that it's competing against an incumbent (Google) which is an overwhelming world leader, and very powerful second-tier rivals (Yahoo, Microsoft). With this in mind, it's worth remembering that many other initiatives hyped by Wikia have ended in failure. "OpenServing", a hosting service where site creators kept advertising revenues, has beenabandoned. A political website, "Campaigns Wikia", now demonstrates apathy. An effort to develop a "Blogger's Code Of Conduct" died as soon as the corresponding story faded away (Accusations of sex and violence were bound to grab the headlines, Guardian April 2007).And, Finkelstein added, when you get into the search engine space, you're playing against professionals:One of the drivers of Wikipedia is that skill at writing passable encyclopedia articles is common, and not restricted to a tiny academic elite. And people can be induced to work for free with the thought that they are then like those academics. But that trick doesn't work for search engines, as expertise at writing a decent search engine is rare. The problems Wikipedia has, with incentives for people to slant its articles, pale in comparison to the financial rewards that can accrue to a site which has the top spot in a search on a lucrative term. Compare the amount of money devoted to search engine optimisation with the much smaller field of public relations with Wikipedia.With that in mind, it's only remarkable that Wikia Search managed to go on so long - 15 months in all. Back in October, Wales was saying that its search API was "like Facebook Apps for search results". Well, we all know that those aren't necessarily profitable either.You can get quite a good view backward from bombast to whimper by aTechmeme search on the topic. But I think we can probably agree that this dog ain't gonna hunt no more.
If my liver had fists, it would be pounding them on the mat and begging for mercy. I hurt, I'm covered in strange bruises, I have no idea what day it is – and in about half an hour, I'm heading out again. It's Webmission week, and the Brits have invaded San Francisco.Webmission, in case you're not one of the 20-ish companies attending, is a five-day school trip for UK-based web companies who want to find out how things are done on this  side of the Atlantic. During the day, meetings are arranged between British and American company founders, trips are organised to visit the giants of technology (Google, Microsoft, Oracle ...) and lunches are hosted by lawyers, accountants and the like to pitch for new business and generally build some kind of special relationship 2.0. And then in the evening are the parties.Oh, the parties. My last vivid memory from yesterday evening was watching Jake fromTactile CRMstanding on a bar at the Wordpress party, pouring tequila into the gaping mouth of Mike Butcher fromTechcrunch. Meanwhile across the bar, one entrepreneur – who should probably remain nameless – was making plans to take one of the barmaids home, while another – who definitely should – was failing to gain support for his belching competition. An hour or so later, with the Brits having drunk the bar dry, we decided to move things on to the Beauty Bar on Mission St, but not before someone handed me a black bag containing something heavy."What's in there?" I asked."A wooden duck.""Why have you got a wooden duck in a black bag?""Because otherwise they'll realise we're stealing it."It's perhaps little wonder that British entrepreneurs have a reputation for playing at least as hard as they work – and work hard they certainly do; before each evening's debauchery comes a 12-hour day packed with meetings, pitches and presentations. Last year Webmission lead to countless partnerships between British and American companies and there's no reason to expect that Webmission 2009 will be any less productive. Of course, as someone who doesn't have a job and who should never again be allowed within a million miles of a business, I couldn't care less about partnerships.For me, Webmission is all about friends visiting town, giving me the excuse to act like a tourist – and on that front I haven't been disappointed. On Saturday, a group of us walked across Golden Gate bridge to visit Sausalito – stopping on the way to buy a cuddly seal that we decided to name Heidi Klum. This lead to a delightful moment the next morning when a puzzled lawyer from Orrick overheard Andy fromHuddlesay to me: "Hey Paul, guess who I have in my hotel room? Heidi Klum!""Excellent," I replied, "I wondered where she'd got to. Last I remember, we were in that bar and I had her in my mouth."But by far my best new experience of the week – better even than experiencing myfirst earthquakeon Monday – was making my first trip to campuses of both Microsoft and Google. The Googleplex is particularly ridiculous – not least because no one appears to actually do any work there. Instead the approximately 10,000 Googlers (their word, not mine) spend their days eating free lunches, playing volleyball, cycling around and – more than any of that – playing with dogs. In fact, as we arrived Andy noticed a dog tied to a post at the entrance, presumably for the use of anyone who didn't have one of their own to play with. (At other companies, they have hot desks – at Google they apparently have hot dogs.) Also, right in front of the campus is a gigantic metal shark fin. Presumably if one day the Googlers arrive at work and find that the whole building has jumped to the other side of it, they'll know it's time to look for another job.Things were even stranger inside – in the reception area a huge screen scrolls though an endless list of search terms that people around the world are entering, and a weirder insight into humanity you couldn't wish for. In the five minutes it took for our group to sign in, I saw at least a dozen phrases that made me laugh out loud including: "archdiocese background check", "girls and corpses", "HOW TO REPORTS CAPITAL" (in capitals) and "selling a body on eBay". That last one was my absolute favourite, not least because a few moments later up popped the term "weight of a pint of human blood" – presumably to help the seller estimate the shipping costs for his corpse. Girls and corpses, incidentally, brings up 5.3m results on Yahoo! – as Jake discovered when he used the computer in Google's reception to check.The real purpose of our trip was a Q&amp;A with a team of Googlers including programmers, business development people and a chap from mergers and acquisitions. This would have been slightly more fruitful were the people from Google actually allowed to answer any questions. The ironies piled on top of ironies as were treated to a lecture on how mobile, location and integrating with the iPhone were huge areas for the company, prompting Jake to ask why, if those were really priorities, Latitude didn't actually work on Apple's device. His follow up question about why companies had to pay to use the Google ads API was totally ignored, as were questions from the floor about what Google's strategy was for Enterprise and whether they were planning to add any new functionality to Google apps. (I for one would like to see a talking paperclip.)While all this stonewalling was going on, the Googlers were standing in front of a Powerpoint slide which read "There are some questions even Google can't answer", which lead me to ask the business development chap whether there any questions Googlecouldanswer. "Yes," he answered before going on to apologise for not being allowed to give us copies of the slides and reminding us that photography wasn't permitted anywhere inside the building. Google, you'll recall, is a company that is currently taking photographs of the entire world, without asking anyone's permission.Realising that we were going to get nothing useful from the Googlers, Oli Barrett and I went in search of a security guard. As any good journalist knows, if you want the real dirt on a company, you need to speak to a security guard. The guard we found didn't disappoint; when I asked him what his favourite part of the job is, he immediately pointed to a nondescript looking building on the opposite side of the courtyard. "That building over there. That's the marketing building, and it's where they keep all the girls – everywhere else it's just dudes.""We should go there," I suggested."We should," he agreed, "it smells of springtime."Oli had a question too: what's the worst thing he has to deal with at Google? The guard thought for a while, furrowed his brow and said – without a flicker of a smile – "sometimes a lawyer chicks gets hit by a car."And with that, it was time to get back on the bus and head a few miles down the road to Microsoft. And if Google was like visiting Willy Wonka's chocolate factory (certainly I'm prepared to believe that all of the work at Google is done secretly by Oompa Loompas) then Microsoft was more akin to wandering on to the set of a very boring corporate training video. And yet, and yet ... like at Google, everything at Microsoft was so bang on stereotype that it was hard to believe they weren't taking the piss. First we were ushered into the windowless, grey conference room and immediately forced to accept a cookie – a chocolate chip one – before being told that that we couldn't access the wireless network as we didn't have passwords. A couple of the group tried anyway and were met with an on-screen warning that "attempted use by an unauthorised person will result in criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law". Our host then apologised for being sniffly as she was suffering from a cold. I shit you not – the woman from Microsoft had a virus. Another amusing similarity to Google was the complete lack of information shared – although, to be fair, the Q&amp;A was pretty interesting; not because anything useful was imparted (it wasn't) but because it gave a real insight into the gallons of corporate bullshit that slosh about under the floors of Microsoft HQ. "The big question we ask ourselves," our host said in response to one question, "is 'how does Microsoft decompose the landscape.'""What the fuck does that even mean?" I whispered to Jake who was eating a bowl of complimentary pineapple. "Nothing," he replied, accurately. Questions about future products were met with silence and everything else was so wrapped up in bizarre acronyms and corporate-speak as to rendered utterly meaningless. Still, at least we were each given a $120 gift certificate for use in the Microsoft store and a free copy of the book Founders At Work – a generous, if slightly odd, gift given that it was recentlyrevealedthat the section on Hotmail co-founder Sabeer Bhatia was complete bollocks. The icing on the cake came right at the end of the visit when we were told that all the information we'd been given was off the record – something I'd feel more bad about completely ignoring had we actually been given any information.Back on the coach, I asked a couple of the entrepreneurs what they thought of the two visits. The response was unanimous: they were absolutely fascinating. In telling us absolutely nothing whatsoever, each in their own unique way, Google and Microsoft had actually spoken volumes about how they operate. And, in many ways, that same thing could be said for the whole of Webmission. Sure the meetings and networking are useful, and the majority of the field trips informative, but more important than any of that is that the visit allows British companies to see how their Valley counterparts really work.That's the reason why UK Trade And Investment sponsor the trip; they hope that when UK entrepreneurs see the drive of Valley entrepreneurs and are able to meet the giants of the industry, they'll go home and continue to create a home-grown version of Silicon Valley.And that's precisely half what's happening. It's absolutely impossible to come here as a technology entrepreneur and not be inspired, like visiting Milan if you're in fashion,  or South Africa if you're a racist. But like visiting those other places, you don't go home and think "I'm going to try to replicate that" - that would be idiotic. What you think is "this is amazing, I'm going to move here and be part of it." And sure enough, at least three people I've spoken to on the trip have decided they want to relocate permanently, while I suspect a few others will be spending a large amount of their time visiting. All of which, of course, is going to irritate the hell out of UKTI but, as someone who made the trans-Atlantic leap exactly a month ago today, is music to my ears.After all, as my poor battered liver will testify, San Francisco is a fun city – but it's a billion times more fun when the Brits are in town.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com
Greenpeace has accused three of the world's biggest PC manufacturers of failing to live up to their promises to make more environmentally friendly computers.Hewlett-Packard, Dell and Lenovo have all been singled out in a report from the environmental campaign group, which claims they have failed to deliver new machines that do not depend so heavily on toxic chemicals."HP, Lenovo and Dell had promised to eliminate vinyl plastic (PVC) and brominated flame retardants (BFRs) from their products by the end of 2009. Now they've told us that they won't make it this year," Greenpeace said in its latestGuide to Greener Electronics report."The phase-out of toxic substances is an urgent priority to help tackle the growing tide of e-waste. Still, producers only go green when they feel public and consumer pressure to do so," it continued.Indeed, computer companies are facing a different kind of pressure thanks to the recession – which analysts say has causedthe biggest slump for the industry in its history.Despite such a slowdown, however, hundreds of millions of PCs are still sold every year. In the last quarter alone, the three companies singled out by Greenpeacesold more than 30m computers around the world.Given such high sales volumes, the use of toxic components can have a devastating environmental impact – particularly in west African countries that accept vast amounts of electronic waste from Europe and the US, in contradiction with international regulations.As a result of the west's decision to export e-waste, cities such as Lagos, Nigeria, and Accra, Ghana, play home tohuge toxic dumps full of discarded computers and electronic devices, where scavengers – often children – attempt to extract the metals in order to resell them.Since 2006, Greenpeace has monitored companies' promises to reduce the number of toxic components and has noted a gradual improvement from many electronics manufacturers.The Finnish mobile phone giant Nokia currentlyleads in Greenpeace's rankings, after keeping up with plans to reduce its CO2 emissions. The Japanese videogames company Nintendo remains bottom of the rankings for its approach to e-waste and a lack of transparency.The PC makers lost position after pushing back plans to introduce greener products. Lenovo said its line of eco-friendly laptops would be delayed until 2010, while HP and Dell – the world's two largest computer makers – have put similar schemes on indefinite hold.Some brands, however – including Apple and the Taiwanese manufacturer Acer – have made significant progress in reducing their long-term impact on the environment. This, said Greenpeace, should stand as an example to others."If Apple can find the solutions, there should be no reason why other leading PC companies can't," said Iza Kurszewska, who leads the organisation's campaign against toxics. "All of them should have at least one toxic-free line of products on the market by the end of this year."Presented with Greenpeace's concerns, a spokeswoman for Hewlett-Packard did not directly address the accusations. Instead, she said that "the Greenpeace report confirms that the electronics industry as a whole continues to make progress"."For decades, HP has adopted practices in product development, operations and supply chain that are transparent and help reduce its environmental impact," she said, adding that the company would "continue its efforts".Dell and Lenovo did not respond to requests for comment.
The antivirus industry's worst nightmare has come true - again. After weeks warning us that the Conficker worm (aka downadup) might set off an internet conflagration when millions of infected Windows PCs started looking today for new control codes, the worst possible thing has happened:Nothing.Conficker worms causing havoc? Distributed denial of service (DDos) against Google, Yahoo, Microsoft? Nope. Huge screens at the G20 conference taken over by images of a laughing Joker? Nope.That was already becoming clear by mid-afternoon on Tuesday, when clocks in New Zealand and Australia tripped over to midnight, and.. nothing happened.That doesn't mean that Conficker doesn't have the potential to turn into a harmful botnet - only that it's not doing anything today. As F-Secure, one of the calmer security companies out there,pointed outahead of the unrest, there was probably going to be nothing to see. "In summary: Conficker has activated. So far nothing has actually happened," its researchers commented.Other parts of the antivirus/internet security industry aren't taking this lying down, of course, and doesn't want you to either. "With millions of computers already infected by the virus, and the number of people joining the internet rising daily, the potential of the virus to cause havoc is great," said Rob Cotton, chief executive of the independent IT security advisors  NCC Group. "While today didn't give us the dramatic showdown that some people anticipated (although there is still time yet...), it should serve as a timely reminder for everyone to check and upgrade their security provisions."Cotton added: "If and when the virus does turn against us, there is still no way of knowing at this point what form it could take – we could be talking about anything from DDoS attacks to major disruption."Ah yes, Major Disruption, frequently seen about the place in the company of General Panic. The problem with Conficker is now twofold: first, after all this buildup, people are going to find it hard in future not to think that the security industry is crying wolf over such a threat. (It's happened before, withMichelangelo, MyDoom, and Storm.)But equally, that means that people get lax about security - thinking that since they didn't see anything dramatic happen when the last one blew around, that means that it's not important.The reality of course is that it is important to keep your computer patched (via Windows Update) and that these infected machines can be used as botnets (one botnetsucked up 15% of Yahoo's search capacity, sending random search queries to insert into spam emails so that they would defeat spam filters). And they can also pry into your computer, since they haveaccess to pretty much any file that isn't encrypted:Researchers from U.K.-based security firm Prevx found ...a Web site used as a stash house for data from 160,000 infected computers before it was shut down this month.The find offers a case study on just how much data criminals are stealing every day, from the utterly inconsequential to the alarmingly private.It also shows the difficulty in shuttering criminals' ID-theft beachheads: The Web site that Prevx found, which was operating on a server in Ukraine, was still online for nearly a month after security researchers alerted the Internet service provider and law-enforcement authorities. The site was sucking up data from 5,000 newly infected computers each day.The victims in the Prevx find are mostly everyday people handing over their passwords for Facebook and banking sites, along with their love notes and other e-mails. But more dangerous personal information is there, too, including Social Security numbers and other account information from one bank's infected computer.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Ok, it's Wednesday and the weekend still feels a long way off. What better way to get through today then a classic PS3/360 stat fight? Oh, go on then. Edge Online have been crunching review stats and come up with some goodies. The most interesting is that since launch in 2005 around13% of Xbox 360 titleshave review scores of 85% or higher. This compares to17% of PS3 games.At the other end, 38% of 360 releases have scored 65% or lower compared to 30% of PS3. Clearly you need take total release numbers into account. The 360 has more titles than the PS3 so the 13% of 85%+ 360 games is actually a higher individual release total (48) than the PS3's 17%  (36).  So what does this all mean?  Does the PS3 have "better" games than the 360 or just fewer terrible ones? Or is this just an easy excuse to start a PS3/360 debate on a Wednesday morning?
Possibly – and the news that the company's chief financial officer, Gideon Yu, isparting ways with the social networking sitehas certainly set tongues wagging in Silicon Valley.While Yu's decision to leave is easily explained in terms of old-fashioned office politics - Facebook has alreadyseen some turmoil at the top, and his relationship with other executives has beendifficult- most people seem to be focusing on another detail.According to the company's official statement:"We are grateful to Gideon for his contributions to Facebook and what we are trying to accomplish. Despite the poor economic climate, we are pleased that our financial performance is strong and are well positioned for the next stage of our growth.""We have retained Spencer Stuart to lead our search for a new CFO and will be looking for someone with public company experience."The clue is in the last three words:public company experience. According to various commentators and tech blogs, the conservative Yu's departure and the subsequent job search is a surefire sign that Facebook is preparing to float on the stock market."Here comes the IPO", said Barron'sTech Trader Daily, whileMashablesuggests it "would set the stage for an IPO".In normal times, this wouldn't be much of a surprise. After all, companies funded by venture capital usually follow one of two strategies to keep their investors happy: sell for big money to another company, or launch on the stock market and instantly make millions (or even billions).But even if Facebook's investors – who includePayPal alumnus Peter Thielas well as venture capital firms Accel, Greylock and Meritech - are thinking about how to cash out, there's one real question: who would think about going public at a time like this?After several torrid months, both the Dow and the Nasdaq are currently trading down around 30% from last summer – and, if you're looking for historical precedents, it took at least three years (and arguably many more) for the markets to recover after the 1929 crash.Even if the circumstances weren't so dire, they wouldn't necessarily be pressed hard, either. Arch-capitalist investor Thiel revealed that he isn't always keen on IPOs a few years ago, when hetold the Economistthat stock flotation was a "tremendous distraction" thanks to all the paperwork, quarterly reports, annoying shareholders and the like.So why the excitement? Well, Facebook definitely has ambitions. It could be planning ahead.But the truth is that Silicon Valley's bullish investors and sunshine-smiled optimistsneedthis story. They were among thelast people to take notice when the economy started to collapseand they want to be the first to emerge from the other side.And where would they be left without such hopes? Watching their wealth evaporate, and seeing the dotcom entrepreneur's dream – of going public and rolling in money – on the floor in tatters.Americans may get upset over the government's attempts to separate them from their money or their guns, but in Silicon Valley – one of the wealthiest places in the country – the one thing you can't take away is the dream of making millions.Whether or not Facebook is really looking to go public, we do know one thing: whatever it would be worth on the open market, given thecollapse in founder Mark Zuckerberg's theoretical fortune, it's highly unlikely that it will ever be worth as much as they want it to be.
Aleks KrotoskiandBobbie Johnsontalk through the news and the trends from this year's Games Developers Conference. Speaking with games industry doyensMedia Molecule, creators ofLittle Big Planet, they explore the mainstream use of indie game models, and how the web has influenced games makers. Alex Evans and Mark Healy offer their views on what they did right, and what they did wrong.  You canwatch a longer version of the interview here.There's also stories from the games expo floor, dissecting the next set of hotly anticipated releases (Invincible Tiger, Metal Gear Solid 5, Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks), the gadgetry such as 3D gaming and the rise of new developers in the ranks of the gamerati. Who's being replaced? Who's standing tall? It's all revealed.There's also news and your feedback - including your sightings of yourselves on the Google Street View camera - here'sJo PottsandDaniel PaceyandKristian Tapaninaho.  If you see yourself, send in your links...Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The motive behindthe Conficker wormmay not be known, but it&nbsp;may be aimed at creating one of the largest existing examples of a so-called "botnet" – a huge network of compromised computers that can be controlled remotely to act together simultaneously.Criminals use botnets to conduct illicit activity – such as sending spam emails or bringing down computer networks – while being able to hide their identities. Many of the largest botnets are still operational – among them Kraken, a network of compromised machines consisting of around half a million computers worldwide.One of the most active botnets, known as Srizbi, consists of around 450,000 computers that have been compromised by a program of the same name. The network received a blow last year when the servers that hosted it were taken down – but Srizbi is still able to send up to 60bn spam messages every day.Last year investigators shut down a botnet known as Mega-D, which was largely run out of America. According to estimates by the US Federal Trade Commission, at its height Mega-D was responsible for sending as much as 35% of the world's spam email – largely to advertise fake herbal pills.One of the most famous networks, Storm, has been in existence for at least two years and is used to conduct a variety of criminal activities. Experts dispute the size of Storm's network – with estimates varying from around 150,000 computers into the millions – but despite the fact that it is one of the most well-known examples of a botnet, its creators have never been found.
Forget family bonding over virtual bowling, the real legacy of the Wii could be the rebirth of the point-and-click adventure game. Popular in the early 90s with titles such as Monkey Island, adventure games were a cerebral, narrative-driven experience that fell out of favour as 3D gaming took over. But now the Wii and DS have combined intuitive controls and mainstream audiences to create the perfect platforms for the revival. Broken Sword is the best example yet.This version of the classic mid-90s adventure retains the surprisingly engaging plot – think Da Vinci Code, but better – but spices things up with some interesting new takes on the puzzles. For example, you use the Wiimote to manipulate a torn photo. The controls generally work fantastically well, especially on the Wii. Only some occasionally weak graphics and the odd obtuse conundrums detract, but Broken Sword is worth revisiting
Common sense would suggest that the act of crunching a game as huge and sprawling as GTA down to fit on a Nintendo DS cartridge would result in a loss of its essential character, but that would be an underestimation of Rockstar Games's consummate skills.Chinatown Wars returns to the top-down roots of the original GTA games. You play Huang Lee, son of a murdered Hong Kong gangster dispatched to Liberty City to deliver a ceremonial sword to your Uncle Kenny, who is looking to fill an impending void as leader of the city's Triads. On arrival, you're relieved of the sword and kidnapped; an impressively extensive string of missions for the ineffectual Kenny and his Triad rivals ensues.Although the D-pad and buttons are used for driving and shooting, Chinatown Wars makes impressive use of the DS's touchscreen for tasks such as hot-wiring cars, making and throwing petrol bombs, searching dumpsters for guns, giving people tattoos and so on. There's also a drug-dealing system reminiscent of a nicer-looking Dope Wars. Every bit as addictive as its next-gen siblings, this is an essential purchase as long as you're over 18.
Devised by and starring Vin Diesel, Wheelman is an action driving game that tasks you with boosting and delivering high performance cars all across Barcelona. Your shady clients phone in their instructions, leaving you to avoid police attention long enough to meet their demands – sometimes armed and on foot, but usually driving like a lunatic. If you pull off enough takedowns or manoeuvres, you can trigger bullet-time sequences – including slow-motion crashes and in-car shootouts. Wheelman is a fun ride, but plays like Crazy Taxi and lacks the style, depth and credibility of GTA, which it clearly aspires to. Mind you, your Vin-like hero does look better than most.
Last week I was in New York to get a hands-on with EA's Godfather II game, which I'll cover later. While there, however, I used a few hours of free time to visit an art exhibition at the Japan Society, entitledKrazy: The Delirious World of Anime + Manga + Videogames. Running until June 14 it's a small but carefully put together snapshot of Japanese pop culture, introducing key figures, and providing simple but informative notes on major influences and stylistic landmarks.But it's the videogame section I really enjoyed. Co-curated by Will Wright, it focuses on just three games, Pac-Man, Super Mario World and Legend of Zelda, but portrays them with genuine insight…The wall text about Pac-Man, for example, mentions that for many players, the game represented their first interactions with a joystick; consequently creator Toru Iwatani, drew elements of the interface from everyday life, "such as playing tag or mowing the grass". This might be common knowledge but it's new to me and it's a neat insight into the concerns of the first game designers. Wright also writes about how this was the first game to use sound to heighten the emotional experience – the music speeds up when the ghosts approach, while conversely, the sound of eating dots is somehow deeply satisfying and calming. It's the sort of thing we take for granted these days, but in the late-seventies, every tiny step forward in audio visual implementation made a huge impact on the industry.Wright's stuff on Super Mario World is great too. He writes about how the game is a perfect example of emergent design, whereby simple elements work together to create complexity. When Mario hits a box with his head a mushroom comes out, when he stomps a turtle it withdraws into its shell – these are predictable rules, but combined they produce complex systems. Again, this kind of interaction is now buried under years of design iteration, but it's all still there; the basic rules that Miyamoto put together are still governing the likes of Prince of Persia and Uncharted.My favourite part though, is the analysis of Legend of Zelda, which Will Wright explains in grammatical terms. He sees the weapons as nouns and your movement and attack options as verbs. When you pick up the sword, then the boomerang, then the baton, your vocabulary increases, and allows you to go back and explore more possibilities in previous game areas. It's a really simple but fascinating attempt to project the linguistic theories of Ferdinand de Saussure onto videogame structure and quite a useful way of thinking about really fundamental game design. Also, the exhibition had playable demos of all three games, including a tabletop two-player Pac-Man.The manga and anime sections were interesting too, especially for the insight they provided into the influences behind Japanese game design. There were original comic book panels by Hisashi Eguchi, the artist who effectively paved the way for the whole J-Pop phenomenon through effervescent works like Susume!! Pirates and Stop!! Hibari-kun!, and by mecha innovator Mamoru Nagano, who employed delicate curves and long lines to create incredibly graceful mech models, influencing a whole generation of mech combat games. In the anime room, a curve of six giant screens showed each of the featured works, including essentials like Akira, Patlabor and Macross.I've been to a couple of manga exhibitions in the UK, but nothing with such a heterogeneous approach to the whole culture. I wonder if I can convince them to send it all over to the Guardian's new exhibition space?
The Amazon Kindle 2's release in February was attended by much fanfare and controversy: Kindle customers were delighted to discover that Amazon had upgraded the Kindle's feature-set so that it could use a credible text-to-speech synthesiser to read the books  aloud.This set off the Authors  Guild (an organisation that is also on record as opposing making books searchable through Google, and making used books available through Amazon), who claimed that Amazon was in violation of copyright, since only the rightsholder could authorise an "audiobook adaptation" of a book.As a point of law, I think that the Authors Guild is just wrong here, for the obvious reasons that:1. It's not an infringement for a Kindle owner to use technology privately to modify a copyrighted work. If you own a painting, you can take a photo of it to carry around in your wallet – without paying the painter any extra. You can rip your CDs at home without the musician's permission.And you can use a technology to convert an ebook to a text-to-speech audiobook in your home without paying the author or getting his or her permission. The question gets murkier if we're talking about selling or giving away those photos, MP3s, and audio editions, but that's not what the Guild objects to — they say that the conversion itself infringes copyright.2. Even if I'm wrong and itisan infringement to convert an ebook to a text-to-speech reading, Amazon's hands are clean, because the infringer is the person who presses the "read aloud" button – that is, the Kindle owner. Xerox doesn't have to make photocopiers that only copy public domain works. Apple doesn't have to make a version of iTunes that only rips CDs you own, and rejects ones you've borrowed off your mates. Microsoft can ship Windows without making sure that the files in the file-system don't infringe on copyright. The Mozilla Foundation can give away versions of Firefox, even though the browser can just as handily be used to download infringing material as non-infringing material.But ultimately, the legality of the feature is irrelevant – as is the nonsensical discussion about whether the Kindle's text-to-speech is (or will someday be) as good as a commercial, human-generated audiobook (the answers being, "No," and "The day that artificial intelligence gives us perfect Kindle readings, we'll have bigger fish to fry than audiobook rights").The reason it's irrelevant is that Amazon wants to get licenses from members of the Authors Guild in order to sell their books in the Kindle store.And when Amazon goes to those members, they can simply say, "No, I won't let you sell my books because the Kindle has a text-to-speech capability and I don't like it." No need to go into bizarre, long-winded speculations about whether copyright law requires Amazon to build copyright enforcement into its devices, or whether Jeff Bezos's crack team of AI wizards at Amazon are about to unleash an army of superintelligent artificial voice-actors, sandwiched within the Kindle's slender chassis.The Authors Guild can simply say: "We advise our members to withhold licenses from the Kindle store because we think the Kindle format is bad for our business."Now, I happen to disagree with that position because I don't think that text-to-speech is a substitute for audiobooks for the majority of listeners, and because the value of text-to-speech is such that people will buy enough ebooks to offset any losses from substitution, and, most importantly,authors who oppose this feature look like grasping, greedy jerks and will alienate their readers.Maybe I'm right and maybe I'm wrong, but the important thing is, we don't need new theories about copyright law to test the proposition. The existing, totally non-controversial aspect of copyright law that says, "Amazon can't publish and sell my book without my permission" covers the territory nicely.But while we were all running our mouths about the plausibility of the singularity emerging from Amazon's text-to-speech R&amp;D, amuch juicier issuewas escaping our notice:it is technically possible for Amazon to switch off the text-to-speech feature for some or all books.That's a hell of a thing, isn't it? Now that Amazon has agreed with the Authors Guild that text-to-speech will only be switched on for authors who sign a contract permitting it, we should all be goggling in amazement at the idea that this can be accomplished.After all, the Kindle customers who've already received their units, bought devices that were advertised as "capable of reading Kindle books aloud", not "reading some Kindle books aloud". The only ways that Amazon could accomplish this is:1. If they had anticipated this outcome and secretly enabled this feature before shipping the Kindles – effectively engaging in false advertising, or;2. If they can force you to downgrade your Kindle to remove the feature (possibly by ending your ongoing access to the Kindle store, or even by terminating your access to your existing Kindle books).Neither of these should inspire confidence in the Kindle as a long-term device. Dropping $359 (£251) on a device whose features are subject to the outcomes of ongoing negotiations to which you are not a party is, frankly, nuts.Would you buy a car if it was known that your air-conditioner and stereo system could be remotely disabled? Or if we suddenly discovered that the manufacturer could remotely lock you out of your boot in order to assuage some pressure group who'd rather you no longer be allowed to carry parcels around? It's one thing for next year's model to ship without the fantastic stereo system but it's another thing entirely for the manufacturer to rip it out of your dashboardafteryou've bought it.If I were running the Authors Guild, this would be my number one issue: we can't afford to allow our books to be used to lure readers into purchasing devices that can turn against them. Because whatever bad feelings arise from this, some of them will surely be visited upon us.Novelists know that a gun on the mantelpiece in act one is apt to go off by the third act. If we want to talk about potential outcomes for Amazon, then one in which the company disappears, changes hands, or loses its mind should get far more consideration from us than the possibility that it will mastermind major technological breakthroughs in machine-speech synthesis.And on the day that Amazon goes crazy, goes under, or goes to the dogs, our readers – the people whose long-term goodwill we depend on to earn our livings – face the possibility of having their Kindles arbitrarily downgraded, refeatured, or otherwise modified to attack them and the books they've bought from us.IfIwere running the Authors Guild, I'd be sounding the alarm to my members to license their ebooks only for formats and devices that give our readers – ourcustomers–  a fair deal that makes them glad to have supported us.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
If there's one game I'm looking forward to more than any other than it's probablyDiablo 3. Ok, maybe Alan Wake, Heavy Rain and PES 2010 (for "last chance to get online right" reasons mainly) too but Diablo 3 is right up there. The only potential downer for me is mouse-related RSI caused by incessant clicking on all that lovely loot and monsters. Luckily theselatest shotssuggest Diablo 3 looks worth the pain.They are the first to show the user interface and it looks – as you may expect seeing as Blizzard develop both – that World of Warcraft players will feel right at home. The talent tree and inventory slots, for example, look very familiar. But that's probably intentional. By word of mouth alone Diablo 3 is likely to attract WoW players, many who may have never played Diablo 2. Interestingly Diablo 2, released in 2000 remember, is still gettingpatched. The latest was announced recently with the community asked to suggest updates.  Anyway, back to Diablo 3 – are you looking forward to it? Or simply not fussed by another heavily hyped Blizzard game?
Tomorrow is the day that Conficker - one of the most widespread computer worms in recent years - gears up towards its next stage. Athough it's estimated thatvast numbers of Windows PCs have been infected, nobody is quite sure what to expect,even the experts.Although there is no need to be alarmed, you might be wondering how to check whether you're infected. In January, we gave some advice in the Ask Jack columnon how to screen for and eliminate Conficker, but given that it has mutated again (the newest variant was only discovered earlier this month) it's worth revisiting the method for protecting yourself.First, check whether you are infected. Only Windows PC users should be concerned (people who use Macs or other operating systems are not vulnerable).The easiest way is to conduct a quick check is to try and visit pages from anti-virus companiesSymantecandMcAfee. If you can't get there, the chances are you've been infected: Conficker blocks access to some to keep you in the dark.Although anyone who downloadedMicrosoft Security Update MS08-067should be safe, it's worth checking anyway - Conficker can also spread by guessing your passwords or hiding on like USB sticks and iPods.If you are concerned that you've caught a case of Conficker, then you'll need to get hold of a removal tool to clean your machine. TheConficker Working Group- a coalition of security experts - has been keeping track of some, while community detection website DShieldhas a good list of Conficker repair tools.You can use any of these programs to clean your PC and give Conficker the boot.However, make sure you download your removal program from a source you trust: lots of malware writers create fake anti-virus software that actually infects your computer with more bad stuff instead of cleaning it.And once that's over, it's always worth keeping in mind the basic tenets of protecting yourself from malicious code: keep your anti-virus software up to date, and make sure that you regularly download software updates to keep your machine patched.That way you should stay virus-free - and whatever happens on April 1, you'll be immune.
Chinese internet users will be able to download more than 1m music tracks for free after Google launched a new web service with the world's four largest music labels.Pulling the L-plates from a service that launched in trial mode a year ago, the downloads service marks an aggressive move by Google to take on the Chinese search site Baidu.com, which has more than twice the market share of the California-based technology giant.Users looking for artists and song titles on Google's search site in China will be able to browse an extensive catalogue of artists on Warner Music, EMI, Universal Music and Sony BMG. Tracks can also be searched by mood, tempo and genre, and Google also says it is working on a voice search technology for the site.The site is a partnership with the popular Chinese music site Top100.cn, co-founded by Chinese basketball star Yoa Ming, and music labels will share related advertising revenue with Google.Google China's president, Lee Kai-Fu, admits the launch was a "huge leap of faith". "We are offering free, high quality and legal downloads," he said. "We were missing one piece ... we didn't have music." Google accounted for 16.6% of China's search market in 2008, according to the Chinese Internet Network Information Centre, while Baidu has a 76.9% share. But illegal music accounts for a significant amount of traffic to Baidu and, until now, Google has not been able to compete.Lee said there were no plans to extend the service beyond China, which has a particularly acute piracy problem with an estimated 99% of all music files circulated illegally. China accounted for less than 1% of the world's legal music download market last year at just $76m, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry. Western web firms have been keen to increase their audience in China, which overtook the US last year as having the world's largest population of internet users.The IFPI's chief executive, John Kennedy, welcomed the launch, saying a legal music downloads service should be a "landmark day in the development of the legal Chinese music industry".Screen Digest senior analyst Dan Cryan said the service was a good move by Google to try to gain more ground in the market. "There's no appetite for paying for music in China and much of south-east Asia. China never really had a tradition of buying music, so the labels have precious little to lose."
The cat and mouse game between international law enforcers and technology-savvy criminals perpetrating scams on the internet continues to rage around the world, with the latest figures showing the number of victims and the amount of money they lose is on the rise.A report analysing internet crime in 2008, put out by a US-based alliance of experts including the FBI, finds that the number of complaints from victims of cyber crime rose by almost a third since 2007. The total number reached 275,284, amounting to $265m (£187m) in money lost.The year's most popular scam involved goods being bought on the internet and simply not delivered. Other top ruses included the fleecing of individuals through fraudulent auctions on eBay and other auction websites, credit and debit card fraud and the ever-ubiquitous Nigerian confidence trick.The report was compiled the Internet Crime Complaint Centre, a partnership of the FBI and the National White Collar Crime Centre. It helps law agencies keep up with the ever-morphing world of cyber crime, where new scams arise and transform at lightning speed.The US is both home to, and victim of, the lion's share of fraud.Two out of every three of the recorded perpetrators of the crimes came from America and 93% of complainants.They tended to come from the west and east coasts, as well as Texas and Florida, where internet sophistication is proportionately concentrated.Internationally, the UK came second in the league table of perpetrators, with 10% registered there. The relative prevalence of the UK might be also a reflection of the high concentration of tech-savvy people there, though several scams also use London as a half-way house from which to contact and meet their victims.According to the statistics compiled in the report, men prove to be the most gullible - with 55% of the victims being male, and nearly half aged 30 to 50. Men also tended to lose more money to scam-artists than women in a ratio of $1.69 lost per male to every $1 lost per female - though that may be more a reflection of the relative cost of the goods men buy on the web.The median figure for the amount of money lost by each victim was almost $1,000, underlining the pain that falling for such tricks can cause.Overall, law enforcers will be disappointed that the gradual decline in complaints that had been seen in the past two years, down to 206,884, has now been reversed. But experts insist they remain by a raft of new tricks, including an audacious scam which involved putting out fraudulent emails under the name of the FBI itself.The famous Nigerian scam has also been fine-tuned, with the criminals now hacking into an individual's email account and then using it to make unauthorised appeals for financial information to victims.Leslie Hoppey, an FBI cyber crime expert, said this sort of fraud would always be around. "But people can protect themselves through basic guidelines: don't respond to unsolicited emails, be sceptical of individuals representing themselves as officials, and don't click on links."
It could be the biggest April Fool's joke ever played on the internet, or it could be one of the worst days ever for computers connected to the network. Security experts can't work out whether the Conficker virus – which has infected more than 10m Windows PCs worldwide – will wreak havoc on Wednesday , or just let the day pass quietly.Experts have worked out that from midnight on 1 April, the Conficker program will start scanning thousands of websites for a new set of instructions telling it what to do next. The infected machines thus comprise one of the biggest "botnets" – a network of "robot" computers – in internet history. And if they were all given a target, such as simultaneously sending search queries to Google or trying to connect to a gambling site, they could knock it offline through the sheer volume of connections – a "denial of service". Victims usually discover that they have been locked out of their computers or have very slow-running internet connections.Botnets have been used in the past to generate millions of pieces of spam email and to blackmail gambling sites that need to stay online during sports events with the threat that they will be deluged by a "denial of service" attacks.Careful study of infected machineshas revealed that from midnight on Wednesday  they will seek new instructions from a randomly generated list of thousands of websites that changes every day. Just one needs to be under the virus writers' control to turn Conficker into a newly configured botnet – making the task of catching the exact site a search for a needle in a computing haystack.Experts admit that they have little idea of where Conficker might be headed next. "It's a brave man who puts his neck out like that," said Graham Cluley, an analyst with internet security company Sophos. "For what it's worth, we have never seen earlier versions of the Conficker worm downloading a malicious payload."He added that the April Fool's Day deadline could be an attempt to misdirect the attention of security professionals and computer users – or that the activation date could even indicate a prank."There is no reason to believe that there will be any instructions for Conficker to receive on 1 April," he said. "They could just as easily be delivered on 2 April, 4 April, 25 May or never."Others agree that Conficker may not activate immediately, preferring to lie in wait before receiving further orders to avoid scrutiny. "At its core, the main purpose of Conficker is to provide the authors with a secure binary updating service that effectively allows them instant control of millions of PCs worldwide," noted Philip Porras of SRI International. Vincent Weafer, vice-president of Symantec, an internet security company, said: "Most malware these days is designed to be used for some type of criminal monetary gain, and conducting such criminal acts typically requires stealth measures to be successful."This makes the odds that a major event will take place on 1 April even less likely, since there is so much attention being paid to that day."Conficker – also known among security experts as "Downadup" – was first discovered in November last year, beingsold as part of a "kit" by a Chinese hacker. Since then, two variants have been spotted as the virus has gone on to infect more than 10m PCs.Despite being tracked for several months, however, the truth about Conficker's motivations and origins remain clouded. Last weekend, one team of researchers suggested that they may have discovered a "fingerprint" inside the worm which should make it possible to scan computers for the infection, making removal easier.The identity of its creator remains unknown, despite Microsoft offering a bounty of $250,000 (£176,000) for the information. Usual methods of unpacking the virus code to examine its workings have been thwarted because the authors have encrypted it, using algorithms that render it almost uncrackable.In the meantime, Conficker has gone on to become one of the most widespread internet worms in recent years.Last week a leaked memo revealed that the House of Commons computer system had become infected, leading to concerns that confidential or highly sensitive material could be stolen when the virus next updates.In the document, Joan Miller, the director of parliamentary computer services, said that her team were "continuing to work with our third party partners to manage its removal and we need to act swiftly to clean computers that are infected".Ordinary PC users are being advised to keep their anti-virus software up to date and watch for news about the worm. Cluley suggested that the widespread coverage could help lessen the potential impact. "Most businesses appear to have Conficker under control," he said. "They've applied patches and updated their anti-virus software to stem the spread of the worm. Some firms struggled to clean it up quickly – but most have now used some of the free Conficker removal tools available for download from security vendors."
There are plenty of good web sites, but how many of them do you rely on for important purchasing decisions?TripAdvisoris one we use at home. We used to take the travel agent's word for cheap hotels, or Expedia's ratings. Now we read the user-generated reviews on TripAdvisor, and so far, we have not been disappointed.TripAdvisor has become successful by making it easy to post reviews, and thereby attracting a huge number: more than 20m so far. All you have to do is click on Write a Review to bring up a form, and away you go. You are asked to give the hotel an overall rating from one to five, type in a heading, and write at least 50 characters in the review box. You can also upload photos and videos. Registration is optional, but the site has about 5 million members.Obviously an open system is open to abuse, and if a hotel has only a handful of comments, either fake reviews or a few unusually grumpy people ("yelpers") could create a misleading impression. But when there are more than 100 reviews packed with authentic human detail, the result should be reliable.TripAdvisor also tells you each hotel's ranking, so you can choose one that generally scores better. For example, a hotel rated as one of the top 100 of the 1,365 in Rome is going to be better than one that's halfway down or near the bottom of the list.Either way, we all know that no hotel is perfect, so the aim of the game is to find the best hotel in the location you want at a price you can afford.TripAdvisor lets visitors rate restaurants, galleries, museums and other forms of entertainment too, though these don't attract as many contributions. There's also a flight search, with times and prices taken from sites such as Expedia, Ebookers and British Airways.This year, TripAdvisor has introduced "owners' pages". Hotel and restaurant owners can now claim a page to add information to their listing, add their own photos and videos, track their reputations and respond to comments. They are forbidden from offering incentives for good reviews, though this is hard to police. The good hotels respond to criticism by improving their services.TripAdvisor started as a standalone website. However, in 2004 it was taken over by InterActiveCorp, which also bought Hotels.com, Expedia, Hotwire, Seatguru.com, FlipKey (for rental properties), Cruise Critic and other travel-related sites. The TripAdvisor Media Network now includes 14 travel brands and claims more than 25 million monthly visitors. There are also nine TripAdvisor sites for different countries, including the UK, India and Japan.The site is better known in the US, where it produces lists based on visitor ratings: the top 10 free US attractions, the top 10 pet-friendly hotels, and so on. ATravelers Choice 2009guide is available by email.There are still lots of potential uses for TripAdvisor's vast stock of user-generated content. This could be just the beginning.
In a move of quite astonishing efficiency, Office Pest filed his Best Of copy last Friday afternoon, while the conversation was effectively still taking place. So if you posted a comment of Wildean wit and genius last thing in the evening, it'll now be lost forever, a victim of Pest's enthusiasm.But, who needs Oscar Wilde when you have chocolate conundrums, the death of physical media and the age-old question about geeks and nerds? How do you tell which one you are? And does it matter?So this was last week. We'll never get it back.Part One: MondayThe working week kicked off with a moral tone afterCaptainJacksongot picked on. At least, he thinks hemayhave been picked on: "Is that some sort of dig? Not sure I get it if it is..."Resident peacemakerGoody84put in a plea: "Can I ask for this to politely stop please? Let's call it a hate amnesty, where snidey comments are put aside. I know CaptainJackson and RobLindsey have received a fair bit from blog regulars. But being a regular doesn't mean they are entitled to dish out stuff that goes beyond banter. I think it's for the benefit of the blog, because we are encouraging comments and then when someone says something we don't like, we seem to jump on their back."CunningStuntandCameroon95agreed: "Here, here. Things do seem to be getting a bit personal. Forgive, forget, move on. Lindsay was getting the snide comments last week for his one misunderstood post and it was going too far. We all say stuff that can be interpreted wrong, it is the internet after all."CraggyIslandwaved his white flag: "I thought the internet was here so we could poke fun at idiots. I stand corrected and will try and moderate my behaviour. I do think on here though that people rarely get a roasting when they don't warrant it in any way, Jackson has been here a while and has a history of making mostly tit-ish comments. I've only played the demo's of KZ2 and BF:BC but it seemed to me that he was having an attempt at a little bit of trolling?"Things could have turned nasty but luckilyRobLindsayleapt in with the sort of philosophical conundrum that Chatterbox regulars find irresitible:"I am faced with the prospect of fast food tonight, so what do you all reckon - McDonalds, KFC or Subway?"Lazybones:"Dirty choices. But I would go for the Subway. It's a poor man's delicatessen."Alfienoakes:"'Subway. It's a poor man's delicatessen.'  Brilliant - They should use that in the adverts."Killerbee:"+1 for Subway. I had one for lunch today and very tasty it was too. Footlong Subway Melt, cheese + toasted, lettuce, tomato, cucumber and spicy mayo. Mmmmmm.  Plus the girl who works in my local is particularly fit. And today she gave me a voucher for 50p off my next Sub! I think I'm in there..."Cunningstunt:"@Killerbee – If subway is a poor man's deli then does that make you a poor man's Danbob?"Chubster2010:"Gotta love subway. Has anyone ever pondered whether to go for a Subway or a McDonalds, and decided on Subway 'as it's a little bit healthier', only to stroll in an order a foot-long meatball sub, smothered in cheese?  I haven't done that, obviously. Just wondered if anyone else had..."Part two: TuesdayThe blogsters were being helpful for the second day on the trot – very unusual.ToMadeiraneeded some Best Man advice ("Right, I've got less than 2 weeks to write a speech. Tips?") and there was plenty of it. Some good, some bad, some really quite inappropriate.An 'interesting' fact fromRobLindsaykicked things off: "I discovered where this phrase came from a couple of days ago, apparently it dates back to medieval Scotland when it was common practice for men to kidnap brides from other clans and the 'best man' was a friend who had been instrumental in the kidnapping- true, I heard it on the radio."Chubster2010reminisced: "I was the best man at my mates wedding last year and was absolutely terrified. Come the day, I shaking like a leaf, but, once they put the mic in my hand, I was off! While still terrified, the adrenaline kicked in and (I think) it went OK."Umboros23:"I'd recommend having good notes of stories you want to talk about, but don't write down your whole speech word for word. It makes it more natural when you talk and easier to connect with the crowd."ImperfectRex:"Plan to speak for 10 mins or so, remember the essential toasts (bride, bridesmaids etc), thank the groom. Few anecdotes - feel free to be liberal with the truth. Few gushy things about the bride but it's mainly about the groom. Try to bookend your speech - start off with an anecdote, piece of wisdom or personal story and wind up on the same subject."Speak clearly and s l o w l y. If you think you're speaking too slowly, that's about right. It makes the speech a bit longer and people will understand all your stories and quips. Practice a good few times out loud and preferably in front of someone else or a mirror. You can tell then what works and what doesn't. People always say they can't practice in front of other people but better that than balls it up on the day in front of 100 people."akaSilky:"I've now done three of these bloody things. It's pretty scary - avoid drinking too much before hand and try and structure it. I tended to go for a 'hello' intro and then three stories about the groom with a theme through and then an end bit closing it off. Having the theme helps remember the speech and reduces the need for notes. Having a good opening gag is good to settle the nerves but once you get cracking and get the first laugh it all becomes fun - and you'll want to do more! The power I tell you - the power!"Killerbee:"Whatever you do, DON'T reveal any of the groom's deep, dark secrets, as the best man did at a friend of mine's wedding.  My mate had suffered a head injury - nothing major, but enough to keep him off work for a while. He'd told his wife (then fiancee) and her parents that something had fallen on him at work - cue lots of sympathy and the in-laws helping out a lot with childcare and stuff for them whilst he was recuperating."Come the wedding day, the best man decides that this would be the most appropriate time to reveal that there was no such work-related injury, but actually, my mate had been drunk and gotten into a fight and that was really how he'd hurt his head. Needless to say, this didn't go down well with either the new wife or the new parents-in-law. Hilarious for everyone else though."Bigworvprovides what I think is the best advice available: "Given my severe dislike for public speaking I've made it my life's work to never have to give one of these. I've carefully positioned myself as roughly each of my mates' fourth best friend. This is far enough down the pecking order to never have to be called upon to arrange a stag or give a speech, but easily high enough to be inner circle. It's working out well for me."Similar to Monday, the blog had another conundrum to consider – this one was CunningStunt's. You may see a trend emerging…"A Chocolate conundrum: Fancy a chocolate bar but not sure what to go for. Think our shop has pretty much all Cadbury and Mars selections. Suggestions?"No-one needed to be asked twice...Chubster2010:"Chunky Kitkat.  Right - that's that sorted. Any more questions?"LazyBones:"Go for a Boost. Or a Dime if possible."CunningStunt:"Did I give Nestle products as an option?  DID I?"CraggyIsland:"+1 for Boost.  Or a Drifter if they have one.  Or have you considered the possibility of a Curly Wurly and a Chomp?"Bigworv:"Don't listen to these numpties, Double Decker all the way."EnglishRed:"Kit Kat Chunky Peanut Butter or Double Decker."Joshin69:"Cunning, I would suggest ether a Starbar or topic. Cant go wrong."BeardOfBees:"Has anyone else actually ever eaten these deviant snacks? They're always there on the shelf but why would a normal individual, with eyes and a brain capable of coherent thinking choose one over the other established options? Who are these lunatics who patronise the fringe chocolates? What kind of advice is this?"Cutting edge stuff. Oh… he had an Aero in the end.Part three: WednesdayThe day began with the announcement of a PS3 1080p Katamari game that got me rather excited!  Unfortunately no-one else agreed, choosing to while away the day talking about films. Here are some that were mentioned:There Will Be BloodNo Country For Old MenBrazil (Gilliam)Slumdog MillionaireNapolean DynamiteShaun of the DeadTime BanditsRaw DealWALL.EChocolate was on the agenda again – the food, not the film. Then BeardOfBees tried to get some (vaguely) game-related talk going:"Physical media, I think it's had its day. I don't really have a CD collection any more, few photo albums, PC games are more and more on steam. Apart from the Xbox games, which I try to trade when I've stopped playing them anyway, the only thing cluttering up my living room now is the DVD collection. I'm hoping to more-or-less entirely skip the Blu-ray generation and wait for the day I can trade everything in and buy/rent digitally. "Ownership" of these things is weird anyway as there are all sorts of restrictions on how I can copy, share, broadcast, re-use or edit what I've bought so you can't really consider these things yours anyway. You just own a license to enjoy them and that doesn't need to occupy space on my shelf."CraggyIslandspotted a flaw in his plan: "How long would it take for you to download a whole Blu-ray, at 50GB of data, even over the fastest line? That's going to be one of the biggest hurdles to a world of video downloading. Can we not talk about crisps?"Vetboyrevealed his lethargic side: "I'm amazed at how lazy I've become since discovering how to turn on my PS3 wirelessly, suddenly the act of getting up to put a DVD in seems like a massive effort, when with previous generations of consoles I didn't even think about it. Not sure if CDs are going to be going away that soon, I don't think MP3s have quite got to the same level of quality as a CD yet, at least on a quality hi-fi."Chubster2010contemplated the future: "Re. Physical media (for games). Has anyone mentioned this OnLive thing, which does all the processing remotely and streams the games to your TV/PC? I'm sure that will be the norm in the future, but I think consoles and physical formats will be around for a long (long) time to come, until such a time when 90% of people have crazy fast Broadband connections."CommodoreSchmidlapptalked IP rights: "I was having a look at the Apple TV recently on the way home from work, and to rent a season of Lost on it would cost 44qms - insane. Digital will take over for a lot of stuff just as soon as it's as easy to get at as either the iplayer or torrenting/rapidsharing something, and available at a sensible price. Did you know it's still technically illegal to format shift music and video? Meaning that, technically, it isn't legal to rip a CD to mp3? Crazy. I was at a talk the other week with a woman who is actually on the group investigating copyright and intellectual property rights in the digital age who are going to present their findings to the government quite soon. Very interesting."Interesting it may have been, but the renewal of snack talk was always an inevitability.EnglishRedtook up Craggy's offer: "Yeah I love crisps, hideously bad for you but what the hey.  Have you seen the Monster Munch in the new 'old' style bags? Brilliant- I love flaming hot myself, pickled onion seems wrong."…and it was all going so well. Peopledidcontinue to discuss the fate of physical media, but there was also much talk about Space Raiders, beef Monster Munch, Riceworks (whatever they are), Walkers Sensations, etc.  Lazybones made the random claim that, "you can die if you eat too many bananas."  A fitting way to see out Wednesday...Part four: The Day That Was ThursdayThere was a fair bit of symbolism inMcBegbie's first post of the day, leaving many to wonder how he spends his evenings:"Morning all.  Ok, had a spectacularly weird (and possibly cheese induced) dream last night. I'll omit most of the detail but at one point it featured Puff the Magic Dragon and Jackie Paper, and Jackie, being made of paper, was torched the instant he met Puff, resulting in a very short song. And that got me thinking, can anyone else think of any completely mis-matched, and potentially fatal, pairings?"Incredibly, nobody dared follow that up, soMatt123carried on a conversation from late Wednesday discussing how long some of us had been around on Gamesblog. He postedthis linkfrom Jan 2005.Honourable mentions go to Basil Brush (now BillyBrush), Matt (our very own Matt123) and GWX of course – he is the internets after all and wouldn't pass up an opportunity to calmly and reasonably discuss a PSP vs DS article.  Ahem.The Chatterboxers went on to discuss strange celebrity crushes after Limni admitted a fondness for Miquita Oliver of Popworld and T4 fame. We really don't need any more of that.Part five: Friday at last!The day began with disaster: Kezabian had his PSN account 'removed' with no explanation. All trophies lost and he has to send a whole lot of friend requests!  We all feel for you Kez.  Do him a favour - add Kezabian2 (original) to your friends list!Meanwhile, talk was of nerdiness and Uncle3en posed one of the vital questions of the modern era:"What is the official difference between a geek and a nerd?  My techy friends have a loosely based Star Wars theory (yes: geek, no: nerd), but I'm not convinced. The one who's not a Star Wars fan isn't right pleased with being labeled a nerd."Umboros23came out as a geek: "I am Umboros and I spent a 14 hour overnight game session playing Eye of Judgement online last year. I have attended a Vampire themed LARP. That was rock bottom."BeardOfBees(yes, the Lord of Dwarf Fortress) 'fessed up, too: "I'm cured of a lot of it, but I've sunk to some lows. Warhammer at school. Magic: The Gathering and roleplaying at University. World of Warcraft in the last 3 years or so. None are currently a part of my life however. Did live action roleplaying once when I was about 12 when a friend asked me along. No shame in any of these things though, only stopped each through getting bored or lacking opportunity to continue. Wife would divorce me if I took roleplaying or something back up of course.  My current most geeky passion is board games. I have about sixty...."AkaSilkytried to reason it out: "I reckon nerds are obsessed geeks; so a subset really. So geeks are into science fiction, videogames, fantasy, boardgames - that sort of thing. Nerds tell you every character in Star Wars, quote all the lines and build their lives around geek stuff.  Just a theory of course..."Illoconis a nerd and proud: "I am illocon and I have three spartan toys proudly displayed mid-combat on a shelf on one of my book cases (two levels below toys of Jay and Silent Bob, and a clockwork toy of Bender).  I also have a Halo medal tattoo'd three times on my lower left arm.  Beat that."Owlyrossset out some guidelines to calify the matter:You are a geek if:- You own more than ten "figurines"- You participate in an MMO- You have searched google images for "Chun Li"- You have read Lord of the Rings more than four times- You own games-related T-shirts- You post online about how George Lucas ruined Star Wars- You post on an online "gamesblog" (the very thought!)You are a nerd if:- You know what LARP means- You have built your own PC and refuse to use windows- You have created your own OS- You play Warhammer games- You are on first name terms with the staff in the Warhammer shop- Anyone has ever said you're a bit like "Comic Book Guy"From the various responses to Owly's comments, it would seem we have several of both in our midst. Geeks and nerds? On our blog? Who'd have thought?The day concluded with a discussion about lost virginity. This proved largely unsuitable for front-page Gamesblog selection, so here are two choice quotes.Umboros23:"It was over before the two Americans jumped out the van and said goodbye to the sheep."Shrewrog:"As I examined the milky moonlight that spilled through her curtains I listened to her chew through the meat and gristle. To this day I still hold a candle for her."You'll have to hunt down the original comments for the complete unexpurgated text. But, for the sake of your sanity, we advise against it.Quotes of the week"Weekend - lovely weather = no gaming (save the Sunday night debacle). All weekend in the garden trying to set up some irrigation for the veg patch."H1LL015 lives the Good Life."Well romance is in the air at the Stunt house. Unfortunately said romance does not include myself or bats**t housemate. The other guy in the house was all over our new housemate yesterday. It was quite annoying, mainly cos it was in the living room and I wanted to play some killzone!"CunningStunt revels in his own private Big Brother experience."Marriage A friend of mine tied the knot on Saturday and emailed me earlier to say 'It's a wonderful feeling indeed - keep checking my ring to make sure it really happened!'  Not entirely sure I want to know what he got up to on his wedding night..."Crispycrumb turns the beauty and sanctity of marriage into a Carry On gag."...I'm a Cornol now so rank spicific mathes are even..."Somebody call the spelling &amp; grammar police on CaptainJackson"Beyonce is an idiot. And officially to blame for the recession."ImperfectRex tracks down the culprit that Robert Preston has so far overlookedLinks of the weekNew 'Katamari Tribute' PS3 game announced!God of War III video leakedThe original Office Pest– what a legendUbisoft has signed up to Good Old Games(honourable mention to Sorbicol for trying to steer Thursday's filthblog towards something vaguely relevant...)Also discussed:Jade Goody, bikes, mobile phones, Playstation Home, Nic Cage's hair, ROUTERS, the 'munters' in The ApprenticeGames:GTA:Chinatown Wars, PES, Killzone II, Fallout 3, Professor LaytonFilms &amp; TV:BSG, Cool Hand Luke, Bronson, Watchmen, Wolverine: Origins
