Sales of the Wii U console fell to just 160,000 in the three months leading to June, Nintendo has revealed.The dramatic figures show a drop in sales of over 50% since the preceding quarter, when 390,000 units were shipped worldwide. Concerns for the beleaguered games machine were raised earlier this week when UK supermarket chain Asda announced that it would be withdrawing the console from the shelves of its 550 retail stores – although it will still sell the Wii U and its software online.Despite the dramatic decline of its latest home console, Nintendo has managed to report a modest net profit of 8.6bn yen (£58m), aided by the weak domestic currency – although that is against an operating loss of 4.9bn yen, due to the costs of developing Wii U and increasing ad spend on the 3DS.The figures are, however, an improvement on this time last year, when the Kyoto-based giant revealed net losses of 17.23bn yen. Current figures have also been helped by the comparatively buoyant performance of the Nintendo 3DS handheld, which shifted 1.4m units, helped by the arrival of popular game franchises such as Tomodachi Collection and Animal Crossing.Despite, the Wii U's decline, Nintendo is sticking with its previous forecasts and expects to sell 9m consoles by the end of March 2014. In its financial report, the company points to a strong line-up of forthcoming first-party titles, including the critically acclaimed Pikmin 3, as well as Wii Party U, Donkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze, Super Mario 3D World and Wii Fit U.Elsewhere in the industry, however, the optimism is waning. "Nintendo is still a strong company, but the Wii U is in serious problems," says Matt Martin, editor of news site, Gamesindustry.Biz. "It sold less than 10,000 units in Europe in the last three months, that's pretty dire – and some games are selling less than a thousand copies a week. Nintendo is telling us to wait for the new software, but consumers aren't waiting, and in a few months time the Wii U will be in direct competition with the PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One. That's when it will really start struggling."Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Electronics and Media highlights Nintendo's tardiness in exploiting downloadable games – even though its online eStore has improved hugely over the last few months. "Nintendo has a long road to travel before registering significant scale from sales of digital content and makes enough to offset a lower volume of sales and increased R&amp;D costs. While Sony and Microsoft generate billions of dollars of consumer spending through their online platforms, IHS estimates that consumer spending on Nintendo digital content amounted to a little under $250m in 2012, far behind these other companies."In many ways, the Wii U proposition has been troubled since the beginning. When the machine was revealed at the E3 conference in 2011, many reporters did not understand whether the product being shown was a new console or a new joypad for the original Wii. Later, it became clear that the main selling point of the Wii U was its GamePad, a special controller complete with its own built-in screen. However, both Nintendo and the games press found it difficult to explain the benefits of the system to mainstream consumers."The hardware always looked interesting, but for a lot of people, they got hold of it and thought 'is that it?'" says Martin. "The problem is, everyone was used to high quality tablets like the iPad and some of the Android devices. They are more responsive with better screens. The GamePad feels a little Fisher Price."When the Wii U launched in Winter 2012, the software line-up was widely criticised by gamers, with very few strong first-party titles and patchy support from major players such as Activision, EA and Ubisoft. Although titles like NintendoLand, ZombiU and Pikmin 3 have been received enthusiastically by fans, new titles have been thinly spread, with almost no platform exclusives. The key publishers are now reconsidering their support for the platform."Wii U's continued underperformance is not a huge surprise given its lacklustre software line up and unclear user proposition," says Nick Gibson, an analyst at Games Investor Consulting. "While the slate for 2014 in particular looks stronger, it is difficult to envisage a 3DS-style turnaround for the Wii U, at least in the foreseeable future. The casual gamers that flocked to the Wii have moved on to other platforms, in particular mobile, tablet and Facebook, and the hardcore gamers that Nintendo hoped to bring back with the Wii U will be well catered for with existing and next-gen consoles from Microsoft and Sony."For the close of the year then, Nintendo will be pitching its major game brands against two new consoles. The other option is to draw back from the Wii U and concentrate on 3DS. "Nintendo can survive as a handheld games company, it did that during the GameCube years," says Martin. "Every iteration of the Nintendo DS has done well. I don't know how they would ramp down the Wii U without losing face, but perhaps [CEO Satoru] Iwata will have to take the hit on that."The alternative is to follow Sega's lead. When that company's Dreamcast console failed in the early 2000s, it closed its home hardware division and concentrated on its game franchises and arcade market. The prospect of Super Mario and Zelda appearing on iPhones and Xbox consoles will be mouthwatering to some, but it will perhaps take more than a poor quarter to push Nintendo in that almost unthinkable direction.
Samsung has acknowledged that it did tweak code in its Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphone to run benchmarking software, and other apps, at the top speed of its graphics processing unit (GPU), while running more slowly for some games.But the company insisted it does so to "provide optimal user experience for our customers" because some full-screen games might "overload" the GPU, and that other apps including its camera have access to the GPU's top speed.The company fell under suspicion of having made specific alterations to the code after theAnandTech website investigated allegationsfirst made onBeyond3D forumsthat some of the handset software would run the GPU at the 533MHz top speed during certain benchmarks, and then slow down to 480MHz for all other apps and games, about 10% slower than the top speed.AnandTech provides in-depth testing of gadgets – with benchmarking being a key part of coverage. In itsoriginal review of the Galaxy S4, its GPU testsfound that it ran faster than any existing Android phone on almost all the tests. "The Galaxy S4 manages to outperform the HTC One by around 17% here. Again, it's unclear why we're seeing greater performance than clock scaling alone would provide, but the net is that the Galaxy S4 does deliver better GPU performance than other Snapdragon 600 based devices today," reviewer Brian Klug wrote at the time.In returning to the test, AnandTech's Klug and Anad Shimpi noted: "Running any games, even the most demanding titles, returned a GPU frequency of 480MHz." But using the GLBenchmark software – commonly used to benchmark speeds – triggered a GPU clock that ran at 533MHz. The CPU also sped up when that software was used. "The 532MHz max GPU frequency on the other hand is only available to these specific benchmarks," they noted.On examining code in the system, they discovered that it seemed to have settings which would boost the GPU speed when particular benchmark software accessed the system. That would imply that Samsung was setting up the code of its phone to watch for benchmarking and boost its performance in order to score higher on tests which would be used by tech enthusiasts as a measure of the handset's quality.AnandTech cautioned: "What this does mean, however, is that you should be careful about comparing Exynos 5 Octa based Galaxy S4s using any of the affected benchmarks to other devices and drawing conclusions based on that. This seems to be purely an optimisation to produce repeatable (and high) results in CPU tests, and deliver the highest possible GPU performance benchmarks."The company acknowledged in astatementthat "Under ordinary conditions, the Galaxy S4 has been designed to allow a maximum GPU frequency of 533MHz. However, the maximum GPU frequency is lowered to 480MHz for certain gaming apps that may cause an overload when they are used for a prolonged period of time in full-screen mode. Meanwhile, a maximum GPU frequency of 533MHz is applicable for running apps that are usually used in full-screen mode, such as the S Browser, Gallery, Camera, Video Player, and certain benchmarking apps, which also demand substantial performance."The maximum GPU frequencies for the Galaxy S4 have been varied to provide optimal user experience for our customers, and were not intended to improve certain benchmark results."We remain committed to providing our customers with the best possible user experience."Samsung's pursuit of higher speeds on the Galaxy S4 has not been able to drive sales as fast as it had hoped, as the top end of the smartphone business appears to be growing less quickly than a year ago. The company has had to cut estimates for how many S4s it will sell this year, while seeing rapid growth in its low-end smartphone business.
Brian Krebs is a security journalist who specialises in uncovering the shadier ends of cybercrime. Having worked at the Washington Post from 1995 to 2009, he now has his own KrebsOnSecurity blog – but his work has attracted some unwanted attention from the objects of his investigations. This extract fromthe originalis used with permission.Over the past six months, "fans" of my website and its author have shown their affection in some curious ways. One called in a phony hostage situation that resulted ina dozen heavily armed police surrounding my home. Another opened a $20,000 new line of credit in my name. Others sent more than $1,000 in bogus PayPal donations from hacked accounts. Still more admirers paid my cable bill for the next three years using stolen credit cards. Malware authors have even used my name and likeness to peddle their wares."Flycracker," the administrator of thecc.bz crime forum, hatches a plan to send drugs to my homeBut the most recent attempt to embarrass and fluster this author easily takes the cake as the most elaborate: Earlier this month, the administrator of an exclusive cybercrime forum hatched and executed a plan to purchase heroin, have it mailed to my home, and then spoof a phone call from one of my neighbours alerting the local police. Thankfully, I had already established a presence on his forum and was able to monitor the scam in real time and alert my local police well in advance of the delivery.This would-be smear campaign was the brainchild of a fraudster known variously online as "Fly," "Flycracker," andMUXACC1(muxa is transliterated Russian for "муха" which means "fly"). Fly is the administrator of the fraud forum "thecc[dot]bz," an exclusive and closely guarded Russian language board dedicated to financial fraud and identity theft.On July 14, Flycracker posted a new forum discussion thread titled, "Krebs Fund," in which he laid out his plan: He'd created abitcoin walletfor the exclusive purpose of accepting donations from other members. The goal: purchase heroin in my name and address from a seller on theSilk Road, an online black market that is only reachable via theTor network. In the screenshot pictured above, Flycracker says to fellow members:"Guys, it became known recently that Brian Krebs is a heroin addict and he desperately needs the smack, so we have started the "Helping Brian Fund", and shortly we will createa bitcoin walletcalled "Drugs for Krebs" which we will use to buy him the purest heroin on the Silk Road. My friends, his withdrawal is very bad, let's join forces to help the guy! We will save Brian from the acute heroin withdrawal and the world will get slightly better!"Together, forum members raised more than 2 bitcoins – currently equivalent to about USD $200. At first, Fly tried to purchase a gram of heroin froma Silk Road vendor named 10toes, an anonymous seller who hadexcellent and plentiful feedbackfrom previous buyers as a purveyor of reliably good heroin appropriate for snorting or burning and inhaling (see screnshot below).Flycracker discussing the purchase of a gram of heroin from Silk Road seller "10toes"For some reason, that transaction with 10toes fell through, and Flycracker turned to another Silk Road vendor –Maestro– from whom he purchased a dozen baggies of heroin of "HIGH and consistent quality," to be delivered to my home in Northern Virginia earlier today. The purchase was made using a new Silk Road account named "briankrebs7," and cost 1.6532 bitcoins (~USD $165).Flycracker ultimately bought 10 small bags of smack from Silk Road seller "Maestro." The seller threw in two extra bags for free (turns out he actually threw in three extra bags)In the screen shot below, Fly details the rest of his plan:"12 sacks of heroin [the seller gives 2 free sacks for a 10-sacks order] are on the road, can anyone make a call [to the police] from neighbours, with a record? Seller said the package will be delivered after 3 days, on Tuesday. If anyone calls then please say that drugs are hidden well."Last week, I alerted the FBI about this scheme, and contacted a Fairfax County police officer who came out and took an official report about it. The cop who took the report just shook his head incredulously, and kept saying he was trying to unplug himself from various accounts online with the ultimate goal of being "off the internet and Google" by the time he retired. Before he left, the officer said he would make a notation on my report so that any officer dispatched to respond to complaints about drugs being delivered via mail to my home would prompted to review my report.To find out what happened when the package – and the police – arrived,read the rest of the post at Brian Krebs's site.
"How does anybody find friends? In the traditional community, we search through our pool of neighbours and professional colleagues, of acquaintances and acquaintances of acquaintances, in order to find people who share our values and interests. We exchange information about one another, disclose and discuss our mutual interests, and sometimes we become friends. In a virtual community we can go directly to the place where are favourite subjects are being discussed, then get acquainted with people who share our passions or who use words in a way we find attractive. Your chances of making friends are magnified by orders of magnitude over the old methods of finding a peer group."Howard Rheingold, The Virtual Community, 1994There's a story I faintly remember from the Dreamcast era. Nostalgia may have skewed it somewhat, but the kernel of it, I am sure, is accurate. When the online multiplayer adventure Phantasy Star Online was released in 2000, it was one of the first connected console titles to invite and support a global community. However, the game was released a month early in Japan, giving its domestic audience a significant advantage in terms of levelling up their characters and improving their skills. And yet, when American players eventually started to hit the servers, they were welcomed largely with friendship. Using the game's icon-based communication system, veteran players helped the newcomers, shared tips and items and acted as guides. Whatever happened after that, there was an instinct to share rather than destroy.Gaming communities, indeed online communities in general, have had poor press over recent days. A lot has been written about the Twitter storms surrounding the developers David Vonderhaar and Phil Fish (my own take ishere) and we have seen the horrific hounding of MP Stella Creasy and feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez by social media miscreants. Throughout this year there have been controversies surrounding sexism and misogyny on game sites and in comments sections. There is a sense that somehow internet social communications have regressed, and that a tide of filth is slowly rising. Games often catch a lot of the critical flak, because this is still a culturally arcane community to some extent. People aren't sure what to make of us – better to think of us as weirdos and monsters. Except of course, we're not.The history of the games industry is, ironically, not about industry in a lot of ways  – it is about community. It was the culture that grew up around arcades in the early 80s that cemented the sense of electronic gaming as a pastime. The first mass-produced game, Pong, was a two-player experience that found its home in dive bars and fast food joints, and when Pac-Man, Donkey Kong and Defender arrived later, there was an engaged group ready to embrace them. Arcade competitions, meet-ups and tournaments flourished across the US and Japan, mostly at fan level. Arguably there would be no industry without these early adopters, without the brotherhood of the dingy coin-op palace.The early era of mainframe computers also brought us the multi-user dungeon, text-only multiplayer adventure games that spread across university and research centre networks in the eighties. Pioneers like Richard Bartle and Will Crowther created online fantasy realms, which could be explored by groups of people who had never met in real-life, who may have been thousands of miles apart, but yet were able to help each other on imagined escapades.There were practical benefits to these enterprises; researchers at Xerox PARC learned about virtual environments and information spaces through observing MUD players – the PARC's Jupiter project led to new ways of thinking about online collaboration for global businesses. But something more important was also happening – people were sharing ideas and interests in MUD space, and as they have done in countless online multiplayer games ever since – they were making friends and falling in love. In her 2000 report 'Social information processing in MUDs', researcher Sonja Utz, found that 74% of players she spoke to had formed lasting, meaningful relationships in these abstract, monochrome worlds.Fresh startsOnline games remove our physical identity, and all the traumas and inhibitions that come with it; everybody starts equal, everyone is judged on their contribution. What you input is what you are. in the early 90s, MIT researcher Amy Bruckman referred to MUDs as "identity workshops" – they became places in which people could express different senses of themselves; it was possible to role-play with gender and sexuality within a safe, nurturing environment; people accepted each other. This has been the overriding case throughout the history of this genre, from Everquest to World of Warcraft and beyond.We know the high-profile cases, the stories of Warcraft love affairs and marriages; but the important thing is the millions of stories that go largely unreported – of people forming guilds and making friends, and just getting along for years and years, enriching each other's lives. My fellow writer, Cara Ellison, haswritten beautifullyon her relationship with a guild of friends in the online game Defense of the Ancients:Some people think that gaming is a solitary hobby. But for me, DotA was a way to connect with my real-life friends through an experience that didn't include a darkened room serving overpriced alcohol we couldn't afford. We got to know each other by style of play and syntax of insults. We got to know each other better by issuing orders or coming to someone's aid. We talked to each other over the game like it mattered that we heard each other. And later, when we could afford to leave our rooms, we'd sit in a pub together and laugh endlessly at mishaps and in-jokes and personality quirks, as if our characters were part of ourselves.Nobody outside of the game industry really wants to process all of this – it doesn't fit in with the accepted narratives of game history and culture. Let's look at Doom, for example, the poster boy of the Daily Mail's 'ban this sick filth' hysteria. Id's violent first-person shooter is an orgy of carnage and shotgun-splattered lunacy, and its popularity scared the bejesus out of the tabloid press in the 90s, who saw in it the wreckage of society. What theydidn'tsee was the vast, creative community that grew up around the title – they didn't see how the game's lead programmer John Carmack had ensured that the code would be easily modifiable by fans. They didn't see the thousands of kids getting together online to form modding groups, to build their own worlds. They didn't see Half-Life developer Valve nurturing its own community in the same way, and employing talented amateur-level designers to work in-house on new projects. People are now hugely successful designers because they once fooled around with a bunch of Doom files with collaborators they'd never met.Empowering communitiesGame communities are empowering. For lonely kids growing up in big schools crammed with sports stars and bullies, they are a means of making friends and becoming a part of something exciting and fulfilling. I don't know anything about the 40-person volunteer team who produced Black Mesa, a fan recreation of Half-Life released last year to great acclaim, but I am amazed by them. I don't know much about the Call of Duty and Counter Strike teams now earning millions of dollars competing in global e-sports tournaments, but I know that games and their communities have changed their lives for the better.Beyond them, you can look to the groups of Japanese kids who meet up in parks and town centres to play the popular local multiplayer game Monster Hunter; or to the clans of dedicated zealots still packing out the last remaining arcades for Street Fighter tournaments. You can see the vast network of volunteer scouts who contribute to the player stats in the Football Manager series of simulations. There is the incredibly intricate space game Eve Online, where communities have structured galactic democracies and complex economic systems.And you can look to the community that has grown up around the simple adventure game creation packageTwine; people who have struggled with issues around their sexuality, their gender, their identities – all of these can be explored through playing, making and sharing games. Anna Anthropy who has created incredibly intimate titles like Dys4ia and Triad, has writtena simple guide to Twine. Why not make your own? Why not ask others in the Twine community for help? They will help you.Here is why it matters to me. I hated senior school. I was lonely, I didn't fit in, I found gangs of boys intimidating and I couldn't work out the rules. I wasn't specifically bullied, but I was … marginalised. I had computer games though, and through them I met some friends who played and swapped new titles, classics like Paradroid, Way of the Exploding Fist and Elite. One of those boys and I started making games together for the Dragon 32 computer. They were very simple puzzlers and platformers with crude visuals and daft plots. I couldn't code, so I mapped out all the levels on graph paper. We sold them at trade fairs where we met other gamers, other friends. It was awesome and it let me think about myself differently – enough that I could go on to study drama at university, enough to put those crappy years behind me. I don't know anyone else from school anymore, but I'm still friends with that guy. I know there are millions of stories like this out there.Shared experiencesGames are about shared experiences, rendered extraordinarily powerful by interaction and ownership. All successful games have communities. There are forums, meetings, conferences, blogs, YouTube channels … every year massive get-togethers like Quakecon and MineCon draw in thousands of enthusiasts and developers. And unlike in similar events for film or music, there is rarely much of a division between the 'stars' and the masses. Geeks flow. Fans write mods and become developers, developers become fans of what their communities achieve. The rise of indie gaming has created a seamless strata between industry and fanatic – now anyone can download Game Maker and write something amazing that a community can form around.Certainly, game forums, like Twitter, can attract hateful, damaged people, but they can also introduce you to lifelong comrades. Online games provide a playful space, unmediated by the social rules that clutter bars and clubs; in this sense, online games are a venue, an excuse to get together. And sometimes you need to create excuses to communicate with people – sometimes it's difficult to say, "can we just, you know, talk?"  – but put a group of friends in an online game, with headsets and a bit of time, and conversation can flow. Even if it's about shooting stuff, it doesn't matter, there is connection, a connection it is difficult to make and maintain elsewhere.Back in the 80s, what the staff in those universities and research centres knew, as they gave over significant amounts of processing power to fantasy role-playing games, was that this matters; this is a new way of communicating together. So by all means let's castigate those in our communities who seek to terrorise and belittle others – but lets do it because we know they don't belong here, not because we think they're representative. I have met countless amazing, wonderful people through games – I don't just mean the designers and developers I professionally admire, I mean the people who play and talk about them too. Because games are a form of communication, not a waste of time, not something silly or shameful. We are always communicating when we play, we are always together.In his book, The Virtual Community, Rheingold wrote this about the internet: your chances of making friends are magnified by orders of magnitude over the old methods of finding a peer group. That is as true, perhaps ever truer, for games.
Zynga likes casual games: the social games publisher's mobile growth has been fuelled by the popularity of Words With Friends and related titles. It's much less keen to be associated with casual sex, however.The company is suing fellow US firmBang With Friends, which makes an app for Facebook and smartphones claiming to be "the anonymous, simple, fun way to find friends who are down for the night".According to Bloomberg, Zynga's lawsuit claims that the startup "selected the name 'Bang With Friends' for its casual sex matchmaking app with Zynga's game trademarks fully in mind" when it launched in January 2013 as a Facebook-connected website.It has since rolled out iPhone and Android apps, with chief executive Colin Hodgeclaiming in Junethat Bang With Friends had signed up 1.1m users in its first five months, with "over 200,000 successful matches".Zynga isn't the first dispute for the startup over the nature of its business. Within days of the release of its iPhone app,Apple had removed it from its App Store, and it has yet to return.Zynga is seeking a court order to ban Bang With Friends from using its name for any social networking apps in the US, and is also demanding unspecified damages according to Bloomberg.The app works by getting people to sign in using their Facebook IDs, then pick the friends who they'd like to become friends-with-benefits. If any of those friends have registered and reciprocated, both parties are alerted to the fact and left to make their own arrangements.Its promises of privacy were undermined in May whenThe Daily Dot discovered a linkto show any Facebook user which of their friends were registered with Bang With Friends, although not who they had picked.The link still workstwo months later.Zynga is understandably sensitive about one of its flagship mobile brands, With Friends, being associated with a casual-sex dating app.The publisher is refocusing its business around mobile gaming, whichaccounted for 27% of its bookingsin the second quarter of 2013 as the company's games attracted 57m monthly active mobile users.The With Friends games – including Words, Scramble, Matching, Gems, Chess, Hanging and newest addition Running With Friends – remain an important part of that strategy.Bang With Friends has yet to comment on the lawsuit, but as a startupthought to have raised $1m of seed fundingso far, the company will be wary of a lengthy legal battle with a richer firm like Zynga.
Smart socks tracking every step you run may sound like a Silicon Valley spoof, or a sinister, 85% polyester alternative to the US National Security Agency's Prism scheme.TheSensoria Smart Sock Fitness Trackeris a real thing, though, and appealing enough to have persuaded 450 people to pledge more than $72k on crowdfunding website Indiegogo to get the socks as soon as they go on sale in March 2014.The company behind the socks,Heapsylon, is aiming to raise $87k to make the tracker, and with 16 days left in its campaign, looks set to reach the finish line early.200 people pledged $99 to get the cheapest price for the socks, with latecomers able to pay $119. The keenest joggers can pay $499 to become an "Alpha Runner" and get a prototype tracker in December 2013, to help Heapsylon in its final tests of the product.The socks will include textile sensors placed under each foot, to measure how they land on the ground with the aim of warning runners of "heel striking or excessive forefoot running" that could lead to injuries.They will ship with a Bluetooth-enabled magnetic anklet to snap onto the cuff of a sock, with the wearers able to download an app for iPhone or Android smartphones to analyse their runs."When you go home you won't just look at pretty charts; you'll be able to analyze in detail what you have done well, for how long and what action you can take to get to the next level," promises the Indiegogo listing.Heapsylon is also hoping other developers will make apps that use data from the Sensoria socks: seven have already agreed to pay $399 for a software development kit, which will be launched in September.The Sensoria app will track footfall and other metricsThe socks fall into wider trends around fitness-tracking and "the quantified self" – a termoriginally coined by Wired journalists Gary Isaac Wolf and Kevin Kellyto describe gadgets and services helping people measure their health and activity.Companies like Nike, Fitbit, Jawbone and Withings have been selling a range of fitness-tracking devices, from clip-on pedometers to wristbands, with their own companion apps. Standalone apps likeMovesoffer similar features using the smartphone's accelerometer rather than additional hardware.There is even a fitness-tracking device for dogs calledFitBark, with its own crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo's rival Kickstarter. After six days, it has alreadyraised more than $50kagainst an original target of $35k.The Sensoria smart socks look set to hit their own milestone well ahead of time too. And in answer to the obvious question: yes, they can be washed. Although in a reminder of the limitations of technological progress, they're not quite smart enough to walk themselves to the washing basket.
Facebook is now a mobile games publisher, and that may be bad news for Zynga and other companies who've built social games businesses on the social network's platform.The company announced itsFacebook Mobile Games Publishinginitiative yesterday, to complement its existing system of mobile app install ads that enables developers and publishers to pay to promote their apps to Facebook users.Facebook will take an undisclosed share of revenues from the games, while sharing analytics with their developers. The initiative is launching with 10 developers, with others able to apply for inclusion via Facebook's developer site."There are many developers with awesome mobile games who don't yet have the upfront resources for a paid strategy, and we want to help them find a path to success, too,"blogged Facebook software engineer Victor Medeiros, as the initiative was announced at the Casual Connect games industry conference.He described the scheme as "a new pilot program to help small and medium-sized developers take their mobile games global", which will promote the titles of "select game developers" across Facebook's mobile apps, which currently have more than 800m monthly active users."This program is designed to reach people who already play games on Facebook with new games that may interest them. For example, we will help strategy game fans find strategy games and casual game enthusiasts find casual games," wrote Medeiros.Developers on board for launch include UK-based studios Space Ape and Brainbow, alongside 5th Planet, Certain Affinity, Dragonplay, Gameloft, Gamevil, KiwiGames, Outplay Entertainment and WeMade Entertainment.Some of the companies included are already raising eyebrows within the games industry, though.Gameloft's revenues in the second quarter of 2013were $73.3m,Gamevil raised $80min a share offering in June, andKiwiGames raised $9mof venture capital funding this week.Hardly the kind of firms who "don't yet have the upfront resources for a paid strategy", then. But the most interesting implications from Facebook's move into mobile games publishing will come for larger companies like Zynga and Rovio, which have also been courting independent developers.Gameloft's Kingdoms & Lords game is one of the first 10 titles on Facebook's schemeAngry Birds maker Roviolaunched its Rovio Stars publishing divisionin May 2013, aiming to sign up "the best new games from talented and innovative developers", and make them hits partly through cross-promotion to its existing network of gamers.Rovio Stars has so far published two games: A Viking Voyage by British studio Nitrome and Tiny Thief by Barcelona-based 5 Ants.Zynga launched its own third-party publishing scheme in 2012, andwent on to release gamesincluding Horn by US studio Phosphor Games, Clay Jam by British developer Fat Pebble and The Respawnables by Spanish firm Digital Legends.However, the executive in charge of the scheme, vice president of partner publishing Rob Dyer,left Zynga in June 2013as part of a wider spate of senior-level departures from the company.Now Zynga, Rovio and other big fish in the social/mobile gaming world –Wooga announced its plansto publish third-party games yesterday just after Facebook's news – will have to compete with Facebook to sign up the best developers and games.
Despite the tedious lonesome-geek stereotype, gaming can of course be a pleasingly social pastime. And although online multiplayer is fun, nothing beats staring into an opponent's eyes while laying a virtual beat-down on them.Gentlemen!(Lucky Frame, iPad, £2.99) employs the usual device of pitting players against each other, but, crucially, squaring up across a single iPad – as two dapper Victorian gentlemen duel to the death. It's frantic, platform-based combat with controls at either end of the screen. Knives, homing pigeons and dynamite are flung while you hop around and flip gravity to avoid incoming projectiles.The simple 2D visuals are lovely, with some beautiful Victoriana touches that make the game a feast for the eyes, even as your mustachioed avatar is sent to his death.
Steve Sinofsky, Microsoft's former Windows chief who wasdramatically ousted last November, is banned from joining former rivals including Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, database giant Oracle, storage company EMC or virtualisation company VMWare before 2014, new documents reveal.Sinofsky is in line for a payoff that will earn him more than $10m (£6.6m) according to calculations by the Guardian, covering 418,000 share options that were due to vest through to mid-2016. The agreement also bans him from trying to persuade a list of companies including IBM, Dell, Intel and Nokia from ceasing to be Microsoft customers.Microsoft also revealed that it generated just $853m from sales of its Surface tablet in the year to the end of June, following its ambitious launch last June. That compares against a $900m writedown on unsold Surfaces at the end of the last quarter, and the $1bn of sales and marketing expenses that the company recorded for its fiscal year to the end of June.By contrast, Apple has raked in $24bn from iPad sales in the same period as the Surface has been available.The revenue figure for the Surface suggests that the company sold about 1.7m of the devices between their launch in October and June 2013. That suggests a slow takeoff as the company tries to reorient itself towards becoming a "devices and services" business, as chief executive Steve Ballmer is aiming to do.The restrictions on Sinofsky's future employment arerevealedalong withMicrosoft's official 10-K filingwith the Securities and Exchange Commission.Sinofsky was ousted apparently following disagreements with Ballmer over the future direction of Windows and the company's focus on software and services. Sinofsky had been seen as an heir apparent to Ballmer's 13-year tenure as chief executive, having previously been a close confidante of Bill Gates – and one of the people who warned him in the 1990s about the potential impact of the internet on Microsoft's software-based business.As one of the most senior people to have left Microsoft in the past year, Sinofsky's future had been the source of speculation. The SEC filing shows that he is banned from trying to poach Microsoft staff or persuade customers to go with him. He is also banned from encouraging a list of companies – Asus, Acer, Dell, HP, HTC, IBM, Intel, Chinese PC and smartphone maker Lenovo, LG, Nokia, chipmaker Qualcomm, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba – from ending their relationship with Microsoft.Since leaving the company officially at the end of December 2012, Sinofsky has been seen in public a number of times, begun teaching classes at Harvard University and has started writing a blog,Learning by Shipping, which offers management observations. The agreement with Microsoft includes a mutual "non-disparagement" clause, meaning that Sinosky – a 24-year veteran of Microsoft – is unlikely to make any criticism of his former employer's moves.Microsoft's woes with the Surface, which has managed only single-digit shares of the tablet market despite a huge advertising budget, have only added to the problems its Windows division is facing as the PC market slows down. Microsoft says the market generally shrank by 9% year on year as customers shift to tablets and smartphones, and take longer before replacing older PCs.
Gabriel Syverson is a student atDorothy Stringer schoolin Brighton, writing for the Games Blog during his work experience placement at the Guardian.My name is Gabriel. I'm 15 years old and I'm a keen but casual gamer. I'm writing about video games and what YouTube means to my generation, and the opportunities that come with it.Multiplayer gaming is one of the main reasons I enjoy playing computer games. One of the things that really appealed to me at first was playing multiplayer games on my mobile device, but a lot of the time, servers are laggy and there tends to be no control over who you play with or who joins your server/lobby. Because of this, most mobile gamers I know tend to play single-player games that burn away time and don't drain your battery.I play a lot of free games and rarely buy games for my phone – I never buy items in-game with real money. The main reason I don't spend any money on in-app purchases is because it's not something I frequently do on PC or console games.I mean, sure, there's DLC for games and some games have microtransactions (which tend to break the game's sense of achievement), but in those PC or console games, you don't buy lives or abilities – or maybe I'm just less competitive when it comes to mobile games.Some games on mobile devices already exist in the PC/console world, but they're not as updated or advanced as on consoles.Minecraft, for example, has a mobile version which is quite far behind on updates compared to the desktop version.I've made some money through Minecraft by helping people make castles and other "builds". I was paid money which came from downloads of the world fromMinecraft websites.I got into this through competitions on creative servers, and owners of PVP (player vs player) servers asking me to help them with some builds. I can understand why some people see this as lazy gamers paying others to play for them – well, they're right in some aspects, but when the admins, owners and I are on a Skype chat, there's a lot of planning going on.The payment can be transferred directly to you or via PayPal, but this depends on how much work you do and how good a job you've done. The money comes in when the website has adverts on the page, and last time I did this it was for every 100 views/downloads, £1-2 goes to the uploader of the world.Some money goes to the website, and some can also go to people who worked on the build. If the download had a mention on a Minecraft "webshow" (prime example:Bebop Vox's Minecraft Mondayshow), it can lead to somewhere between 300 and 100,000+ views on a website.An aerial view of a Minecraft structure created by GabrielIf you decide to try this out, work with server owners and try to get them to mention you to others after you work with them for a bit. Spend some time looking at existing builds and try out different materials and designs. You could start a YouTube channel – in my eyes (and a lot of the young gamer generation), "YouTubing" is a form of business.In YouTube's community, the most common way it works is if you arrange to join a YouTuber in a video, or you get a mention in their video(s), due to you contributing something -- editing, voice acting, animations or others. Along with the mention, users will visit your channel and some will subscribe to your content.Depending on how many subs you have, you can get a partnership with YouTube and adverts will play before your videos which will bring in money. Recently, a lot of YouTubers are also using a site calledpatreon.com, which allows viewers to donate any sum of money they want to the chosen YouTuber(s), which they can withdraw whenever they want.YouTube has had a huge impact on my generation in terms of what games are good. It's also a place where ideas and opinions on almost anything (but mainly on games) can be debated, and can sometimes change the course of a game or console.A few games are PC-based and free, but you can donate to the people working on the game instead of buying the games. You can also donate if you want the game to continue and help the creators with updating and give suggestions on their website.A good example of this isStarMade, where the game is still in alpha and it's free, but you can donate to the game developers and post comments on their website.This means you can have more ideas and opinions on a game, and have donations coming in because people like the game and want it to be updated and become better. It would be a leap of faith, but this could be the next process of game development or game developers listening to their consumers, or both.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.BioShock Infinite DLC Returns to Rapture | GameSpot.comFascinating news for fans of the series:The reveal of the second and third DLC packs for BioShock Infinite, Burial at Sea - Episode 1 and Episode 2, is a major announcement for anyone who traveled to the dystopian underwater society of Rapture in the original BioShock. It was a sinister yet captivating world, and how Booker and Elizabeth are critical to its tale isn't clear, but BioShock Creative Director Ken Levine sees a return trip as the appropriate way to give the entire BioShock series greater context. On top of it all, in Episode 2, you'll finally wield the most powerful force in BioShock; Elizabeth.Levine manages to capture two disaffected groups in one fell swoop: the Rapture nostalgics and the Infinite skeptics who wanted more of Elizabeth's powers and less of Booker's guns.Watch Dogs: Aisha Tyler's Role Revealed | IGNThe love affair between Ubisoft and Aisha Tyler continues. Sort of:Comedienne and actress Aisha Tyler has spoken about appearing in Watch Dogs as a non-playable character before, and today Ubisoft has revealed exactly what her role is. Tyler loaned her likeness, voice, and name to her in-game self, and joins Watch Dogs as a citizen of Chicago, a random character for Aiden Pearce to track and protect from potential crime.Here's the cameo:Oh heck, watch out for that dumper tru... too late.Morning Star: Alex Seropian's crazy plan to change the world of video games, again | PolygonThe co-creator of Halo talks to Polygon about his new project, Morning Star, an innovative first-person multiplayer shooter:It all begins a century or more in the future. A signal is received from deep in outer space. A secret plan is initiated, the Morning Star Protocol, enlisting the governments of the world to help respond to the possibility of an alien threat. A decision is made. A ship is sent to investigate. Shit blows up.That's where you come in.Hey, we'veneverbeen here before!China: The gaming superpower continues to march West | GamesIndustry InternationalInteresting feature on the growing influence of China in the global games industry:Evidence of China's significance in the global gaming market is clear. Local free-to-play MMO company Snail Game, which employs over 3,000 people, has just convinced four banks to loan it almost $100 million for one game, Black Gold Online. It's taking it worldwide, and putting its money where its mouth is by dedicating $32 million of its own cash on top to market Black Gold Online outside of China. The MMO market may have gotten a bad name in the past three years by sucking up investor money and coughing out poor product, but that was funded by VCs who didn't know anything about games and publishers who fluffed their projected numbers on the back of World of Warcraft. If there's an MMO revival it'll come from companies like Snail Games, backing F2P titles with their own well-placed cash.BioShock Infinite reaches 4 million sales milestone | CVG UKOoh look, it's another Bioshock story:Irrational Studios adventure shooter BioShock Infinite has sold over 4 million copies.There's not much more to it than that.The Weblog Screenshot daily: announcing mobile action adventure RPG Castle Breakers | IndieGames.comInspired by the block breaker games of yore, Castle Breakers is a physics driven,action adventure RPG title, wrapped in a 3D, pixellated fantasy theme.Have a look, it's lovely.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
I first got to have a play with theAutographer, the wearable automatic camera in March 2013.It's a camera made by theOxford Metrics Group(OMG), and I knew of theirearlier 'sense cam' designed to assist Alzheimer sufferers, but on this occasion I was specifically there to see Autographer – a prototype destined to put this evolved medical technology in the hands of the general public. And last week, I finally got one to try out more intensively.For the record I didn't pay £400. I met the Autographer team in the OMG Life offices in London and was handed a small box containing the camera, a lanyard, a connecting cable and a small slip of paper tucked into the simple instructions. The slip highlighted that when wearing a small unobtrusive camera in public, I may want to take into consideration the privacy of others.Memoto vs AutographerI liked this small touch as ever since I attended the firstMemotomeet-up in Stockholm last year, quite a few of the issues connected to wearable life-logging cameras have been at the forefront of my mind. Memoto is  a similar life-logging device but as yet still not released; Ispoke to themin December 2012.The Memoto is smaller and more obvious than the Autographer. It uses slightly different parameters – place, time, habits, and behaviour – to determine which images are selected from the two it takes every minute, and those are then manually to their cloud service.The Autographer, however, uses five sensors that measures motion, acceleration, changes in colour and light, temperature and direction. An algorithm then decides when best to take a photo.It has a silent 5 megapixel camera shooting through a glass hybrid 136º semi-fisheye lens, an OLED display and a really simple two button interface. The images are stored on your own devices with the option of sharing to Autographer's cloud services.Wanting to limit how much data I was initially recording, I set my camera to medium frequency (ie. to not take the photos too often) and turned GPS off. I then went to grab a bite to eat before taking the train back to Cambridgeshire:The first and so far only time I've been questioned about the device is was when I took it off to record myself eating. After I explained the staff seemed more amazed with the device than suspicious, and wanted to know why this geek was shooting time-lapse of his noodles disappearing. I think Hipsters have already paved the way with life-logging to Instagram.The specsThis is so much easier though because you soon forget you are documenting the world around you. Most impressive is the ability to quickly and easily share images from the device to the phone via bluetooth, and from a laptop when attached via the software. This then enables you to create animated gifs or videos in just a few clicks.I haven't filmed more than a few hours at a time, but it's stated that the 8gb internal memory will hold 28,000 images; set at high frequency the camera would take that 12 days of continuous use to fill the space.The battery needs charging every couple of days, but you could still happily go away for a week without your computer and still have some space left on your return.The iOS and Desktop app work and look great, and an Android app is apparently on the way. I'd love to see a feature request button, because despite the simplicity I kept noting modifications to improve functionality and user experience.I also won't be the first reviewer to say the image quality from the camera is not great - though if I wanted to take a crisp high-def photo I'd use my Fujifilm X100s, so quality isn't the main point here. But if I needed a visual witness or wanted to document an event without needing to think about it, I'd use the Autographer. The image quality will improve, and has to to justify the  £399 price tag. It's the behaviour this device encourages and the questions it raises that are most significant.Wearable tech and the mainstreamWearable tech is soon to go mainstream – and arguably already has, if you consider fitness apps and devices that plot and record. And then of course there is thepersonal data scraper called Google Glass, and we will be expected to embrace Glass with a huge chunk of cash despite knowing that it is a device we can't trust.Luckily battery technology does not yet allow Google Glass to be always on. Perpetually recording and sharing images as if providing public (and private) access to our eyes. That's only a matter of time.While some are keen on a convergence in our mobile tech, I can see great value in the Autographer being a dedicated device and part of that much-discussed future that includes the internet of things.Autographer: unexpectedly comfortableAs a daily diarist I felt unexpectedly comfortable wearing the Autographer. I captured moments I rarely or maybe never photograph; a couple's embrace on a packed train, my hands on a steering wheel, interactions with the authorities, the smiles of serving staff, and my Grandmother's sadness.Occasionally I would remember the camera slung around my neck and find myself suddenly remembering to turn the lens dial to "private". I know I can happily use a public toilet and the camera angle not divulge anything other than the tiling. But I found myself suddenly and understandably concerned by the privacy of those around me, not least when I thought other people's kids were identifiable in a playground.What might happen when I walk through airport security and inadvertently break the law? What does all this mean for privacy in general?My brother snaps me as I snap him with the Autographer. Photograph:Christian Payne/DocumentallyIf this novelty doesn't wear off, I'll no doubt be approached and told that I'm invading someone's privacy. If anyone questions me, then I will of course turn off the device. That's fairly easy with Autographer because you rotate the lens to reveal a bright yellow lens cover.But I'll enjoy asking said person how they think an offline image captured on my wearable camera invades a privacy that is already leaking left, right and centre. With every online action, transaction and interaction, with every check in and status update, with every trip using an online satnav we erode more and more of this supposed privacy.Withthe latest Prism newsit appears all we  need to do in order to divulge a variety of personal information is touch a computer or use a phone.Personal, wearable CCTV?I will always ask before live streaming a room, before capturing a conversation in audio. But it's not common practice to ask people permission to photograph in a public space and I wonder how devices like the Autographer might effect the etiquette around such actions, and how that will evolve.We are only just beginning to wrestle with some very complex social and cultural issues around wearable technology, and just because we can automate our personal documentation of the world, it doesn't mean we should. Either we restrict the technology to fit our level of acceptability or, as tends to happen, our understanding of what is acceptable will shift.Many of us don't see CCTV any more; Autographer could be seen as a wearable, consumer version of that, though these new data streams are public and open as well as private and closed.Soon the Autographer will be as high a resolution as any camera, no doubt with facial recognition and optical character recognition. Eventually the curation software will be even more advanced, seamlessly archiving, collating and sharing in the background. Maybe in real time. Perhaps with audio.Autographer comes from interesting and meaningful stock that now gives us a fascinating life-logging tool. All its uses are yet to be explored, and the real potential will be determined by the users.Christian Payne is a photographer, filmmaker and technologist who experiments with new tools and social platforms. A version of this post first appeared ondocumentally.com
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLooking at CPU/GPU benchmark optimizations in Galaxy S4 &gt;&gt; AnandtechThe rest of our suite isn't impacted by the aggressive CPU governor and GPU frequency optimizations on the Exynos 5 Octa based SGS4s. What this does mean however is that you should be careful about comparing Exynos 5 Octa based Galaxy S 4s using any of the affected benchmarks to other devices and drawing conclusions based on that. This seems to be purely an optimization to produce repeatable (and high) results in CPU tests, and deliver the highest possible GPU performance benchmarks.Samsung fiddled the GPU code so it would run at top speed in benchmarks, but not in everyday use. Then again, if you rely on benchmarks to choose your smartphone, you've made a wrong decision immediately.'Google Alerts' are broken &gt;&gt; ForbesKashmir Hill:One of my sources told me that Google alerts were no longer working as a way to keep track of his mentions in the media. I had noticed the same thing after catching few of the citations to my recent 'digital home invasion' story. We are not alone. Search engine expert Danny Sullivan reported in February that his "alerts" were becoming far less comprehensive. In March, the Financial Brand — a service provider for financial marketers — wrote that the tool "is now so unreliable that it has been rendered effectively useless.""[Y]ou're right, we're having some issues with Alerts not being as comprehensive as we'd like," says a Google spokesperson in response to a query this week.Google News alerts seem to work OK, but the noise about the broader Google alerts is hard to ignore.Asda removes Nintendo's Wii U from stores &gt;&gt; BBC NewsAsda says it will no longer sell Nintendo's Wii U games console in its stores.Customers wanting to buy the machine from the supermarket can still order it online and have it delivered to their homes or to a local store for pickup.Asda said rival consoles, Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Sony's PlayStation 3, would still be sold in-store.This is despite the fact that the Wii U is the newest of the devices having only been launched in November."We continue to support Nintendo as a partner," Asda said in a statement.This is a new meaning of the word "support".Why do I hate DLNA protocol so much ? &gt;&gt; Ben's Lost WorldIn simple words, DLNA can be defined as "UPnP A/V with restrictions". Using plain UPnP A/V, a server can share any kind of file (being binary, audio file, video file, text file like subtitle, or even a Word or PowerPoint presentation, whatever …). All it does after all, is sharing a file through HTTP with its associated MIME type, just like any HTTP server (Apache …) would do. It was then up to the client/player to determine whether or not it can handle the stream. This was quite too simple for DLNA folks. They have decided that only a numerous number of files are worth being shared. As a result, they've decided to restrict the protocol so that only some specific file extensions, but also containers and audio/video codecs combination can be used. This just sounds like a very good idea. Even a 16-year-old drunk cheerleader could have understood it was pure crap !!Fabulously detailed. Also disappointing if you'd thought DLNA was the answer to simple streaming. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)The Idea Lab: What if Google bought Detroit? &gt;&gt; Brandon TomlinGoogle most definitely has enough purchasing power to bail out the city of Detroit, but what would it do with a whole city? Historically Detroit has been the heart of car manufacturing, where Henry Ford invented what we consider the modern day assembly line.  Thus, Google could convince the existing car manufacturers to start producing Google Cars and a premium rate. However, Google could convince any manufacturing company to produce their driver-less cars at a premium rate.What would be appealing to Google would be the ability to produce city wide legislature that allowed them to use the entire city of Detroit as real life testing ground for all of their technologies without having to comply to city laws and regulations.Someone needs to make this into a film. Please.Asus pulling back on Windows RT, chairman says &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAsus's Jonney Shih has made some crazy bets over the years — teeny-tiny laptops, phones that turn into tablets, and even a seven-inch tablet that can be held to the ear to make phone calls.But, so far, the only bet that Shih said hasn't panned out was the company's move to build products based on Windows RT, the slimmed-down version of Windows 8 that runs on ARM-based processors."The result is not very promising," the Asus chairman told AllThingsD.In short: no more WinRT devices for the foreseeable. (Translation: ever.) If it's Windows, it's going to be on Intel. This won't make those cut-price Surface RTs any easier to sell. (Thanks @rquick for the pointer.)NTSB calls for wireless technology to let all vehicles 'talk' to each other NBC NewsFederal safety authorities Tuesday called for all U.S. cars, trucks and buses to come equipped with technology that would allow them to "talk" to one another to help avoid accidents.The proposal was one of three the National Transportation Safety Board made Tuesday in its investigation of two school bus accidents last year. The main focus was an accident near Chesterfield, N.J., that killed an 11-year-old girl, but the board also looked at evidence from a similar accident in Port St. Lucie, Fla., that also killed a student. In both accidents, the school buses collided with trucks at intersections.Ina summary report (.pdf), the board recommended that the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration develop standards for "connected-vehicle technology" — wireless components that would let vehicles communicate on the road. The full final report is expected in about three weeks.Guesses welcome for when this will actually become standard in vehicles. (Thanks @HotSoup for the pointer.)Did Android 4.3 save my Nexus 7? &gt;&gt; The Verge ForumsDan Seifert found "performance had dropped off a cliff" on his old Nexus 7:So when Android 4.3 finally hit Google's servers last week, I had no qualms with wiping the slate clean and force installing it on my Nexus 7 with Google's developer tools. Doing so completely wiped the tablet, erasing any of the modifications I made and essentially brought the Nexus 7 back to an out-of-box state, but with Android 4.3 on board. Initially, I didn't really feel like the upgradehad much of an effect on performance— the Nexus 7 still felt rather slow and sluggish (albeit actually usable). But after a day or two of getting settled in with the update, performance ramped up and the Nexus 7 became incredibly snappy — even better than on the day I bought it last summer.A good solution which won't be discovered (or even understood) by the vast majority of Nexus 7 owners.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
This week on the podcast Aleks Krotoski is joined by Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss to discuss a big week for Google with the release of the Nexus 10 tablet, a brush-up for Android and the launch of its answer to Apple TV, Chromecast.Jemima continues with our investigation of wearable tech when she talks to Memoto co-founder Martin Källström about his soon to be launched wearable "life blogging" wearable camera.
The Android device landscape is increasingly dominated by Samsung, according to new data compiled by Opensignal, which found that smartphones and tablets from the South Korean company made up 47.5% of all Android systems using its app.But the operating system itself "is the most fragmented it has ever been," say the developers behind a highly popular app used for checking signal strengths.The findings emerge from anannual report on the state of the Android device market, following a similar one - with the same number of downloads -carried out in 2012.They also found that the complexity of the Android installed base has expanded almost threefold, rising from 3,997 different makes and models of devices at this time in 2012 to 11,868 now. The data was gathered from the 682,000 most recent downloads of its app out of a 4m lifetime total.The breadth of data makes it one of the most comprehensive and open reports on the state of the Android market in Europe and the US; while Google provides some detail about the versions of Android connecting to its Google Play store each month, it does not break that down by manufacturer or model.The extent of the "fragmentation" of Android - in which older versions are still used alongside much newer ones - is also laid bare by the data, which shows that there were eight different versions in use, of which 37.9% were on Android 4.1, aka "Jelly Bean" - slightly above the 32.3% figure Google shows for the proportion which accessed its store using that version of its OS.OpenSignal's app for Android and iPhone provides details of mobile coverage including maps, signal strength and available nearby Wi-Fi networks.The astonishing complexity of the devices being used is shown in a treemap of devices, contrasting 2012 and 2013. The size of the square is proportional to the number of those devices using the OpenSignal app.Android device fragmentation in 2012, as recorded by OpenSignalThe 2012 map is dominated by Samsung's Galaxy S2, released in May 2011 (in the top left).Android device fragmentation in 2013, as recorded by OpenSignalBy 2013, the Samsung Galaxy S3 (released in May 2012) and S2 dominate the top spots, with the Galaxy Note 2 showing up third. The Galaxy S4, released in May 2013, has already pushed its way to the fourth spot. All but one of the top ten devices is from Samsung; the 10th is the Nexus 4, the cut-price high-end smartphone made by LG for Google."Despite the problems, fragmentation also has a great number of benefits for both developers and users,"notesSamuel Johnston of OpenSignal. "The availability of cheap Android phones (rarely running the most recent version) means that they have a much greater global reach than [Apple's iPhone software] iOS, so app developers have a wider audience to build for. It may be tricky to do, but the potential reward definitely makes it worthwhile. For consumers, extreme fragmentation means that they can get exactly the phone they want – big or small, cheap or expensive, with any number of different feature combinations."Android devices by brand: Samsung is the green, making up 47.5% of those using OpenSignal's appThe data also points to a revival for Sony and LG, which a year ago had looked to be knocked out of the market - but have come back into view with the help of their corporate parents. Taiwan's HTC, meanwhile, which warned on Tuesday that it will probably make a loss in the third quarter, was pushed below Chinese rivals Huawei and ZTE in the share of devices using the app.Samsung dominates with 47.5%. "Some of the brand names shown as different in the graphic are part of the same company, i.e. Moto and Motorola are the same and HTC is shown as split up into its different regional variants," explained Johnston. "But even when unified under one umbrella name Motorola only ends up with a 4.2% share and HTC even less at 3.9%."A graph showing the market share of the most common API level also points to increasing fragmentation at the OS level. When the most common API level has a high market share, it indicates that more devices have a common OS. But having hit a peak of over 60% in July 2011, when Android 2.3 "Gingerbread" dominated, the most-used API now is a later version of Gingerbread which only has around 35% share. That compares to 95% of iOS devices accessing Apple's App Store which are running iOS 6, the latest version.Android screens in 2013: more shapes and sizes than ever, says OpenSignalScreens also come in a multitude of sizes both for smartphones and tablets on Android, in contrast to those for the iPhone and iPad, where there are effectively only four different ones, Johnston points out.Apple's range of device screen sizes in 2013: a far simpler offering than for AndroidEven so, Johnston points out that Android's fragmentation can also be thought of as evolutionary diversity. "While fragmentation certainly poses a headache to developers who have to test and optimize on an ever-increasing number of devices, the success of the of the Android ecosystem cannot be separated from its fragmented, free-for-all, nature. Similarly, it is easy for developers to bemoan API level fragmentation, but this is part-and-parcel of device fragmentation. Cheaper devices will struggle to run the most recent versions of Android and the fragmented operating system serves as an enabler of an ecosystem that is becoming more globally, and socio-economically, inclusive," he notes."What is clear from this report is that Android fragmentation, of all varieties, is increasing. Too often this is treated as a problem with Android, rather than a strength, but we feel that this misses the bigger picture. While there are certainly problems associated with fragmentation (and as developers we know them all too well), it is wrong to suggest that it is only a downside. Apple are currently working on a lower-end device, increasing the fragmentation of their ecosystem in the process, suggesting that the Android ecosystem is not only doing something right, but doing something to be imitated."OpenSignal has made thedata available for downloadand has also produced aPDF report.
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology has released a long-awaited review of its involvement in the prosecution of Aaron Swartz, who was facing charges for hacking into the university's computers when hekilled himselfin January.The 182-page reportfinds that school officials did not request federal prosecution of Swartz, and that MIT was not consulted about the charges or punishment, but it also questions the school's decision not to intervene in court proceedings.Swartz had been federally indicted on 13 felony charges at the time of his death and was facing up to $1m in fines and 35 years in jail for downloading several million academic articles from the JSTOR database through the MIT computer network. The aggressive prosecution wasroundly criticizedfollowing his death."I am confident that MIT's decisions were reasonable, appropriate and made in good faith," said MIT president L Rafael Reif in astatement(pdf). He said the report also makes clear that the school did not "target" Swartz.According to the report, MIT administrators did not know Swartz was the person who had hacked into their networks until his arrest on 6 January 2011. The school also did not intend to "call in the feds" to take over the investigation, saying the presence of a secret service agent at his arrest was not their intention, "but a recognized possibility," when they alerted authorities that its network was compromised.The school said it did not request a criminal prosecution be brought against Swartz and adopted a neutral position early in the prosecution. Though they issued no public statements, "MIT did inform the prosecution that it was not seeking punishment for Swartz, and it did inform the defense that it was not seeking any civil remedy from him.""MIT took the position that US v Swartz was simply a lawsuit to which it was not a party, although it did inform the US attorney's office that the prosecution should not be under the impression that MIT wanted jail time for Aaron Swartz. MIT did not say it was actually opposed to jail time," the report said.According to the report, prior to his death, "the MIT community paid scant attention" to Swartz's prosecution and few people expressed concerns to the administration about the case. However, Swartz's father, a consultant to the MIT lab and former student there, asked MIT to aid efforts to have the charges dropped or to get a plea deal that would not have jail time. Two faculty members advocated a similar appeal.In choosing the position of neutrality, the report says the school did not consider Swartz's contributions to internet technology and was not critical enough of the US government's "overtly aggressive prosecution." MIT also did not account for Swartz's prosecution under theComputer Fraud and Abuse Act, which the report called " a poorly drafted and questionable criminal law." That lawhas been widely criticisedsince Swartz's death."MIT's position may have been prudent, but it did not duly take into account the wider background of information policy against which the prosecution played out and in which MIT people have traditionally been passionate leaders," it concludes.Reif asked computer science professor Hal Abelson to lead a review the school's involvement in his prosecution in January with assistance from other members of the MIT staff. The group consulted 10,000 documents and conducted interviews with 50 people to assess the school's involvement in the case."Only Swartz knows why he committed suicide," the report said. "However, for the final 24 months of his life, he was the subject of a vigorous investigation and prosecution by the US Department of Justice, with an indictment and then a superseding indictment that could have resulted in years in prison."
What is Google Glass good for, beyond showing off at technology conferences? Google's augmented eyewear has plenty of sceptics, but here's one scenario:"When there's a wall of police firing plastic bullets at you, and you're running through a wall of tear-gas, having your hands free to cover your face, while saying 'OK Glass, record a video', makes that recording process a lot… easier," says Tim Pool."Pool has beenusing Glass as part of his coverageof recent protests in Istanbul, Cairo and Brazil forVicein 2013, but he's been doing what he calls "mobile first-person" journalism since 2011, and the Occupy Wall Street protests in New York.His livestreams attracted more than 750,000 unique viewers in a single day at the height of those protests, when police were clearing people out of their Occupy camp and trying to keep professional journalists away.Now he's finding audiences for his livestreams and videos through Vice's online network, usingthe Livestream servicefor his live coverage."After two years covering politics, technology, hackers and conflict-y stuff, a lot of companies had been interested, but had said 'we know what you do, we think it's awesome, would you like to do something else?'," says Pool."Vice were the first company to say 'we know exactly what you do, we think it's awesome, and we want you to do more of it."Pool's first assignment for Vice had been due to be the G8 summit, and the likely protests around it. But then riots started in Istanbul, leading to a change of plan.And two days before leaving for Turkey, Pool's Glass arrived, after he'd been accepted for Google'sGlass Explorerearly-adopters programme earlier in the year."As soon as I saw Google Glass, I realised that it would allow me to do what I always do with this first-person live recording, but my hands would be free," he says."I don't want to stand filming in front of the water cannon and guys with Molotovs. I want to show you what it's like to be there as best I can, even if that ends with me running full-speed into a cafe and rubbing lemons all over my face after being tear-gassed."Not lost in translationPool tweaked his Glass to run Android apps, and sideloaded several onto the device, including Ustream to livestream video, a remote-control app to access his desktop computer at home, and a translation app that's already come in handy for this Turkish non-speaker in Istanbul."I managed to buy a gas mask in a store through miming – 'Police! Poom poom!' [the sound of tear-gas being fired] – but when I paid for it, I just confused the shop-owner when trying to mime 'receipt'. It was great being able to say 'OK Glass, Google Translate 'receipt' to Turkish'," says Pool."When I was in Brazil, though, I didn't have a data connection at first, so I couldn't communicate. It was very weird going from that to Turkey, where I could translate things and talk to somebody."Poor connectivity is currently a hazard of Pool's job, especially when trying to livestream video. He carries several SIMs in order to switch operators when one drops out, but is optimistic about future improvements in network speed and reliability.The results can be captivating and panic-inducing in equal measure when Pool has been caught up in the protests. "Some people have told me that it's like journalism video-gaming: an open window into what's going on," he says."There's no one standing in front of you: you're looking through a window at this event. And with social media, people can chat with me while I'm broadcasting, and chat to one another, which is just as powerful."I was planning to ask Pool how quickly he thinks (if he does) that Glass and other wearable technologies will filter up to mainstream media journalists covering protests and conflict.But even as I form the question, I wonder instead whether what's more interesting is faster connectivity, livestreaming apps and wearable technology filtering down to more members of the public: the people who aren't covering protests or conflicts, but who are living them."Both are important questions. What the mainstream journalists are using now works: the cameras are good, they're high-quality high-definition… They've got a stable build, to put it in technology terms," says Pool."I'm working on what you'd refer to as a nightly build, which is less stable. I'm testing the boundaries and trying to find the methodology and technology that works for this."The implication being that the more it proves itself, the more this technology is likely to find its way into the hands of other kinds of journalists.Pool doesn't come across as a new-vs-old media provocateur, either. He notes that several TV networks have already broadcast his streams, including Al Jazeera English and NBC, for example.The potential of having somebody – or, indeed, many somebodies – on the ground filming during a protest isn't a replacement for traditional journalists using their knowledge to explain what's happening and why.It should be complementary, and indeed, the skill of a news broadcast editor is increasingly in weaving these different forms of journalism together.Occucopter experimentsPool is still an intriguingly disruptive influence, though, especially when he's harnessing consumer gadgets for his own ends. Take Parrot's AR Drone quadrocopter, a £300 remote-controlled flying device that I'd written off as a rich man's toy.In Pool's hands, it became an "Occucopter", capable of flying above protests and streaming footage (via a smartphone) to the world. "The idea is making this a mainstream cheap tool for people who want to be involved in media production," he says."I'm trying to compress this news-room into a very low-cost methodology and technology for the average person, so they can be involved in the conversation. For a couple of hundred dollars, we can get an eye in the sky, down from tens of thousands of dollars."Pool thinks that from a viewing perspective, livestreams made sense immediately to younger people who've grown up with the idea of live video online, although he accepts that it was more startling for older audiences watching events like Occupy Wall Street on their TVs."The first day I livestreamed there, I had maybe 17 viewers. Two days later, there were 700, then within the first month I'd had more than 250,000 unique viewers. And then two days after that, 36,000 concurrent viewers and a total of 750,000 for the broadcast," he says."Now, when news breaks I see the social media editors tweeting 'does anybody have a livestream?'"For now, Pool is focusing on his work for Vice – he was halfway to hacking conference DEF CON during this interview – which he says is the ideal employer for his kind of journalism."I did this on my own for a while, but as people in the industry tell me, breaking news isn't a business model!" he says. The problem being how to sustain himself in between the big news events when he's on the ground broadcasting."Those gaps are when I'm typically doing research and getting ready for the next event, which is where Vice are amazing," he says."They do their thing producing the content and getting a regular audience. That fills the gaps, and as soon as I'm ready to go live, boom: it's a platform."Livestreaming potentialThat's why easy conclusions are best avoided when it comes to someone like Pool. He's producing journalism that traditional journalists haven't tended to do, but that's why traditional broadcasters are interested in streaming his content.His tools are available to anyone – smartphones, livestreaming apps and 3G networks, if not Google Glass yet – removing the need for a media gatekeeper, yet the backing of media company Vice is helping him find a sizeable audience.Above all, he's enthusiastic about the potential of new technologies to complement (again, not replace) our existing forms of newsgathering and distribution."It's important just that the technology exists. You never know when you might become the most important journalist in the world," says Pool.He cites a recent shooting incident in a Wisconsin shopping mall where a teenage girl's tweets became a primary source for journalists."Now imagine if she had a livestreaming app. That's hopefully something awesome in our future," he says. "People will have the ability to broadcast to the world if they have something to say, or are somewhere where something important is happening."That's exactly where Pool hopes to keep popping up, whether it's riots and protests, political conventions or trials – such asthe conviction of Andrew 'Weev' Aurenheimer, who was sentenced to 41 months in jail for connecting to an unsecured AT&amp;T database and sending a list of iPad subscribers to news site Gawker."For me, it's not necessarily about politics, it's about things I feel are going to have a big impact on how the world works," says Pool."He [Aurenheimer] has been locked up for visiting what's essentially a public website. If I see something like that which is going to make a huge impact, I want to be there."• This article was amended on 14 August 2013 after Livestream contacted the Guardian to clarify that Tim Pool used its service for his livestreaming in Turkey in June, and although Glass was used in support to record video and photos, Pool's experiments with the Ustream app on Glass happened the following month. Pool and Vice have confirmed this to the Guardian
Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC has warned that it expects to slide to its first-ever loss during the third quarter, as its second-quarter profits slumped 83% year on year.HTCannouncedprofits of just NT$1.2bn (£26.3m) on revenues of NT$70.7bn, down 22%.Amid signs that the top-end smartphone business is becoming saturated, and with its HTC One flagship phone being pressured by its larger rivals Samsung and Apple, the company warned that revenue could drop to between NT$50bn and NT$60bn in the current quarter to the end of September, with operating losses "in the range of 0% to 8%" – which could be up to NT$4.8bn.The company hinted that some of the losses will be from excess inventory from the HTC First, which used Facebook's Home app as an overlay on Android. AT&amp;T reportedly sold very few andkilled the product in May, within weeks of its launch."They are definitely in trouble," said Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst for the research company IDC. "For a company that was awarded 'best smartphone in the world' for its HTC One, which is meant to be its flagship, if they can't make a profit from it, that's quite concerning."He warned that the company was low on cash, and that without profits it could face serious challenges to its survival in the future. HTC's balance sheet shows that it had cash and short-term equivalents worth NT$51.9bn at the end of the first quarter; the second-quarter figures are not yet available.That could make it a takeover target for larger Chinese rivals if it is unable to reverse that trend. In the mobile handset business, only LG and Sony have managed to recover from making an operating loss – helped by their larger parent operations. HTC cannot call on the same resources, however. Jeronimo also questioned whether Chinese handset makers would want – or would be allowed by the Taiwanese government – to buy HTC.The company has recently seen a shakeup of its management in the US and far east, pointing to internal tensions as it struggles with the challenge.HTC dropped out of the world's top five smartphone makers during 2012, and IDC's forthcoming figures show that it shipped an estimated 5.1m smartphones in the second quarter, down from 9.1m a year ago, even as the smartphone market overall has grown by 45%.In a statement, HTC insisted that "the new HTC One has performed well in the market, better than that of our hero products for the same period last year … With the help of [the] HTC One, we have regained superphone market share across major markets including China."It blamed its impending loss on "relatively higher cost structure, lack of economy of scale, and certain provisions to facilitate the clearing of ancient products in the channel", and that it expects improvements in the fourth quarter.Once the bigger maker of Android handsets in the world, and in 2010 the largest such supplier to the US market, HTC has been squeezed out of the Android market by Samsung, which has used the combination of its huge economies of scale and marketing budget to dominate the market, taking the crown as the world's leader maker of both mobile handsets and smartphones from Nokia and Apple.
Twitter bosses are to be questioned by MPs aboutcomplaints that they have failed to do enough to protect womenfrom users posting violent and abusive threats.John Whittingdale, the Conservative chair of the committee, said on Tuesday that he expected theabuse directed at the Labour MP Stella Creasy and the feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perezto feature in an inquiry starting in the autumn.MPs on the committee agreed before the summer recess that they would hold an inquiry into harmful online content. Although it will primarily focus on issues such as pornography, Whittingdale said that Twitter executives were likely to be summoned to give evidence, and that MPs would want to ask about its response to the rape and death threats directed against women.Creasy and Criado-Perez have been the subject of particularly horrific abuse on Twitter in recent days, but their experience has highlighted a problem that many users of the site, especially women, have faced.Although Twitter has been criticised for its tardy response to the threats directed at Creasy and Criado-Perez, Whittingdale said he did not know enough about the case to be able to comment on it. But the legal position was already clear, he said."The law is perfectly adequate. If someone posts a message on Twitter saying he's going to rape you, that is a criminal offence already. The challenge is how you identify people and prevent it," he said.Whittingdale said it was "wholly unrealistic" to expect Twitter, or any other social media company, to employ people to monitor every single post.But he said there were questions to be asked about how quickly companies such as Twitter responded to complaints, and how willing they are to co-operate with the police when people commit an offence online.The cross-party committee, which has not met to discuss the recent complaints about Twitter, is expected to start taking evidence in October.It will also take evidence from internet service providers, because a major focus of the inquiry will be the proposals to protect children from online pornography announced by David Cameron last week.
Who said smartphones would kill off the personal digital camera? A new, wearable camera calledAutographergoes on sale in the UK today, and is designed to work with iPhone and Android smartphones rather than compete with them.The five-megapixel device weighs 58g and can be worn around the neck or clipped onto clothing. It is capable of shooting up to 2,000 photographs a day, and storing up to 28,000 on its internal memory.It's the work of British firm Oxford Metrics Group, which is selling the Autographer from its own website for £399.99 ahead of a wider retail launch. The company had planned to start selling the camera in November 2012, but says it has spent the last six months refining the device."For the past six months we have undertaken extensive beta testing and sought feedback to ensure that Autographer delivers all it was originally intended to and more," said OMG's head Simon Randall."We've made valuable improvements to Autographer, including greater control of image capture frequency, improved functionality, the option to take pictures manually and an indicator displaying when images are captured."The key feature is the device's automated picture-taking, using sensors to detect changes in light, motion, direction, colour and temperature to trigger its shots, which are also tagged with a location using its built-in GPS.Thecompanion iPhone app is already available, with an Android version to come. Users can browse, tag, share and delete images on their Autographer from their smartphone, as well as creating animated GIFs and stop-frame videos.Autographer isn't the only device trying to capture a slice of the wearable camera market. "Lifelogging" cameraMemotois already available to pre-order for $279 (around £182) and will be shipping to buyers this summer.Meanwhile, established devices fromGoPro,LooxcieandPanasonichave a growing number of users too.While the latter devices have focused on specific uses – extreme sports for example – Autographer and Memoto are more about capturing scenes from everyday life, as are the photography features in Google's Glass augmented eyewear. "Capturing images of 'real life' rather than 'posed life'," as Randall puts it.The Autographer iPhone app enables browsing, editing and sharingOMG claims that its own research shows 45% of UK adults expecting to own wearable technology in the next five years, although cameras are just one sub-category within this: fitness gadgets and smart-watches may be more mainstream as wearable devices.For now, wearable photography comes at a price – and potentially the cost is social as well as financial. How people react to someone once they twig they're wearing an automated camera is one of the more fascinating questions around this category of device.Less "posed" life and more "uneasy" life, perhaps. But at least with more devices available to buy, we'll gain more of an understanding of the human impact of wearable cameras.
The Twitter account of Thomson Reuters was hacked on Tuesday in another apparent attack bythe Syrian Electronic Army.The hackers used the accountto post seven images, mostly explicit cartoons in support of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, before the account was suspended 35 minutes later.The attack began at 2.30am BST.Thomson Reuters is the latest victim among global media firms that have been targeted by the campaign, including the Guardian, Associated Press and CBS in April and the Financial Times and Daily Telegraph in May.It also hacked the account of satirical news site The Onion, which promptly published a piece calledHow to prevent your major media site from being hacked.Twitter has been working with media organisations to secure their accounts, including a rapid response tool that suspends accounts until the hackers are locked out.A Thomson Reuters spokesperson said: "Yesterday evening the @thomsonreuters Twitter account was hacked. In this time, unauthorised individuals posted fabricated tweets of which Thomson Reuters was not the source. The account has been secured and restored."The Syrian Electronic Army first appeared in 2011 at the start of the anti-Assad revolution, though it is thought to operate from Dubai and be controlled by the Syrian government. Its campaigns have included uploading footage of dead insurgents to YouTube and it briefly wiped $130bn (£85.5bn) off the US stock market when it used a hacked AP Twitter account to claim President Barack Obama had been injured in an explosion.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Asda suspends Wii U stock | CVG UKDisappointing and possibly prophetic news for Nintendo:Retail giant Asda is no longer stocking Wii U consoles across its 555 retail outlets, dealing a new blow to Nintendo's bid to reverse the console's fortunes.The grocer, Britain's second-largest, has suspended stock on all Wii U games, consoles and accessories across its stores, though eight products (all released during the Wii U's November 2012 launch) remain available on the Asda Direct website.CVG understands that the company did not stock Nintendo's latest release, Pikmin 3, a widely acclaimed title which entered at number two on the UK all formats chart.Pikmin 3 has been attracting excellent reviews, but is it too little too late for this beleaguered console?Dynamite Fishing: An Open Letter to Phil Fish | Clifford UnchainedSome fatherly advice from Gears of War creator Cliff Bleszinski to runaway indie developer Phil Fish:Never underestimate the intestinal fortitude of the anonymous loser hiding behind a monitor and his or her ability to sling vitriol at someone who willingly puts themselves out there. The fact of the matter, Phil, is that you were trending worldwide on Twitter. How many game developers can say that? Does no one realize that while you may seem somewhat unstable at times you also have Andy Kaufman as your Twitter AVI?I think Bleszinski is harbouring theories that Fish's withdrawal from the games industry is a Kaufman-esque prank. I hope he's right.Why Lorne Lanning went from triple-A games to indie — and loudly loves it (interview) | GamesBeatLanning is the founder of Oddworld Inhabitants and a great industry pundit. Here are his predictions for the next century of gaming:"When I look at the history of Nintendo, I say, "Nintendo is gonna be here in 100 years." I have no doubt. I doubt Microsoft will be here in 100 years. I know Zynga won't be here in 100 years. I've been here longer than Zynga. [Laughs] We're not making headlines in the Wall Street Journal, but we're still building what we set out to build. Now we have to be clever and smaller in how we think, but we're more self-empowered than we've ever been."The Chinese Room: Balancing fun with terror in Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs | GamesIndustry InternationalInteresting article with Dan Pinchbeck of experimental development studio, The Chinese Room, talking about the nature of horror in games:"I think when you look at it like that you realise that you're not actually using monsters to scare the player, you're using them to change gear to enable you to ratchet it back up again. When I was an academic I read a book on the philosophy of horror and the difference between horror and terror. Usually, when we're talking about horror, we're actually talking about terror, which is just using any means to scare you. Horror is a much slower, much more disturbing thing. What we wanted for the balance of our game is that the player should always be thinking 'I desperately want to go forwards, but I desperately don't, too.' Playing with the balance between those two states is important."20 cancelled Star Wars games revealed | Eurogamer.netA host of cancelled Star Wars games were revealed in the LucasArts tell-all book, Rogue Leaders: The Story of LucasArts.While published in 2008, the logos for 20 canned Star Wars projects is just now coming to light (thanks, AllGamesBeta). Interestingly, even then there was a tie-in for the unannounced-at-the-time Episode 7, planned with the subtitle Shadows of the Sith. A third Jedi Knight was planned as well, subtitled Brink of Darkness, but sadly never went anywhere.The logos run the gamut from slick to silly. I'm particular fond of the golden era noirish logo for Star Wars: Scum and Villainy, while you just know that Star Wars: Dark Jedi would have been that series' Shadow of Hedgehog.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Labour MP Stella Creasy and feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez have received fresh death and rape threats, as the campaign of attacks on Twitter against women who highlight online abuse continues.One user, calling themselves @killcreasynow made specific death threats against the MP and detailed graphic sexual violence. The same user also threatened to kill the Conservative MP Claire Perry, who has been targeted following her high-profile campaign to restrict access to pornography online.The account made a series of threats before being suspended after about 30 minutes.Minutes later, another account – @eatcreasynow – that claimed, and appeared, to have been set up by the same user continued to attack Creasy with rape threats, including specific times. That account was also suspended but highlights the difficulties Twitter is having in dealing with this issue, as users can just set up new accounts when suspended.Creasy retweeted some of the sinister messages to her 30,000 followers as she said the "morons" behind the abuse would face justice.Police said on Monday night that they were investigating a series of sexually explicit and violent tweets sent to Creasy after she spoke out in support of Criado-Perez. Criado-Perezreceived a barrage of abusefollowing her successful campaign to have a woman's picture placed on a new banknote.Scotland Yard said: "Officers in Waltham Forest received an allegation of malicious communications from an MP. The allegation relates to comments made on Twitter and is currently under consideration."The latest attacks on Creasy came as Criado-Perez, who was also subjected to more abuse and threats overnight, appeared on Newsnight.Criado-Perez, a freelance journalist, organised a campaign that included a petition signed by more than 35,500 people after the Bank of England decided to replace Elizabeth Fry with Winston Churchill on new £5 banknotes.Her campaign led to the announcement that Jane Austen would feature on the new £10 note from 2017, but prompted a litany of hostile and menacing tweets against her.Criado-Perez described how the abuse had left her feeling under siege and terrified in her own home. She told Newsnight: "It has consumed my life both physically and emotionally. I've not really had much sleep."The threats have been so explicit and so graphic that they've sort of stuck with me in my head and have really put me in fear, I realised."But in a defiant message to her tormentors, she said: "I would like to say I think they are completely pathetic. If they think they are going to drive me or any other woman off the internet they are going to be sorely disappointed."She criticised the response from Twitter and claimed to have been blocked by Mark Luckie, one of its senior managers, after he was made aware of her ordeal. "I can't begin to imagine why, either from a decent human being perspective or just from a PR perspective. I would imagine Twitter is pretty embarrassed about that."Police have questioned a 21-year-old man in connection with the torrent of abuse. He has been bailed to a date in mid-September following his arrest in Manchester on suspicion of harassment offences, Scotland Yard said.It follows a complaint made on Thursday to detectives in Camden, north London, who are continuing their inquiries, the force added.Critics have called for Twitter to take faster and stronger action against online thugs and Creasy has criticised the micro-blogging site's security policies. She told BBC Radio 4's The World At One: "This is not about Twitter, this is about hatred of women and hatred of women who speak up. And indeed, some of those people sending the messages have been absolutely explicit about that."Twitter needs to be explicit that sexual violence and sexual aggression will not be tolerated as part of their user terms and conditions."We can all challenge these people and indeed when this happens to me in other occasions I tend to retweet it so people can say: 'This is not acceptable.'"But we also need a platform for when things are not dealt with by users, when actually users do not realise that they are being misogynist, they are being aggressive or that actually they are trying to shut other people's free speech down."She continued: "I think we are evolving how we understand the impact of the internet and social media on crime and how it's committed. But let's be very clear, this isn't about free speech."Free speech is incredibly important on and offline, but it's not free speech for someone to be threatened with rape. We have to have ways of dealing with that and we mustn't misunderstand the level of cyberharassment taking place in this country."That's what we are looking for Twitter to play a key role in because actually if Twitter didn't exist, these people would still propagate these kind of views."The chairman of the Association of Chief Police Officers communications advisory group, which leads on social media for police forces, said Twitter had more work to do in combating online threats.Andy Trotter said he feared a whole new tranche of web-based hate crimes could "cause great difficulty for a hard-pressed police service" trying to deal with what could amount to thousands of allegations.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid dominates the tablet market in 2013 Q2 &gt;&gt; Strategy AnalyticsAccording to the latest research from Strategy Analytics, global tablet shipments reached 51.7m units in the second quarter of 2013.  Android secured a robust 67% global share, while Apple iOS declined further to 28%.  Windows also fell back but secured a 4.5% global share.We've asked for the regional breakdown. By contrast, worldwide PC shipments were 75.6m. In other words, tablet shipments were two-thirds of PC shipments.Google Nexus 7 review (2013) &gt;&gt; The VergeDavid Pierce:when Google announced the new, $229 Nexus 7, I immediately leapt to the pre-order page. This would solve all my problems! It has a fantastic display, a great processor, all the books and magazines and movies I want, and it's so small and light it'll go everywhere with me. Right?Then I looked over at the Nexus 7 I bought last year, which I loved to pieces. But it's sat dormant for six months. The battery's dead, maybe permanently. I scratched the screen pretty good, too. But a year is a long time, and maybe this would be the one. I had to find out.Read the review but don't look at the score. Try to guess the score (out of 10) he awards. Then look at the score.Then look at the comments.This man tracked his own location for a year and turned the data into music &gt;&gt; Daily DotThink about your day-to-day routine: When you get to work in the morning, when you end up at your favorite bar, what route you take home, and so on. We often lose sight of these patterns in the daily blur of life, but if you tracked your personal data for a year, would you notice a distinct rhythm or cadence to your day?Brian Housedid.What would be your soundtrack?Samsung Electronics has not dethroned Apple in mobile profits &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderLong. But also shows that where profits are involved, it's all so murky that nobody's quite clear.Disruptions: Microsoft's struggle to make things simple for consumers &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comNick Bilton:Just thinking about the Microsoft Surface tablets is a head-scratcher. The company offered two products, the Surface RT and the Surface Pro. One came with a pen. They both had USB ports, microSDXC card slots, HD video ports, flip-back stands, different screen resolutions and two types of Windows software.If all that confused you, you are not alone. While the technologically savvy most likely lapped up those features, average consumers did not."Windows is a hammer, and everything looks like a nail" to Microsoft, said Ryan Block, a former editor at Engadget and a co-founder of Gdgt, a gadget Web site. "You can look at the Surface, which is the best example; they created this totally blown-out tablet based around Windows and Windows-like experiences that didn't translate" for most people.Why Apple is a dead company walking &gt;&gt; CBS NewsDave Logan:So when Cook stepped into Jobs' role as Apple's chief executive, the question was whether he would, pardon the pun, "think different"? Would he learn to think like a visionary? After being in the job for several years, the answer is: Not even close.An analysis of Cook's word map reveals the mirror opposite of Jobs. He emphasizes market share, customer satisfaction, an array of new features, better speed, increased battery life, more money paid to developers, more awards and more growth.And we all know how incredibly unpopular, useless and unimportant all those things are. Logan has also decided that Apple will never ever again "imagine the unimagined, led by its core values". One for the bookmarks.Disconnect Kids app teaches children about online privacy &gt;&gt; Apps Playground"Disconnect Kids is a fun and unique educational app that teaches children (and their parents) about online privacy," explains its App Store listing."Disconnect Kids also actively blocks requests for data about your web-browsing and in-app activity from the biggest mobile tracking and targeting services. It's the first (and only) iOS app that prevents this personal data from ever leaving your device."Nice idea. (Via Stuart Dredge, who - disclosure - is a co-founder of Apps Playground.)Galaxy S4 FIREBALL ATE MY HOUSE, claims Hong Kong man &gt;&gt; The RegisterAccording to Mr Du, he was playing a quick game of Love Machine on his Galaxy S4 when it exploded into flame, causing him to cast it onto the alarmingly flammable sofa and thus gutting his whole house.Thankfully no one was seriously hurt. Both Du and his wife got out of their Hong Kong apartment with minor injuries asXianguo.comreports, but he remains adamant that phone, charger and battery were all legitimate Samsung parts and that despite this his house has been destroyed.Fireball SGS-4. The story seems a little unlikely, though there's no doubting the damage.iOS 7 is a huge step towards resolution independence &gt;&gt; SupraliminalJames Russell:InStretchy Thumbs, Casey Liss wonders if the new system wide back gesture in iOS 7 (obviating the need to constantly reach to the top left of the screen) is a step towards supporting the idea of a larger screenediPhone Plus. I would say that in most of the new patterns in iOS 7, Apple are telegraphing much more than that: clear steps towards proper resolution independence for iOS.These changes would pave the way not for an iPhone Plus with bigger pixels, but one with a new screen resolution at current Retina iPhone DPI levels that can display more content on screen. And once resolution independence is established, who knows what other larger or smaller devices it would pave the way for?Ballmer admits Microsoft built too many Surface RTs, disappointed with Windows sales | The VergeTom Warren:According to several sources, Ballmer openly discussed Microsoft's focus on securing Instagram for Windows Phone, and its plans for the next-generation Surface.Neowinfirst reported parts of the meeting."We built a few more devices than we could sell," admitted Ballmer when referring to the slow Surface RT sales. Microsoft recently cut the price of its Surface RT tablets by 30% worldwide, and Ballmer and [COO Kevin] Turner reiterated in the internal meeting that the huge writedown was a price adjustment that was necessary to sell Surface RT devices. While Ballmer didn't provide a sneak peek at the next Surface, we're told he confirmed new devices are currently being tested with incremental improvements. We understand Microsoft has been testing Surface devices with the new Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor.Ballmer also briefly discussed the performance of Windows. "We're not selling as many Windows devices as we want to," he said, referring to phones, tablets, and PCs.Somewhere between 2m and 6m more Surfaces than it could sell, it seems. Hop over to the Neowin link to see a fabulous debate in the comments about whether "enough" is a modifier.Understanding Google &gt;&gt; stratēcheryBen Thompson:For a horizontal player [such as Google], the focus in a "multi-screen world" needs to be on all verticals, not just one.Chrome is the focus at Google; Android is just an afterthought. For Google, it is Chrome that fits this focus on a multi-screen world. Chrome shouldn't be thought of as a web browser; rather, it's an optimized bi-directional delivery vehicle: the best experience with Google services for users, and maximum user data for Google. And it runs everywhere.3 This is why Google has been investing millions of dollars in building the Chrome brand for some time now.Android, on the other hand, enables several of those verticals, and keeps Apple honest in phones especially; however, by virtue of the hardware world it lives in, it's not the best vehicle for reaching all users, and Google is fine with that.Google isn't that interested in phones anymore. The only notable thing about Android phones at yesterday's announcement was their absence.Ironic if Google's really next big thing is its browser - such a 90s concept. But it does look that way.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The University of Birmingham says it will defer any publication of an academic paper which reveals secret codes to bypass the security on top-end cars including Porsches and Bentleys following a high court injunction.It said it was "disappointed" with the judgement in a statement following the Guardian's revelation that the cryptography research of three British and Dutch academics hadprompted legal action by the cars' manufacturer Volkswagen.The motoring giant had argued that the work of Birmingham's computer scientist Flavio Garcia and two Dutch colleagues from the Raboud University could lead to the theft of not just the luxury cars but also of lower-end people-carriers and other makes, including Audis which use its Megamos Crypto algorithm. That algorithm allows the car to verify the identity of the ignition key.Volkswagen complained to the judge that the publication could "allow someone, especially a sophisticated criminal gang with the right tools, to break the security and steal a car".Garcia and the Dutch researchers Baris Ege and Roel Verdult discovered the unique algorithm and had planned to publish their paper at the Usenix Security Symposium in Washington DC in August, but Volkswagen won a temporary injunction banning this."The University of Birmingham is disappointed with the judgment which did not uphold the defence of academic freedom and public interest, but respects the decision. It has decided to defer publication of the academic paper in any form while additional technical and legal advice is obtained given the continuing litigation," a spokeswoman said.The Dutch researchers said they had planned to "demonstrate the lack of security in the Megamos chip used in immobilisers in various automobile brands" and were not involved in any reckless research that could lead to auto theft."The chip dates back to the mid-nineties and has since become outdated, but is nevertheless still widely used in the automotive industry," they said in a statement issued by their university."The paper reveals inherent weaknesses, on the basis of mathematical calculations, and is based on an analysis of publicly available information. The publication in no way describes how to easily steal a car, as additional and different information is needed for this to be possible," they said.They said they informed the chipmaker - which was contracted by Volkswagen - nine months before the intended publication so that measures could be taken.In the court case, the judge was told that Volkswagen did not learn of the planned publication until May when it launched its legal action.Ege and Verdult said that in Holland a six-month quarantine between scientific discovery and publication was considered the norm, but they too would be respecting the decision of the British court."The Dutch government considers six months to be a reasonable notification period for responsible disclosure. The researchers have insisted from the start that the chipmaker inform its own clients."The decision of the English judge imposes severe restrictions on the freedom of academic research in a field that is highly relevant to society (cyber security). Radboud university, nevertheless, respects the ruling of the Judge," they said in their statement.The Guardian's article has prompted a massive debate about the balancing interests of industry and those of scientists, a debate that has infected all sectors ranging from medicine to car manufacturing.Jim Hutchon commented on the article saying: "The scientific methodology is dependent upon publishing results so others can prove you wrong or right and build on the findings. So in my opinion there is a reason to publish. It's good science."Another using the pseudonym EndersShadow asked: "The interesting thing is whether this discovery renders the cars no longer fit for purpose / satisfactory quality under the Sale of Goods Act, enabling owners to return for a full refund."And "Charles VanDyke" asked: "Would Flavio Garcia instead have published in Germany (home of Volkswagen), no judge could have prevented him from doing so: the right of academic publication is protected by the German constitution (the basic law or Grundgesetz). Publication can therefore also not be hindered by a foreign court."Volkswagen said it could not comment as  this was an interim judgment.
It's Tuesday.
Britain is too complacent about the war against internet crime, which it is losing, a committee of MPs said on Tuesday.In a wide-ranging report, the Commons home affairs committee said that internet crime, or e-crime, is now more valuable than the drugs industry; that sentences are too low; and that a "black hole" in the system allowed minor e-crime to be committed with impunity.The MPs said the police should be given more training and resources to deal with the problem, and that a state-of-the-art espionage response team should be set up to help companies respond to cyber-attacks.Keith Vaz, the Labour MP who chairs the committee, said: "We are not winning the war on online criminal activity. We are being too complacent about these e-wars because the victims are hidden in cyberspace."The threat of a cyber-attack to the UK is so serious it is marked as a higher threat than a nuclear attack."You can steal more on the internet than you can by robbing a bank, and online criminals in 25 countries have chosen the UK as their No 1 target. Astonishingly, some are operating from EU countries. If we don't have a 21st-century response to this 21st-century crime, we will be letting those involved in these gangs off the hook."During its 10-month inquiry the committee heard evidence from the online security firm Norton putting the annual global cost of e-crime at an estimated $388bn (£250bn). By comparison, the annual value of the global trade in heroin, cocaine and marijuana is estimated at $288bn.The MPs were told that the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau had discovered about 25 countries where criminals were predominantly targeting Britain and they said they were "deeply concerned" that EU partner countries are not doing enough to prevent these cyber-attacks.They said they were particularly worried about the "black hole" that allowed e-criminals to get away without being caught."Online criminal activity which defrauds victims of money is often not reported to or investigated by law enforcement," they said."Banks simply reimburse the victims with no pursuit of the perpetrators. Criminals who commit a high volume of low-level fraud can still make huge profits. Banks must be required to report all e-crime fraud to law enforcement."On sentencing, the committee said it was "surprised" to learn that hackers from the group Anonymous, who cost Paypal more than £3.5m, were given sentences of seven and 18 months.The MPs said they did not believe the hackers would have received such sentences had they physically robbed a bank of £3.5m and they said the director of public prosecutions should review sentencing guidelines.Steve Williams, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said: "This report highlights how the government message that its reforms are working because crime is falling is one which is over-simplistic and misleading."Crime is clearly changing, not falling at the rate the figures suggest, and an unknown but extremely high number of offences are going unreported. The police service needs greater, not fewer, resources to deal with the challenges of the 21st century."
Twitter appeared to respond to increased pressure to deal with abusive and offensive material on Monday by claiming it is exploring ways to make it easier to report abuse.In a blog post entitled 'we hear you', Twitter's senior director of trust and safety Del Harvey, wrote that the majority of the 400m tweets sent every day are positive, and "embedded into the fabric of traditional and digital media"."The vast majority of these use cases are positive," she wrote. "That said, we are not blind to the reality that there will always be people using Twitter in ways that are abusive and may harm others.""We are constantly talking with our users, advocacy groups, and government officials to see how we can improve Twitter, and will continue to do so. Such feedback has always played an important role in the development of our service. We hope the public understands the balances we're trying to strike as we continue to work to make our systems and processes better."Earlier this month, Twitter updated its iPhone app and mobile version to allow reporting of individual tweets. The same functionality will be expanded to the Android and desktop versions soon.Senior lawyer Charlotte Harris and Andy Trotter, spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, were among those on Monday calling forTwitter to improve reporting toolsto deal with abuse, as well as doing more to deter and block unacceptable behaviour.The latest wave of complaints against Twitter has been triggered by the treatment of feminist activist Caroline Criado-Perez who successfully campaigned for a British woman to replace Charles Darwin on the new £10 note.When the Bank of England announced that Jane Austen would be featured on the new note, Criado-Perez began to receive threats of rape and murder on Twitter but went public to raise awareness of the levels of misogyny online.Speaking to Channel 4 News tonight, New Statesman feminist bloggerLaurie Pennysaid that for many women "expressing an opinion online is the new miniskirt" - that if women dared to express an opinion then they deserved what they got.
Twitter has spent the past few days doing a good impression of a company hoping that the public outcry over rape threats against Caroline Criado-Perez would quietly go away. It is easy to see why. To adopt many of the measures being demanded by those who want social media giants to take more responsibility for the content their users produce would mean a huge shift in their business models – and even the way they define themselves.Companies such as Twitter and Facebook are keen to describe their sites as enabling communications, rather than publishing content – a crucial distinction which means that they are not liable for trolling or abuse. But for anyone on the receiving end of violent abuse and threats of rape or murder, the sheer size and profitability of their operations must mean that this distinction is becoming increasingly untenable.Both companies insist though that legally they are communications companies – just conduits for information who cannot be held liable for that content – in the same way BT cannot be sued over obscene phone calls. However, both also operate teams to investigate "flagged" content and remove it where they feel it is justified.Being a communications company rather than a publisher means significantly less responsibility and expense, because it can claim to be a platform for discussion, rather than a publisher of opinion which could be held to be libellous or threatening.But that position is becoming increasingly less credible, said Charlotte Harris, a partner at law firm Mishcon de Reya. "With popularity and power comes responsibility. They want to make sure they can avoid responsibility for individual tweets and tweeters, but it's not enough to say that if someone breaks the terms of use their account will be suspended," she said."If they break the law, Twitter should be more helpful, and that goes for racial abuse and violence as well as the terrible abuse we have seen recently against women. When these issues come up time and time again over a number of years we have to try to address them – and Twitter hasn't."Twitter needs to be more responsible, to act against people who use the site to abuse people and protect those who are abused."Harris said that Twitter's reputation as a democratic environment was being spoilt by people who were able to act irresponsibly, and that the company's lack of action encouraged that atmosphere, rather than educating its users. Where public opinion had been behind Twitter during theRyan Giggs superinjunction case, Harris said that mood was now changing.Harris's comments echo those of Andy Trotter, media spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, who has also called for social media firms to act more responsibly when users break the law. "Hiding behind a veil of free speech is not teaching users what freedom of speech is really about. There's an eerie newness to these type of very public, very humiliating and very confident attacks."Niri Shan, head of media law at Taylor Wessing, which represents some social media firms, said that theMcAlpine case – in which the former Conservative chairman sued a number of people, including the Commons Speaker's wife Sally Bercow, over tweets following a Newsnight programme – was a turning point in public understanding of social media and the law. "McAlpine was seminal from a defamation standpoint because ordinary members of the public realised that if you tweet or retweet something defamatory you could be subject to a libel action," he said."There's a strategy of making an example of high profile cases, and that gets in to the public consciousness. People have to understand there are repercussions – they can't just fire off tweets."Shan pointed to a case between Google and former Tory local councillor Payam Tamiz, who unsuccessfully sued Google for libel over comments published by a third party on its Blogger platform. The judge ruled that Google could not be regarded as a publisher under the established principles of common law, and that even if it was it would be exempt under regulation 19 of the European Union's electronic commerce directive 2002.At present, Facebook has a team of moderators who examine images which have been flagged by users, and then decide whether they are permitted on its networks. The staff have to work to a huge guidance document which used to specify, for example, that pictures of bodily fluids (excepting semen) were permitted, but not any showing breastfeeding mothers.Facebook spokesman Iain Mackenzie said the quality of engagement on the site was improved by operating a "real identity culture". "Compelling people to be themselves removes one of the key factors that enables many trolls – namely the ability to hide behind a pseudonym. Public opinion is not enough to dissuade most people from engaging in aggressive behaviour."Mackenzie said false accounts are deleted, and pointed to the site's second tier of protection, in its community standards and statement of rights and responsibilities which outline the site's rules on hate speech, bullying, threats and harassment."Every piece of content on Facebook has an associated 'report' option that escalates it to your user operations team for review. Additionally, individuals can block anyone who is harassing them, ensuring they will be unable to interact further. Facebook tackles malicious behaviour through a combination of social mechanisms and technological solutions appropriate for a mass scale online opportunity," he said.The scale of both Facebook and Twitter, which have 1 billion and 200 million global users respectively, make the task of proactively moderating content almost impossible. If both sites were classified as publishers and consequently under heavier legal obligation to remove offensive content, the cost and resource required would be extensive.Facebook would not comment on the current number of moderators but said that every report was reviewed by a person. "There is always an active debate about what content is appropriate to be shared on Facebook and every policy has its fringe cases that challenge us and the guidelines we work to; different things will shock, challenge and occasionally offend different people. The protection of individuals is more fixed. Our yardstick will always be to guard people from threats, persecution and intimidation while using the service," Mackenzie said.Twitter has declined to give any detail about how its moderators work, though its Trust &amp; Safety team does have people worldwide so that it can cover different time zones. Each tweet or account that is reported is examined on a case-by-case basis.The challenge that the site constantly faces is how to make it easy to report abuse without making it too easy – which would lead either to abuse of that system itself (by using it against someone to take them off Twitter), or too many reports, which could become unmanageable.• This article was amended on 30 July 2013 to correct a quote by Iain Mackenzie and to clarify that Taylor Wessing represents some social media firms.
Apple has been accused of benefiting from the exploitation of more than 70,000 Chinese factory workers in conditions described as even worse than those atFoxconn, the supplier hit by employee suicides and accusations of excessive working hours.The iPhone and iPad maker is accused of breaching its promise to improve working conditions after the Foxconn revelations by using another supplier alleged to have broken 86 labour laws, including forcing pregnant women to work 11 hours a day, six days a week, standing up.The US-based human rights watchdog China Labour Watch (CLW) also accused the company in question, Pegatron, of employing underage staff and discriminating against applicants shorter than 4ft 11in, older than 35 or from certain ethic minorities. The fresh claims of worker mistreatment are particularly embarrassing for Apple after it switched some iPhone and iPad manufacturing from Foxconn to Pegatron after intense negative publicity surrounding Foxconn.Li Qiang, executive director of CLW, said: "Our investigations have shown labour conditions at Pegatron factories are even worse than at Foxconn factories. Apple has not lived up to its own standards. Apple is worsening conditions for workers, not improving them."Apple on Monday promised to investigate the claims and ensure "corrective actions" are taken. The company said it would force Pegatron to compensate for lost wages. "We are dedicated to protecting every worker in our supply chain," a spokesman said. The Californian company said it had carried out 15 comprehensive audits at Pegatron factories since 2007, but admitted that many of the CLW claims were "new to us". Apple confirmed CLW's claim that some employment agencies were withholding worker ID cards and demanded Pegatron "put a stop" to it.Jason Cheng, chief executive of Pegatron, said he would immediately investigate the allegations, many of which the company denied. "We strive to make each day at Pegatron better than the last for our employees. They are the heart of our business," he said. "That's why we take these allegations very seriously."CLW sent undercover investigators posing as employees into three Pegatron factories and conducted more than 200 interviews with staff. Its60-page reportclaimed the majority of Pegatron's factory staff worked 66- to 69-hour weeks, above the Chinese legal limit of 49 hours and Apple's limit of 60 hours a week. Apple said its latest Pegatron survey found employees making its products worked 46-hours a week on average."In these factories, pregnant women were made to work the same long hours as other workers, putting in 11-hour days for six days per week," the CLW report said. Chinese law restricts employers from asking pregnant women to work more than eight hours a day.CLW also claimed Pegatron employs workers under 18 – breaching both Chinese law and Apple's strict employment code. "Underage workers often enter the factories as student 'interns' required to work at factories by vocational schools," the report said. Pegatron denied that it employed underage staff.Pegatron, which recently won the contract to make Apple's forthcoming  cheaper iPhone, allegedly displays posters listing "hiring standards" that discriminates against minority groups. The list bans applicants who are less than 4ft 11in, over 35, pregnant, or from the Hui, Tibetan or Uighur ethnic groups. CLW also claimed that male applicants were forced to take off their shirts to prove they did not have tattoos.It said the average hourly wage of Pegatron workers making Apple products is no more than $1.50 (£0.98) an hour, which it claims is not enough to live on and effectively forces staff to work overtime to earn a living wage.The undercover investigators also claim Pegatron managers threaten and abuse staff. Managers are alleged to have said: "If you don't obey, I will expose you to the blazing sun until 12 o'clock."The allegations come a year after Apple chief executive Tim Cook visited Foxconn's Chinese factories and promised regular inspections of working conditions at its biggest suppliers."We believe that workers everywhere have the right to a safe and fair work environment, which is why we've asked the Fair Labour Assocation [FLA] to independently assess the performance of our largest suppliers," he said. "The inspections now under way are unprecedented in the electronics industry, both in scale and scope, and we appreciate the FLA agreeing to take the unusual step of identifying the factories in their reports."
The San Francisco medical examiner's office has said it could be several months before the cause of death for acclaimed hacker Barnaby Jack is released.Jack, who was born in New Zealand, was famous for hacking implanted medical devices and ATMs.He was found dead in San Francisco on 25 July.A San Francisco police department spokesperson told the Guardian Jack was found dead by "a loved one" in an apartment in the city's Nob Hill neighborhood and that no foul play was suspected.Jack lived in San Francisco, where he worked as the director of embedded security research at security firm IOActive. The company said Jack was survived by his mother and sister in New Zealand and his girlfriend in California."This is an extremely sad time for us all at IOActive, and the many people in our industry that Barnaby touched in so many ways with both his work and vibrant personality," IOActive CEO Jennifer Steffens said in a statement. "But as a personal friend of Barnaby's for many years I know he'd want sadness to quickly turn to celebration of his life, work and the tremendous contributions he's made spanning well beyond his widely acclaimed professional accomplishments."She said the company will continue working with the industry to "ensure the advancements Barnaby started in this field will continue saving lives for years to come".Jack became well-knownin 2010 after hacking an ATMso it would spit out money at the Black Hat hacking convention in Las Vegas. He received further acclaim last year by showing how an insulin pump is vulnerable to a hack that would allow a hacker to dispense a fatal dosage of insulin from 300ft away.He was due to present his latest research on hacking implanted medical devices at this year's Black Hat convention on Thursday. Jack was set to show how he could hack into pacemakers and implanted defibrillators from 30ft away. That slot is now being used as a time to commemorate his life and work."Barnaby Jack meant so much to so many people, and we hope this forum will offer an opportunity for us all to recognize the legacy that he leaves behind," said Black Hat in a statement.During presentations on implanted medical device hacks, Jack obscured some details to prevent people from replicating the attacks. His work also moved several companies to examine the security of their devices.A fund created in his honorhas collected nearly $11,000 and the donations will be used according to the wishes of his family.San Francisco police said that it responded to a deceased person call at 7.41pm on 25 July. The police did not suspect foul play, so the case was handed over to the city's medical examiners office.
May 2010When his local airport is closed after heavy snow, Paul Chambers tweets: "You've got a week and a bit to get your shit together, otherwise I'm blowing the airport sky high!!". Chambers is charged and convicted for sending a "menacing electronic communication", but the conviction is eventually quashed by the high court. The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, says threats that are not "credible" should not be prosecuted.March 2011In the UK's first Twitter libel case, Colin Elsbury, a Plaid Cymru councillor in Caerphilly, is ordered to pay £3,000 damages and costs to a rival councillor, Eddie Talbot. Elsbury incorrectly alleged that police had removed Talbot from a polling station during a byelection in 2009.May 2011More than 75,000 Twitter users – some knowingly, some unknowingly – defy a high court super-injunction to link the footballer Ryan Giggs to allegations of an affair with a reality TV star. John Hemming MP then uses parliamentary privilege to name Giggs, saying of the tweeters that it would be "impracticable to imprison them all", prompting debate over the role of social media and the efficacy of the law.September 2011Sean Duffy is jailed for 18 weeks after being found guilty under the Malicious Communication Act 1988 of making "grossly offensive" comments about dead children on Facebook and YouTube, including mocking a 15-year-old who had killed herself. Criminal Prosecution Service guidelines have clarified that however unsavoury, general "vulgar comment" is not illegal.March 2012The former New Zealand cricket captain Chris Cairns wins £90,000 damages over a tweet that accused him of match-fixing. The allegation was made by Lalit Modi, former chairman of the Indian Premier League, who refused to remove the tweet.March 2012Joshua Cryer, a law student, pleads guilty to sending offensive messages under the 2003 Communications Act after sending a string of racist tweets to the footballer Stan Collymore. The district judge Stephen Earl says that although Cryer is not inherently racist, he "acted in an intentionally fascist way". Cryer says he was trying to "snare a celebrity". He is sentenced to two years of community service.April 2012When the footballer Ched Evans is convicted of raping a 19-year-old woman, a flurry of comments on Twitter and Facebook name the victim, some describing her as a "money-grabbing slut" and accusing her of "crying rape". Seven men and two women, some of whom were friends of Evans, are found guilty by Welsh magistrates under the 1992 Sexual Offences Act and fined £624 each. All say they did not know that naming the victim was a criminal offence.July 2012A 17-year-old is charged with harassment after telling the diver Tom Daley "you let your dad down" when he misses out on an Olympic medal. In a separate incident, the Welsh Premier League footballer Daniel Thomas sends a homophobic tweet after Daley and his diving partner Pete Waterfield finish fourth. The case is later dropped when the pair decline to press charges.November 2012The Conservative peer Lord McAlpine announces that he is seeking libel damages over defamatory tweets linking him to child sex abuse. McAlpine drops legal action against those with fewer than 500 followers but pursues Sally Bercow, wife of the Commons speaker John Bercow, in the high court's first Twitter libel trial. Bercow is found guilty and agrees to pay undisclosed damages.July 2013The feminist campaigner Caroline Criado Perez receives violent tweets including threats of rape and murder after successfully campaigning for a woman to replace Charles Darwin on the £10 note. Police arrest a 21-year-old Manchester man on suspicion of harassment offences.
As Twitter has become more central to the lives of its 500 million-plus users worldwide, so its problems with disruptive users have grown. There are now more than 500m tweets sent every day. Once its prime problem was spammers trying to push porn or gadgets, its newest problem is trolls – people who use their accounts to write abusive messages targeting individuals.On Twitter, any tweet which contains someone's "handle" – beginning with @ – will show up in their feed of mentions; neither needs to be "following" the other. Twitter has mechanisms to block any tweets from a specified user, to report spam, and – for users of its newest iPhone app – to report individual tweets. So how effective are those against trolls?Solution:use the existing "block" button so you don't see abusive tweetsPro:quick; already availableCon:The journalistCaitlin Moran says: "on a big troll day, it can be 50 violent/rape messages an hour. Exhausting and upsetting." They often come from different accounts, making blocking ineffectual. Caroline Criado-Perez, the latest target of abusive tweets,said: "When you are drowning in rape threats, when they are coming in every second, it's just not practical to report in this way."Solution:report abusive tweets to Twitter (available in the latest version of the iPhone app, and coming to the Android and mobile website versions)Pro:brings tweet to attention of TwitterCon:requires the victim to take lots of action if many accounts and tweets are involvedSolution:report abusive tweets as spamPro:may get Twitter to act more quicklyCon:as with blocking and reporting, hard to make work broadly. And offenders could – and do – just create a new account.Solution:retweet offensive tweets to shame sendersPro:makes extent and source of abuse visible; women such as Louise Mensch and Mary Beard have used this methodCon:those involved may not feel "shamed", and tend to have very few, if any, followers, so retweeting simply gives them unwarranted publicity.Solution:report abusive tweets to policePro:can lead to arrests and charges. A man has beenarrested over online threatsmade to Criado-PerezCon:police have to balance conflicting demands on their time: is a rape threat on Twitter more urgent than a real-life stalker or online fraud?Solution:force accounts reported as abusive into "protected tweet" mode, so only their own followers can see themPro:makes abuse invisible to rest of Twitter, and to target of the abuse, unless they were following themCon:Twitter would have to "force-lock" the account, which could mean delays in application.Solution:"watch my account" button to alert Twitter when abusive tweets are aimed at a user, so that offensive accounts can be identified and stoppedPro:quicker than trying to report abusive accounts individually - Twitter could take over the taskCon:Twitter might worry about becoming overloaded if people react too quickly to what they see abuse.Solution:flag repeat offenders with a yellow flag, which appears on their account detailsPro:warns other users about known aggressive users and may discourage them from repeating bad behaviour, and more subtle than closing their account (they'd just open another)Con:not effective enough and flags may become kudos in themselves, like Asbos.Solution:impair the online experience of offenders by making the site load slowlyPro:a slow site would discourages them from postingCons:might be seen as unfair; and they could just create a new account.Solution:make it impossible to contact people on Twitter until you have a certain number of followersPro:stops people signing up in order to be abusiveCon:prevents people getting a message out – say, from an oppressed country – to influential users in the wider world. Also bots will harvest followers for you (or automatically get you to follow people who then often follow you back)Solution:oblige people to use real names, or sign up with a credit cardPro:would make people easier to find for arrestsCon:not everyone has a credit card (and criminals could steal details to set up accounts); some people, such as whistleblowers, need anonymity
What is the cost of happiness? It's free, the saying goes.&nbsp;How much is it worth?  That's an entirely different question.&nbsp;To the startups behind a series of new phone and tablet apps designed to make you smile, happiness is big business.&nbsp;Nataly Kogan, founder and chief happiness officer ofHappier Inc, which launched a phone app in February encouraging users to reflect upon and share pleasant everyday moments, believes her business – which has already generated more than 1m happy shares – could one day be worth $1bn.Happier's mission however, is about more than making money. Built around the theory that writing down a nice thought is good for you and that positivity is contagious, the app is about helping consumers take stock of what's good in their life now and to treasure it, says Kogan. In the process, she is hoping to prove the technology haters wrong and remedy the negativity on social networks."On Facebook, we're all bragging," she says. We present the best versions of ourselves and then our friends compare the real versions of their lives to our best versions, and that is depressing."Happier is not alone however. An array of other apps – such asMappiness,Happy AppandLive Happy– have come onto the market in the last couple of years, variously promising to track, share or enact moments of joy.InFlow, built by Moscow-based developer Bayram Annakov, allows users to use their phone to track their changing emotions, using alerts to trigger self-reflection and providing intuitive activity tips in response.Rather than distance users from the real world, InFlow encourages them to go out and meet other people. "Our tips are about going offline, not online," he says. "The tip may say, 'Hey, you had a really good time with Will a few weeks ago. Why don't you give him a call?'."Annakov insists the concept is not just for unhappy people. But that the app is useful for those with mood disorders, for whom the daily recording of changes in mental state is something of a chore."Paper doesn't have brains. It won't understand that four times in a row you have had a really bad mood and it can't ask you questions," he says. "Technology cannot replace [psychology and medicine] but it really helps."The rise of this new tech sector seeking to muster merriment should be seen in the context of the growth of positive psychology, indices such asgross national happiness, and the quantified self movement, which has sparked a major new industry in self-monitoring health and fitness apps.John C Havens,authorand founder of non-profit,H(app)athonProject, which uses mobile data to provide recommendations for volunteerism in the local community, suggests digital tools designed to measure contentment redress an imbalance in society where economic data is too often prioritised over social data.Another attack line is that happiness apps merely provide instant satisfaction. Not so, says Havens, who explains the self-reflection that follows, allows users to take long-term decisions to weed out negative influences on their lives."There is real joy in discovery and introspection and reflection, which is something that we lack in modern society where we are so obsessed with productivity," he says. "If you allow yourself on a personal level, that self-reflection, as aided by these technologies, the hope is that you will discover areas of your life you have not been giving credit to."Not everyone is yet convinced of the efficacy of happiness apps, however, not even among those that develop them. Dr Jason Rentfrow of Cambridge University's psychology department – which launched the trackerEmotionSenseearlier this year – says the jury is still out on their effectiveness.Evaluating impact would require a serious study, looking at objective wellbeing markers such as physical health, visits to a doctor or reports from employers, Rentfrow adds. "If we saw people using a happiness app were higher in all of these measures, then that could provide some compelling evidence."Mark Williamson, director of the charityAction for Happiness, notes that there can be value in digital tools that promote positive action and mindfulness. But, he says, it is important to distinguish the well thought-out apps which generate authentic relationships from imitators that may merely generate bogus self-help advice."There is a danger of believing that an app can solve all of life's problems," adds Williamson. "Making day-to-day decisions based on technology rather than years of experience, intuition and expertise is slightly laughable.""So these apps are best thought of as reminders and prompts and behavioural nudges that can help us make slightly better decisions or remind us of the things we already knew were important, rather than something that will radically change our life overnight at the touch of a button."This content is brought to you byGuardian Professional. BecomeGSB memberto get more stories like this direct to your inbox
Spotify may be in the news forthe size of its payouts to musicians, but a new app launched on the streaming service is a reminder that there is more to its catalogue than music.Official Comedyis the first Spotify app to focus on comedy. It was launched today by US media companyBedrocket Media Venturesas a spin-off from itsOfficial Comedy channelon YouTube.Its Spotify app is based around playlists for comedians and themes. The former range from Monty Python, Billy Connolly and Bill Hicks to current stars including Aziz Ansari, Louis C.K. and Sarah Silverman.Themes include the royal baby, drink and drugs, racial disharmony and sex scandals. The app is curating tracks that are already available on Spotify from a range of comedians, playing a similar role to the Official Comedy YouTube channel, which has more than 175k subscribers.The channel is funded by YouTube's Original Channels initiative, which is investing $300m in 160 new channels to bolster Google's video service's catalogue of original content.Bedrocket raised $15m of fundingfrom New Enterprise Associates in September 2012 to continue producing the channel and its stablemates Look TV and Network_A, which had also been funded by YouTube's scheme.Spotify's role in Official Comedy's new launch is merely to provide the apps platform for it: all the tracks were already available on the service, so this isn't a case of Spotify suddenly "getting into" comedy. The app was designed for Bedrocket by British firmSMPapps.It's far from the only streaming audio service to carry such content, too. US-based streaming radio servicePandora added comedy in May 2011, including the ability for listeners to create personalised stations based on their favourite performers.Pandora also tags every routine with characteristics to help this personalisation. "Not only am I able to curate a genre station for 'Jewish Humor' by pulling every track that scores in a gene called 'POV: Jewish,' I can also pull tracks that score in 'Format: Sketch,' 'Subject: Food,' or 'Delivery: Shouting'," its comedy curator Kelly Annekenexplained to Forbes in June 2013.On Spotify, the Official Comedy app is taking on that curatorial role. It's one of 87 apps launched within Spotify's desktop application so far, although the company has yet to also make them available within its smartphone and tablet apps.
Twitter has come under increasing pressure to review its abuse-reporting systems after the Labour MP Stella Creasy was threatened with rape for supporting the feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perez.Creasy, the MP for Walthamstow in east London, retweeted some of the messages she had received on the micro-blogging site, adding that such behaviour would have consequences."You better watch your back....Im gonna rape your ass at 8pm and put the video all over the internet,"read one.Another said: "If I meet you in an alley you will definitely get fucked."Creasy used Twitter to inform the police of the threats, warn her abusers that she was logging their threats and taking screen grabs as evidence."You send me a rape threat you morons I will report you to the police &amp; ensure action taken,"she wrote.Creasy spoke out asthe online petition calling for Twitter to review its proceduresattracted almost 60,000 signatures, and a day afterpolice arrested a manin connection with Twitter threats made to Criado-Perez after she succeeded in her campaign to have the image of a woman, Jane Austen, used on a new bank note. The 21-year-old was arrested in Manchester on suspicion of harassment offences following a complaint made on Thursday.On Monday, Twitter said it had introduced a button for reporting abuse on its latest iPhone app and was looking at expanding this function.A spokesman said: "The ability to report individual tweets for abuse is currently available on Twitter for iPhone, and we plan to bring this functionality to other platforms, including Android and the web."We don't comment on individual accounts. However, we have rules which people agree to abide by when they sign up to Twitter."We will suspend accounts that, once reported to us, are found to be in breach of our rules. We encourage users to report an account for violation of the Twitter rules by using one of our report forms."The response is unlikely to satisfy some critics who have already said the iPhone button is inadequate as it links to a complex form and does not allow reports of multiple abuse tweets.Criado-Perez, who has received support from MPs and celebrities, said: "It's sadly not unusual to get this kind of abuse but I've never seen it get as intense or aggressive as this."It's infuriating that the price you pay for standing up for women is 24 hours of rape threats. We are showing that by standing together we can make a real difference."We made the Bank of England change its mind, we can do the same with Twitter."Criado-Perez, a freelance journalist, organised a campaign which included a petition signed by more than 35,500 people after the Bank of England decided to replace Elizabeth Fry with Winston Churchill on new £5 notes. The move would have meant there were no women apart from the Queen on sterling banknotes.Her campaign was a success, with the bank announcing last week that Austen would feature on the new £10 when it is introduced in 2017.Tony Wang, the general manager of Twitter UK, said the company took online abuse seriously.He tweeted: "We encourage users to report an account for violation of the Twitter rules by using one of our report forms."Also, we're testing ways to simplify reporting, eg within a tweet by using the 'Report Tweet' button in our iPhone app and on mobile web. We will suspend accounts that, once reported to us, are found to be in breach of our rules."The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, has written to Wangcriticising Twitter's response to the "disgraceful, appalling and unacceptable" commentsmade about Criado-Perez on the site.She wrote: "Despite the scale and seriousness of these threats, the official response from Twitter continues to be extremely weak – simply directing Caroline away from Twitter towards the police, and, belatedly, directing users to abuse reporting forms on Twitter."Of course it is right to report such abuse to the police, and it is very important that they investigate and pursue this case."But social media platforms also have a responsibility for the platform they give users. And in particular they have a responsibility not to tolerate this kind of abuse, rape threats and potentially criminal behaviour."She added: "The response by Twitter has clearly been inadequate and fails not only Caroline, but many more women and girls who have faced similar abuse on your social network."More than 20,000 people have already signed an online petition asking Twitter to allow users to report abuse directly with one click."I urge you to go further and ensure that Twitter carries out a full review of all its policies on abusive behaviour, threats and crimes, including more help for Twitter users who experience abuse, a clear complaints process and clear action from Twitter to tackle this kind of persecution."
Last week, David Vonderhaar, the game design director at development studio Treyarch, announced that his team had made some minor adjustments to Call of Duty: Black Ops 2. Now there are people online who want him dead. I don't have to list the vile threats that have bombarded his Twitter account - they are handily recorded on the Tumblr,Gamer Fury. All we really need to know is that Vonderhaar and his team tweaked some weapon statistics in the game's multiplayer mode to re-balance the experience, and that some members of the community responded by wishing rape and cancer on his family.A few days later, indie developer Phil Fishannouncedthat he was abandoning the sequel to his critically acclaimed platformer Fez, because he couldn't cope with the games industry anymore. The announcement came after a raging Twitter argument with games writer Marcus Beer, who had referred to Fish as a tosspot and an asshole during the GameTrailers show, Invisible Walls. Fish is no shrinking innocent; he has actively engaged in social media storms in the past, and his Twitter comment to Beer in which he directed the journalist to "compare your life to mine and then kill yourself" was repellent (update:several readers have reminded me that this is a quote from Futurama. Although, of course, most of the rest of Fish's comments in this exchange were not). But it seems there will be no Fez II now, so, yeah, well played everyone.These are, of course, familiar tales in the modern games industry, and indeed, they reflect patterns of online behaviour that now exist throughout culture and society. In the Guardian today,we can read aboutthe 21-year-old man who has been arrested for threatening feminist Caroline Criado-Perez after she successfully campaigned to have Jane Austen's picture on the ten pound note. "It's sadly not unusual to get this kind of abuse but I've never seen it get as intense or aggressive as this," said Criado-Perez. "It's infuriating that the price you pay for standing up for women is 24 hours of rape threats."Yet somehow, this is where we are now.Naturally, there are a range of theories to explain this bizarre and sickening behaviour. The psychologist John Suler refers to the online disinhibition effect: the way that the anonymity of cyberspace frees us to say and do things that we would ever consider in face-to-face communication. In his 2004 essay,CyberPsychology and Behaviour, there is a theory with particular relevance to the Vonderhaar situation. Suler writes that some people consciously inhabit different characters while online, like actors taking on a role, and that they dissociate the actions of this 'character' from themselves and from real-life consequence:People may feel that the imaginary characters they "created" exist in a different space, that one's online persona along with the online others live in an make-believe dimension, a dream world, separate and apart from the demands and responsibilities of the real world. They split or "dissociate" online fiction from offline fact. Emily Finch, an author and criminal lawyer studying identity theft in cyberspace, has suggested that some people see their online life as a kind of game with rules and norms that don't apply to everyday living (pers. comm., 2002). Once they turn off the computer and return to their daily routine, they believe they can leave that game and their game-identity behind. Why should they be held responsible for what happens in that make-believe play world that has nothing to do with reality? After all, it isn't that different than blasting away at your pals in a shoot-em up video game... or so some people might think, perhaps unconsciously.In this sense, the mindless hatred directed toward Vonderhaarr could be seen as a warped extension of the 'trash talk' many gamers indulge in during multiplayer deathmatches – Twitter becomes a part of the experience of Black Ops, and engaging in online bullying is a sort of tribal affirmation with other players. Similarly, the controversial theory of deindividuation, which seeks to explain why normal individuals become unruly and violent in a crowd, may well show parallels between Twitter abuse and football hooliganism: both are about taking on and representing a collective identity which has nothing to do with 'real-life'. Both are about showing off how hard you are to your peers. And in the leveling confines of the online comments section or Twitter feed, the only way to be heard – to be 'admired' – is to be the most extreme.The problem is, the games community has found ways to explain away abominable online behaviour. You know, "Call of Duty is a horrible game so it gets the fans it deserves"; "Phil Fish is an argumentative guy so he should expect to attract Twitter hatred"; "these nutters are a tiny minority of gamers". But by excusing all this crap, surely we're perpetuating it; we're complicit. And we shouldn't be. It is repulsive.Game design is a creative endeavour and its proponents, like the great novelists, the great film makers, the great artists, are often introverted and sensitive people. Do we really want to create an environment in which online abuse is accepted as inevitable? Where does that stop? Suggesting that young designers stay off Twitter or remain aloof from communities is not practical – in the digital era, maintaining close ties with your 'user-base' is vital. After all, Valve's Greenlight system has turned community into a financial model; popularity, or at least notoriety, has become a prerequisite to success. It is not realistic to just stay out of the social media milieu.And ultimately, it doesn't matter what you think about games like Call of Duty, you have to think about David Vonderhaar going home to his family one night last week and explaining to them that dozens of people want him to die in the most graphic ways possible because of a decision he made about a game he loves. All developers understand that their audiences are passionate and engaged, but is hate an inevitable by-product of that?As for the Phil Fish situation, well, it is more complex – he has courted controversy, he has played that game. But I'm not sure he knew the maelstrom of invective he would bring down upon himself. And if he did, does that make it acceptable? That's an honest question. Does it?Bullies rely on a status quo that subtly excuses and normalises their behaviour. It doesn't have to be that way. There are plenty of excuses to be an idiot online, but the excusesnot to beare always more compelling and enriching. I'm not imagining some sort of happy-clappy pacifist fantasy land here; full-bloodied criticism, satire and argument are vital. I'm just talking about a games culture in which a developer doesn't get death threats for changing an imaginary weapon.Is it okay to think about that? Is it okay to want it?
As a technology journalist, I'm much more used to staring at whizzy apps than sparkly dresses. The latest exhibition at Kensington Palace in London combines both, with dresses worn by the Queen, Princess Margaret and Diana, Princess of Wales, and a tablet app to help visitors design their own.The exhibition isFashion Rules, which opened in July and will run until summer 2015. The app is a customised version ofPaper by US startup FiftyThree, created specifically for the exhibition, and running on iPads placed in the galleries where it's being held."We wanted to avoid at all costs simply 'bunging technology' into the space," says Tim Powell, digital media manager at Kensington Palace, explaining that Fashion Rules marks the first time the building has had Wi-Fi available in an exhibition space."We wanted to help people to truly engage with the narrative of the exhibition. And this is the first time we've had people pushing content out from an exhibition space, being able to share it."Powell says that Paper was the first app that sprang to mind when planning the interactive element of the exhibition, which displays dresses worn by the Queen in the 1950s, Princess Margaret in the 1960s and 1970s, and Diana, Princess of Wales in the 1980s.The Fashion Rules version of Paper is pre-populated with dress outlines, leaving visitors to choose from themed palettes for each era, and digitally colour the garments in.They can then email their picture to themselves, and (if they want) also share it on the officialFashion Rules Tumblr blog, where images are checked by the Palace's team before being posted.In other words: no dresses decorated with genitalia graffiti or anti-royal slogans. "We haven't had anything bad posted yet, but we have to have that moderation layer in," says Powell.For now, the Fashion Rules version of Paper can't be downloaded from iPad's App Store, which means it can only be used on the tablets within the exhibition. That's a deliberate decision on the part of Kensington Palace and FiftyThree."What this allows you to do is look at a dress and draw it, in order to create something beautiful that you can take away with you and show to your friends," says Powell."In a sense, what's important about it for me is that it's specific: it's about that dress and you creating something in that space. If you used the app somewhere else, it would just become more of a colouring-in book."Some dresses coloured in using the Fashion Rules app. Photo: Historic Royal PalacesHow has the app gone down with visitors? It's early days, but Powell notes that there are often crowds around the iPads and the staff who are demonstrating the app, with some creative results already shown on the Tumblr."We have family fun-days, which will now include a session doing illustrations on iPads, and colleagues in education are really excited about it too," he says."We have formal GCSE and A-Level fashion sessions, and part of that will be fashion illustration using the app. Colleagues were coming in even while the app was in development with ideas about what they might be able to use it for."The use of a tablet app to complement an exhibition is also a big step forward for Powell's digital media team, which is well established at the Palace, but also traditionally restricted in its scope."Over the last few years, we've had a digital team in place right from the very start when an exhibition is being planned, up to two years before it actually opens," says Powell.What's been lacking at Kensington Palace – which as a Grade I-listed royal palace isn't the easiest place to shove more cables into the walls for connectivity – is the infrastructure to add interactivity to the actual exhibitions."So we've been focused on cool viral stuff to get people here, and encouraging people to share content afterwards. Very marketing/comms focused, rather than augmenting the exhibitions themselves," says Powell. "This is very exciting, and long wished-for."
Google is encouraging developers to start building apps for its Glass augmented-reality eyewear, even though it has yet to release the official Glass Development Kit (GDK) to help them do it.According to ablog post by the Glass developer relations team, Google revealed plans for the GDK during its I/O developer conference in July this year, but doesn't want app-makers to wait for it to be released."We're still hard at work on the GDK, but in the meantime, you can start designing and developing your awesome ideas with the existing Android SDK," suggests the post."Although you won't have all the tools necessary to design the perfect experience for Glass, developing with the Android SDK (API Level 15) lets you try out ideas while you wait for the GDK."The team add that Glass features including the accelerometer and playing media are already part of the Android SDK. Google haspublished some sample appsincluding a stopwatch, level and compass for Glass, with more to come in the next few weeks."When we release the GDK, we'll update these samples to demonstrate the migration path between a traditional Android app and a full Glass experience," explains the blog post.In fact, a number of companies and developers have already released third-party Glass apps, either through working with Google ahead of the GDK's launch, or by using itsGoogle Mirror APIfor web-based Glassware.They include media brands, withthe New York Times' apppushing breaking news alerts and hourly updates to Glass owners, while CNN and Elleshowed off their own appsduring the I/O conference.Social media services, includingFacebook,Twitter,TumblrandPath,have all launched Glass apps, too.Meanwhile, e-commerce serviceFancy has a Glass appenabling people to take photos of objects in the world around them then find matching products, and cloud-storage service Evernote have alsoreleased a "first look"at its app.Fancy's Glass app helps people find colour-matched productsAll have stressed that it is early days for their apps on Glass, even if they have grand ambitions."We believe that wearables are the next frontier in consumer technology and we're hard at work building the Evernote for our wearable technology future," as that company's vice president of marketing Andrew Sinkov put it in a blog post."Today, you're getting a glimpse of simple and useful ways that Evernote can be used with Google Glass. This is only the beginning."Wearable-technology incubator Stained Glass Labs maintainsa directory of Glass appswhich spotlights apps made by other developers and startups, from YouTube-uploadingFullscreen BEAMand photo-filteringGlassagramto the infamously banned-by-GoogleTits &amp; Glassporn app.Google'sGlass Platform Developer Policiesfor the Mirror API hint at its likely approach to policing native apps for its eyewear once the GDK is available.It includes rules on collecting and using people's personal data, as well as barring sexually explicit material, depictions of "gratuitous" violence, hate speech, impersonation and deceptive behaviour, gambling and malware, among other categories.
Gesture interaction with computers had long been the stuff of sci-fi, until the recent socially-awkward flamboyant games such as Xbox Kinect began to enter the mainstream.The Leap’s introduction orientation demo in action. Photograph: Leap MotionThe first question everybody asks is, ‘So what can it do?’Now that touchscreens have moved the human-computer interaction beyond the monopoly of the mouse-keyboard union for the first time in 30 years, are we now at a point where we can put some distance between us and our computers? Can we instruct them without direct contact but now move to the new union of voice-gesture?Leap Motionis the first serious mainstream contender for a high fidelity gesture peripheral. It tracks the movement of hands in two square feet of space above it with unbelievable speed and accuracy.The first question everybody asks is, ‘So what can it do?’. The short answer is, today, very little. Tomorrow? Well, I for one am a believer. What we have here is a limitation of imagination, not of technology. That is usually a catalyst for innovation.Device itselfReceiving my Developer Kit a few weeks ago was a cause for a large crowd to gather in the development team at the Guardian. Only a handful of new gadgets really generate this level of excitement and people wanted to see for themselves whether it lived up to the hype.Guardian developers: moths to the flame of new technology. Apologies for the blurriness. Photograph: Jonathan Hyde/The GuardianAt the point of receiving the developer kits, the demos available were basic but captivating. The ability to interact with a school of digital fish or navigate through central London like a helicopter was briefly entertaining.Guardian editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger had a play, too:Brain still whirring fm trying leap motionhttp://t.co/DuDewxxxdk- controlling computer via hand motions. Like human flight&mdash; alan rusbridger (@arusbridger)May 26, 2013Real world useWe were able to use the Leap Motions during our last internal Hack Days which generated some interesting results. But one litmus test I have for new technology is whether my five-year old daughter can operate it. Whilst she struggled with the games that require pinpoint accuracy and poise, she adores playing with the fish and flying around the earth.My daughter playing with the digital fish. Photograph: Jonathan Hyde/The GuardianUsing the Leap is a good experience as long as it is stationary and not near any very bright light sources. Once you attach it to a laptop and take it mobile, the varying light sources can make it lose track of your hand and this spoils the game or application you are working in. The ability to strain out extraneous light input is the largest challenging still facing the Leap.The software running the device has made huge leaps (excuse the pun) forward in its reliability and functionality over the last few weeks. There are a small number of applications ready on their new Airspace app store. I have tested a few of them and the experience varies widely.View of the Airspace application allowing you to browse your downloaded apps. The app store itself is web based. Photograph: Leap MotionEstablished game developerszeptolabshave ported ‘cut the rope’. This is the most fun I have ever had playing this game, and far more immersive than on the iPhone. Other games such as Puddle and Boom Ball are really good fun. The art, medical and astronomy apps were briefly interesting but didn’t engage me.Where next?Long term, this is the beginning of useful gesture control of computers.In the short term the Leap proves itself to be an entertaining gadget for early adopters, and compared to other cutting edge gadgets entering the market the price is low at under £77, delivered to the UK.I’d like to see it do well and enter the mainstream peripheral market; that jump could come if a wide number of PC manufacturers build it directly into their laptops and desktops.
Ever since Thom Yorke's Atoms for Peace removed their albums from Spotify, a heated debate has been raging over the value of streaming music services for musicians and the music industry.The argument may have gone mainstream in recent weeks, but it's not a new discussion. In fact, the question of how streaming pays off for musicians has been causing ructions within the music industry for a couple of years now.It's an emotional debate, and an important one at a critical time for artists and the industry, as they look for the best way forward after more than a decade of declining sales for recorded music, post-Napster.Yet it's also a debate dominated by gut feelings and data of varying quality, and a tendency to slip into polarised opinions along the lines of "Spotify is just the latest embodiment of THE MAN!" or "Thom Yorke's a rich HYPOCRITE!"Earlier this year, Ipublished a roundup of views and dataon the streaming music / artists debate for industry site Music Ally. Now feels like a good time to publish an updated version here, with a selection of 10 pieces for artists and fans alike to read and think about.If you care about music, should you ditch Spotify?Sasha Frere-Jones, New Yorker:"Streaming suits catalogue but cannot work as a way of supporting new artists. Spotify and the like either have to address that fact and change the model for new releases or else all new music producers should be bold and vote with their feet. Spotify say they have generated $500 million for "license holders." The way that Spotify works is that the money is divided up by percentage of total streams. Big labels have massive back catalogues, so their forty-year-old record by a dead artist earns them the same slice of the pie as a brand new-track by a new artist.The big labels did secret deals with Spotify and the like in return for favorable royalty rates. The massive amount of catalogue being streamed guarantees that they get the massive slice of the pie (that $500 million), and the smaller producers and labels get pittance for their comparatively few streams. This is what's wrong. Catalogue and new music cannot be lumped in together. The model massively favors the larger companies with big catalogues."Not Frere-Jones' words, but a useful collection of the tweeted criticisms of Spotify and the streaming business model by Atoms for Peace's Nigel Godrich.Free MusicDamon Krukowski, Pitchfork:"One way we could start is to collectively acknowledge that nobody can really claim digital streams as exclusive property. So let them flow freely – from everyone, fans included – instead of only from companies that have cut deals with the copyright holders. Services like Spotify might continue to operate as they are, with their pittance of revenue sharing, but they would have to compete in an open market of free streaming by musicians and fans.What I am envisioning is something like what has developed for music posting via YouTube, but allowed to proliferate throughout the network, without corporate control over context or quality. Perhaps that kind of competition would spark newly cooperative ideas, and take us away from the antagonistic relationship between much of the music business on one hand, and the network of musicians and fans on the other."Independent musician Krukowski (of Galaxie 500 and Damon and Naomi) has already made one influential contribution to the streaming debate with hisMaking Centsop-ed for Pitchfork last year, breaking down his royalty payments.That's an important read, but his new piece has some thoughts on how the music industry might learn from open-source software culture, with musicians finding a new "decentralised" network to distribute streaming music and make money off the back of it.Zoe Keating shared data on her digital incomeHow You Turn Music Into Money in 2012 (Spoiler: Mostly iTunes)Robinson Meyer, The Atlantic:"The income of a non-mainstream artist like me is a patchwork quilt and streaming is currently one tiny square in that quilt. Streaming is not yet a replacement for digital sales, and to conflate the two is a mistake. I do not see streaming as a threat to my income, just like I've never regarded file-sharing as a threat but as a convenient way to hear music.If people really like my music, I still believe they'll support it somewhere, somehow. Casual listeners won't, but they never did anyway. I don't buy ALL the music I listen to either, I never did, so why should I expect every single listener to make a purchase? I think that a subset of my listeners pay for my music, and that is a-ok because...and this is the key.....there are few middlemen between us."Not Meyer's words, but those of cellist Zoe Keating, on whose data the article is based.Keating published a Google doc of her digital royaltiesfor a six-month period, to help people analyse where the money was coming from, and what streaming's role might be in that. "In the interest of evolving the discussion, I am making myself into a data point," as she put it.97% of Keating's digital income came from sales through iTunes, Amazon and her own Bandcamp page, but as the quote above indicates, she sees streaming in a positive light.Also read herWhat I want from internet radioblog post from November 2012 where her views are just as applicable to Spotify and other streaming services: "I wish I could make this demand: stream my music, but in exchange give me my listener data... The new model says that in the future I'm not supposed to sell music: I'm supposed to sell concert tickets and tshirts. Ok fine, so put me in touch with the people who will buy concert tickets and tshirts."Spotify versus iTunes, when are streams-over-time worth as much as a sale today?David Touve, personal blog post:"Imagine that the world is comprised of only two possible fans, and you get to pick only one of them: One of those fans will buy a download today. The other fan will enjoy your music through a streaming service for years to come.You would be paid $0.70 — today— from the fan who buys the download today. From the other fan, you would receive payments-per-stream at the end of each year — over time — over the life of your copyright (95 years).At what price per stream, and number of streams per year, would the two fans — the streamer and the downloader — be paying you effectively the same amount of money in today's dollars?"When artists sell music, they get a one-off cut of the selling price. When that music is being streamed, they get a (much smaller) payment for every play. Musician Sam Duckworth recently explained how4,685 Spotify plays of his last solo album earned him £19.22, but the question is just as much about how much streams of the album might earn him over the next 10, 20, 30 years.Economist David Touve has been applying his knowledge to exactly this question, in an attempt to provide useful data on how streaming payouts may compare to download sales over time.How Much Streaming is Really Worth to Artists: a Consumption AnalysisMark Mulligan, Music Industry Blog:"The net result is, working on a pure like-for-like basis, the per-play value of a download to an artist is $0.033 compared to $0.005 for streaming.  Downloads are thus 5 ½ times more valuable to artists than streams.  Of course this is still a disparity but it is much, much less than the 150 to 200 times value that has become common currency.It is also worth noting that the artist streaming pay out rate ($0.005) is actually 45% of the rights owner pay out rate ($0.0112).  So artists are earning nearly the same out of streaming as the labels and publishers."Mulligan is a music industry analyst with a good, balanced handle on how new business models like Spotify fit into the wider scheme of things. Again, a key point here is to think about pay-per-play over a longer period of time, rather than simply comparing download and streaming payouts now.He also notes that a lot of data around streaming royalties has "been misinterpreted and stripped of crucial context", including the contract an artist is on, whether they write their own songs, and how their music is getting onto streaming services.Making Dollars: Clearing Up Spotify Payment ConfusionDavid Macias, Hypebot:"The music business is a harder slog than it used to be. Media is fragmented into a million pieces and it's very hard to achieve the ubiquity that acts used to be able to achieve, and thus sell what they used to sell. Piracy is still rampant. But there are acts that are doing very well, because they are paying attention to where the money goes, and not bellyaching, sans facts, about the music business.If Spotify is so bad for the music business, why are revenues for the recorded music business in Sweden up 30% (first half of the 2011 vs. the same time period in 2012), when in most other countries, it's down or flat? Spotify is responsible for roughly half of the music business revenues in Sweden."Macias runs US firm Thirty Tigers, which distributes albums for independent artists. This was his response to Damon Krukowski's Making Cents article, and he suggested that musicians should be asking their labels tough questions about streaming money, rather than just Spotify and rival services.He also suggested that in the earliest days of digital music, the music industry "conducted their affairs in an atmosphere of fear and lack of understanding, and many bad decisions resulted", and warns that now more power is shifting to artists and managers, "let's be careful not to make similar mistakes because we're approaching the discussion from that same vantage point of misinformation and fear".Spotify's artist-in-residence D.A. WallachSpotify's D.A. Wallach Explains How Spotify Pays ArtistsMike King, Hypebot:"People need to transition from unit-based thinking to consumption-based thinking in terms of royalties. We feel the metric of success should be based on how many people are listening to your music over a period of years, as opposed to looking at how many units are shipping in one week.People are used to seeing big numbers from a unit-based model, but that's really front loading what is happening. Comparing iTunes sales with Spotify payments over a two month period of time is not a great way to look at things.What we are trying to create is a system in which you earn royalties forever for good music, and the time horizon is simply different than what folks are familiar with now."King's interview with Wallach – a musician who's also Spotify's official "artist-in-residence" – is a good primer on how the company is pitching its business model to musicians.It includes his hopes for the future that "If we can get to the scale of Netflix – which has 20 million subscribers – we estimate we'd be paying out to artists what iTunes is paying out on a year to year basis".Although more accurately he means how much Spotify would be paying out to the music industry: labels and publishers, and then onto artists and songwriters depending on their deals with those rightsholders.Adventures in the NetherlandsWill Page, Spotify:"The last published study on the relationship between Spotify and piracy was in 2011, when an industry report stated that piracy in Sweden had fallen by 25%.Looking beyond Sweden and to bring the debate up to date, in this report we focus on Spotify's recent success in the Netherlands. What does piracy look like there, now?Working with analytics company Musicmetric, we are able to understand how regularly people use BitTorrent for music piracy and how levels of piracy dier from one artist to the next. Not only has the number of people engaging in music piracy in the Netherlands fallen in recent times, it also appears to be an infrequent activity for most of those who remain."This report was published by Spotify's own director of economics, although it's not a direct response to the artist payouts debate. Instead, it's an analysis of piracy, sales and streams in one country – the Netherlands – looking at whether Spotify and its rivals have reduced piracy there, and what happens when artists withhold their albums from streaming services.No surprise, perhaps, that it suggests the answer to the first question is yes, and that in the second case, artists who withhold see more pirated downloads per legal sale than those who don't.Even so, this is a reminder that since they first launched, streaming services have argued that they're cannibalising piracy more than sales, but have lacked definitive data to prove their case. This report is Spotify's attempt to make a step forward on that front.Why Spotify is NOT the Enemy of Artists, and Who Is…"As much as we disagree with Spotify over their rates and PR spin on several issues, we also recognize that they are legal, licensed and pay out royalties as they have been negotiated. Artists are able to opt out of Spotify individually (and also if their label permits).  It is for these reasons that Spotify are NOT the enemy.However this begs the question, if Spotify are not the enemy, who is? Well, as we stated above it is the massively deceptive Ad Tech businesses who have been financing mainstream music piracy for over a decade. This is the Silicon Valley internet tech lobby (lead by Google) who seek to dismantle and destroy copyright protection for individual creators."Google-bashing is increasingly common within the music industry, but this piece from The Trichordist isn't just about that. The blog, which campaigns for an "ethical and sustainable internet" for artists, has regularly trained its sights on advertising-supported piracy sites, where ads from big brands (served by major ad networks) may be providing an income for copyright infringement.One facet of this argument: if more of those advertising revenues were flowing into the coffers of Spotify and its rivals, they'd be paying artists more money. A US scheme was recently announced toblock ads from Google and other networks from sites offering pirated content, so there is action on this score.I'm all for discussing streaming, but please stop shoutingAndy Malt, CMU:"To be frank, any new self-releasing artist who thinks Spotify alone will provide them with a living is a fool. Or is being advised by a fool. Indeed, any musician who thinks that sound recording revenue alone will provide a viable income stream is living in a dreamland. And that's not a particularly new phenomenon – even in the height of the CD boom, record sales income was only one of a number of revenue streams for artists, and in the early years of their career it wouldn't be a key income either.Artists need to build themselves a business that incorporates records, songs, merchandise and/or tickets, and look for simple ways to maximise all those revenues.Crucially, they also need to start developing premium products and services for core fanbase – fans who have always been willing to buy more than a gig ticket every year and a record every other, but who were often left under-supplied by the old music business. Which is why, for artists, the real revolution caused by the web isn't the emerging streaming market, but the boom in direct to fan and pre-order sites."Out of the many thousands of words written about Spotify vs Atoms for Peace, this article on trade website CMU has the best blend of balance and constructive suggestions for the future.The point is not just that artists can sell tickets and t-shirts so shouldn't worry about how high (or low) their streaming payouts are, though.It's a pointer to a healthier relationship between services like Spotify and musicians, where the former find more ways to help the latter make money by pointing fans towards tickets, merchandise, box-sets, crowdfunding campaigns and so on.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 27 July 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition(7+)Xbox 360 (100)52 (–)Pikmin 3(7+)Wii U (100)13 (1)The Last of Us(18+)PS3 (100)74 (4)Animal Crossing: New Leaf(3+)3DS (99)75 (3)Mario And Luigi: Dream Team Bros(3+)3DS (100)36 (9)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (25)VITA (10)Wii (5)447 (6)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (52)PC (4)358 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (41)PC (31)PS3 (28)89 (10)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)PC (3)2110 (12)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (16)Wii (16)DS (14)5511 (13)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (37)3912 (14)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (69)PS3 (30)5713 (–)New Super Luigi U(7+)Wii U (100)114 (7)Max Payne 3(18+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (47)PC (0)1815 (19)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (35)Wii (24)PS3 (19)DS (12)2516 (11)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)Wii U (2)PC (1)3617 (17)Grand Theft Auto Episodes - Liberty City(18+)Xbox 360 (77)PS3 (22)PC (0)2018 (5)Dynasty Warriors 8 (12+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)219 (–)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (24)PC (9)4620 (15)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (41)VITA (13)Wii U (2)35UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
You know what I'm talking about: that moment when you get so enraged at the "wrongness" of someone's written argument that you feel compelled to dive into a comment thread ten times longer than the original post, get angrier still at the comebacks and eventually lose your entire perspective on what is really important in life.Or as XKCD put it:InHow the internet has created an age of rage, Tim Adams explained that "psychologists call it 'deindividuation'. It's what happens when social norms are withdrawn because identities are concealed." An experiment was run for American children at Halloween. They were invited to take sweets left in a house on a table where there was also a sum of money. When unmasked children arrived singly, only 8% of them stole any of the money. In larger groups, and in fancy dress, that number rose to 80%.In online communication our social interaction is subject to fewer controls because the internet accords personal anonymity. It allows individuals to walk away unscathed - or at least with delayed repercussions - from their actions. But does anonymity really turn us all into savages?Not according to psychologist Nicolas Epley of the University of Chicago, who says it's all about perception. In 2006 he published in theJournal of Personality and Social Psychologythe results of a study which demonstrated that recipients could only guess correctly 50% of the time whether the sender's intended tone was sarcastic or serious.In "The Secret Cause of Flame Wars", Epley explains "People often think the tone or emotion in their messages is obvious because they 'hear' the tone they intend in their head as they write."That means that comments, emails or posts initially meant to be friendly, joking or humorous can instead be interpreted as sarcastic, mocking or downright nasty. More shocking, says Epley, is that this is highly dependent on the reader's mood and personal experiences. And where one person interprets wrongly, so others – protected by their personal anonymity, geographical separation and filled with their own desire to be right – are quick to jump on the bandwagon.What occurs next is a Lord of the Flies paradigm. The reptilian mind, that part of our brain concerned only with our survival, takes over. People become highly concerned with their opinions being perceived as "right" and attacking others who undermine this in any way they can. But being right on the internet has nothing to do with survival does it?In fact the mind equates "being right" with surviving. As it develops patterns which promote our survival, the mind deems these patterns to be "right" and more often than not can become blind to the distinction. Being right – so it thinks - is the way to survive (even when it is not). In the online world, protecting your reputation and your voice is survival; so much so, that if someone has made an fool of themselves in public and been proven wrong, they will – nine times out of ten – leave the forum and choose to eradicate their presence; in other words, they commit a sort of social suicide.Even more worrying is the phenomenon when users previously attacked for their comments who comment again on other issues. Though the comments are new, others will interpret them in more negatively if they remember the user from a previous argument. This phenomenon is called confirmation bias – a natural derivation of our "objective" decision-making powers which usually helps us take mental shortcuts.But in this instance it makes us jump to conclusions, tempting us with another opportunity to be "right". (The same goes for those who have been identified as being "right"; their opinions are more likely to be perceived as correct in the future, even if there's no reason why they should be - for example if the topic is outside their expertise.)That's the beginning of cyberbullying, which can have repercussions far beyond simply dropping out of an online forum.Mind structures are the subject of psychologist Dr. Ron Smothermon's 1980 book "Winning through Enlightenment". According to his research, "being right represents successful survival ploys of the past. When they do not work, what we see is a desperate effort to use them anyway because they are so strongly associated with what worked in the past. Sometimes, people will die [or kill] in order to be right."Thus the longer the argument goes on in the comments, the more the mind fights desperately to be right, using every conceivable method possible. It's why, generally, the longer a comment thread continues, the more it deteriorates into a parody of illogical and unfounded attempts to discredit the opponent(s) which may eventually lead to wild insults and even hate campaigns.Godwin's Lawis just the corollary.In a situation where two people are trying to disprove the other's point of view, no-one wins. Trying to convince someone else about the "rightness" of your position only means trying to create a situation where you are perceived as superior and the other person as inferior. So if you find yourself in either position, remember what your mind is trying to do… and walk away. Because if you don't, the consequences could mean social death - or at the extreme real death - for someone. And that certainly isn't right.
The co-founder of Yandex, the search engine dubbed the "Russian Google", has died, the company said on Sunday. He was 48.Ilya Segalovich died Saturday at a London hospital, Yandex director general and fellow founder Arkady Volozh said.Volozh said in the company's blog that Segalovich was diagnosed with stomach cancer last year. He responded positively to chemotherapy, but then developed a brain cancer that caused his death.On Thursday, Yandex announced Segalovich had died but then corrected itself within hours, saying he was on life support with no brain function. Volozh said doctors removed the life support after it became clear Segalovich could not be saved."The only hope we had was a diagnosis error," Volozh said. "We couldn't make a miracle. We only could offer a chance for it to happen."Segalovich's body will be brought home on Wednesday, Volozh said. Funeral plans have yet to be announced.Segalovich founded Yandex in 1997 with Volozh, his schoolfriend. The company has a 62% share of the Russian search engine market compared with Google's 25.6%.Segalovich invented the engine's name, derived from "Yet Another Index", and served as its chief technological officer.
It is Monday!
WhenJohn Underkofflerwas designingthe interface for the film Minority Report, Steven Spielberg told him it should look like the characters were "conducting an orchestra". Now that's a beautiful vision. The gestural control of the future should not be tiring or bothersome, but elegant and accurate.As of this week Minority Report has arrived. Or you can pretend to be Iron Man's alter-ego Tony Stark (but sadly without the ability to control multimillion-dollar robots and body armour). Pre-orders of theLeap Motion Controller– which was privately funded and allows you to control your computer using gestures in the air, within a volume of eight cubic feet – are slowly being delivered in the US, and as of Monday it is available in Britain on Amazon.If you've used a device with a screen in the last few years you'll have noticed that almost everything you click or tap seems to have a conspicuous reaction, something I'm fairly sure we're getting more than a little tired of. Blame the movies – everything has a licence to beep and jiggle in Tony Stark's garage.With the advent of Leap, designers and developers have been forced to return to a simpler time; where that mandatory jiggle and bounce has been toned down in order for users to grapple with a new "interaction paradigm".The first step with all new technologies is usually the shonkiest; the tech is still very much prototypical. Good enough to spin a sphere, but perhaps not yet to control your diary.The era of gesture control that will be enabled by Leap tech, and what comes after it, will yield more useful interactions.Siriand, more recently, the successful integration of Voice Search in Google products, are preparing us for the next step in interaction development. As with voice recognition, we should prime ourselves for the inevitable growing pains. Further configurations of these technologies will gradually embed themselves in our lives. But at what price?• This article was amended on 29 July 2013. The original version said that Leap was funded by Kickstarter investors. This has now been corrected.
