CNet has a good interview withJim Allchin, the "father" of Microsoft Windows XP.
After the clockwork radio, thefoot-powered notebook PC?
Hey, dude, Dell's financial results (below) have been helped by the huge success of Steven, who features in the company's American TV advertising. This week,Steven got his own Web site, sort of, including interviews with Ben Curtis, the obscure actor who plays the part. You can read the press releasehere.
Dell Computer has just unveiledfinancial resultsthat in normal circumstances would have been considered a disaster, but in the wake of 9-11 and the recession, were considered impressive. In Q4, it increased its market share, and even grew its operating profits on reduced turnover. But look at the annual figures, and almost every signal is negative. For the past five years or so, Dell's growth has been about the same as Apple's annual turnover. To maintain this record, Dell's sales should have grown to $37.3 billion (ie $31.9+$5.4 billion), whereas in fact they dipped by 2.3% to $31.2 billion. Until now, Dell's growth has been spectacular. In a decade, sales have zoomed from less than $1 billion to more than $30 billion, which is hugely impressive for a manufacturing company. But have the glory days gone for good? Come back next year....
You are a little optimistic in accepting Nokia's assurance that the 15-digit serial number inside phones can only be changed by "very sophisticated techniques, which cannot be done easily" (Leader, February 13). The number, called an international mobile equipment identity, is stored in the phone on rewritable memory, and can be changed with relatively inexpensive equipment and software downloadable from many sites on the internet.The mobile network has only a blacklist, and can bar calls from phones identifying themselves with IMEIs listed there. Once you change your IMEI you can make free calls. The networks and manufacturers seem unwilling to talk about the issue, saying that phone theft is a problem for consumers and governments. Perhaps they have calculated that the expense of making a truly hardwired ID number isn't worth it for them.One thing is certainly clear: whoever organised this recent theft of 26,000 phones from a warehouse didn't do so on the expectation they would be forever "disabled" by the phone operator flicking a few switches.Aylwyn ScallyCambridgeaos@techprt.co.uk&#183;New SIM cards are legally available from a multitude of sources and can be used in any "unlocked" mobile phone generating revenue for the server. I am going to "unlock" my "pay-as-you-go" mobile phone so I can avoid rip off roaming costs. How can any government make that illegal? I own the hardware and no one knows my name.The genie is out of the bottle and no one is going to put it back in again. Cheap anonymous communication for everyone. Remind me, who sold the licences?Name and address supplied
Robert Bonnier is back in town. Since resigning from troubled online directory company Scoot.com in June, little has been heard from the dot.com wunderkind - until now.Yesterday, he appeared on the share register of former hi-tech darling Gameplay with a 9.8% holding.Gameplay chief executive, Mark Bernstein, who is at present on a skiing holiday, said Mr Bonnier had not bothered to contact the company or its brokers, Peel Hunt, before he had started building his stake.Mr Bonnier, who is now rumoured to be a Paris resident, could not be reached for comment yesterday but City gossips speculated that he might try to reverse a company into Gameplay.After selling its loss-making core businesses to a management buyout team last year, Gameplay has been attempting to find buyers who might be interested in using it as a listed cash shell.Gameplay shares, which at the height of the dot.com boom reached &#163;10, closed 0.24p higher at 1.075p yesterday.
Fill it?I've seen some adverts for ink cartridge refill kits. Have you, or any of your readers, any experience of the efficacy of these?TedConstable@onetel.net.ukJS:Some printers now cost little more than their ink cartridges, the idea being that once you have the hardware, the company will make its money on the consumables. Printer manufacturers also argue that getting the best results depends on the printer, ink and paper all working together - though often, quality may not matter. Is the trade-off worth making? I don't know, I haven't tried refills. What do you think?Kill datEvery so often I empty the cookies folder but there is one file that I cannot delete: index.dat. I don't appear to be able to open it either. How can I get rid of it?TrevorAdams@ntlworld.comJS:Index.dat is protected because it is always in use by Windows. You can read what is inside it by copying it (Ctrl-C, Ctrl-V) and then loading the copy into a text editor or word processor such as Microsoft Word. (For example, press F2, change the .dat to .doc and double-click the file.) To delete index.dat in Windows 9x, first, delete all your cookies from Windows. Next, go to Start|Shut down| Restart in DOS mode and delete the file in DOS before Windows starts. If your PC restarts with the prompt C:\Windows then the commands to do this will be: cd cookies  dir  del index.dat  Press enter after each command. (The dir is just to make sure you are in the right directory. Don't blame me if you delete Windows by mistake!) Finally, turn off the power and restart your PC. There is another index.dat file in the Temporary Internet Files folder. You can delete that in the same way.Bad defragI am using Windows 95a and have had problems defragmenting my hard    drive. When I run Defrag, I get a message saying Windows cannot access part of this drive and to run Scandisk (thorough). It then gives an ID No of DEFRAG006.Laurie Goldberglaurie.goldberg@virgin.netJS:According to the Microsoft Knowledge Base, the error message means defrag was not able to write to part of your hard drive, so these must be bad sectors, which can no longer be used for storing data. The thorough scan should map out these sectors so they are not used. If this does not work, your PC may have an antique virus such as Keydrop, which protects itself by claiming that the sectors it is occupying are bad when they are not. Clickherefor a cure.New printerI mainly use WordPerfect 5.1 and Windows 3.1, and after my old printer failed, I   bought a Hewlett Packard DeskJet 660C. WordPerfect does not have a driver for this printer, which means that the only font I can use is Courier 10pt. and any enhancements I include do not get printed.Kenneth CleggFileyJS:You can download a driver from the Corel Web site at but the best approach is to go tocorel.comand type 660c in the search box. Alternatively, there are new printer drivers atcolumiba.edu. Another good source of drivers isdrivershq.com.Don't deleteThe hard drive on my PC, running Windows Me, has a hidden directory called _restore/temp which takes up more than a gigabyte of space and has some 60,000 files in it! What purpose do they serve, and can I safely delete them?MarkMansley@claros.co.ukJS:These files are kept by the PC Health system. If your PC goes wrong, this lets you take the system back to an earlier stage using Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools|System Restore. This is worth having, and you should not attempt to delete the folder.To reduce the amount of space this takes up, go to Start|Settings|Control Panel|System, click the Performance tab, and click the File System button. There you will find a slider that controls the amount of disk space used. On my PC, 200MB is the minimum.If you would like to disable System Restore, click the Troubleshooting tab on the same dialogue box (File System Properties). Tick the bottom box, marked Disable System Restore.
Turning couch potatoes into online consumers has proved more difficult than expected. Despite the rapid uptake of digital television in the UK since 1999, market leader Sky and its cable industry rivals admit that sales from interactive retail ventures have been disappointing. Now, amid signs that significant numbers of content providers are preparing to vote with their feet, Sky has revamped its technology to integrate e-commerce more closely with its broadcast output.Something had to be done. In a report published in August, business intelligence company Forrester Research warned that around 30% of retailers with a presence on interactive digital television (idTV) were considering pulling out when their contracts came up for renewal. According to Forrester, retailers had invested &#163;150m in idTV ventures against sales of just &#163;50m. As if to emphasise the point, Argos and Woolworths announced last month they were withdrawing from all idTV operations.Sky Interactive's commercial director, Tobin Ireland, ought to be showing signs of being under siege, but he remains confident the broadcaster is on course to get its e-commerce formula right.Central to Sky's strategy is the introduction of a browser-based interface powered by a variation on the WML markup language used to create content for Wap phones. This may not seem an enormous leap but the new browsers offer a picture-on-picture facility that is enabling the broadcaster to wrap interactive menus and applications round the conventional broadcast pictures.The menus not only provide access to added-value content, such as programme-related quizzes, but also offer links to a shopping, banking and information area that was once isolated on a standalone channel. Viewers can now browse through online stores while watching TV."We are bringing all our content in behind the interactive button. That means we can drive traffic from the channels," says Ireland. And this has opened the door to the kind of contextual retail targeting that has long been a feature of the web.For instance, the interactive menus that relate to Sky's movie channels carry prominent links to a ticket sales service launched this month by Odeon Cinemas. The sports clothing retailer Kitbag.com has taken it further. When viewers link to Kitbag from a Sky Sports channel menu, they are offered products specific to the sports event on screen.Kitbag managing director Chris Gibson says he can tailor microsites to individual events, and update offers in real time. "If Michael Owen scores a goal, we can immediately offer an Owen shirt." This is possible because Kitbag has built its microsites using WML, rather than the OpenTV programming language.WML's open standards enable the company to connect its Sky sites directly to an in-house content management system.Domino's Pizza is also committed to moving to the WML format. Its sponsorship of the Simpsons has made it a pioneer in linking online sales to a presence on the broadcast stream. Sales and marketing director Chris Moore says there is "Simpsons rush" before and after the programme and he expects picture-on-picture to provide a further boost. "Most people don't want to interrupt their viewing to make a purchase."Ireland says that retailers who want to be successful on idTV must think of it as a strategic tool rather than a cut-down version of the internet. "People will buy if you put the right thing in front of them at the right time."This ties in with a wider strategy of offering other contextual content such as programme information and Sky Play, a football game in which   play is linked to real-time on- screen action. But where does that leave retailers not catering for a niche audience? Ireland argues that WML also addresses the quality of the interactive experience. Sky's shopping area attracts about 10% of the user base per month, but conversion rates have been relatively low: Forrester puts it at 2%. Ireland argues by migrating from OpenTV technology to WML retailers will offer a faster, more user friendly experience.Sky is ahead of the pack but not alone in putting more emphasis on links between the broadcast stream and interactivity. Cable companies Telewest and NTL are committed to rolling out picture-on-picture interfaces this year. Jeremy Davies, head of content at NTL predicts an evolution of the walled garden model, with retail content becoming more accessible.By creating contextual links, platform operators hope that the success of betting and game play will be repeated in the retail sector. But with set-up costs remaining high - particularly on Sky - content partners will want to see evidence that a real return is possible.
The gaping security hole in SNMP that could allow hackers to bring down the Internet (below) has so far received little coverage outside the tech press.USA TodayandThe San Francisco Chroniclemanaged pieces.The Houston Chronicle,Tampa Tribune,Minneapolis-St Paul Star Tribune,The Pueblo Chieftanand perhaps a few others picked up the Associated Press wire story. The British press has shown no interest so far -- not even the FT -- unless I missed it.Foundstoneis the first company I've seen offer a free detection utility.The Registerhas practical advice from a US corr.
Microsoft duly launched itsVisual Studio.Netsoftware development system yesterday, making it simple to create Web services. In the UK, Microsoft claimed there were more people on the VS.Net beta test than there are Java programmers.
I'll be logging on toGuardian Unlimitedthis afternoon at 2pm GMT to talk about weblogs - do pop in and join in, or post a question now...
I've been taking a look at a new UK-based tool for website building, called CONTENjecT Publisher, made byport41. Rather boldly, they are touting themselves as a rival toBlogger, the service that produces this site and which we've been running a series of guides to in the newspaper. One UK magazine has even called them "a viable alternative" to Blogger. Is it? It's certainly a new way to tackle the problem of updating your site: instead of Blogger's method of transferring files to your webserver, the port41 service asks you just to put a line of javascript code in your webpage. Then, each time your page is loaded by a web browser, the code calls on port41's servers to pull in the latest version of your musings. That makes site building a lot easier: when you're creating a page, that's much simpler than fiddling around with templates and tags, as you have to if you want to create more complex Blogger pages (rather than use one of their templates). But, by leaving your content on port41's servers, you must put a lot of faith in their hardware and bandwidth. If either of those is inadequate, your content becomes unavailable (when Blogger goes down - as it does - at least the web pages it serves are still available). And the service's formatting options - or complete lack of them - would rule it out for the large number of webloggers who enjoy carefully designing the look of their pages. I'll enjoy watching how the service develops. Maybe the formatting problem will be tackled in a planned paid-for version, but the central fear - your total reliance on their servers - seems to lie at the heart of the concept. Only sustained 100% availability will persuade people that's OK. These two big problems mean there's no way you can call this a "viable alternative" to Blogger at the moment.
... back to normal now. Viewers in some browsers might have experienced unexpectedly ugly widescreen viewing earlier, because (it turns out) of that giant URL in thepostbelow.
The year 2001 is one that Motorola execs will want to erase from their collective memory. After years of sustained growth, the decline in the mobile phone market meant the company turned in a rather sizeable loss.Fortunately for Motorola, and indeed the whole mobile phone industry, 2002 is a year pregnant with promise. The recovery of the US economy and the expected revival in the replacement phone market leads Richard Slee of Motorola's personal communications to "cautiously predict slow rather than dramatic growth". Yet the fact remains that the company really needs to shift phones, and in large numbers, too.It's a tricky proposition. There's new opposition at the top-end of the market with personal digital assistant   (PDA) makers such as Handspring and Pogo unveiling connected handheld PCs. At the bottom-end the pre-pay sector appears to have reached market saturation.So how does Motorola grow its market share?Quite simply, Motorola, traditionally perceived as the purveyor of dull but worthy business phones, is trying to get funky.According to marketing director Steve Lyons: "Phones have moved from a technology market to a fashion market. They are the new Nike trainers - accessories to be seen with and that has been the key factor in the development of our new range."The first glimpse of that new approach was seen with the launch of the V66 and V60 at the end of last year. Both models took the tiny clamshell-based V design, added new features including general packet radio service (GPRS) and retractable covers, and offered a menu system which, while still not as intuitive as that found on Nokia's phones, was certainly an improvement.Coming in the next few months is Motorola's most radical design yet - the V70. Instead of a flip-open lid as found on other V series models the V70's top is retractable   through 360 degrees. Features include GPRS, voice-activated dialling and a customisable main menu.It will be followed later in the year by the T720 - a clam-style phone with a large colour screen. Also due in the summer are the V60i and V66i which add Java to the existing phones' specification.There are no high-end   PDA-style phones (Motorola's planned project with Psion was canned in spring 2001), though Lyons is adamant that Motorola hasn't deserted the business user."We are trying to incorporate some of the technology in the high-end phones into our new V range products," says Lyons.Each model boasts GPRS   for speedy and efficient access to wap sites, while all other models, bar the V70, include Java, which enables the user to download items such as games, screensavers and wallpaper and store them in the phone's memory. EMS, which enables the user to graphics, icons and sound to text messages, is across the range.But for the cutting-edge   facilities we'll have to wait until later in the year. Coming in October is the T725 which will let the user send images as messages. The company has not decided if it will feature an integrated digital camera like the Nokia 7650, or if one will be available as an add-on.Finally in September Motorola will launch its first 3G phone, the A820. Slee expects 3G customers to "treat the phone the way in which they view Sky digital boxes," he says."Because of the ability of the handset to perform different functions, users can individualise the phone and only pay for what they want, whether it be messaging, gaming, music or pictures".But will the networks deliver 3G on time? He acknowledges that "in the phone business, deadlines tend to slip, but even if they do this time it won't be by much".Only time will tell whether the nation's style gurus are ready to trade their Nokia 8210s for Motorola's V series models.As Motorola's top brass know all too well, fashion can be a very fickle mistress.
People have suffered greater deprivations. I will not be going without food or exercise or hope. I will not be risking my health. And I don't expect the world to be a better place as a consequence of what I'm doing. As acts of self-denial go this is a small one. But it's big for me. One week without recourse to a home or mobile phone, no fax machine, no internet, no emails coming in or going out. Seven days of telecommunication darkness - off line, off air, off life. Can I manage that?It's a sabbatical I'm after. A disruption of the patterns of subservience to my machines - the starting every time I hear a phone, the waking in the night, wondering whether I've logged off or forgotten to recharge something, the leaping to my feet, no matter where I am or what I'm doing, whenever one of them importunes me. I the servant, they the master. They were meant to make life easier for ME; now I want free of the tyrannical little bastards.There's an argument for my not opening letters either. You're incommunicado or you're not. But this is an investigation into myself as electronically dependent modern man, and there's nothing particularly modern about letters or the way I open them.The dependency I'm testing began, though, with conventional mail. How long I've been a letter junky I can't remember, but I guess it dates from the time I was waiting to hear whether I'd passed the 11 plus. So what's changed? Decades later I'm still waiting for the adult equivalent. Word that I've won the Nobel Prize. Or that Disney wants to film my latest novel. And with this continuing quiver of expectancy goes a near hysterical fear that the letter I'm hanging on for has gone astray, been eaten by a dog, been eaten by the postman, or has fallen down that crack in the concrete just outside my front door.In the 21st century it is easy for this neurosis, if that isn't too mild a word, to connect with the gadgetry of electronic communication as well. Messages get wiped off. Emails vanish into cyberspace. Faxes fade before they get to you. So I am not without anxiety. I could lose everything this week. But maybe in some corner of myself that's also what I want. To sever the silken reins of ignominious expectation for ever. I begin on the easiest day, a Saturday. What follows is the diary of my struggle.SaturdayOut early so as not to be tempted to   switch anything on. No papers delivered Saturday, so I normally get news from the internet, surfing irresponsibly when bored, stumbling on a book or a cheap airline deal, idling through life's little bargains and surprises. But not today. Off-line, I feel a more serious person. Queerly deprived. Intellectually abstemious.I leave without my mobile phone, then go back for it. I'll panic if I suddenly reach for it, forgetfully, and discover it's not there. And what if there's an emergency that overrides this exercise? Someone falling down in a dead faint in Harrods' food hall and me not having my mobile to call for help. Me falling down in   a dead faint in Harrods' food hall and not being able to ring BUPA. It's enough, surely, that I have it switched off.I arrange to meet my partner for lunch in Harvey Nichols, agreeing that if I'm running late I'll call."Oh, I can't," I remember."Then I'll call you," she says.I nod. Then, "Oh, you can't," I remember.We agree we will get there separately, somehow, without further communication - an idea which all but overcomes us with its novelty.Over a distracted lunch - for I keep looking longingly at other people's mobiles, and jumping whenever one rings - we discuss how we're going to manage this. Since no man with a heart can go dark entirely, lest someone out there needs him, we accept that I must check my messages before bed. Anything crucial she will answer in the morning. Better still, she will check my messages for me. I feel vaguely squeamish about this, but agree. My phones are hers. Behold the advantage of having nothing to hide.SundayWe have six different ringing tones in our apartment, not counting alarm clock,   egg timer, smoke detector, doorbell and whatever it is that goes off - I haven't found it yet - when its batteries are low. We have a house phone each, a mobile phone each, and a fax each. All mine are switched off, all hers are going. But it would be no different if all mine were on. I am not a person anybody wants to ring on Sunday. There was a time when the novelist Paul Bailey would buzz me after church so that we could pass on to each other the bad news of other novelists' success. But we have long since covered everybody we know and it's no fun with novelists you don't.My partner, on the other hand, is very much a Sunday talking-to person. Not only are her phones and faxes hot, I can hear emails hissing on to her computer screen. This is because she has treated her friendships respectfully over the years, tending them like sweet peas. And so the flowers in her garden ring, and mine do not."Any messages I can check for you?" she asks me, before bed. I don't answer. I make a sign showing I've been turned off. This morbid turn was not something I had expected so soon. Already I am feeling existentially alone. Roll on Monday, when business life resumes.MondayDisgruntlement. Badly want to invigorate    my week with an email check. Get input from the turning world beyond. Be mesmerised by the yellow mercury filling the empty rectangle marked "PROGRESS" - coming, coming, coming... waiting for the missives to be sucked one by one from the ether, before they pop orgasmically into my box. But no such invigoration this morning. I have woken anxiously, remembering that there is business relating to the letting of a house I must attend to. How could I have forgotten that? If I turn the phone on and it rings, it will certainly be the agents. I won't answer the phone, but I will have the message checked and if it is them I will have to ring them back. Which   is forbidden. My partner suggests I borrow her phone, but we agree that would be sophistical.Then she has a brainwave. What about going down into the street and using a phone box! I am flabbergasted. "Do phone boxes still exist?" She thinks they do. I wouldn't know. I haven't used a phone box since when? The blitz? But that's what I do, anyway. I go down into the street, ask a passer-by if he has seen a phone box, follow his instructions, look for the door, then go in. A curious, Proustian nostalgia assails me. I can suddenly smell all the phone calls I have ever made from a public phone.The box is plastered with the business cards of whores and transsexuals, most of them pre-op, whatever that means, but otherwise quite clean. Nothing vandalised. No puddles of urine on the floor. No needles. No wires pulled out. And when you put coins in the slot it accepts them. Is there a connection here? Did people trash phone boxes in the past only because they couldn't get the phone to work? That would certainly accord with progressive thinking on the subject: that it is frustration that makes us resort to violence,   not the inherent brutality of our natures. But another thought occurs to me - what if phone boxes are no longer vandalised only because we don't need them any more, as a consequence of our each carrying around a little phone box of our own. That too has progressive implications. Give us all a share of the world and we'll treat it better. Wire us up to one another and universal love is just a connection fee away.The estate agent I need to talk to is out. The receptionist suggests she ring me back on her return, whereupon I go into an interminable spiel explaining why she can't. "I'm honour bound not to take a call," I tell her, "at least not on my own phone. What I'm trying to decide is whether I'd be breaking my word to myself if I waited here and got you to ring me back on this number.""Where's here?" she asks, without interest."A phone box."There is a silence. She thinks I'm a pervert. A man who rings up estate agents from phone boxes. "It might be a long wait," she says. "What about email?"By the end of my first working day I am swearing more than usual. I have a fucking life to live. I have matters of moment to attend to. Not just with my estate agents but with my publisher. I have a novel coming out soon and there are things to discuss. I can't afford this idiocy. Not now. It's the wrong time. I should have started last week. I should have started next week. More of this tomorrow and I'll quit. Bollocks to it.TuesdayA calmer morning than anticipated. An odd philosophical indifference to everything outside the beating of my own heart has descended on me. Who cares about estate agents? Who cares about my novel? I am in that sort of a mood when a man walks out of his marriage and his job and goes wandering round the tropics in a linen suit. Did Gauguin begin by throwing his phone away?All day this exquisite equilibrium stays with me. I even decide to switch my house and mobile phones on so that I can listen to them ringing while I'm writing and not give a damn. It irks me that both remain as silent as the grave until about 4pm. Could society have given up on me as blithely as I have given up on it?Finally the mobile comes alive, squirms around on my desk like a sardine in a net, stops, then starts ringing again at 10-minute intervals. Whoever rang has left a message. That's unless the first ring was the message. I haven't touched my mobile since Saturday, which means there could be messages on it four days' old. I break into a sweat. I have forgotten that messages are wiped from my mobile every forty-eight hours. Disney could have rung on Sunday and I will never know. Not having heard a word from me on Saturday, they could be offering Paul Bailey the Nobel Prize this minute.Where the hell is my partner? Never there when I need her. I start to ring her then remember I can't. What's the greater dereliction, ringing her or taking my own messages? I decide to ring her but she's engaged. I leave her a message: "Ring me, it's urgent." Three minutes later she rings, but of course I can't take her call.I helped run a restaurant once and watched inexperienced staff cracking up. The tell-tale sign is not knowing what to do with your hands. Now you're frothing up a cappuccino, now you're looking for a pen to write out a bill, now you're groping for cutlery. That's how I am with my phones. At a loss what to do next I switch on my fax machine. But nothing comes through.WednesdayI stay in bed and watch one-day cricket from the subcontinent. Afterwards it occurs to me to wonder whether television isn't just a telephone with pictures, in which case I've blown it for a second day.ThursdayDeeply ashamed of my performance so far. Am reluctant, though, to consider the experiment a fiasco and call it off. We don't stop living just because we sometimes live badly. God loves a back-slider, we are told, so he can put out a hand and haul him in again. Viewed theologically, my failures are witness to my success.But no man is an electronic island. There are others implicated in all this. I have been making a South Bank Show on the novel. I thought my role in the film was finished, but there are one or two things my director still needs to ask me. As it happens my director is also my partner, which ought to make communication easier. The trouble is, I am not communicable with."Couldn't you send a bike round with the questions?" I ask her."And the answers?""Get it to wait.""What if I need a conversation?""Talk to the biker.""A conversation with you, you fool."Our relationship, you see, is becoming abusive.Later that day I go out and buy her flowers and while I'm in the florists I wonder whether it would be a kindness to buy my mother flowers too, and the estate agent, and my literary agent, and then all the women I have ever known. Being incommunicado is making me maudlin. Does that mean we all had softer hearts when people were beyond our electronic reach? When all we could do was think about them and miss them? Alone in a silent world, I summon up remembrance of things past. It is like a premonition of the silence of death, when all phones will stop together. The grave's a fine and private place/But none, I think, do there interface.FridayAlmost through. Not exactly with flying colours, but it could have been worse. I still have language. And my ears have not yet dropped off, Darwinianly, from underuse. As far as the internet goes I am a winner. Not been online once, not even to sneak a cheap airline ticket. But now, suddenly, there is a little piece of information I need, of the sort I would normally go to Google for. To do with loose skin. Not mine, that of a character in a new novel I have started. It could wait, but I am an impatient writer. I want it now. Again my partner bails me out."Try a library," she says.A library! I remember those. I used to live in libraries. The thought of returning to one floods me with well-being. A library, where you see real people, receive answers to questions in a human voice, touch books - actual books - and stumble inadvertently on interesting material you weren't searching for. A library is to the internet what telly of yesterday is to telly now - a palace of serendipities, where no limits are set to your curiosity, no assumptions made about your ignorance, a true democracy of the intelligence.Ah, a library! I spend half a day there, finding out about loose skin, leafing through newspapers, starting a Ford Maddox Ford novel I'd never heard of, reading the noticeboard, dozing in my seat, and listening to the soothing hum of humanity. It can deliver miracles, the internet, but it can't do this.On the spot I make a resolution I won't keep. To remember that the best knowledge is the fruit of human interchange, and to go get it from the world, not from a computer screen.SaturdayI keep going half a day more than I have to as a sort of recompense for my earlier fallings off. At noon I feel free to check my emails. I don't expect many. I am not one of those writers who gives his email address after every paragraph. I like the idea of engaging readers in argument, but that doesn't mean I want to hear their side of it. Surprising, then, to see the yellow mercury seep slowly into my PROGRESS BOX, promising more and longer messages than I normally get in a month. How exciting, that people have been thinking about me while I've been away. It's like being let out of jail and finding a crowd waiting.But when I go through what I've got, 30 out of the 35 turn out to be from the same person, somebody I have never heard of sending me an enclosure of photographs of her leaving party. Same message, same enclosure, 30 times.I do not try to understand how something like this can happen. I just feel an oaf. A prey again, so soon, to childish hope. Already I am missing those austere days of my inaccessibility, when no anticipation could disturb my peace of mind and I was sufficient unto myself. I was happy then.
Last week we showed you how to set up your own weblog, or blog, using Blogger.com's free webspace, BlogSpot. This is great for new bloggers, or those who don't want the hassle of setting up their own web server. You can even pay Blogger $12 a year to have the advertisements removed from your page.But having your weblog on its own server brings lots of benefits. It makes it much easier to have other, non-Blogger pages - like an about-me page, for instance. It makes it much easier to customise your blog with photographs, graphics and more complex interactive features.And you may feel that, if your blog suddenly becomes unavailable because of a fault, it's easier to complain to a webhost you're paying rather than one that is free - and based in San Francisco.We don't have the space to advise you on which web space provider to opt for - there are hundreds, all offering different levels of service and pricing. It is the nature of web hosting that a company which one person has had no problems with will be demonised by another. For instance,I have used Fasthosts.co.uk and WebFusion.co.uk in the past six months and neither has caused me any problems. But some users have complained vociferously about both services in the past.Your best bet would be to ask friends who have websites, or ask in one of the online forums dedicated to website building. Guardian Unlimited's Talk section  has some web-weaving discussions in the IT and computers thread. When you eventually pick and sign up with an ISP, the chances are they will also sell you, or bundle in for "free", a domain name - the new address for your blog.They will also provide instructions on how to upload - or FTP - files to your new account (FTP - File Transfer Protocol - is the process of transferring files from one place to another). There might be a delay of a day or two between setting up your account, and it becoming available for use. You will need to wait until your domain is active before you can continue.1Print the ISP's instructions out - and write, on the same    sheet, the username and password you selected during the sign-up process - these have a habit of vanishing at critical moments.2Log into your Blogger account, and go to the editing screen for your blog. Click on the settings button.3The settings menu will appear. About five lines down the menu, there's a drop-down menu labelled "Publish". At the moment, the menu should say "on BlogSpot.com". Click on the menu, and select "via FTP _". A new set of boxes will now appear underneath.4Let's assume that your weblog is going to be available to the world at   www.yourblog.com/index.html (index.html is the place web browsers look automatically if you only type www.yourblog.com. So, in the URL box, you would type www.yourblog.com5Your ISP will confirm this, but your FTP server is likely to be called ftp.yourblog.com6The FTP path tells Blogger where, exactly, to deposit the finished weblog pages each time you click on publish. This location will vary from ISP to ISP - again, the instructions you printed out should tell you this. But it might be something like public_html/ or htdocs/ (don't forget that final /).7FTP Username and FTP Password - enter the username and password you agreed with your ISP, or which your ISP issued when you signed up.8With these fields all filled in (and they're worth checking) click on the "save changes" button at the bottom of the page.9You'll be returned to the editing screen, and you'll notice the orange Publish    button has appeared. When you click on this, your weblog files will be uploaded to your new webserver, rather than to BlogSpot.10When you click on view web page in the editing screen, you should be taken to your new webspace.Finding out who visits your blogOne of the interesting things about blogging is seeing who looks at your weblog, and who else is linking to it. There are a few ways to get this information. The first is to delve into the raw access logs, if they are supplied by your ISP, and use special log reading software to decode them. The second way is to install a web counter on your webpage. Because this is an easier method, it is very popular among webloggers.There are many web counters around - I've used TheCounter.com  for some time and found it acceptable, although its statistics - when compared to server logs - appear to be    quite conservative, because the way such counters work mean they sometimes miss out visits.  But they do tell you (roughly) the number of visits you're getting, when they happen each day, what days, months, systems and screen resolutions are popular, and who is linking to your blog. A premium version of TheCounter.com, costing $15.95 a year, gives you an invisible counter that won't clutter up your page. Other popular - but visible - web counters are at www.sitemeter.com or www.digits.com.All these services give you some code that you must cut and paste into your Blogger. com template to make them work (click on template on the editing screen). A good place for any counter is at the end of the text - after the blogger tag but before the html tag. It's a very good idea to copy and paste your Blogger template into a plain text file before you start fiddling with it. That way, if you discover you've made a mistake when you republish your site, you can still revert to the original.
Medal of Honor: Allied AssaultPC	&#163;34.99 2015/ Electronic Arts 		*****The landing craft is crammed full of GIs watching as the beach and the German shells get ever closer. Then the    sergeant whistles. The ramp comes down, the machine guns start and you come in. This is D-day.  This is the third level of Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, a gripping and exhilarating second world war action game. Starting in north Africa and taking in Norway and occupied France, players    control a top US marine in a variety of missions ranging from U-boat sabotage to bridgehead sniping.  Then there's the group thing.Unlike most first-person shooters, which are solitary affairs, MoH offers you plenty of buddies. The first level sees you and your fellow GIs suffer an ambush.   The Germans, too, are impressive, as they use cover well, and respond realistically. Heavy shoot-outs are interspersed with vehicle levels, while going undercover as a disguised Nazi officer is as thrilling as most of the firefights. Spot-on sound effects and a stirring soundtrack make headphones or surround speakers a must.  Minor flaws such as a lack of blood - unexpected in something as otherwise realistic as this - and the fact that nothing else later in the game matches the intensity and bedlam of the Omaha beach level, doesn't detract from a marvellous experience. Medal of Honor is an interactive Saving Private Ryan and sets a new standard for first-person shooters.  (GH)Black and White: Creature IslePC 	&#163;24.99  Lionhead/EA 	****While everyone agreed that Black and White was a towering achievement in terms of programming, opinion was divided as to whether the gameplay quite lived up to it. In particular, those playing as "evil" deities invariably had a lot more fun and flexibility than the do-gooders, something the mission pack addresses by ditching most of the strategy and micro-management in favour of   Tamagotchi-like experience.The sequel sees you discovering a new island where you have not one, but two, creatures. The first can be ported over from a previous game with most of his old tricks, the other is a towering and uncontrollable infant named Tyke .So while your first creature has a bag of new tricks to learn, the other can only grow   by imitating his older sibling. This balance between imitation, reward and punishment is not aided by an interface that is just as infuriating as before, although the 20-plus challenges you must fulfil to join the beast Brotherhood are varied.From one-on-one battles with other creatures, to bowling and racing games or   making sure the crops are watered, there are always new skills to be mastered.However, playing the game purely for the mini-games is somewhat missing the point. Creature Isle is a learning experience that once again raises the bar for artificial intelligence in a videogame.Simply watching the permutations your magnificent beasts will come up with is half the fun.Peter Molyneux remains that most mercurial of designers, impossible to predict and constantly challenging. If you were bored by Black and White, Creature Isle will do little to convince you. Fans, however, can delight in a mission pack that genuinely expands on the original. (MA)Herdy GerdyPS2 £44.99 Core Design/Eidos ****The PlayStation 2's portfolio of games has - justifiably -     received criticism for being too dependent on sequel games and a lack of effort in pushing back the boundaries of     gameplay.Core Design, the developer behind Tomb Raider, bravely set out to address that perceived problem with     Herdy Gerdy. And in the main, it has succeeded. The game is set in an idyllic countryside that appears to have     been transplanted from a fairytale.You play Gerdy, a young lad whose father has been bewitched by the evil     Sadorf. Your quest is to collect all manner of magic items, learn to herd the multifarious wildlife and defeat     Sadorf in the herding tournament to decide who becomes keeper of the First Acorn. In other words, Herdy Gerdy     is suitable for a very young audience.This is not to say that it descends into the basic, clichÀd platform-style     gameplay with which the young are generally fobbed off. The game mainly concentrates on herding - you might     describe it as Sim Shepherd. Which could be unutterably dull but, thankfully, Herdy Gerdy's fictional animals have     wildly differing characteristics.You might have to herd them by simply chasing them, by getting them to chase     you, or by employing herding tools. And as some animals eat others, the game throws up plenty of situations in     which you'll have to use your brain. Herdy Gerdy's cartoon-style graphics and story line are truly enchanting, and     the gameplay refreshingly original and interesting. But, it has a glaring flaw: a recalcitrant camera.With three     different means of achieving camera control, this is easily overcome, but for a game that has had such a long     development period (Core began work on it before PS2 developer kits were available) such a basic flaw is     unforgivable. However, if your offspring overcome that hurdle, they will love the game.   (SB)
When Dulux wanted to sell more paint to British women, it could have bought a list of email addresses and bombarded them with marketing messages. Instead, the company created a website featuring a "belly fluff" game and emailed 10,000 women inviting them to play. Almost 13,000 did.A growing number of companies is realising that the most effective way to market products electronically is to persuade consumers to pass on the corporate message for them. It's called viral marketing, and many believe it will rescue the industry from its "spam merchant" reputation.Viral marketing involves creating a marketing message with the intention that people will forward it to friends. Marketers can reach a limitless number of potential customers, and the costs are far lower than other forms of direct marketing.  "We're probably working on new viral campaigns every month," says Alex Michael, director of the new media agency Sprite Interactive."Consumers love to pass on video clips, and they can gain momentum quickly." Viral marketing lives or dies according to the amount of "buzz" it generates. The "belly fluff" campaign worked because it was quirky enough for women to pass it on without feeling they were pushing a hard sell."A third of the people who entered the competition received the email from a friend," says Liz Hazeldene, senior brand manager with Dulux. "It's far more effective because you aren't contacting people who don't want to know. The minute you do that, you're spamming people and compromising your reputation."European companies spent $800m on e-campaigns last year, according to Forrester Research, but viral campaigns are still the minority. Most companies rely on distribution lists from third-party suppliers, says Luca Paderni, a senior analyst with Forrester. Such lists are a cheap way to reach a large audience, but Paderni warns their effectiveness is limited."Many of these lists are created using panning - where software is used to search the internet for email addresses. Not only is this illegal, but it has a high likelihood of incorrect addresses."A high-quality email distribution list should generate a response rate of around 6%, meaning that for every 100 people contacted, six will make a purchase or visit a site. A list created by panning will usually achieve a 1% rate at best, Paderni says. Viral marketing has typical response rates of 25% to 50%.Viral marketing is most powerful when used with other mediums. When Gillette launched a $150m global marketing campaign around its Venus razor for women, it supplemented TV advertising with a viral e-campaign. The company converted a 53-ft truck into a "sensory immersion unit" complete with virtual waterfalls and aromatherapy treatments. Visitors were encouraged to email postcards to friends from the truck, inviting them to enter a draw to win a trip to Hawaii.Tagged to each was a Gillette advertisement and a "forward to a friend" button. The message was forwarded thousands of times: 25% of those who entered the draw received the message from a friend, says Pauline Munroe, Gillette's head of marketing. "For no additional cost we were able to reach thousands more potential customers."As technology becomes more sophisticated, viral marketing has staggering potential. When Miniclip.com sent out an animated video clip of President Bush getting down to the theme from Saturday Night Fever, the media firm's website received 10m hits and 600,000 registrations.  Email campaigns don't have to be big - just clever, says Sally Robinson, founder of the lingerie site amplebosom.com. Robinson, who set up amplebosom in a barn using an EU grant, is a recent convert to email marketing. Word of mouth is a valuable marketing tool, she says."One colour of a range wasn't selling, so I emailed a promotional offer to 140 ladies who were the right size."  Within 10 minutes, two of the bras sold. More importantly, 25 customers ordered bras over the following days. "I might only have one CSE in English, but even I can tell that's a good result."
What computer do you use?I use an Apple iBook, a new white one, tiny, light and very powerful. I started with an Amstrad PCW  15 years ago and have used Apples for about 12 years.What is it about Macs that earned them your loyalty?Ease of use was the obvious thing. Mac's had "windows", when you used an IBM PC you had to type weird stuff like C\filename:/09238409uefjhnfseoiu. It just went on and on and they were ugly and slow. Now both operating systems are complex, amazing and liable to drive you crazy - but Macs are much nicer to work on. As I do a lot of video editing and Photoshop work, they're better _ and faster than PCs! At the end of the day, though, they both go wrong with the same regularity.You have established British Web Broadcasting and Llew.TV through your website.Llew.TVand BwebB  came out of a desire to get little TV ideas straight to an audience without going through the pain of convincing a traditional broadcaster that what you wanted to do was worth a try. Still very limited and in its very early days but looking hopeful.How are you finding the Akamia network for hosting BwebB?Akamia  seems to be good and it's much faster than downloading from a server on the normal network. However, video is almost pushing the system beyond its capabilities and I think it will be a few years before we truly can "watch telly" on the internet. Still, it's amazing that I can paste up a little Quicktime movie on my site and people can see it all over the globe. I've had feedback from every continent.Favourite gadgets?I was an early adopter for years: now I bide my time to make sure things work before I buy them. I have a Sony DSR PD1P Mini DV camera  with 20-gig pocket drive for data back-up, a Canon XL, a Canon digital IXus, a Palm V and a Nokia mobile phone. I'm too old for texting and mobile fetishism - my thumbs don't work fast enough, the screens are too small and I hate all ring tones!Are you interested in the idea of the "fully connected" home?Everything goes wrong in our home already _ all computers crash, freeze and annoy you. The idea of allowing them to screw up your washing machine, fridge and front door lock would fill me with dread. I know I'd wake up in the middle of the night with the lights going on and off, the low milk warning buzzer sounding in the fridge and the spin dryer suddenly going ape!Favourite sites?I can never remember names and who did what in movies, and it tells me very quickly. The dull men's club  is very funny, as is TV Go Home which makes me wet myself laughing. Online banking is useful too.
You chooseDavid Walker (Whose online is it anyway? February 7) is right. One of the main challenges for the public sector is to provide electronic services in the way the user wants them. In Oxfordshire the local government, police, and health authorities work together not only to implement a broadband infrastructure, but to develop an "Oxfordshire portal" to services. There are challenges that the government must address: enabling every citizen who wants one to have a single, secure "digital signature" recognised by the widest range of service providers would assist enormously. In south Oxfordshire, you can already pay your council tax, business rates or car park fine online, and we will be extending this to other bills soon.Michael JaquesDirector, South Oxfordshire District Councilmichael.jaques@southoxon.gov.ukFirst past postThe days of paying your council tax online a long way off? Not at Tameside. We were the first. We'll even let you pay your parking fines online! See https://cfpub.tameside.gov.uk/ creditcard/ creditcard.htmJohn Dykee-HR adviser, Tameside Counciljohn.dyke@mail.tameside.gov.ukUse it and seeIt was nice to see recognition for Hantsweb in Whose online is it anyway? Our concentration on providing useful information for the public may not be as sexy as some of the high profile, high budget projects going on, but it pays off in popularity: we have more than seven million page accesses a month.Bill Gates described our site as "the most comprehensive of its kind", and we've picked up awards for our commitment to making information accessible online. We were surprised to find our former colleague John Fox "did the work" on the site: he was just one of a succession of staff who have co-ordinated our online information provision since 1990. One secret of Hantsweb's success is that hundreds of non-IT staff across the council contribute their knowledge. We are striving to make our website just another part of "business as usual" at the council. Until we - and government as a whole - achieve that, the public won't get the online service they deserve.Andy KeyHantsweb managerandy.key@hants.gov.ukCleaned upI tend to agree with your article on the whole (Whose online is it anyway?). Working in the IT services business and trying to sell e-solutions into local authorities is not    the easiest thing in the world. However, from personal experience, I paid my instalment of council tax over the web on a Sunday last July, having forgotten to pay it before going on holiday. Is it that unusual? This was Birmingham city council. I also got my bins collected when they forgot one day, by alerting them via the website.Tony Caesartonyc@tes1.comGet in earlyWhile I agree with Neil McIntosh (Web watch, February 7) that the Inland Revenue's self-assessment website is very good, starting 48 hours before the deadline is too late. To be able to submit your form online you must, first, register. Unless you have a digital certificate, you must wait for a user id to be posted to you within seven days. Second, you enrol for the service, but have to wait for an activation PIN to posted to you within another seven days. You can now activate the service and submit your form. For details see: https://secure.gateway.gov.uk/html/localised/0/about_registration_ individ_0.aspDave Parkerdrparker@freenet.co.ukHunt safelyRe Hapless Hunt (Feedback, February 7): Anthony Hawkins is criticising future concepts of mobile gaming (that have existed in commercial service for almost a year    in Sweden and Finland). Hawkins is afraid of being tracked down and attacked when playing location-based games. As a serious game developer and provider this was one of the first issues we addressed in designing this kind of game. Fortunately for Hawkins he will be safe. The accuracy of the mobile location systems used are, at best, plus/minus several hundred metres in a city centre, and up to several kilometres in the country. When accuracy is eventually improved by using built-in GPS receivers in the handsets, game design will be adopted by introducing a sufficient level of inaccuracy to protect personal integrity.  We would never risk our business by letting Hawkins' nightmare come true. So please join the game and have fun!Sven H&#229;llingChief executive It's Alive Mobile Gamessven.halling@itsalive.com
Content is king - but that's not much use because the internet is more like a republic and an anarchic one at that. This is supposed to be pay-back year, when all the dot.coms start to recoup their huge investments by charging for their products. But how many are succeeding?The best way to answer that is to ask yourself how much of    your weekly budget is spent on unsullied new economy goods? That doesn't include books from Amazon or wine from Waitrose. They are old economy goods being purchased through the internet. Nor does it include software predating the web, especially where (like Microsoft) the manufacturer has a monopoly position.Hardly anyone is making serious money out of selling truly digital goods - with the exception of ring tones and text messages. This is one of the paradoxes of the web. Attempts to make punters pay for whole songs through Napster and similar file-sharing companies have largely failed, while companies selling ephemeral ring tones are coining it.This is partly because file-swapping among phone users is not so easy but mainly because it is easier to collect revenue for small items from pre-paid phones or from reverse billing (when the recipient pays a premium rate for receiving the call) than from the web. Meanwhile, email is still free apart from some modest successes in charging for premium services such as the &#163;5    a year levied by www.friendsreunited.co.uk.Search engines are still free, as are calendars, simple web building services and the vast mass of information on the web. The general rule is that if you have old economy intellectual property rights or unique content (say film rights) or subscription arrangements predating the web (like America Online) then it is easier to make payments stick. But for most products capable of being digitised - which makes the cost of manufacturing and delivering more copies almost zero - it is difficult to make payments stick.Especially since the consumer can click to a free site if you start charging. The centrifugal forces pushing power to the edges of the web are still strong. We are still experiencing the dictatorship of the digitariat.This also applies to old economy products that can be produced in digital form -like newspapers. I am pushed to think of a single paper making money out of a digital version. Even the Wall Street Journal, with its huge web subscriber base, has yet to make a profit.In Britain, web newspapers are hanging on partly because they are reaching wider audiences (newspapers often prefer circulation to profits) but also because they are secretly hoping all the others will pull out of the market, allowing the survivor to start charging.  But, even if there is only one web newspaper left in the UK, it will still have the awesome prospect of competing against the BBC website which is very good, costs nothing, and is free of advertisements.My own digital purchases are sparse. They include friendsreunited, having one or two football results texted each week plus subscriptions to several internet service providers (two of which I don't need but haven't yet figured out which). And there were those ill-advised subscriptions for new domain names from a couple    of years ago when we were all caught up in the gold rush.All I say about my registering sites such as Wap4Wimps.com is that they seemed a good idea at the time but definitely not worth the &#163;43.83p  a year  the company is demanding for re-registration.Microsoft is leading the way to turn the world wide web into a revenue stream through its .Net project. But initially this is all about turning existing software applications (like Word and Excel) from one-off purchases into services rented from the web. Microsoft is also trying to put diaries and payments systems on to the web. Meanwhile, mobile phone service providers are trying to get us to send low resolution photos to each other's phones - at &#163;1.50 a throw - and soon to send digital photos as well (the Nokia 7650 that does this is due in the spring).On the evidence, mobile phone companies will find it easier to charge for digital products than their rivals on the web. They have an embryonic payments system for small purchases. And, coming on the scene later than the web companies, they also have second mover advantage.
It was once said to be the scourge of the high street. Everything from banks to bookies, booksellers to bucket shops were said to be under its belt. But, according to a new generation of internet retailers, far from being beaten by the internet, the town centre is just as likely to be revived by it.No one wants to talk about net revolutions, even very small ones that happen very quietly. There is a new sobriety in the new economy and the emphasis now is firmly on the "wait and see". And yet, putting the net into shops - the so-called "clicks with bricks" strategy - is one idea being tried out by a few pioneering firms.Across the UK, several companies - big and small - are experimenting with in-   store internet access. The Abbey National already offers the internet to customers in more than 50 branches. Virgin has several cybercafes in its bigger stores and has begun experimenting with in-store internet shopping in Milton Keynes and Windsor. And Tesco - the UK's biggest online grocer - has tinkered with installing cybercafes in selected supermarkets. Companies such as the online art dealer Eyestorm now offer concessions in a number of upmarket shops on both sides of the Atlantic.At the same time, high street bookmakers are ridding themselves of the centuries-old practice of marking betting slips with pencils and installing paperless systems hooked to the net. Unfortunately, for punters, they can't    get their mitts on the net just yet. But it is surely just a matter of time before some bright spark hits on the idea of breeding a bookies with an internet cafe.What might be a bigger gamble is being taken up by two new businesses - one in Manchester, the other in Milton Keynes - which both want to push the "clicks with bricks" idea a stage further. Both want to offer something more akin to a cybercafe experience than a traditional shopping experience and each has overhauled its business to do so.Situated in Oxford Road, Manchester right next door to the massive BBC North building, Homes4u is one such company. Twelve months ago, Homes4u was a regular estate agent making a small fortune out of student lettings and the property boom engulfing the north's biggest city. Just before Christmas, it transformed itself into a pioneering internet company.The moment you enter Homes4u's glass-fronted door, you realise you are in to something entirely new. Its large, airy interior opens on to three rows of low tables, the likes of which are usually found in sushi bars. An attractive mezzanine floor floats above, and its purple walls are blazoned with the kind of bold, angular graphics, like those more often found in Manchester's legendary nightclubs. Only the thin plasma screens, flashing images of canal-side apartments, indicate that you might be in an estate agents.The next thing you notice is the absence of sales staff. Instead, the dozen or so relaxed-looking customers sit at flat-screen computers, searching for properties on their own. Customers only call for advice when they want it.Wayne Mellor, a stocky, bald, jolly man with a background in corporate banking and retail is the company's owner and founder. He explains: "We recognised quite early that estate agents hide their details from the customer. We thought it would be great to have a situation where you could offer total transparency... a place where you could go where you didn't feel intimidated and have access to every single property on the market."The internet was meant to get rid of people such as Wayne Mellor. In May 2000, Time Magazine predicted that the estate agents were the most likely profession to go under in the 21st century. "The internet will eradicate middlemen by the millions," it announced, "with a hardy few remaining to service the clueless." It packed quite a punch.The property market is seeing a slow, but steady move    towards the net. A recent NOP survey reported that nearly a quarter of homebuyers use the net to look for a home. Even more revealing is the half of those surveyed who confessed that they one day expect to do without the estate agent altogether.But Mellor says the high street estate agent is not finished. Homes4u represents a &#163;1m investment from his personal fortune. It is a risk, he admits. But he says he can protect his core business and find new ways of making money. Homes4u also functions as a regular cybercafe and sells hot coffee and houmous wraps at a handsome margin."We've created three revenue streams under one roof,"    explains Mellor, scooping the froth off his cappuccino, "with one set of rent and rates."Homes4u employs 21 staff and says it has seen a 39% increase in turnover this year. But such a radical business takes up much more space than a traditional one. On average, a normal estate agent measures 500sq ft. Homes4u is five times as big. Add money for technical support and software engineering and you have a business that has to increase turnover markedly.But you just can't help seeing the appeal of such a business. A one-stop estate agent means no more traipsing around, booking appointments, waiting anxiously and being harangued into visiting    some overpriced house in West Ham or Wolverhampton. And it also means you don't have to find a house on your own. Nothing stops customers visiting other estate agent sites. In fact Homes4u almost encourages it. It has signed affiliate deals to the big three property sites in the UK - Rightmoves, Asserta and Fish4homes - but none, says Mellor pays a commission to Homes4u."The consumer is at liberty to take those details and make their own approach, having sourced the information here to those other agents," admits Mellor. "But hopefully they will remember where they found it and will come back."So why go to a shop when you can get it on the net? There are three main reasons. First, many customers don't have net access at home and many companies forbid surfing at work. Second, many customers remain unwilling to use their credit cards online, or have no credit card. Third, items such as houses and holidays are big purchases, and some people like to have advice on hand.Homes4u is clearly a concept shop, but it is not alone. In Milton Keynes, a test bed of new ideas for 50 years, the Cooperative Society has opened an equally radical travel agent. Like Homes4u, Cafe De Voyage is a cybercafe, selling frothy coffee and tasty    sandwiches, and holidays.The Co-op has always been an innovator. It has been selling package holidays for more than 20 years. In the early 80s, the institution created the first of 23 holiday hypermarkets. Two years ago it sold them to First Choice for &#163;60m. As part of the deal, the Co-op was prevented from launching another string of holiday hypermarkets, which is why it has diversified into travel cybercafes."Five years ago I saw the internet more as a threat than an opportunity," says Ben Reed of the Co-op. "Everybody was telling us that everybody would be online at home and booking holidays through the net and the television. We had to have a look at where we were going. What I wanted to do was to create an area, where people had the benefit of the internet, but the comfort of knowing they were getting expert advice."We are not owned by a tour operator," explains Reed. "We are independent and very proud of that. If you walk into a Lunn Poly, they will sell you a Thomsons holiday: Going Places will sell you an Airtours holiday. That's common sense."At the cafe it is different, says Reed. The Co-op offers a range of holidays from different operators: it has no brand of its own to plug.The Co-op is planning a second shop. Co-op Travel Ultra will open in the new Crown   Wharf centre in Warsall later this spring. If both shops are successful, the Co-op will expand across the UK, keeping the Cafe De Voyage brand for the south east and the Ultra Brand for the north.With its orange walls, bureau de change kiosk and brochures lining the walls Cafe De Voyage still looks like a usual travel agent, albeit a large one. The shop opens straight on to the shopping centre. Two young mothers manoeuvring pushchairs come in and start browsing for holidays while chatting."They usually come in several times before deciding," says Reed. In the meantime, he sells them cups of frothy coffee. Customers in a hurry, however, are offered an "expresso service", where staff hunt for holidays while they sit at the bar drinking coffee.Like Homes4u, staff are on hand to offer travel and technical advice, but, again, they wait in the wings. If customers are confident enough, they are left alone, through to point of the sale if possible. Buying a home or a holiday is meant to be among the most stressful purchases we make. At Homes4u and the Co-op's new cafe, it all looks very relaxed and civilised.Storm in a coffee cupAt the heart of the push towards a net-enabled high street is the steady growth of the cybercafe industry. Regular coffee shops, ones that would never dream of calling themselves a cybercafe, are now installing the net - often for free - to attract more customers.Nescafe's new nationwide network of coffee shops offers net access, as does the Tinderbox group in north London. The O'Brian's Sandwich bar chain, most prevalent in the north west   and Ireland, offer customers a chance to send emails while munching a sandwich.Some said that surfing in the high street would die with the dot.com bubble. But even as more people go online at home, the net continues to crop up in the most unlikely of commercial premises.Backpackers pubs, like the Walkabout chain, have long offered coin-operated net-enabled PCs. Major train stations offer a similar service. Bored waiting for   your haircut? Go to Kutzone in London's Kentish Town, where you can surf the net while you wait. Nearby in Islington's Chapel Market, there is Taste Byte, the net-enabled Indian takeaway. And recently, corner shops from Birmingham to Bethnal Green have been spotted offering cut-price net access. A team of sales reps is scouring the country offering to remove the old four penny photocopier and replace it with a net-enabled PC - yours for 80p an hour.
Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, has redeployed 7,000 of his computer programmers from work on new software programmes to fixing security holes in the existing Windows operating systems.In an emailed memo, Mr Gates told programmers that their first priority should be ensuring the security of Windows 2000 and Windows XP. The move follows a series of security flaws in the systems, including one that let hackers remotely-control computers through the internet without their victims knowing.The urgent "code review" includes a two-day training seminar for all programmers called "writing secured code," aimed at making sure embarrassing bugs do not show up in the future.The Seattle Times reported that, in his memo to workers, Mr Gates said: "All those great features won't matter unless customers trust our software.   So now, when we face a choice between adding features and resolving security issues, we need to choose security".The most serious bug found so far allowed a hacker to run a programme on any computer by luring the user on to a website. Hackers used the programme to access users' credit card numbers or bank details and pass them on to fraudsters.Russian researchers found the flaw, called a "buffer overrun," for which Microsoft has now released a fix that can be downloaded from the company's site.Michael Silver, a computer industry analyst, told USA Today that users are tired of the constant security alerts.  "Companies don't want new features, they want products that work and are secure," he said.However, there was a warning that Microsoft may not be able to avoid security lapses in the future, despite Mr Gates's order to his employees.Wayne Rash, of industry magazine Software Development Times, said: "It's like trying to turn an oil tanker with an oar. I don't think two days of seminars and a couple of weeks of downtime will have a significant effect".
Microsoft has produced a roll-up security patch for Internet Explorer versions 5 to 6. This should be useful to people who have not kept their browsers up to date. And as with vaccination, its impact is not just personal: almost all the virus activity affecting Outlook Express exploits vulmerabilities that have already been fixed, sometimes well over a year ago. All the individual patches have been well tested by this stage, though the bundle has not. The patch can be downloadedhere: http://www.microsoft.com/technet/treeview/ default.asp?url=/technet/security/ bulletin/ms02-005.asp Windows XP, Me and 98 users can also get the patch by using the Windows Update facility, but have less control over the process.
Michael Kinsley, founding editor ofSlate, Microsoft's online magazine, hasquit.
The Internet could come to a halt next week, due to a security hole in SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) that affects almost every deviced attached to it. Equipment from Cisco, IBM, Nokia and Sun could be vulnerable.Information Weekhas the story, based on aCERT Advisory.
Well done, Apple. There's been a lot of argument recently about the terms demanded by the group of patent owners with a financial interest in the new MPEG-4 standard. Everybody expected to pay a fee for encoders and decoders, but not a 2c per hour "tax" on streams. Apple, one of the patent holders, now says it willdelay QuickTime 6until more reasonable terms are agreed. And if they aren't, MPEG-4 is as good as dead anyway, because neither Real Networks nor Microsoft -- who dominate the streaming market -- is likely to support it. Why should they? Microsoft doesn't even like payinglicensing fees for MP3, which was developed by Fraunhofer Gesellschaft in Munich.
Online poll results just in... Amazon.co.uk's Top 10 Gaming Moments1. Nuking a lemming 2. Sound of the motion scanner in Alien vs Predator 3. Completing Tetris Game Boy on level 9, height 5, getting the dancing Cossacks and the Space Shuttle 4. Getting chased by the T Rex in Tomb Raider 5. Completing a double-perfect over M.Bison to complete Street Fighter 6. Fighting Psycho Mantis in Metal Gear Solid using a rumble pad 7. Leading your team to glory in Championship Manager 8. Clipping an enemy in the head from 500 metres through a sniper rifle on Goldeneye 9.The dogs leaping through the window in Resident Evil 10. The final defeat of Doctor Robotnik in Sonic the Hedgehog
The End of Free: Netsurfer Digest makes an informativeplea for subscriptions.
HasCarver Meadjust made all today's digital camerasobsolete?
Intel has launched its firstXScalechips, which will take PDAs from the 206MHz of today's PocketPCs (and some of next year's Palms) to400MHz. Intel's XScale is a development of what was Digital's StrongARM, which was a development of the Advanced Risc Machine (ARM) processor in the Apple Newton, which came from the Acorn Risc Machine (ARM) in the Acorn Archimedes, developed in Cambridge, England, in the 1980s. Update:APhas also run the story.
Google in a boxto take home, at a price.
Neil, that's not just strange, it'sSteve Strange!(And if you saw him onBuzzcocksonSeptember 10, of course, you'll know he doesn't look likethisany more.)
[this just in]Hi Neil Just thought I'd write you a short note to tell you how much I enjoyed meeting you - I can't recall when I had a more pleasant time. Everything felt so natural, and you were very easy to talk to. It's hard for me to identify what it is about you that attracts me so. I suppose it might be the combination of your great sense of humour, your charming personality and your good-looks. Whatever it is, I can sense its presence. You could call it chemistry, or better yet, the possibility that we are on the same wavelength.Neil, I really hope that our first encounter was not our last because I felt very special when I was with you. I truly want to give our friendship a chance to grow. I will be at Chasing the Dragon this Thursday (Valentines day - 14th!) at Opium (1a Dean Street) from 10pm - it would be really lovely to see you again...Well, I guess I've said enough for the time being. Have a wonderful day and I can't wait to see you this Thursday - what a beautiful evening it will be! Of course, I will understand if you want to bring some moral support so if you have some friends that you would like to bring down, speak to my friend Rose who will be very accommodating - email her rose@egopr.comUntil I hear from you, take care of yourself.Always, Jo Valentine[Neil adds: For the benefit of friends and family reading this, Jo and I have never met, and I'm not quite sure how I've slipped onto Ego PR's press list for a nightclub. Worse, Jo spreads her affections widely - Tim Radford, our science editor, got a come-on just like this from her, and I suspect there are hundreds more startled IT &amp; Science hacks around the country raking their memories too. So, to make up for beingsolet down, I think Onlineblog readers keen to go out on Thursday night in central London should email rose@egopr.com and invite themselves along.]
The Metropolitan police today launched a scheme to mark thousands of mobile phones with ultraviolet pens in an attempt to cut down on the epidemic of phone thefts.Under the scheme, a mobile owner's postcode and house number will be written on the phone with a permanent ultraviolet identification (UVID) pen. It means police can instantly identify a stolen phone and return it to its owner.The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, said the UVID scheme was part of a package of measures to deal with the dramatic rise in mobile phone theft, which now accounts for more than half of street crime in London."This is an excellent way to help us catch mobile phone robbers. People will stand a much better chance of getting their property back and it could deter a thief from stealing it in the first place," he said.The campaign would work alongside new plans by mobile phone companies to "zap" stolen handsets by bombarding them with text messages, a technique which led to a 38% fall in street crime in Amsterdam.Eight teams of uniformed promotional staff employed by the Met will be stationed in shopping centres, busy high streets and train stations, and outside tube stations to introduce property marking across the 32 London boroughs. They will mark up other vulnerable valuables like laptop computers as well.The teams will also hand out UVID stickers, which warn potential thieves that a phone has been marked.James Gray, brand manager for mobile phone shop the Link, which is working alongside the Met in the campaign, said mobile phone theft was a major concern for many of the store's customers."It is not just the act of being robbed, but also the hassle of losing all the phone numbers and other information stored on the phone which people dread," he said.According to a recent Home Office report, mobile phone thefts surged last year with more than 700,000 stolen.
USA Today has a good piece about the battle between the topgames conoles, PlayStation 2, Gamecube and Xbox.
There's an interesting debate taking place over on ZDNet about whether or not we need desktop computers.David Berlindsays he's been using only a laptop for the last ten years, and thinks that business should take a long, hard look at their desktop computer purchases.David Courseythinks not, for a variety of reasons. I'm sure it all depends on what you're using your computer(s) for - I've only had a laptop for personal use for the last two and a half years, and the arrangement is still working fine (especially when combined with an Apple Airport (or 802.11) wireless network at home). But I'm considering buying a desktop, not least because you still get a lot more power for your money - including a DVD burner in the newiMacI've got my eyes on. Anyone any thoughts?
BT today begins a court battle in the US lawsuit to prove it owns the technology that web surfers use to move between pages or sites with the click of a mouse.Two years ago BT realised it held a patent, filed in 1976 and granted in the US in 1989, which it claims covers hypertext links, the cornerstone of web surfing technology.Lawyers from Kenyon &amp; Kenyon, the US intellectual property specialist representing BT, are expected to tell a federal court in New York that the links emerged from BT's research into alternative television-based services in the 70s.The company argues that its research contributed to work by Tim Berners-Lee in developing hypertext standards. Mr Berners-Lee is frequently credited with inventing the worldwide web.BT's lawsuit is filed against one of America's oldest online access providers, Prodigy, which has 3.6m customers and is now part of US telecoms firm SBC Communications. Should the claim be successful BT expects to pursue similar cases against other US internet service providers.A BT spokesman refused to say how much money a favourable ruling could generate for BT, but patent law experts describe the case as among the most controversial in the world.BT has come under criticism from groups opposed to proprietorial claims being made over the web. They say BT could be made to look a laughing stock if it tried to claim it invented the web's basic technology.Detractors point to evidence suggesting that the concept of the links existed long before BT's research. They say British scientist Ted Nelson coined the term "hypertext" in 1963 and that an early version was demonstrated at Stanford University in 1968.Asked if BT was concerned about adverse publicity from the case, a spokesman said: "We have a duty to protect our intellectual property rights. That's all we are looking to do here."
ZDNet News has published ashort featureon Terrarium, the code-eating peer-to-peer network game Microsoft is using to tempt people to have a first go at .Net programming (bloggedbelowlast Sunday). There's a UK Terrarium site (which seems to have picked up Xbox styling)here.
All the world's crackers, virus writers and quite a few hackers are now working for Microsoft, without getting paid. This is the result of Microsoft's change in strategy, outlined by chief executiveSteve Ballmer. Previously, the company has sold new features as a way to get people to upgrade, but nowsecurity has become the top priority. Further attacks on Microsoft software have therefore become an advantage, because the quicker the holes are found, the quicker it can fix them. Flaws inWindows XP and .Net will obviously be fixed first, and the patches applied first, because of the way it can automatically update itself over the Web. This will eventually drive users to upgrade, and may even force companies to acceptSoftware Assuranceand thenew volume licensing termsthey hate so much, Individuals and companies who think they can just use the same operating system for five years can -- if Microsoft wants -- be left high and dry, at the mercy of the bozos who mount the attacks.Capitalists like Steve Forbes have often taken the view that business is about"turning problems into opportunities". It seems we are about to see that idea in action
There is so little that's original on the web these days. Everything seems a bit recycled, plagiarised, stolen, revisited, reworked, repackaged.Especially in the personal publishing world.
Wearable technology is hardly a new idea, but could it catch on inJapan?
Miguel de Icaza -- who founded the Gnome desktop project used in GNU/Linux systems -- prompted a certain amount of discussion last week by praising Microsoft's .Net software development architecture (below). This "required an explanation", in the sense that it was easier to ask Icaza to explain himself than make the effort to find out how .Net actually works. And he gave one,here. However, it will be some time before .Net ceases to provide a quick way to identify ("It's from Microsoft so it must be bad") fools.Actually, the best thing in Icaza's response, and by far the best thing in this item, is alinkto an article I'd missed: The significance of .NET byBertrand Meyer, professor of software engineering and inventor or the Eiffel language. Although it only covers a small part of the .Net system, that part is the heart.
Sun boss dons Tux:McNealy finds his inner penguin(and thereby executes one of the most stylishU-turnsin computer history).
Microsoft chief executive Steve Balmer is now on the stump for the company's new-found commitment tosecurity. Even if it means products are delayed.
And following up Neil's comments, below... Jakob Nielsen does have a point, and it is a lot more interesting than the ignorance and bigotry displayed on MacSlash would lead anyone to suspect. If you want to be only a handful years behind Jakob's thinking, readThe Anti-Mac Interface,I think Nielsen would now point to Apple abandoningOpenDoc,Cyberdog, the Newton interface and similar developments as evidence of Apple ceasing to originate in software design. Mac OS X, in contrast, is just a retooling of work done by NeXT in the 1980s, based on an operating system developed mainly in the 1970s. Mac OS X may be better than Windows XP in some ways and worse in others (in an early comparison, CNet voted 6-0 in favour of XP's interface), but it is hardly innovative. The same goes for the "digital hub" applications.Incidentally, the idea that Nielsen doesn't know Macs and Apple is ridiculous: he has even worked for the company, as a consultant. Also, his co-founder at the Nielsen Norman Group,Don Norman, was an Apple vice-president and Apple Fellow, and the group includesBruce Tognazzini. Tog spent 14 years at Apple (he was employee #66) and founded the Apple Human Interface Group. They are not just a bunch of guys with opinions on the Mac interface, they contributed to it.For my interview with Nielsen on Web design and usability, see Onlinehere.
A government regeneration initiative to provide cheap, recycled computers to people on low incomes looks set to be scrapped after questions were raised over its administration.Computers Within Reach, a £15m project launched in 1999, was expected to run until March of this year, following a pilot scheme.But it never got further than the pilot scheme, which was wound down last summer and came grinding to a halt in October amid allegations of poor management.It is claimed that civil servants did not understand the complexity of the project, which called for the refurbishment of second-hand computers and their distribution to the unemployed, who would then be charged a knockdown price of £60 for the package, which included a printer and software.Some computer suppliers and voluntary groups that signed up to the project reported big delays and lack of communication with the Department for Education and Employment (DfEE), and then the Department for Education and Skills, which took over the project (DfES).Following the launch of a pilot scheme in October 2000, many involved at the grassroots level discovered that some firms contracted to supply the machines were abusing the project.In a number of towns and cities, it was alleged people were being charged £60 up front and then having to wait months for their machines; PCs were left on the doorstep instead of being installed, and telephone helplines for advice on operating the computers were charged at £1 per minute.A DfES spokesman said: "The service was delivered at the discretion of the suppliers".But attempts to question suppliers were referred back to the DfES because it had barred them from talking to the media.A spokeswoman later added: "It is important to remember that this was a pilot scheme and we are currently evaluating the effectiveness and value for money of the scheme."While doing this we are taking all developments during the implementation and duration of the scheme into account."Although no official decision has yet been made, it is understood from a source close to the scheme that the project board will recommend to the minister that the scheme should be abandoned. "They believe it doesn't have enough positives," he said.
The record industry's campaign to wrest consumers away from pirate internet music services has been a failure, with increasing numbers of technology-savvy fans turning their back on legitimate sales and downloading singles and albums free.An report to be published today reveals that sales of legitimate downloads brought in only $1m (&#163;710,000) last year, despite expectations that music would lead the way in recouping the $4bn invested across the entertainment sector to capitalise on the expected boom in digital content.In contrast, up to 2.7m people at any one time are now logging on to free file swapping services, such as Music City and FastTrack. Last year, they exchanged more than 8bn tracks between them, according to the research by OC&amp;C Strategy Consultants.The impact of digital file swapping is already being felt in conventional music sales. US industry executives believe that 5% of CD sales were lost to digital piracy last year, and as much as 10% could be at risk this year."The digital visionaries were right," the report's authors conclude. "The digital revolution is happening - but not legitimately in paid content generating billions of dollars worth of transactions. Instead it is for free, through pirate file sharing services."The findings, based on in terviews with executives from leading US and UK record labels as well as online retailers and digital service providers, will send a chill through the music industry.When the powerful Record Industry Association of America took the pioneering file-sharing service, Napster, to court for copyright infringement and had it shut down last year, executives believed that they had struck a fatal blow to the pirate services.But the latest research reveals the extent to which the demise of Napster and the industry's increasingly heavy-handed campaign against pirate site users has failed to kill off consumer demand for free downloads.In Napster's place, a host of sophisticated peer-to-peer file swapping services, such as Gnutella, Morpheus and Aimster, have emerged, that now boast a user base far in excess of peak Napster usage and which have proved much harder to shut down.While Napster relied on a centrally maintained computer server to locate files and direct traffic between individual users, the latest breed of services allows individual users directly to search the computers of other people in the network to find the digital files they want. Once the file is found, it can be directly downloaded from that computer.The industry's attempts to put the download genie back in the bottle by offering legitimate, paid-for music services such as Pressplay and MusicNet have proved expensive flops."Even 'non-techies' are in creasingly likely to have an MP3 player, high quality PC speakers and a CD burner at home/work," the report says. "These consumers want to be able to use their devices in a simple and non-software intensive way. They want to browse music and sample before they buy."Clunky technology and excessively high pricing models are not tolerated - especially when consumers have already discovered that the nearest alternative is not only straightforward to use but free - from 'pirate' peer-to-peer file sharing services."But the biggest long term threat to the industry is the digital piracy of CDs before they have been commercially released. Promotional singles and albums sent to radio stations, television music channels and club DJs are finding their way to the file swapping services so that by the time they are released, the market is already almost exhausted.Britney Spears' single I'm a Slave For You was downloaded on the FastTrack network four   weeks before its official release last October. By the end of the week before release, more than 200,000 copies had been downloaded, according to the report.The report also warns that new movies and software packages are also being swapped, fuelled by the expansion of fast broadband internet connections.Sarah Davison, one of the report's authors, said: "It may not be too late for entertainment industries to turn this around, but &#91;there's&#93; not as much time as executives seem to think."
Following up on Jack'scommentsbelow... Usability guru Jakob Nielsen's latest column has prompted quite a debate atMacSlash, an Apple Mac discussion site. There are ill-informed gripes: Apple's OS X's anti-aliasing (a method of making type clearer on the screen) isn't in the same league as Microsoft'sClearType. But some posters have a point when they complain Nielsen has suggested Apple has forsaken software development for hardware innovation. This, after 12 months in which fourdigital hubapplications have been launched by Apple (iTunes, iMovie, iDVD and iPhoto - all of which should please Nielsen's usability sensibilities) as well as the (less usable) Mac OS X, doesn't wash.
BT's new chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, yesterday pledged to reduce the cost of high-speed internet services and threw the weight of the company behind the government's Broadband Britain initiative.The news came as a greatly slimmed BT, which last year launched Britain's largest rights issue, demerged wireless business mmO2and sold off assets across the world to reduce its debt, announced better than expected third-quarter results.BT will provide details of ifts proposed broadband price cuts in the next two weeks. British consumers pay &#163;40-&#163;50 for broadband; that is likely to fall to under &#163;30 as BT slashes the amount it charges other operators, and BT Openworld, to use it lines.Mr Verwaayen, in his first public appearance since taking up his post this month, said broadband was the key to the company's future. The move was welcomed by the government, which has promised to make Britain the most extensive and competitive broadband market in the G7 by 2005. It is now in last place."I publicly challenged BT five months ago to set fair, lower prices for businesses and consumers, so they must work to translate these ambitions into achievements," said e-commerce minister Douglas Alexander.The plan was also welcomed by BT's rivals. Ian El-Mokadem, managing director of Centrica's communications arm, said British customers had been turned off broadband by high prices. "Today's changes should enable service providers such as us to kick-start growth in the market. It's just a shame that it's taken so long."BT yesterday reported third quarter profits before exceptionals of &#163;381m. Debt, which touched &#163;28bn last year, dropped &#163;2.9bn over the quarter to &#163;13.6bn.
