Not much going on news-wise so thought I'd point stragglers to a few stories doing the rounds at the moment. First, the new Official Nintendo Magazine has a preview of Super Mario Kart Wii that mentions a16-playeronline mode and a stunt element allowing players to pull off various tricks as they race. Not sure how these factors will affect the tight, focused Mario Kart experience, but sounds interesting.Also pleasing Wii fans is thenewsthat Metroid Prime 3, released in the States on August 27, has shifted over 400,000 copies, outselling the much-hyped Bioshock. It shows, if such a thing needed showing, that Nintendo's console isn't all about casual controller wafting that the whole family can enjoy. Gamers have been crying out for something with more depth and weren't being satisfied by Red Steel. With this, Resi 4 and Zelda, they're happy now.Anyway, back to PS3 and Factor 5 has revealed an amusing 'easter egg' in its disappointing fantasy romp, Lair. Gamers who entera certain codeinto the cheat menu get a short movie showing a coffee machine slowly delivering a nice hot cup of joe - a reference, of course, to GTA's Hot Coffee scandal. You can see the videohere. There isn't enough hidden video parody in videogames.
What is unique about games? Their inherent interactivity, right? So why should we sit passively through a cut-scene when as the hero we have the opportunity to discover the story ourselves?Eddie Inzauto at Gamernodeargues that this is one of the compelling features of Bioshock, the Xbox360 title making mega waves in gamer circles.Since there is no traditional narrative in Bioshock, the backstory must be disclosed via other means. The way that players explore the game world to discover its history acts as a powerful tool for immersing them in the experience. Rather than explicitly explaining what has happened, who did what, etc., the story is pieced together slowly from the bits of information scattered throughout the city of Rapture.This information comes in the form of random signage found posted on walls, short audio and video clips, and of course the aftermath of all manner of structural and biological destruction. Everything players see in the underwater city augments the story formulated within their own minds. The imagination is a magnificent thing when prodded in the right direction.Compelling. Is there a lesson in there for traditional entertainment media makers? Perhaps to give their audiences more credit?
Steve Jobs with iPod Touch (Photo: Engadget)Steve Jobs introduced some new iPods at an Apple event today. As usual, Ryan Block has provided live coverage at Engadget inThe beat goes on.The iPod Touch has the same interface as the iPhone, along with Wi-Fi and a Safari browser for $299 (8GB) or $399 (16GB). It will ship later this month.This is a great move because it will provide a much bigger target market for iPhone-style Web sites. Also, it should provide economies of scale to help with iPhone manufacturing. This is presumably an element in the only big suprise in the event: a hefty cut in the iPhone price. Apple'spress releasesays:Apple today announced that it is on track to sell its one millionth iPhone before the end of September, and to make iPhone affordable for even more customers this holiday season, it is lowering the price of the most popular iPhone model with 8GB of storage from $599 to just $399.The 4GB model is toast.Update 1: USA Today has a post-showQ&amp;A with Jobswhere he comments on people being upset because they bought an iPhone at the old price: "well, that's what happens in technology."Update 2: danielwleigh explains how the(red)campaign works in comment 676124 below.
Following the initial no vote on Microsoft's OOXML (below), what happens next?Well, to recap, Office Open XML was ratified as a standard as ECMA 376, andECMA Internationalsubmitted it "for adoption as an International Standard under the JTC 1 'fast track' procedure," to quotethe ISO press release.All the votes will now be reviewed in Geneva in February (as Charles points out below) to "seek consensus on possible modifications to the document in light of the comments received along with the votes." This is necessary because Section 9.8 of the JTC 1 Directives, Votes on Fast-track DISs, states that: "Conditional approval should be submitted as a disapproval vote."If no consensus is achieved, says the ISO, "the proposal will have failed and this fast-track procedure will be terminated. This would not preclude subsequent re-submission under the normal ISO/IEC standards development rules." That could take years, but would have the benefit of getting more of the "issues" fixed.....Whether all this will have much impact on OOXML's uptake is another matter. If you look at the USA'sINCITS Admin Sitefor the letter ballot shows 12 votes for and 3 votes against, with IEEE abstaining. Votes for OOXML came from Apple, the Department of Homeland Security, Hewlett Packard, Intel, Microsoft, NIST, Sony Electronics and the US Department of Defense. Only IBM, Oracle and Farance voted against.The ECMA standards effort was also supported by Apple, Novell, Intel, Toshiba, NextPage, BP, Statoil, Essilor, Barclays Capital, the British Library and the US Library of Congress. Some of these are also working to provide some level of OOXML compatibility insoftware products, as is Corel.It seems unlikely that all this effort is going to disappear. Indeed, there's no obvious reason why companies that have been using Office's closed, undocumented binary formats should have major problems with Office's more open, well-documented XML formats. But that's up to customers -- not the ISO, or even IBM -- to decide.Personally, I don't see any rational arguments for totalitarian states, or for the totalitarian imposition of a single office document format. OOXML and ODF have different aims, and there's no reason why they can't co-exist. As ECMA International says in its long Response Document (PDF):In practice, a single format capable of expressing both document models would look very much like the union of OpenXML and ODF, with the provision that mixing document models is not allowed in instance documents. This is effectively the same as having two separate standards; a disjoint union of the two would serve no additional purpose. Further, any attempt to create a minimal intersection of the functionalities of both document formats would most definitely not meet the user requirements addressed in OpenXML, and likely not meet the needs addressed in ODF.Update: I've just got a long comment from theOvumconsultancy, which includes the following:At the end of the day does it matter that OOXML will become a de jure standard considering that it is already a de facto one? Yes, but not nearly to the extent that the anti OOXML camp believes it to be. The competitive landscape of office productivity suites shifted away from document standards years ago. People do not buy Microsoft Office because of the formats it supports but because of its connection with back end services such as those provided by Microsoft SharePoint for example.Microsoft recognised this long before ODF became a factor, when it incorporated SpreadsheetML and WordprocessingML in Office 2003.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thanks to NDA nonsense I can't talk about the hands-on I just had with Mass Effect - the upcoming RPG from the Baldur's Gate/KOTOR creatorsBioware- until later in the month. Bah. That means I can't talk about the wonderful character models - Mass Effect's facial expressions are the most realistic I've ever seen - or the synth-tastic music. Or even the fact that I am now looking forward to this game more than any other this year.But back to the music for a second. Mass Effect's soundtrack - the bleeps and strings were reminiscent of Blade Runner era Vangelis - really added an edge to the sci-fi adventuring. And anyone who has played Bioshock will know how important decent audio can be. But with most games you get the impression that the sound is simply not as important in the development process as the graphics or physics engines. Fine back in the day but not when many players have 5.1 surround systems and correspondingly higher expectations. Heck, it's Wednesday - what are your top 3 gaming sound experiences (soundtrack, fx or both). Mine?1: GTA: Vice City - Blondie and Human League while riding into the neon sunset..2: Zelda: Ocarina of Time (N64) - hummable tunes plus ocarina on a joypad ..3: Mass Effect (Xbox 360) - analogue synths and 80's sci-fi electronica - what's not to love?
Portsmouth University and Ant Scientific formed Team Locust to take part in a Ministry of Defence competition, and their idea has been short-listed.The university says:The competition - Grand Challenge - aims to put robots which can identify snipers and bombs in built up areas on to battlefields across the globe.Charlie Baker-Wyatt, manager of the university's defence and homeland security research section, said: "The challenge was to create devices that could be used in the fight against people who don't fight under established rules."The device will be tested in "a mocked up urban war scene on Salisbury Plain in August 2008".This is pretty much an ideal research project: you get to play with toy planes -- or, perhaps, toy insects with flapping wings -- and collect a bundle of cash for a winning design. But this is an area where the UK is miles behind the US, where DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) has been funding research into Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and micro Air Vehicles (µAVs or MAVs) since1997.Indeed, the pioneering British research by Charles Ellington, a zoologist, and colleagues at the University of Cambridge, testing mechanical analogues of insect wings, was followed up in theMicroBatornithopterin California, with DARPA funding. Apparently Britain's DERA (Defence Evaluation and Research Agency) wasn't interested.However, interest comes and goes. The Wikipedia page onMiniature UAVssays:The notion of bird-sized or even insect-sized MAVs hasn't disappeared, it's just that it is now seen as a project for a future generation. The DARPA effort did get a lot of people thinking about tiny aircraft. MAVs have attracted a hobbyist and amateur community, somewhat along the lines of the "robot war" competitions that make it onto TV, and yearly competitive events have been conducted. These home-built MAVs are of course relatively unsophisticated, but have demonstrated a great deal of ingenuity. Possibly one of these days somebody is going to come up with an idea that will catch on.
Now that's a setback. Voting at the International Standards Organisation (ISO) has rebuffed Microsoft's attempts to have OOXML, the XML format used in the new Microsoft Office, declared a standard.It matters, because more and more governments want to produce documents that they can say conform to an ISO standard: that makes buying software that produces documents in that form much easier to justify. If OOXML ain't a standard, it becomes harder to explain why you're spending taxpayers' money on a non-standard-generating product. In theory, at least.The principal opponent, at least according to Microsoft, was IBM. TheNew York Times, andWall Street Journal, andGroklaw, andO'Reilly Radarare all covering it.Arcane, the NYT calls it - and it has a point. Certainly you could go slightly fuzz-eyed with the intricacies of the voting:Of the 87 countries that participated, 26 percent opposed Microsoft's bid. Under the rules for approval, no more than 25 percent of the countries could oppose the bid. Microsoft also failed to win the vote of 66 percent of 41 countries on another panel of I.S.O. and I.E.C. members.There were some delightful accusations of dirty tricks on both sides:Opponents said Microsoft packed national bodies by urging its allies to join standards committees from Italy to Kenya. In Italy, the standards committee swelled from a half-dozen members to 85 in a matter of months. Microsoft responds by saying IBM was stirring up opposition to Open XML.With such a narrow gap between approval and failure in the country-based voting, Microsoft is optimistic that it will succeed in getting approval in another vote in February.The British input? Apparently the BSI "identified a number of technical issues in the document which need to be addressed before the U.K. can approve" Microsoft's 'Open XML'. We'd love to know what. (It'shere- thanks Mike in the comments.)Actually, perhaps we'll leave it to the standards people. Trying to unravel what's happening in standards bodies can be like trying to explain Test cricket to someone who's never seen the game: they want to know why it's so slow, and eventually just retire to the bar and ask you to tell them the result.Meanwhile we commend to you theOOXML Hoaxes blog(it's pro-OOXML, but apparently there hasn't been much hoaxing lately; it's not been updated since July) andNoOOXML(which is bloggy enough if you need a feed).
iSuppli, the company which rips things apart and guesses - sorry, estimates - how much they cost to make also has another string to its bow: it follows retail sales. And it says that sales in the US of the iPhone were more than for the RIM Blackberry series, Palm's products and - um - Windows smartphones. Plus any we haven't mentioned by Nokia, Motorola and Samsung."While iSuppli has not collected historical information on this topic, it's likely that the speed of the iPhone's rise to competitive dominance in its segment is unprecedented in the history of the mobile-handset market,"iSuppli told Reuters.It added: "Apple achieved this in the face of numerous, well-entrenched competitors." It reckons that Apple got 1.8% of thewholeUS mobile market for July, and that "most buyers in July were male, under 35 and had a college degree". Colour us unsurprised by the latter facts.The woe goes on for those other smartphone companies: Palm's CEO Ed Colligan has justannounced that the company is binning its Foleo laptop/smartphoneannounced in May, costing it about $10m.Let's rewind to the excited paean Jeff Hawkins, the inventor of the Palm in the first place, made to the Foleo in May:"Foleo is the most exciting product I have ever worked on," said Jeff Hawkins, founder of Palm, Inc. and the visionary behind the Foleo's concept and definition. "Smartphones will be the most prevalent personal computers on the planet, ultimately able to do everything that desktop computers can do. However, there are times when people need a large screen and full-size keyboard. As smartphones get smaller, this need increases. The Foleo completes the picture, creating a mobile-computing system that sets a new standard in simplicity."Oh well, it seems for now a certain number of people have found happiness with the iPhone's virtual keyboard. (One would expect though that sales won't continue at this breakneck pace, however.)Meanwhile the news does shred a little more of Steve Ballmer's reputation as a soothsayer. In April hetold USA Today's CEO ForumthatThere's no chance that the iPhone is going to get any significant market share. No chance. It's a $500 subsidized item. They may make a lot of money. But if you actually take a look at the 1.3 billion phones that get sold, I'd prefer to have our software in 60% or 70% or 80% of them, than I would to have 2% or 3%, which is what Apple might get.Then again, in the same interview, he was asked:Q: You don't find you've got a problem with people saying, "Sorry, but I really think you're wrong here"?A: That happens all the time. From 10 this morning until I came over here, I got more "Steve, that's wrongs" than I got "Steve, that's rights" today. It was two to one, "Steve, that's wrongs." (Laughter.)Now we only have to guess what the points were his people thought he was wrong about. Zunes? iPhones?
When the presidents of the world's remaining superpower and the nation fast challenging for the title, George Bush of the United States and Hu Jintao of China, meet in Sydney tomorrow they had been scheduled to be talking about matters of mutual interest: trade and global warming.Now, even if not on the formal agenda, both sides are likely to be considering the prickly issue of cyber warfare, following the revelation that the Pentagon suffered a major breach by hackers reportedly working for the Chinese military earlier this year.Disclosure by the Financial Times that the People's Liberation Army, or PLA, assaulted part of the Pentagon's system used by policy advisers to the defence secretary, Robert Gates, is the latest and potentially most serious breach and set alarm bells ringing across the US military.The Pentagon reportedly resisted the PLA onslaught for several months, but was finally penetrated, forcing a shutdown of that part of its network for a week. A spokesman would not comment on the assault or its source, but emphasised that any information obtained would have been unclassified. The timing of the attack, and the apparent involvement of the PLA, points to an escalation of anxiety in governments across the world.Cyber warfare began with individuals, spread to criminal gangs, and is now reaching the realm of nation states.The Chinese government denied the allegations but, tomorrow's presidential meeting aside, Beijing is already on the defensive over its cyber activities. Last week Angela Merkel raised the issue of cyber warfare on an official visit to China, exhorting the government to "respect a set of game rules".The German chancellor's objections followed a report in Der Spiegel magazine that Chinese spying software had been found widely scattered through the networks of Germany's foreign and economic departments, and even in Mrs Merkel's private office.Internet security experts have been tracking Chinese cyber warfare for several years. In 2005, US officials revealed that sweeps of US intelligence, including flight software and aircraft plans, had been going on since 2003. The hackers, codenamed Titan Rain by US investigators, were believed to be in Guangdong, a province of China with a heavy concentration of PLA which was also identified by Der Spiegel as the origin of the invasion of German government networks.Last November, the US navy reported a military computer had been attacked, probably by Chinese, though it was unclear whether the hackers were commercial or state-inspired. In July, the state department was reportedly investigating a break-in affecting its work across the world; it was suggested hackers had targeted anything relating to China and North Korea, though it is possible that criminal, as opposed to political or military, hackers were using that as a front to disguise their intentions.The threat of state-sponsored hacking is dominating the thoughts of security officials around the world. Some suggest as many as 120 countries are actively pursuing cyber warfare. China has spelled out in a white paper that what it calls "informationised armed forces" are one of the three pillars of its military strategy, setting itself the target building a cyber army which could win such a war by 2050.The extent of cyber warfare was underlined earlier this year when the Guardian revealed that Estonia had been almost overwhelmed by an attack believed to have originated inside Russia which rendered a number of government websites useless and was described by officials as a "very serious disturbance".The US is particularly vulnerable, both because of the extent of interest in its activities around the world, and because of the sheer size of its systems. The Pentagon operates 3.5m computers across 65 countries, including 35 internal networks.Its most sensitive network, Siprnet, is for secret information, and is thought never to have been hacked. Non-classified information passes through the less secure Niprnet; it is in one segment of this network the Chinese operation is believed to have pierced.Though the Pentagon stressed that any emails intercepted would be unclassified, that does not inherently rule out disruption. Sami Saydjari, who worked as a Pentagon cyber expert for 13 years and now runs a private company, Cyber Defence Agency, said: "If someone is able to attack information that is needed by decision makers, or that is crucial to organising logistics and supply lines of an army on the ground, that means they can induce chaos in a nation."It is not clear exactly how the hackers gained access to the Pentagon. It may be they deployed the principle of "elevating privilege", said Dan Haagman of the computer forensics company 7Safe. That would involve breaking into a single, unsecured computer used for mundane administrative tasks, then using its flaws to step across to other computers higher up the chain of command.The pattern would be similar to that used by the British hacker Gary McKinnon, currently fighting extradition to the US after allegedly breaking into Pentagon and Nasa computers. In the German case, Der Spiegel said a so-called Trojan program implanted in Microsoft Word documents and PowerPoint files had been used to infect systems .Other ways include viruses, worms, and "denial of service", where a computer system is bombarded with so much information it becomes inoperable. "We have gone well beyond teenagers who want their egos boosted. We're now into the organised kind of state activity that is truly serious," said Jody Westby, at CyLab based at Carnegie Mellon University.The US strategic commander, General James Cartwright, this year gave a frank assessment in which he said that the military's defence against cyber warfare was disjointed, passive and "dysfunctional".
Modern computer hacking relies on the same basic technology that millions of people use every day - the internet. Thanks to the huge numbers of computers that are online, hackers are able to use a series of simple steps to sneak access to secret information.The starting point is to find out which computers it is possible to attack. Every machine connected to the net has a unique address to which the hacker can send messages.  Depending on the response they get, criminals are able to identify computers that may be more susceptible to hacking.Usually they simply conduct a wide sweep of addresses in order to find a likely looking machine to focus their efforts on.Once a target has been picked out, the hackers will then start the process of breaking in. Sometimes this will involve a "brute force attack" - using a code-breaking program to try to crack the machine's passwords. In other cases, the hacker will use an existing flaw in the computer's software to trick their way inside the computer system.Most of the software used for hacking is available to download free from the internet. Some of the more complex or sinister tools are bought from unpublicised websites or swapped on discussion forums; hardcore hackers will write their own programs to exploit new weaknesses they have found, known as "zero-day" flaws.But many incidents of so-called "cyber warfare" do not involve hacking into the target systems. Instead they are aimed at bringing the critical systems to a halt, and often involve demanding a ransom.In these situations, hackers use their techniques to infect and gain control of thousands, or even millions, of home computers, before turning them all towards the target system simultaneously. The sudden surge in traffic is often enough to overwhelm the victim and bring it down, in what is known as a "denial of service" attack.
The People's Liberation Army strategists have made little secret of their desire to establish cyber warfare units capable of mounting just such sorts of mission as the hacking of international government targets.From a satellite-killing missile test in January to reports of spyware in German government computers last month, there are growing concerns that China is being increasingly sophisticated and ambitious in its use of technology to secure information and disrupt communications.For more than a decade the Chinese military has been aware of the potential of information warfare. Army journals and generals' speeches have emphasised the importance of securing "electromagnetic dominance" in the early stages of any conflict. Although the US military is dominant in terms of firepower, the Pentagon's reliance on satellites and computers is seen as a source of vulnerability.The US department of defence says China has an established information warfare unit. Its scale is unknown, but Beijing has been boosting military spending for 20 years and switching the army's focus from conventional arms to high technology. This year it declared military spending rose 17.8% to $45bn, but US analysts believe the real sum is much higher if the cost of the space programme and secret projects are added.Beijing's offensive capability in cyberspace and outer space were apparent on January 11, when its succeeded in blasting one of its own communications satellites into smithereens 500 miles above the earth.This test heightened fears of the "China threat", particularly in the US, which sees this fast rising Asian economy as the country most likely to challenge its global dominance.The technological prowess of China is growing along with internet penetration, which will reach 150 million of its people this year and is on course to overtake the US within five years.Chinese censors use some of the world's most sophisticated internet filters. The so-called Great Firewall of China restricts information about the Dalai Lama, Taiwan, Falun Gong and other politically sensitive topics. Experts have offered to share this technology with other repressive states, including Zimbabwe.While China is almost certainly among the many countries developing systems of cyber attack, it denies  making any use of them in the latest case. "The Chinese government has consistently opposed and vigorously attacked according to the law all internet-wrecking crimes, including hacking," a foreign ministry spokeswoman told reporters. She said the accusations were an example of "cold war" thinking.In Taiwan, the main target of the Chinese military, there have also been repeated attempts by mainland hackers to enter government networks.China-based hackers have also been blamed for attempted attacks on offices in the Houses of Parliament in Britain and for leaving offensive messages and patriotic slogans written in Mandarin on websites in Japan.
Next week's DVD release of the zombie-flick 28 Weeks Later will bring a revolutionary marketing widget, widely used in Japan, to the UK for the first time.The film poster contains a square box full of black and white dots known as a QR - quick response - code. It contains information that can be decoded by the camera on a mobile phone with the right software installed. A huge poster showing nothing but a QR code has already gone up in London's Shoreditch to advertise the DVD.These "bar codes" are widely used in Japan to store everything from web addresses and phone numbers to product details. Rather than laboriously typing in a person's phone number or an internet address into a phone, these codes give one-touch access to a wealth of information that can then be stored on a phone.Japan's immigration service even stamps passports with codes detailing passenger's names and visa status. The 28 Weeks Later codes include details of the DVD's release and links to other material on the internet.While many top-of-the-range phones such as the Nokia N93 already contain readers, anyone with a camera phone can install software that reads QR codes from companies such as i-nigma and Kaywa. They can even create their own codes.For the mobile industry QR codes are both a way of making it easier for customers to get to their favourite websites using their mobile and a possible way of generating mobile advertising revenues.Industry experts believe the time is right for QR codes in the UK. Over half the UK's mobile users have one while 95% of new phones sold include a camera. The first generation of QR codes in this country, however, are likely to be significantly larger than the 1cm x 1cm found in Japan, because most British camera phones have a lower resolution than in Asia.Philip Makinson, consultant at industry experts Greenwich Consulting, said QR codes are likely to be little more than a bit of fun in the short term but could  attract consumers to do more than just make calls and send texts."QR codes could help drive not only the take-up of high-end camera phones but make more people aware of the mobile internet and more conscious of the potential their phone has to store information about products and services," he said.
SCi Entertainment, owner of the Lara Croft Tomb Raider computer game franchise, admitted yesterday that for the second time in two years it had received a bid approach, believed to be from its French rival Ubisoft.The news is likely to arouse interest from Time Warner, which has a 10% stake in SCi; the leading US gaming company Electronic Arts - home to The Sims and Medal of Honour - and possibly Sony.A deal, however, is by no means certain. SCi warned recently that the delayed launch of Sony's PS3 had hit sales. Its shares plunged to levels not seen since SCi bought Eidos, creator of the pneumatic Ms Croft, in May 2005 and the Ubisoft approach may be mere opportunism.Shares in SCi closed up 44.5p at 384p yesterday, valuing the company at &pound;332m. Just before July's profit warning, however, they were at 520p and Time Warner bought its stake at 502p a share.The property magnate Robert Tchenguiz is also likely to play a key role in any takeover as his Thorson Investments vehicle is SCi's largest shareholder with a stake of 15.5%. He acquired the shares from Robert Bonnier, a well-known internet figure and founder of Scoot.com, who had stalked SCi after the dotcom crashSCi has been in talks before. After seeing off competition for Eidos from the private equity group Elevation - fronted by U2's Bono - it received a bid approach in October 2005. The talks, which are believed to have been with Ubisoft that time too, dragged on but in February 2006 SCi admitted they had come to nothing.
There is an invisible subculture in America. Those who belong to it love it with a lonely, alienated, unironic passion. Those who don't belong to it walk right by, uncaring, just as people walk right by that unmarked building in downtown Kirkland. It is the subculture of hard-core video games, and that oddly shaped building, which houses a company called Bungie, is one of its temples.That's the second paragraph from Time Magazine'scover feature on Halo 3. From here, the reporters wonder at videogame culture and the boffins behind it, reeks of post-Pac-Man mainstream journalism laughingly getting a handle on the arcade craze. "This isn't Donkey Kong," he enthuses. "The Master Chief is not an Italian plumber whose girlfriend has been kidnapped by a gorilla. His story is rich and complicated in ways that we're not used to in video games."Jesus, it's like Final Fantasy VII never happened. It's like Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid, Deus Ex, System Shock and Grand Theft Auto just took place on some other planet. The ironic thing is, Halo is hardly the standard bearer for the modern literate videogame. Compared to Bioshock it's a Commando comic with pretentions to become a Paul Verhoeven movie."The cliche about gamers is that they're antisocial," the feature continues. No, hang on, that was the cliche ten years ago. Now, surely, World of Warcraft and Second Life have murdered that one?But then, this is Time Magazine. Perhaps its readers reallydobelieve that videogames are chronically marginalised. Perhaps they would be amazed that there are plots and characters now. This guy must know his readership.The blog, Bits, Bytes, Pixels and Spritesmakes the following point:Though Time magazine's circulation numbers have dropped from 4 million down to 3.4 million in the past year, those numbers are still EASILY dwarfed by Halo 2's sales numbers alone, so far moving 8 million copies.But then, when you think about it, eight million isn't such a big deal in terms of demographic penetration. The Super Bowl will pull in 40 million viewers in the US. An episode of American Idol will do 15-20m. And of course, those brands are backed up by endless mass media coverage. Halo slips in, sells eight million copies to a dedicated, specialist user base and slips out quietly.Wow. We're still the weirdos sitting in our bedrooms hunched over flickering sprites. We're still alone.
Jane at GGAasks whether social networking sites like Facebook could contribute something to console and computer games. We've thought about this herebefore, but Jane's succinct words put it so nicely, and may present a relevant argument too:I want to play a game to have fun; therefore I want to play with people who are fun, and whose notions of fun align with mine. What's not fun to me: sore losers, angry players, stupid players, homophobic, racist, or misogynistic players, players who overindulge in smacktalk of the bordering-on-cruel variety, players who have no sense of manners. This holds pretty much true for me across all multiplayer games, from chess to Halo to WoW to online Scrabble.So what's the solution? Well, play only with people you actually know in RL - that's pretty much been my solution so far... surely there are other players out there who are like me, or with whom I would have fun playing. So how do I find them using the criteria that are important *to me*?She talks about the alternatives, like Friends of Friends networks. Would you be willing for anyone to see the people you regularly group with? The Sims Online played with this concept, allowing other people to see how you might be interconnected using a really nice graphical representation in the heads-up display. People love seeing how they fit into the social scene. Would this be something useful in places like WoW, Halo or on Xbox Live?
Chinese hackers, some believed to be from the People's Liberation Army, have been attacking the computer networks of British government departments, the Guardian has learned.The attackers have hit the network at the Foreign Office as well as those in other key departments, according to Whitehall officials.The Ministry of Defence declined yesterday to say whether it had been hit. An incident last year that shut down part of the House of Commons computer system, initially believed to be by an individual, was discovered to be the work of an organised Chinese hacking group, officials said.Security and defence officials are coy about what they know of specific attacks. However, they say several Whitehall departments have fallen victim to China's cyberwarriors. One expert described it as a "constant ongoing problem".The disclosures came after reports that the Chinese military had hacked into a Pentagon military computer network in June. The Financial Times said American officials called it the most successful cyber attack on the US defence department.Defence department officials confirmed that there had been a "detected penetration" of elements of the email system used by the network serving the office of Robert Gates, the US defence secretary. US officials were reported to have said that an investigation had discovered that the People's Liberation Army (PLA) was responsible.The US gave the codename "Titan Rain" to the growing number of Chinese attacks, notably directed at the Pentagon but also hitting other US government departments, over the past few years.The latest attack caused some minor administrative disruptions, but there had been no adverse impact on operations, an official said.Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, is reported to have raised the issue of Chinese attacks on her government's computers during a visit to Beijing. Officials here declined to say whether the British government had raised the issue with the Chinese authorities.Alex Neill, China expert and head of the Asia Security Programme at the Royal United Services Institute, Rusi, said cyber attacks by the Chinese had been going on for at least four years. He described the reported attack on the Pentagon as the "most flagrant and brazen to date".He said such attacks reflected a new doctrine of the PLA described as "pressure point warfare" - the attacking of specific nodes to leave the adversary paralysed.The incidents should be seen against the background of the forthcoming 17th Chinese Communist party congress, which could determine the next generation of leaders, and the PLA keen to flex its muscles, Mr Neill suggested.The attacks on the Pentagon's computer system were described by Dr Sandra Bell, head of Rusi's homeland security department, as "very much a wake-up call". She added: "The Chinese see no difference between asymmetric warfare and conventional warfare".Analysts have argued over the seriousness of the attacks, and China has officially denied responsibility. However, the latest attack was said by officials and analysts yesterday to be the most serious discovered so far.Responsibility for advising government departments on how to protect their networks rests with MI5, GCHQ, and the Centre for the Protection of the National Infrastructure in the Cabinet Office.
The Red Lake gold mine covers 55,000 acres of western Ontario, amid mountains, creeks, and pine forests populated by wild caribou. In its main shaft, which plunges 1,023m into the earth, drilling machines called jumbos extract gold ore, along with massive quantities of muck and rock, which is hauled away by "scoop-trams" and 16-tonne trucks. Twice a day, an electrical blasting system sends explosions through the mine, shattering the walls to release more gold. Mining at Red Lake, in other words, is pretty much the definition of heavy industry. So one can only imagine the despairing looks that must have been exchanged among the geologists at Goldcorp, which owns the mine, when their chief executive, Rob McEwen, bounded into the office with an idea.It was 1999, and times were tough: Red Lake's gold was drying up, and the firm was in serious danger of collapse. But McEwen was just back from a conference at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he'd had the kind of giddying brainwave that irritating people like to call "thinking outside the box". Why not do gold-mining on the internet?Clearly, this was a stupid idea. But stupid ideas appeal to Don Tapscott, the Canadian thinker who highlights the Goldcorp story in his new book, Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything, co-authored with Anthony Williams. The book has shaken the US business world with its claim that we've barely begun to imagine the ways in which the web will transform our lives as workers and consumers.In the late 1970s, when he worked as a communications researcher, Tapscott and his colleagues hooked some neanderthal computers up to each other - a "network", you might call it, or even a "web" - and soon realised how this might change working life. He tried preaching this message to senior executives, but, he says, they dismissed computer networks as stupid, too. "The big objection, for years, was that managers would never learn to type," says Tapscott, who speaks in italics. "I'm not kidding. For years, with all these profundities and great visions, my entire life was reduced to me making the case that you can learn how to use a keyboard."But managers did learn to type. And Goldcorp did use the internet to mine gold: in 2000, it abandoned the industry's tradition of secrecy, making thousands of pages of complex geological data available online, and offering $575,000 in prize money to those who could successfully identify where on the Red Lake property the undiscovered veins of gold might lie. Retired geologists, graduate students and military officers around the world chipped in. They recommended 110 targets, half of which Goldcorp hadn't previously identified. Four-fifths of them turned out to contain gold. Since then, the company's value has rocketed from $100m to $9bn, and disaster has been averted.When "web gurus" like Tapscott start hyperventilating about the new economy, a common reaction is uneasy scepticism. An economy, surely, has to be built on real things - bricks, and bread, and pints of milk, not just Facebook, MySpace, Second Life, Wikipedia and blogging? Man cannot live by social networking alone. So it is to Tapscott's credit that the idea he calls "wikinomics" - he is, after all, a web guru, and seems unable to resist buzzwords - goes back to 1937, and to a young socialist academic born in Willesden.Ronald Coase had noticed something odd about capitalism. The received wisdom, among western economists, was that individuals should compete in a free market: planned economies, such as Stalin's, were doomed. But in that case, why did huge companies exist, with centralised operations and planning? The Ford Motor Company was hailed as a paragon of American business, but wasn't the Soviet Union just an attempt to run a country like a big company? If capitalist theory was correct, why didn't Americans, or British people, just do business with each other as individual buyers and sellers in the open market, instead of organising themselves into firms?The answer - which won Coase a Nobel prize - is that making things requires collaboration, and finding and linking up all the people who need to collaborate costs money. Companies emerge when it becomes cheaper to gather people, tools and material under one roof, rather than to go out looking for the best deal every time you need a few hours' labour, or a part for a car. But the internet, Tapscott argues, is radically lowering the cost of collaborating. Companies - certainly big companies - are losing their raison d'etre. Individuals, and tiny companies, can collaborate without corporate behemoths to organise them. Considering how many of us spend our weekdays working for big companies, and then spend our weekends giving our money to them, this is a far-reaching thought.It should come as no surprise that large companies, from media outlets to clothes shops, are trying to profit from making their customers feel "involved" in the creation of their products. But that's arguably an old-fashioned, condescending point of view, with the company still firmly in the driving seat. Wikinomics implies something far more radical: it's not a given that the company will stay in the driving seat at all. "We're talking about a new means of production," Tapscott says. "Collaboration can occur on an astronomical scale, so if you can create an encyclopedia with a bunch of people, could you create a mutual fund? A motorcycle?"The natural tendency, in a book such as Wikinomics, is to exaggerate for the sake of making an impact. But the signs are there. Take the Chinese motorcycle industry, which has tripled its output to 15m bikes per year over the past decade. There aren't really any Chinese equivalents of the big Japanese and American firms - Honda or Harley. Instead, there are hundreds of small firms, many of them based in Chongquing, the world's fastest-growing metropolis. Their representatives meet in tea-houses, or collaborate online, each sharing knowledge, and contributing the parts or services they do best. The companies that assemble the finished products don't hire the other companies; assembling the finished product is just another service. A "self-organised system of design and production" has emerged - the kind of system we usually associate with phenomena in cyberspace, like Wikipedia, or software released without copyright, so that others can tweak and improve it, such as the web browser Firefox. The Chinese motorcycle industry, in other words, is "open source".Earlier this year, the comedians David Mitchell and Robert Webb addressed the media cult of interactivity in a sketch, and if you heard it and laughed, it's probably because you share some of the ambivalence it exudes towards the idea of a world in which everyone is a creator of content:"Are you personally affected by this issue? Then email us. Or if you're not affected by this issue, can you imagine what it would be like if you were? Or if you are affected by it, but don't want to talk about it, can you imagine what it would be like not being affected by it? Why not email us? You may not know anything about the issue, but I bet you reckon something. So why not tell us what you reckon. Let us enjoy the full majesty of your uninformed, ad hoc reckon, by going to bbc.co.uk, clicking on 'what I reckon' and then simply beating on the keyboard with your fists or head."The implications of wikinomics, in this context, are surprising. It has become an article of faith in the blogosphere that the internet has given rise to a new, Renaissance-style era of the amateur, and that the mainstream media - or "MSM", to use the scornful acronym - will perish unless it learns that the efforts of the crowd, working collaboratively, can usually outstrip those of a small body of professionals. Those who object to this position often give the impression of trying to pick a fight, as did the British-American author Andrew Keen this year in his book, The Cult of the Amateur. Keen argued that the web revolution "is really delivering us superficial observations of the world around us, rather than deep analysis, shrill opinion rather than considered judgment". The result, predictably, was that he was shouted down by the baying online crowd. No real debate ensued.But most people are neither populist-absolutists nor snooty elitists: they are in the middle. They like being able to start blogs, or comment on news stories, or build sites such as YouTube from the ground up. On the other hand, they don't believe that "citizen journalism", or other forms of crowd creativity, is ever going to fully replace the unique, individual voice of a 6,000-word essay in the London Review of Books, or a novel by Philip Roth - or, for that matter, a newspaper column by Richard Littlejohn. And this is where wikinomics gives rise to a startling new thought.What if the "rise of the amateur" is just a passing phase on the way to something far more radical? After all, there's a major economic problem with Wikipedia, YouTube, MySpace and the like: people contribute to them without any financial reward, even as the content they contribute makes millions of dollars for the sites' owners. That may not matter on a small scale, but it's no way to run an entire economy: at some point, people are going to need money for food and mortgages. Most of the "amateurs" who make up the blogosphere, for example, are only amateur in their capacity as bloggers. They're professional bankers, or nurses, or technologists, or students, or something. Doing things "professionally" is how people stay alive: we can't afford to be amateurs all the time. If the new online world relied on amateurs, there would be a limit to how far it could expand.Don Tapscott, therefore, finds himself in the odd position of arguing that social networking and citizen journalism, far from being pioneering, are really rather old hat. ("Social networking - that's so 2006," he sighs.) From a wikinomics perspective, the true power of the internet isn't in harnessing the freely given wisdom of the crowd: it's in giving more people the opportunity to become the professionals who do things for money. "This is not the crowd versus the individual genius," he says. "If anything, it's a new distribution channel for the individual genius."One of the best examples of this is InnoCentive, a web forum with a community of 1.5m scientific experts from around the world - full-time scientists, spare-time scientists, retirees and students. When a major multinational firm such as Procter &amp; Gamble needs to develop a new cleaning product, it sometimes posts its requirements on InnoCentive, rather than relying on in-house researchers. Crucially, it offers a payment for a successful solution. "If they're looking for a new molecule to take red wine off a shirt - well, you do the math," Tapscott says. "They have 9,000 scientists inside their company boundaries, and 1.5m outside their boundaries. And sure enough, there's a retired chemist in London, or a grad student in Taipei, who comes up with a molecule, and they get paid." This is the real economy - people getting paid for making or doing stuff that other people want. And it's easy to see how the next step might be to do away with the large firm entirely, as in the case of the Chinese motorbikes.If anything, it is tempting to suggest that Tapscott is too kind to large companies. (His multimillion-dollar research was, after all, funded by a consortium of them.) Wikinomics is a book for existing corporations who want to learn how to survive: he suggests, for example, turning consumers into "prosumers", with an active role in product design, as with Lego Mindstorms, a range of construction toys with robotic bricks, aimed at adults. And he's scathing about record labels and others who don't see that the internet is a platform on which they can build new, profitable products, rather than something to be fought with lawsuits. But in the very long term, there's no particular reason why large corporations should survive at all. If Ronald Coase's 1937 insight remains valid, we could yet see the day when big companies such as Google begin to look rather prehistoric -because they are still, after all, big companies.Coase is now 96, and a few years ago, Tapscott called him up and went to see him. For the younger man, it was a kind of pilgrimage. "I tried to explain to him that his writings were the key to understanding how the internet was going to change business," Tapscott says. "But he was completely uninterested. He said: 'I've moved on to other things'".&middot;Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything by Don Tapscott and Anthony D Williams is published by Atlantic Books, priced &pound;16.99.The 'self-organisers'China's burgeoning motorbike industry isn't dominated by a handful of corporate behemoths employing thousands of employees, or outsourcing tasks to smaller subcontractors. Instead, a self-organised system has emerged in which many smaller companies collaborate to share the risks and the profits - often, admittedly, by copying Japanese designs.The 'prosumers'When hobbyists started hacking the computerised parts at the heart of the Lego Mindstorms range, the toy company initially threatened to sue them. Then it had a change of heart, and started encouraging them to be 'prosumers': consumers who play far more than a superficial role in the creation of products.The new gold rushThe gold mine at Red Lake in Ontario, operated by Goldcorp, was ailing and facing collapse until its chief executive Rob McEwen heard a talk about Linus Torvalds, the Finnish inventor of the open-source computer operating system, Linux. Why not place Goldcorp's secret geological data on the internet, McEwen wondered, and see if there were experts outside the company who could suggest where to mine? The 'Goldcorp Challenge' reaped handsome profits, turning a company worth $100m into one worth $9bn.
As I've apparently already done my bit accidentally disseminating Sony progaganda via yesterday's semantically and economically incorrect 'gap closing' story, I may as well look at some more PS3 hype - and anti-hype - doing the rounds at the moment.Sony Computer Entertainment chief Kaz Hirai has confused and angered easily confused and angered gamers by stating that it's actually agoodthing that developers aren't quite getting the most out of PS3 at the moment:The power that we've packed into PS3 will really manifest itself in software titles that come up four, five or six years down the line."Now that's spin!" commented anEvil Avatarregular. "So all of the stories that have come out lately about how hard the PS3 is to develop for - including inferior PS3 ports, massive delays and even cancellations - that's all good news."Similar ire has been aimed at Sony Liverpool. Someone at the studio has apparently been caught via WikiScanner tampering with the Halo 3 Wikipedia entry. The wiki-scamp made a small edit to suggest that the visuals won't be much improved from Halo 2. AsArs Technica points out, "as edits go, this was slight and had a credible source, but if I were working for any of the big three I'd be telling my employees to stay away from Wikipedia. It just doesn't look good when stuff like this comes out."
Ask a certain kind of security-minded geek about "copy protection"technology and chances are they'll tell you that it's flat out impossible. They might even avow it with the same certainty that physicists employ when they say you can't travel faster than the speed of light.That level of certainty can be a little daunting, especially since our intuition tells us something different. We can imagine accelerating and accelerating and accelerating until our speed exceeds 299,792,458 m/s – hey, just rev the old spaceship up to 299,792,457 m/s, open up the throttle a little and voila… we've just proven generations of physicists wrong.The thing is that when they say that you can't travel faster than the speed of light, they're talking about the fundamental principles of physics: it's impossible to get beyond lightspeed, even if science fiction movies help us conceptualise it.In the same way, we can imagine building progressively better software locks for movies, music, ebooks, and software until we hit on one that even the wiliest hacker can't defeat. But, just like the physicists, the geeks who say that DRM can never reach this point are speaking about fundamental principles of information science. It's impossible to get that far.To understand this, you need to understand a little bit about cryptography - the mathematics of scrambling and descrambling information.Modern industrial cryptography consists of three crucial components: first, a "cipher" - a system for scrambling messages. These are always public and never secret or proprietary. Banks, spies, retailers, child pornographers and your web browser all use the same basic set of ciphers. That's because the only way to prove that a cipher works is to expose it to public scrutiny and see if any clever bastard can spot a flaw in it.It's a little counterintuitive to think of full disclosure as a prerequisite for security, but it is a basic tenet of cryptography – and it has been so ever since Alan Turing and the lads at Bletchley Park broke the Nazi ciphers and spent the rest of the war reading Hitler's secret dispatches and snickering to themselves.Second, there is a "ciphertext" - a blob of data that has been encrypted with the cipher.Finally, and crucially, there's the "key". This is a very small piece of information - usually less than 1000 characters - that is kept secret from all but the legitimate senders and receivers of the information. The key is the secret bit of information that the cipher uses to unscramble the ciphertext.As a system, it works brilliantly. You can download an email privacy program that uses standard, public encryption algorithms to scramble your email so that only its intended recipients can read them. You know that messages can only be read by the authorised sender and the authorised receiver because you are the only ones who know have the key.It's great for email, but it can never work for movies, TV shows or music, because in the case of "copy protection" the receiver is also the person that the system is meant to guard itself against.Say I sell you an encrypted DVD: the encryption on the DVD is supposed to stop you (the DVD's owner) from copying it. In order to do that, it tries to stop you from decrypting the DVD.Except it has to let you decrypt the DVD some of the time. If you can't decrypt the DVD, you can't watch it. If you can't watch it, you won't buy it. So your DVDplayeris entrusted with the keys necessary to decrypt the DVD, and the film's creator must trust that your DVD player is so well-designed that no one will ever be able to work out the key.This is a fool's errand. Because the DVD player has the key, it's always possible that it can be extracted by academics, hardened hackers – or just kids who are in it for the glory.One hacker known as Muslix64 got the keys to the HD-DVD system he owned. Then he did the same trick again with a Blu-Ray player – this time without ever being in the same room as it. He just had a mate email him the contents of the computer's memory, captured while it was playing a Blu-ray disc. Muslix64 reasoned that if the computer was unscrambling the Blu-ray disc, it must have the key in its memory somewhere. He did a quick search of the file and hey presto, Blu-ray was broken.And the thing is that if a DRM is broken once, it's useless. The breaker can put his copy of the movie, music, ebook, or software online on a peer to peer network or fileserver, and from there anybody can "break" the copy protection simply by downloading a copy. It's a one-shot deal.DRM is supposed to force those unwilling to pay into buying, rather than nicking, their media - but once the cheapskates can search for a cracked copy on Google, it is meaningless.This means that ultimately, DRM only affects people who buy media honestly, rather those who nick, borrow or cheat their way to it. In turn that means that the people who ultimately bear the inconvenience, cost and insult of DRM are the paying customers, not the pirates.There are some fundamental truths in the universe. We cannot travel faster than light, and we cannot make a copy protection system that is uncrackable.The only question is: how long will paying customers stay when the companies they're buying from treat them as attackers?&middot;Cory Doctorow is an activist,science fiction authorand co-editor of the blogBoing Boing.
I really enjoyed Joe Queenan'spiece in G2 todayin which the exasperated film critic attacks Hollywood's new culture of insidiously misogynistic comedies. He tracks the trend back to Something About Mary (which, I have to admit, made me laugh til I cried in places), a daft movie in which Cameron Diaz somehow conspires to fall in love with Ben Stiller's stalking, manipulative loser. The most recent example is Judd Apatow's Knocked up in which every supporting female cast member is depicted as a joyless, dead-eyed bitch - you know, to contrast with the lovable knockabout male heroes.It made me think about the depiction of women in current videogames. How does it compare? The mainstream games industry usually takes its cue from movie trends, but here the two media have diverged. Games had their dark period ten years ago when the success of Lara Croft gave rise to a sudden plethora of female leads with breasts like beachballs and waists so tiny a baby could wrap its fingers round them. Apart from Tecmo's bizarre enclave of libidinous Dead or Alive games, that time seems to have passed. At least as far as mainstream retail releases are concerned.If anything women are conspicuous by their absence. The big shooters like GRAW, Gears of War, COD, Halo and Medal of Honor have little room for them, pushing females into non-playable support roles. Story-sequence fodder. Bioshock makes an intriguing use of girls as part of a moral decision each player must make. Like the Final Girl in slasher flicks, gender is employed to trap the viewer into an emotive, protecting position. Perhaps this is why the female lead character of Heavenly Sword is dying. Games developers, in the vacuum caused by Lara-mania, are no longer confident or comfortable creating straightforward female leads.Okay so Resident Evil has produced some excellent female characters, but Resi 4 was a mostly male experience and it looks like Resi 5 will be too. Elsewhere, the gender of Metroid Prime's Samus Aran is largely irrelevant. The big RPGs are perhaps the only titles consistently finding full-bodied interactive roles for female characters.Games use gender differently to films. Films are largely about relationships, games are largely about action. In films, women are often defined negatively in contrast to, and through their relationships with, the affable male characters, but these dynamics don't exist in most games.I just wonder which is better - objectification or ostracism?
Non-story of the day: Gabe Rivera, founder ofTechmeme, has posted an item thatsays:I love Linux and the XBOX 360, so yesterday I tried to include the word "LINUX" in the motto section on XBOX Live. I was stunned when I got a message saying "Your motto contains inappropriate language. Please try again". Come on Microsoft is that really inappropriate?As many people have pointed out, Microsoft is also "inappropriate language" and so are a lot of other trademarks and company names. Apple users are OK, though, because it would be inappropriate to blacklist the name of a fruit.....
Posr: Matt Jones and Matt Biddulph. Photograph: Sarah Lee/GuardianA few weeks ago when we published a list of10 indie dotcoms to watch, I thought we'd have to wait a while before we had news on any developments. In fact, we didn't have to hang on for long.Last weekExtate.com, the property search engine, announced that it had receiveda round of financingfrom The Accelerator Group (run by former Guardian columnist Saul Klein), Arts Alliance and Samos Investments. It's not immense amounts of cash, I'm told, but enough for the company to continuing growing and spreading its wings.Then todayDopplr, a networking system for frequent travellers,said it toohad received early-stage financing - again from The Accelerator Group, but also from a group of individuals including Martin Varsavsky (Fon), Joi Ito and Reid Hoffman (formerly of PayPal).Varsavsky gives his reasons for investing in the release:"We chose to invest in Dopplr because of the strong team and the simple execution of a great idea. Dopplr is like the iPod of social networks. It is very valuable to know where your friends and colleagues will be and where in the world you will meet them next. This is the one thing that Dopplr does really well."(Incidentally, I'm hoping that other people will carry on the Dopplrphoto memewhich Sarah Lee's portraits have started)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
According to New Scientist'sFeedback column this week, watching the film Armageddon (you know, Bruce Willis saves world from asteroid menace - sorry, does that spoil the plot?) is part of the US space agency Nasa's management training programme. But why?If your first thought was that they're training NASA managers to put the proper PR spin on any doomsday asteroid, the door to the paranoid ward is on your right.In reality, the screenings are just a game for NASA's space geeks: who can find the highest number of impossible things in the movie? The record, Feedback is told, stands at 168.Which raises the obvious question on the computing and technology side: which is the worst film for thenumberof impossible things done before (and after) breakfast? We can offerIndependence Day, with its "Apple laptop plants computer virus in alien spacecraft's OS" (I mean, come on, Jeff Goldblum wasn't even running OS X!).So come on then --The Net?Swordfish? Which is the one where computer people spend the most time going "Argh!" and "Oh no!" and "That could never, ever happen!"Of course if it's Armageddon, then that's a film heading for a very special place in film history.
Street Warsin Brighton and Hove has begun! This three-week water-gun assassination tournament takes place throughout the city and I'm taking part. My objective: to stay dry whilst picking off my assigned victims one by one with a battery of water-powered super soakers, pistols, balloons and grenades.I've got a few ideas for how to attack my first assignment, but thought I'd soak up the creative juices of the gamesbloggers reared on first person shooters and stealth adventures for further inspiration. If you have any favourite in-game kills you'd like me to attempt to recreate (using water, of course), please do list them below. All suggestions greatly received.
The latest sales figures from Japan reveal that Wii outsold PS3 by three units to one through August. While Nintendo's machine shifted 245,653 units, Sony's managed a less impressive 81,541. (Morehere.)Online news sources are spinning this two ways - either as a sign of the continued dominance enjoyed by Wii, or an indicator that the balance is shifting. Back in June, the Wii-to-PS3 ratio was six to one, in July it was four to one.Is the tide turning in Sony's favour? If it is, the timing's puzzling. Warhawk is drawing decent reviews, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is good, but Lair has divided opinion, as has Heavenly Sword. Take a look at thePS3 game chartand it's still dominated by launch titles - at least in the UK. In Japan, the most wanted titles - the likes of Gran Turismo 5, Metal Gear Solid 4, Final Fantasy XIII and Resident Evil 5 - are all a long way off. Meanwhile, Wii isn't exactly spoiled for new releases, but the likes of Resi Evil 4, Dragon Quest Swords and Mario Party 8 have been keeping things ticking over I suppose.Price doesn't seem to be a factor - there's been no PS3 cut since pre-launch, when 20 percent was slashed off the planned retail figure. The closest Sony has come is a cheap(ish) bundle pack with Hot Shots Golf 5 (infohere). Hardly irresistible.So, it's not games, it's not price - maybe it's the excitement surrounding some decent demos at E3 and Leipzig. Or maybe that last firmware update did it - maybe people are really excited by Remote Play...Charles Arthur adds:our thanks to all those who have pointed out that, indeed, the PS3 cannot be "closing the gap" on the Wii if the latter continues to outsell it. Any week that the Wii sells more units than the PS3, the sales gapgrows. It's a nice bit of spin by Sony (which we'll be examining in print) but the fact is, folks, the Wii is still motoring ahead.
Congrats to our local gamesblogger Greg and fellow Guardian writer Steve Boxer for their nominations in theMCV Games Media Awardsin the "Games Writer on a National Newspaper"! We'll be keeping our fingers crossed for a tie (between them, of course) on 11 October, when the winners are announced.
Cerf's up: Vint on the net in space. Photograph: Frank Baron/GuardianA few in the latest edition ofScience Weekly, our non-award winning science and technology podcast.Vint Cerfexplains how he'staking the internet to Mars, and we discuss the latest research intoSpider-man suits.PlusNeil Turok, chair of mathematical physics at Cambridge, takes the time to explain some of the basic tenets of cosmology. For those of you who are interested, we've also got interviews with astronomer royalMartin Reesand astrophysicistBernard J Carr.Listen to the show now byclicking here, orvisit our podcast blogto get more information on subscribing via iTunes or our RSS feed.
Contestants line up in Brighton. Photograph: Daniel Berehulak/GettyThe technology industry is well-known for its remarkable facial foliage - our regular columnistSeth Finkelsteinis among those who fly the flag, for example.But this weekend I came across several hundred pioneers of the art who put everybody to shame. Yes, it was theWorld Beard and Moustache Championship, which I managed to get down to - spotting all manner of adornments along the way.It got me thinking, though: surely there are some technology titans who can give these bearded fellows a run for their money? Answers on a postcard, or in the comments. I'll get pictures of good suggestions and add them here.
I've been away for a fortnight speaking at theState of Playconference and having a well-needed rest. In the meantime the fearless Text Adventurers have continued making progress through the twists and wends of thegamesblog's Wikigame.There is now amapof the village. A formalstory progressionthrough five madcap chapters. A whole lot oflocationsready for action inChapter One.There's even a playabledemo, amended since previous Wikigame posts.Things have admittedly cooled down during the month of August, traditionally the time when everyone heads to the hills and leaves their computers behind. However, HiddenAway's been keeping the site clean, ejecting spammers and WoW levelling service offers while the other coders have been hard at work practising and implementing. If things continue at this rate, there should be five playable chapters by December!
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
The internet is big. Really big, as Douglas Adams once said of space. You'd need an army of people to monitor it and find things of interest. Happily, thousands of people are doing just that, via Digg.Diggis a social bookmarking site. When users find something they want to recommend, they can digg it, by posting a headline and short summary on Digg. Users who browse these headlines can also "digg" them, so the best stories — with the most "diggs" — rise to the top.Digg started in December 2004, and its main focus was on computers and technology news. Now, it covers eight topic areas, including world news, sport and entertainment. And as well as stories, it covers videos and podcasts. Each section has its own subdivisions.So, for example, Entertainment has four sections — Celebrity, Movies, Music, Television — while Sport has 10. If you're only interested in golf stories, you can choose those. You can also choose whether to see only the most recent stories, or chose a time period from a day to a year.Although there are plenty of social bookmarking sites, Digg is amazingly popular. A top story can easily pick up 5,000 diggs in a week. The top story over the past year picked up 42,384 diggs, with "Apple Announces iPhone" collecting 24,000. Stories that make Digg's front page can send thousands of visitors to a particular site.Sounds perfect? Not everyone agrees. Digg founder Kevin Rose told Business Week: "The larger the critical mass of users and the collective wisdom applied to digg, the better and more relevant the stories get." But crowds are not necessarily wise. Many of the stories that get dugg are sensationalist, and some are worse.At the time of writing, the top World &amp; Business story is: " 'I ate my roommate', says teen." In second place in this week's Science section is: "Post-Orgasmic Women Agree: 15 sex tips to leave them dazed &amp; amazed."The site says: "Everything on Digg is submitted and voted on by people like you." Judging by the quality of the comments, I hope not. Not all Digg users are stupid, but the quality of debate can be worse than a four-ale bar on a Saturday night.Digg has tried to improve things by adding a Bury command, and by letting users digg or bury each others' comments. You can, for example, choose to see only comments that are rated +5 or +10 or more, for example.It helps, but not much. Digg has also been criticised because certain groups seem to have undue power in getting stories onto the front page, while a "Bury brigade" tries to bury stories that do not fit the site's preferred opinions or, worse, are critical of Digg. There's a fine line between "the wisdom of crowds" and mob rule.But love it or hate it, Digg really does surface lots of things that would otherwise be missed. And that makes it worth visiting.
Anyone else have a gaming to-do list? You know, the pile of stuff you've been meaning to play or finish off for ages but never seem to get round to? Mine is made up of two types of game - worthy and leftfield. The former includes titles with steep learning curves that are clearly worth the effort - Medieval: Total War 2, X3: Reunion, anything by Sid Meier - but rarely outvote their more accessible brethren when it comes to those precious hours of post-work leisure time. The latter are the curios - ieKiller 7- kept for occasional gaming espresso shots but rarely played to full completion.The 360 has actually made things worse. Nowadays even the more obscure "finished" game can hang around on the to-do list while you plan one final achievement point raid.And the pile has no time limit either. I recently rediscovered some PC games -Typing of the Dead!- that had been on the to-do list years ago but had continually been ignored, presumably because I'd stuck them in a dusty cupboard. The highlight was sci-fi title Outcast. This was a game I loved the potential of back in '99 but didn't have a PC powerful enough to do it justice. Eight years on I have the PC, but can I get the game to run in XP? Nope. Perhaps it's for the best. My hazy memories of the game - a hugely ambitious yet horribly unforgiving sci-fi adventure - are probably preferable to the reality. This recentretrospective, however, is tempting me to try again.Gaming to-do lists then, what's on yours?
Mitsubishi iPrice:&pound;8,999Miles per gallon:54.6Seats:5Good for:Trendy teensBad for:Has-beensThere are more similarities than you may at first think between Britain and Japan. Both are island nations enjoying uneasy relations with their continental neighbours; both have lousy weather, are steeped in tradition and yet forward-looking; both adore all things American but look down their noses at them, and both have a penchant for binge drinking. Finally, both know only too well the pressure-cooker constraints of having a large population shoe-horned into a limited space. Britain, perversely, has dealt with this by making a virtue of vast, road-hogging SUVs that eat tarmac for breakfast. But Japan has the K-car.K stands for kei jidosha, which sounds like a sushi dish but means 'light vehicle' - a class of car created in 1949 when money and raw materials were in short supply. To qualify for tax breaks, a K-car has to be less than 3.4m long and 1.48m wide. It must also have an engine less than 660cc. This means it is the size of a sofa and has an engine level pegging with a supercharged Dyson. The other big selling point in Japan is that a K-car is not required by law to have its own parking space.The Mitsubishi i (it's hard to believe that Apple Macintosh wasn't able to trademark the letter 'i') is the first K-car to have been imported to Europe. In Japan, more than 2 million K-cars were sold last year - more than half of all the cars sold in the country.As you might expect from the nation which has led the way in miniaturisation and electric pets, the i looks like a kooky, scaled-up Tamagotchi. Or perhaps a fencing mask on the move. Either way, it's so tiny you assume it must be something you sit on rather than in.By combining a fully functional car with striking, design-savvy looks and then shrinking the entire package to about half the size of a normal car, the i fills the driver with a sense of awe. Choruses of 'Isn't it cute' and 'Oh, look how tiny it is' fill the air.Step into the fencing mask and your sense of awe doubles. It has four seats, four doors and a boot, too. It's Tardis-like. So much so you begin to wonder if you have somehow shrunk while clambering in. Part of the reason there is so much space is that the wheelbase has been stretched by each wheel being pushed as far into each corner as possible. The front wheels are actually in front of the nose.The engine is mounted in the rear, and it's a cracker. It's alarmingly responsive, will do 0-62mph in 11.2 seconds, and has a top speed of 84mph - though you'd feel like you were hanging on for dear life at that rate, and a lorry's slipstream would leave you swirling in the outside lane like an autumn leaf. It has a four-speed auto gearbox and is nimble and wonderfully adapted to city driving.The biggest thing about this tiny car is its green credentials. It does nearly 55 miles to the gallon and will almost certainly be exempt from London's congestion charge if Ken Livingstone introduces a CO2-based pricing system. The initial order of 300 cars arrived in Britain in July, and it's clear they'll vanish quicker than a cup of tea - another thing we have in common with the Japanese.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Ashley Qualls in Fast Company"Young person makes good" stories are a staple of internet commerce coverage, but Fast Company has a better-than-usual example with 17 year oldAshley Quallsand herWhateverlifesite.According to Google Analytics, Whateverlife attracts more than 7 million individuals and 60 million page views a month. That's a larger audience than the circulations of Seventeen, Teen Vogue, and CosmoGirl! magazines combined. Although Web-site rankings vary with the methodology, Quantcast, a popular source among advertisers, ranked Whateverlife.com a staggering No. 349 in mid-July out of more than 20 million sites. Among the sites in its rearview mirror: Britannica.com, AmericanIdol.com, FDA .gov, and CBS.com.And one more, which Ashley can't quite believe herself: "I'm ahead of Oprah!" (Oprah.com: No. 469.)She started by providing free MySpace layouts, as a hobby, when she was 14. She has since dropped out of school to run her growing business, and survived any number of family problems.Dosh Dosh reckons she can do even better. The site has used her as acase study, providing hints that other budding entrepreneurs could use.Fast Company has also done amultimedia slide show. Thanks to JD Lasica'sSocial Mediablog for the link.
She is billed as the world's oldest blogger. At 95 years old and with a worldwide following that has seen more than 340,000 hits on her blog, Spaniard Mar&iacute;a Amelia L&oacute;pez has achieved the kind of status that millions of younger internet chroniclers can only dream of.L&oacute;pez, who was introduced to the world of blogging by one of her grandchildren just eight months ago, has become such a global hit that she receives posts in languages as strange and impossible for her to understand as Russian, Japanese and Arabic."My name is Amelia and I was born in Mux&iacute;a (A Coru&ntilde;a - Spain) on December the 23rd of 1911," she wrote as her first post on amis95.blogspot.com. "Today it's my birthday and my grandson, who is very stingy, gave me a blog."With a mix of humour, warmth, optimism, nostalgia and feisty outbursts of leftwing polemic, she has won a regular readership of people keen to find out just what this Spanish great-grandmother is going to say or do next."You have to live life," the silver-haired blogger said in her most recent post. "Not sit around in an armchair waiting for death."Her blog tracks not just a nonagenarian's day-to-day battles against aches, but offers musings on everything from politics and religion to broadband and death.Among her chief hates are old people's homes, which she criticises for drugging their clients so they spend their final days snoozing quietly in front of the television.New lease of life"I blame the children, who don't want to help them," she said yesterday from the house beside the Atlantic Ocean in Mux&iacute;a, in the rugged north-western corner of Spain, where she stays during the summer."Internet has given me a new lease of life, but I don't see any old people's homes offering their residents internet," she said.L&oacute;pez, as the recent pictures of her shaking maracas in a Brazilian hotel prove, lives as far as you can get from the "do-nothing and wait-to-die" culture that she regularly lambasts.Her grandson Daniel, with whom she lives, taught her to navigate the internet after she pestered him to download biographies of poets and politicians. She likes to read online newspapers, for which she boosts the font size, and stay up-to-date with medical and scientific advances.The blog was a gift from Daniel, who had no idea what he was unleashing into cyberspace. He has become her chief assistant: L&oacute;pez navigates with the mouse while he types in the words she dictates."Now so many people write to me that I can't hope to reply to them all, though I want to," she explained. "My grandson complains that he has to work as well, he can't spend all his time typing."Much of her traffic comes from Spain and Latin America, but newspaper and television interviews, with YouTube links given on her blog, have spread her name beyond the Spanish-speaking world.When Daniel is not to hand, other assistants pop up on her blog, be they friends or hotel cleaners in Brazil."I love you, grandmother," said one Brazilian hotel worker who was drafted in to help.L&oacute;pez tells stories of her childhood and youth in Galicia. She recalls, too, the terrors of the Spanish civil war, and how her brother was sent to the front aged just 16- and came back with one leg shot off.She was fined for refusing to show support for General Francisco Franco's National Movement. "I must be the oldest socialist activist in Spain," she said. "I've been socialist since I was 16, but my father would never let me actually join the party."Her dislikes include daytime pill-popping, crude language and telephone companies that are slow to install broadband. Her main loves are poetry, politics, childhood memories, her native region of Galicia, a Jesus Christ who dislikes wealth and, she says, "the workers".She has acquired readers in such far-flung places as Alaska, Australia, China and Nigeria.Some people have suggested that she cash in on her popularity by getting paid-for advertisements placed on  her blog, something she rejects. "I did this to amuse myself, not to start competing with people or making money," she said.Fans in high placesHer fans include Spain's socialist prime minister, Jos&eacute; Luis Rodr&iacute;guez  Zapatero. A letter from his office is one of many documents that she has posted on the website."May you keep going with this for a long time," the prime minister told her.The admiration is mutual. "I am not cultured enough for a prime minister to be writing to me. I am just a little old lady," she said. "I hope he governs us for a long time, because he is a true patriot."L&oacute;pez's blog may be popular, but she is the first to admit it may not last long. "One day soon I am going to die," she said. "All I am really scared of is losing my mind. In the meantime, I'll carry on."In her own words"Old people need to wake up a bit. Get your act together!""Life has to be lived. Don't take pills and fall asleep in the armchair.""Scientists and inventors should try to create something to help the workers rather than inventing cannons and machines that kill and destroy.""If I die when I am there [on setting off for Brazil], then they can incinerate me and send me home in a little box. I'll be a bit bruised by the time I get there, but this is an opportunity I won't have again.""I'm not important. I'm a little old lady.""I used to be shy about saying things, but now that I am old I am a lot more direct.""There is nothing better than exercising the brain.""I've read Jesus's life and I know he wasn't interested in luxury.""To all the little old women in Spain, and those who think that I am not well [in the head] ... This old woman is on her own right now, but she is chatting on the internet and having a fantastic time.""Does anyone know what language this is?" (beneath a message to her in Arabic script)"No one listens to old people."
Adding a flight simulator has always seemed to be the obvious way to make Google Earth more fun, andMarco Gallottahas found one. It's a hidden feature of thelatestGE.The default airport is Kathmandu, so you can fly over the Himalayas.
NBC's recent spat with Apple (belowandbelow) continues, with NBC responding (viaMarketWatch):"We never asked to double the wholesale price for our TV shows. In fact, our negotiations were centered on our request for flexibility in wholesale pricing, including the ability to package shows together in ways that could make our content even more attractive for consumers," said Cory Shields, executive vice president of communications for NBC Universal, in a statement.Apple will lose many of its best-selling programmes, including The Office, Heroes, and Battlestar Galactica. However, NBC hopes to maintain sales of these programs via its own site, Hulu, and Amazon, amongst others.Huluis a free (ad supported) video site being set up by NBC and News Corp, so it will also be able to offer Fox programmes such as 24, The Simpsons and House. The Guardian's Andrew Clark reported the planshereon Wednesday.It's clear that Apple's iTunes Store has plenty of committed users whose loyalty is to the store, like people who shop in Wal-Mart and won't go anywhere else. Against that, there are plenty of users who want, say, The Office, and will happily go to NBC, Amazon or even Hulu to get it.Under normal circumstances, you'd have to bet on the content provider winning this sort of battle. However, this is not a normal market. Many users are not choosing between different stores, they're choosing whether to download TV programmes for free or pay for them. NBC may not get the prices it wants from iTunes, but at least it gets something.Update: The text of the NBC statement is now online atBloomberg.
Sony has now followed Nokia in adopting Microsoft's DRM (Digital Rights Management) system -- in Sony's case,PlaysForSure.It's a major climb-down for Sony, which has been pushing its own technology for encoding music (ATRAC), and has its own online music store, Connect. However,Sony saysits new NWZ-A810 and NWZ-S610 portable video players support multiple formats, including copy protected Windows Media Video and Audio (wmv/wma) for purchases from online libraries. The hated SonicStage jukebox software will also be phased out in favour of Windows Media Player 11.The press release says:With these new Walkman players, Sony has widened its digital music environment to support Windows Media technology. This gives customers greater flexibility in their music software approach. As a result, Sony will be phasing out theCONNECT Music Servicesbased on Sony's ATRAC audio format in North America and Europe. Specific timing will vary by region depending on market demand, but will not be before March 2008. The CONNECT e-book service for the Reader will not be affected.The players also support "non-secure AAC and MP3 music formats", plus AVC (H.264/AVC) in the video players.For existing users who no longer want to keep their ATRAC files, Sony has provided an MP3/WMA Conversion Tool athttp://www.sony.com/walkmansupport.It's assumed Sony will continue with ATRAC and Connect in Japan, where the system is relatively strong.
TuesdayBest of Games ConventionWednesdayCharts and retroCasual gaming is goodNokia unveils ngage againThursdayWii fastest selling UK console everWorms on WiiFridayOne game series for lifeHalf price Xbox Live games
NBC has decided not to renew its deal with Apple's iTunes store (below) from December. Now Apple, in apress release, says it will not sell programmes from new series, and blames NBC for trying to increase prices. Apple says:The move follows NBC's decision to not renew its agreement with iTunes after Apple declined to pay more than double the wholesale price for each NBC TV episode, which would have resulted in the retail price to consumers increasing to $4.99 per episode from the current $1.99. ABC, CBS, FOX and The CW, along with more than 50 cable networks, are signed up to sell TV shows from their upcoming season on iTunes at $1.99 per episode.It will be interesting to see if NBC responds.
PostSecretis a multi-award-winning website/blog where Frank Warren publishes about 20 secrets a week -- secrets that people have posted him anonymously, on postcards. I wrote about it this week inSecret Servicein Netbytes, which is one of our new online series.So far I've covered half a dozen sites, one per week. There's an indexhere. There should be another one along on Monday, the next site being Digg.Another new series you may have missed isCelebrity squares, which today features artist and photographerIdris Khan.
We don't have room to print all yourletters and blog pingbacks, so here's the full text of those we chose from. This week people were exercised about the trojan program that hit Monster.com customers, whether gaming podcasts are booooring, and if it's really licit to download from a file-sharing an album you once bought in another format.MONSTER EFFECTSInteresting that so many people were hit by the monster trojan - but I would hazard a guess that all those hit were using the same operating system. Would it be Windows by any chance? Were any users of Linux or the Mac system affected? I doubt it. Not that I am insinuating that they are superior, simply that because they are used by fewer people it isn't worth writing viruses or trojans in any great number for them. This is an argument for greater diversity of operating systems, surely - even if Sun gets its finger out with Solaris there will still only be four. Relying on the Windows monopoly was asking for trouble from the start and has hardly done Microsoft any favours. Nick Dore, LincolnPerhaps I missed something but it seems to me that either 'job seekers' downloaded a toolbar used to seek new employment onto a computer at their current employment, or kept login details for sensitive work sites on their personal computers. Best of luck with the job hunt... but maybe you should just stick to the idiot who gave you your present job. Alan Reynolds, St. Blazey GateAm puzzled by this: "panicked users who deleted the read_me.txt messages with the randomly generated encryption key lost their files forever."Presumably they tried restore from the recycle binEven without that, what about file recovery software? That'll get back pretty well everything even on a formatted, repartitioned hard drive.I'd be interested to know what else the trojan did to prevent recovery. Did it have a mechanism for preventing anyone who deleted the text files from retrieving them from the recycle bin? But how could it prevent retrieval sign file recovery software? Clare (no details given)Surely the victims of the trojan which encrypted their files won't have lost all their data? After all, they'll be able to restore from their backups, won't they? ...er, they DID take backups, didn't they? No sympathy if they didn't. Tony Green, IpswichIn the article entitled "Monster hit by 'worst ever' trojan" there is the sentence: "We quickly found logins for Mike in Arizona and Bill in Oregon. Using Bill's details, we logged into his email account and left a message." Was the Guardian the 'we' in this sentence? If so, does UK law permit the using of stolen data to access a person's e-mail account? Robert Tedder, South Ruislip [The access was done with the data owner's permission - Tech.Ed]&gt;&gt; they don't grow trees tall enough or braid rope long enough, to properly hang the animals who would do this to the unemployed.tinkertytonk.blogspot.com/SKYPE'S NIGHTMAREI was pleased to read an article that looked at the broader context of the vulnerability of any client server application. Their user driven nature makes them impossible to control and we are going to see this happening in other applications. In the best IT tradition of turning a problem into a feature I proposed that this need for restart provided an opportunity to reduce electricity consumption- seeJustEnoughTechnologyAug 21 2007, " Can Microsoft and Skype save the planet?" Michael FitzGerald, Walton-on-ThamesFORMAT WARSJames Mackenzie (Letters, August 23) believes he is justified in illegally downloading a track because he bought it originally on record (which was stolen) and then again on cassette (which wore out). Using the same logic, if his TV was nicked and the one he bought to replace it wore out, would he think it was OK to get a replacement TV he knew was stolen?You don't own all future formats and re-issues of a recording just because you bought it once. If you get a track via an illegal download, the people who wrote and played the music don't get any payment, which clearly isn't fair. The best way of acquiring a 'recording for life' is to buy a full-bandwidth, non-compressed version on CD (or, if you can find it, in an audio file format that can be copied to CD or hard drive) from a legal source, then make one or two personal copies as insurance against burglaries or terminal disk wear. Dave Stewart, CornwallGAMES PODCASTSI couldn't disagree more with Keith Stuart's article on gaming podcasts. Admittedly I'm a hardcore gamer, but I listen to a lot of game podcasts and find most of them fascinating. Moreover, I think 1Up Yours is one of the best of the ones I listen to, precisely because it has in depth discussions of things like the controls of Metroid Prime Corruption. They also run insightful interviews with developers and other industry figures, which are inevitably edited down in print. Conversely, since it went daily, Achievement Junkie has become one of the worst, because too much of the short time allocated is given over to non-game banter. The fact that Rodriguez has gotten more access to inside information has helped counterbalance this, but I'd still take 1Up Yours over it any day. The only real challenger is Game Theory, which focuses on the business side of the industry and is therefore in a different niche. If you want accessible digestible bits of information, surely that's what blogs are for. It's a question of knowing your audience. Are casual gamers really going to be subscribing to gaming podcasts? Do most of them even know what a podcast is? Chris Dammers, LondonThat's just because you haven't played the game yet, Keith. Play Metroid Prime III Corruption and you'll know why everyone is talking about it. http://wii.nintendo.com/site/metroidprime3/index.jsp By the way, I read your articles before bed time. (Kidding... I kid. I couldn't resist. You left yourself open to that one.) Tiffany Young, Executive Creative Director, Smashing Ideas Inc, SeattleI agree - some game podcast can be tedious at best. However you must try this one http://gametheoryshow.com/ . - by far my favourite podcast. Intelligent discussion about all platforms and all aspects of gameing . Sometimes the interviews aren't great but the general banter is second to none. It will revive your faith in game podcasts Jesse Davies, LiverpoolIPHONE TYPINGThis is a terrible piece of "journalism". This shoddy study has been kicked about on the Internet for the best part of a week, with most commentators dismissing it as bunk. The Guardian is the first, and only, mainstream news outlet (so far) to have legitimised this drivel. Really, really disappointing. Your "journalist" failed to point out that the participants in the study, all 20 of them, were given just one minute with the iPhone before the "study" began, not the thirty minutes suggested in the story. Moreover, instead of just quoting his pal from Stuff magazine, perhaps he should have looked at the responses of real iPhone users to this study who say the iPhone's keyboard is the best they have ever used. I've been using the iPhone for more than a month, and I find typing faster and easier than I did on a Palm Treo or on a Blackberry 7100. Instead of trawling the internet for the warmed over leftovers of stories that have already been debunked, perhaps the Guardian should aspire to somewhat higher standards of journalism. From a disgruntled reader, who expects more. Trevor Caswell, PhiladelphiaICANN, OR CANNOT&gt;&gt; It's irritated me for ages that whenever you see a reference to ICANN in the British press, it's always called 'Icann'. This gets right up my nose, though I can't quite put my finger on why. The practice of denying us our God-given capital letters just seems a bit cheeky. And I could never understand the logic.blog.icann.org/NO MACS HEREThe range of public sector sites that unconscionably boost the Microsoft quasi-monopoly is alarmingly wide. I recently opened a Post Office Instant Saver account, only to belatedly discover it is restricted to users of IE6 and above. So, Mac users, put your money elsewhere. This sort of thing is much less common in the private sector these days. I can only assume it is a low level corporate decision by lazy IT managers. It is both commercially senseless, and a breach of its public duty, for the Post Office to behave in this way. And there is no oversight body, as there is with the BBC, to force the management to adopt a more open approach. My protests to the Post Office have gone unanswered. Paul Godier, BournemouthPHISHINGWhy do the banks make phishing so easy? I have just received a phishing email purporting to come from Egg telling me that my latest credit card statement is available on line, and inviting me to 'click here'. The scam email is identical in on-screen appearance to the real email from Egg that my wife received. The difference, of course, is the underlying link URL behind the 'click here', and the other clickable boxes. I have a few obvious questions to ask.When will the banks stop sending emails with clickable links?When will they learn from eBay and include the user name in their emails, as an indication of authenticity.AndWhen will email clients be automatically programmed to show the underlying URL when you hover the cursor over the hyperlinked text, button or box?Kip Bennett, GreenfordHIGH-QUALITY AUDIOI have been following the correspondence re high quality audio, and have finally decided to put my head over the parapet. In the late 1930's my father used to 'repair' one valve radio receivers out of which any sound was welcome. Then post-war my Post Office Engineering colleagues used to make TV sets using army surplus components, (the picture was 2 inches square). Meanwhile the quest for Hi-Fi started in earnest, with 0.1% THD (Total Harmonic Distortion), and quite rightly, as one of your contributors made the point, the weakest link was the speaker system and the cost of the output transfomer from the valves. The ultimate then was the GEC metal cone speaker in a hexagonal ducted port enclosure, (it took hours to cut the corner supports from 3x3 timber using a handsaw). Then a revelation, FM, then Dolby B and Dolby C, the transition from wire spool tape recorders to tape to cassette then CD to mini disc with optical coupling for the digital audio. So what now appears to be the norm is width and never mind the quality requiring that hi quality music broadcasts have reduced bandwidth to make room for more of the same, and yes, at seventy-five I can still detect the difference below 193kbs sample rate. So the wheel is being forced full circle and I might as well listen to the one-valve radios again. Roy Wilson, ChaddesleySPAM BLOGSI was interested to read your article on spam blogs. I have had six articles of mine used by a spam blog without being attributed to me. The blogger then placed one in a blog carnival to increase traffic to their site, and they have! It has been a major task to contact all the blog carnival hosts and get them, well nearly all, to reattribute the article to me. I have contacted the blog and they just will not take any action to remove my articles from their site - or to print my comments stating the articles belong to me. Any ideas? Louise Manning, Ledbury
The New York Times isreporting todaythat American television network NBC is going to end its relationship to sell TV shows through the iTunes Store.According to the NYT:The media conglomerate -- which is the No. 1 supplier of digital video to Apple's online store, accounting for about 40 percent of downloads -- notified Apple of its decision late yesterday, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked for anonymity because negotiations between the companies are confidential.A spokesman for NBC Universal, part of General Electric, confirmed the decision, but otherwise declined to comment. A spokesmen for Apple declined to comment. The decision by NBC Universal highlights the escalating tension between Apple and media companies, which are unhappy that Apple will not give them more control over the pricing of songs and videos that are sold on iTunes.NBC, if you don't know, makes shows including Heroes and The Office (the American version). As the story indicates, those properties are worth 40% percent of iTunes TV downloads - that's a hefty slice of pie to lose.It's terrible timing, coming justtwo daysafter the announcement that TV shows are now downloadable in the UK via iTunes (here's our story). It's swings and roundabouts, or perhaps karmic retribution since Apple got a lot of free publicity with their attempt to spoil Nokia's own launch announcement earlier in the week.
Just two days after Apple started selling TV downloads to British customers, one of America's biggest television networks has decided to stop selling its shows through iTunes.NBC, the maker of hit US series including Heroes, Law &amp; Order and Scrubs, yesterday confirmed that it would not be renewing its contract with Apple to sell episodes of its programmes through the iTunes Store.The company is believed to have made its decision after a series of wrangles over pricing, according to a report in the New York Times. NBC is the biggest single source of TV content for iTunes, responsible for around 40% of Apple's sales.The timing of the announcement  deals a blow to the Californian technology giant, which announced earlier this week that it was to begin selling downloads of popular American series such as Lost and Ugly Betty to British customers. While NBC's decision does not directly affect viewers in the UK – none of its shows are yet available to buy on the British iTunes Store - it does restrict future expansion.The sticking point between the two companies appears to have been NBC's desire to vary the prices of its downloads and offer discounted bundles of shows.In the past Apple has remained steadfast over the pricing of its music, TV and movie downloads, with television programmes costing a flat of £1.89 per episode in the UK or $1.99 in the US. Apple's position altered a little earlier this year when a two-tier system was introduced for some music tracks, but chief executive Steve Jobs is thought to strongly oppose the concept of variable pricing.The news could mark the beginning of a significant threat to Apple's dominance of the download market, coming in the wake of a similar decision by record label Universal Music - which owns a minority stake in NBC - not to renew its own retailing deal with iTunes.Although NBC's existing agreement with Apple will stay in place until December, it may begin screening its shows on a new website it is launching in conjunction with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. Hula, a joint venture between NBC and the owners of Fox, has been in the pipeline for several months, and will offer free-to-watch programmes supported by advertising.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Got a few hundred Microsoft Points burning a hole in your account? Why not blow them all this weekend in the two-day Xbox Live Arcade sale? From 12:00 am on Sunday 2nd September until 11: 59 pm on Monday 3rd September, four classic XBLA titles will be available at half-price. The games are Small Arms (pictured), Zuma Deluxe, Gauntlet and Dig Dug. The latter two will now be just 200 points each, making them unmissable for eighties survivors who spent many a sodden afternoon in seaside arcades, pumping 10p pieces into fag-burned coin-ops.Microsoft will also be launching two 'new' Live titles next week - the arcade classic Cyberball 2072 and cult SNK fighting game, Fatal Fury Special.I'll be on Bomberman tonight if anyone fancies getting blown up.
