For those of us unimpressed by Tolkein-esque fantasy worlds,DC Universe Onlinecould be the most exciting thing to happen to the MMORPG since Eve Online. Here, players choose to be either super heroes or super villains before hitting a city teeming with criminal activity. An impressive roster of legendary characters is due to feature, and to add narrative weight and fanboy credentials, Sony Online Entertainment has employed a crack team of comic book veterans to work on the script.The latest recruit isMarv Wolfman, the DC veteran responsible for the likes of New Teen Titans and Tomb of Dracula. While at Marvel in the seventies, he also worked on Spider-Man and Daredevil, creating the memorable Bullseye character.I got a few quick questions to him last week about his involvement with DCUO, and his love of videogames...How and why did you get involved with DC Universe? Have you ever worked on a videogame before?I was asked and since I've written video games before and I love the DCU it was a perfect fit. I've been working on games in one capacity or another since I did some Captain Power interactive videotape games for Mattel back in the 80s.What's your job on the game?Geoff Johns created a brilliant overview for the game which allowed for growth, changes and surprises. My job is to take Geoff's overview and create actual gameplay and story. I'm taking what Geoff did to the next step but without his overview it would not have been possible.Have you ever worked with Jim Lee and Geoff Johns before?I've worked with Geoff on several Infinite Crisis cross-overs. We also live a few miles from each other so we've had lunches and dinners together. I've got to say he's not only a really good writer but one of the nicest people I've known. I consider him a friend.What are the key challenges of writing for an interactive medium? Are you finding that you're having to change your approach to narrative and character development?Game writing isn't linear the way comics or novels or films are. You're leading a player to certain points where they take over. You have to tell a story differently. It's a challenge, but as a gamer it's one I understand and love. And yes, you do have to change your approach. The writer who does the same thing everywhere isn't doing the right job. You have to put on your gamer face and think, what would I love to see if I were playing this.I see some real parallels between DC Universe and yourCrisis on Infinite Earthsseries - especially in the way that you've got lost of characters interacting with the DC mythology. Has Crisis on Infinite Earths helped at all with your work on the game?I think Crisis showed I can work with hundreds of characters and keep the story and concepts understandable. So yes, I saw the connection right away even though the story material is completely different. This is about understanding the whole of the DCU and being able to focus it into smaller parts that are fun to play.Are there DC characters you feel fit better into an interactive game? Is it easier to work with really well-known and solidly constructed characters like Batman and Superman, or do you think players might get more out of discovering slightly lesser-known heroes, say, like Nightwing?DC has so many different heroes, from super heroes to tech heroes to mystical heroes. Most of them can fit very comfortably into game play. Some of the smaller heroes, as you say, may actually be more surprising to play than the big ones.You've also worked in animation before - how does that compare to working on a videogame? Has it been a help at all?There is a great difference between games and animation, but they connect in one way: they both move, so as a writer you're dealing with time which you don't do in prose or comics. You have to figure out how long actions take as you write them in time, but in comics you can have 30 balloons while a character hits another. You can't do that when a story takes place in real time.Do you play many videogames?I've been playing games since Pong. I had a Coleco Vision, a Commodore 64 and currently have an Xbox 360, a PS2 and a Wii. I loved Myst, 7th Guest (and other PC games). My favorite standalone game for play is God of War. My favorite story is probably BioShock. I'm currently playing Dead Space, God of War 2 (I'm stuck on a level), Portal, Dead Rising and more. I like games where there's a good story but one that moves well and surprises me.Obviously, you've been keen throughout your writing career to add real depth to your characterisations - is there a concern that videogames tend to 'flatten out' superhero characters?It's trickier with games because you use fewer words. So what you have to do is try to express character in what they do and a few very well chosen words here and there. Hopefully I will be able to do that, but it's the one thing I'm always most concerned about and what I try my hardest to do.It's often said that the Marvel and DC pantheon of super heroes represents a form of mythology for readers in the US. Do you still feel that comics have that role?Absolutely. Comic characters are the new mythology. Which may be why I love God of War. If you read some of my older stuff you'll see I often use mythology.Do you think videogames supplanted the mythology role now?Videogames are different and tell stories differently so I don't think they've supplanted comics but they are creating their own mythos.What's next for you in comics? Have you any interesting projects on the go?I'm writing the monthly Vigilante comic for DC and really love what we're doing in it; I think it will surprise folks. I also have other DC related projects that I can't talk about until they issue their press release. Sorry.DC Universe Online is out later this year on PS3 and PC.
Before Grand Theft Auto, before Tomb Raider, it was Street Fighter II that made it okay to play games. Legendary characters, amazing moves, iconic sound effects, Capcom's SNES classic pretty much wrote the rule book on fighting game design. And now it's back for a fourth generation.To celebrate, I got some questions to producer Yoshinori Ono, who provides a fascinating insight into the concepts and decisions behind the latest installment. If you've already got yourSFIV Arcade Fightstick, if you're already studying the move lists, you won't want to miss this...How did you come up with the unique art style for SFIV? What were Daigo Ikeno-san's main influences?Well, the concept behind the art style was to take the character sketches and paintings that had been produced for other games in the series over the years and have very much become associated with the Street Fighter franchise and develop a system of shaders to accurately reproduce that feel through actual moving characters on the video monitor. The reasoning behind this is that since we've arrived at the series' 20th anniversary, it would make sense to give the overall look and feel of the game a sort of familiarity to longtime fans.To be sure, I don't propose that we have done something brand new or particularly groundbreaking to the visuals when you look at the game as a part of the SF series. I see it as a very natural and organic evolution from the visual style and aesthetic already established by all the great artists that have poured their hearts and souls into the series until now. In other words, this isn't a "new look" for Street Fighter, but rather a natural outgrowth of how the series has always looked.As for Ikeno's influences for the new characters, well, I asked him to examine the Street Fighter series closely and come up with designs that have not yet been tried until now, but to keep them close enough to the established aesthetic that the new characters would not look out of place lined up with the existing cast. This was no small task to be sure. In order to keep these characters viable for a long time, I also felt it would be important to concentrate on the way that they move. We aimed for a style of movement that would leave an impression on players. Basically, I told Ikeno what we were after, and he relayed any motion requests down the line to the motion crew. And that's how we ended up where we are today, with four unique new characters.SFIV introduces two new types of move – Focus Attacks and Ultra Attacks,  how and why did you create these?The bible we were working from for IV is the established rulebook of II. The last thing we wanted to do was add a gigantic appendix to this book. We also knew that anything we were to add to this system would have to have a wide appeal and be useable by players with a variety of skill levels. When we talk about skill levels, let's take chess for example. There are televised championships between Russian and American star players. These players have spent a great deal of time reading the rulebook very deeply and achieving an incredible level of understanding of the rules contained therein.Conversely, we have the idyllic image of a grandfather playing chess on a Sunday afternoon on a folding table in the backyard. Now, these guys aren't going for any spectacular techniques. They're not looking to exploit their esoteric knowledge of the rules. They're just relaxing and playing for fun. But – and here's the important part – they're both playing the same game, right?   So we knew right away that if we were to add some new rules to this title, we would have to ensure that everyone from world class champions to casual grandfather/grandson Sunday players would be able to access and take advantage of them. And that's the basis of the new Focus Attack system.The controls are simple. All you do is press mid-punch and mid-kick at the same time. But, by stringing together this simple input with combos and other techniques, the available depth really begins to show itself. It's important to note that you can also cancel out of this maneuver and segue into another move to get really tricky with people. This technique can be utilized by just about anyone with ease. It has a very low barrier of entry.Ultras are an extension of Supers, but as they can't be activated until you receive a certain amount of damage, they are a means to balance play and give losing players a chance to fight back.Some people say that the game most closely resembles Street Fighter II  Turbo – was this intentional?I think that the Street Fighter series is comprised of games geared toward certain classes or levels of players. Each title or offshoot in the series has been very much aimed at, and tuned for, players of a given ability level. The most notable example of this would be the venerable SFIII series.Because III was released after both II and Alpha, the market was populated with a very talented set of players who had honed their skills on those titles that had come before. As a result, III was very much aimed toward the proclivities of these hardcore players. It is a game with tremendous depth, most of which can only truly be tapped by very skilled players.This time around, we've made a very conscious and very deliberate effort to adopt the same rules, the same sort of "feel" on display in II and update it to become a new fighting "tool" for the modern age. That was this project's driving concept from the start. That's why I'm thrilled that you even asked this question. It shows that our efforts have paid off and that you recognise the connection we're attempting to establish.If we take a moment to consider fighting games as "tools" rather than games, we can say that the SFII series was the sort of fighting tool that was enjoyed by a simply staggering number of players. None of us of a certain age need to consult the manual to know how to play. The "rulebook" is simply embedded into our brains at this point. The inherent familiarity of this system is terribly important. The same goes for sports or any other kind of game. The shorter the barrier of entry, the easier it is for a player to grasp the rules, the more likely you are to draw a large number of people in. This is especially important for games with a one on one aspect. Both players should have a basic familiarity with how to play the game if we really want a fair fight.This philosophy is what drove – and what is driving – all aspects of the development of IV, from the character lineup, to the general rules and basic gameplay elements, to the game balance itself.Which Street Fighter titles get played the most in the Capcom office?Street Fighter IV! And that's in America, Europe and Japan.Are the creators of Street Fighter II involved at all in the  development of SFIV?Street Fighter II was created almost two decades ago. That it's stood the test of time is fantastic, but it also means that it's hard to gather all the different members of the original team. What's important is that all of the team have lived and breathed Street Fighter since at least Street Fighter II.How did you set out creating new characters for the game? Do you look to combine elements of other characters, or start with something entirely new?Let me start by crediting our designer, Ikeno, again! He took on the rather difficult task of bringing these new characters into the world. What I asked him to do was to examine the Street Fighter series closely and come up with designs that have not yet been tried until now, but to keep them close enough to the established aesthetic that the new characters would not look out of place lined up with the existing cast.This was no small task to be sure. In order to keep these characters viable for a long time, I also felt it would be important to concentrate on the way that they move. We aimed for a style of movement that would leave an impression on players. Basically, I told Ikeno what we were after, and he relayed any motion requests down the line to the motion crew. And that's how we ended up where we are today, with four unique new characters.Were there any classic fighters that you thought about including in  the game, but decided against at the last minute?So many! We considered every fighter, actually. We started with the most well-known and loved characters and then branched outwards. Unfortunately, it was not so much a case of deciding against one character as choosing only a few from the huge roster available to us. We did get every character from Street Fighter II in, though, which is the most important thing to us.In what ways do you think the fighting game genre has evolved over the last couple of years? Has the rise of 'casual gaming' had an impact?I really think of fighting games less as being games in the traditional sense and more as being what you might want to call a "digital fighting tool". All it really provides are the rules and a stage for you to fight within. It's only natural for games within a series to maintain a high degree of consistency. I mean, how many times have the rules to chess changed throughout history? I honestly can't say that implementing sweeping changes to the basic rules of a fighting game is a praiseworthy endeavor, so I'm glad that things haven't changed that much. I'm not sure casual gaming has had any impact on fighting games.What are the most significant changes between the arcade and home versions? Has anything been done to the controls in consideration of the fact that most home users will be playing on normal pads?I'm glad you asked this! We are aware that most people will be playing this on either a d-pad or even the analogue sticks and that in the West, the arcade stick is really only used by the hardcore, so we've made some changes to the timing of the special moves. We wanted to make playing the game at a high level as accessible as possible, no matter what controller is used, so you'll find the windows for inputs quite relaxed in comparison to previous Street Fighters. This doesn't mean that you can button mash your way to victory, but it does mean that your strategy and tactics are more important than your raw physical ability to execute special moves and combos.Do you plan on releasing updates to the Street Fighter IV series in the form of downloadable content?We are definitely planning on something to enhance the online versus experience. So don't let go of the game and keep on playing online, otherwise you will miss the online battles at the next level!Do you think we'll ever see more cross-over titles like Marvel vs  Capcom?We have one right now!Tatsunoko vs Capcom, which is kind of like Marvel vs Capcom but with Japanese anime characters instead of Marvel characters. I'm not sure what the plans are for this game in the West yet, since the characters are not really known outside of Japan, but it certainly shows that people want to make and play these kinds of games.Similarly, would there ever be a chance to see another brilliant Capcom vs SNK game?I do think the Vs series titles are interesting as fighting tools and I personally enjoyed playing Capcom VS. SNK myself, so I do hope someone from Capcom will stand up to the challenge of creating a sequel.
If Lord (Stephen) Carter thought that people had finished yetkickinghimover hiswoeful interim reporton Digital Britain, he can think again.The latest to weigh in is the software industry, through the offices of FAST/IIS - the Federation Against Software Theft/Investors In Software.Now, Fast is often portrayed as the bad guys in some places (not least for the neat way that they equate illicit software use, or use beyond a confusing and often impenetrable software licence, as "theft" - nice linguistic capture there). But it's clear that in this instance, they feel mightily aggrieved that Lord Carter's ruminations don't take account of the fact that software makes a big contribution to the UK economy too.We quoted some of the Fast remarks inour story about Spotify, but it's worth having a read at greater length.Here's how it begins:FAST IiS (The Federation Against Software Theft and Investors in Software) today questioned the entertainment sector, asking, 'why look for protected status when you should be adapting to the changing world?'Chief Executive, John Lovelock said, "Over the past decade the software industry has evolved to become more user focused and ever more adaptable to changing market conditions. The right to use software, that is to say licensing, has evolved from  'single instance', 'per user' and 'site' licences to encompass Application Service Provision, Software-as-a-Service, Pay-As-You-Go and so on."Break off here and imagine the joys of trying to apply site licences to music. Except that is pretty much what the PRS does - licenses people to play music in a location. Single instance? That's the "radio". Per-user? Hmm, perhaps that's a concert. But the music industry is gradually getting into music-as-a-service through streaming and so on. But let's continue."The point is that the entertainment sector appear to have lobbied the Government to consider establishing a 'pirates tax' on all of us as well as yet another quango to oversee it, meaning more cost, and more hassle.Here, of course, he's referring to the Rights Agency, that mystical quango that Carter wants to create to either pick or write the best possible DRM that's ever been built. And damn those folk who've spent their lives and millions of pounds doing that before. They didn't have the power of Quangojuice™."I think it's time that these industries came up to speed in the modern market and changed their business models to encourage their customers to use the internet for their purchasing."The fascinating thing here is that this is the first time I can think of that the software industry has come out angry about this apparent favouritism for the music/film industries. Lobbying, eh?FAST IiS contend that the Government's interim 'Digital Britain' report investigating the state of the digital economy has failed to approach the issue of intellectual property rights in a coherent way; and until the government works with all the digital content providers representative bodies any attempts to legislate in favour of any one particular sector is not only unfair but also seriously misguided.Lovelock explained, "All digital content is equal before the law and so too should be all digital industries. A piecemeal approach will confuse digital consumers, both the public and businesses, will muddy the legal framework and will therefore ultimately impede Britain's success in the new digital economy of the twenty-first century. The UK is no longer a manufacturing economy, it's a creative and services economy. Intellectual property contributes $53 billion to the economy. Eight per cent of our gross domestic product is down to IP, and two million people are employed in our creative industries."Put bluntly we all need this sector to be working effectively and fairly. Favouritism is not going to help ailing business methods, and making all consumers face a 'broadband tax' to cover the few that steal content smacks of cynical revenue protection," Lovelock concluded.So what are your thoughts? Do the music and film industries get too much favouritism? Or is Fast and its friends just whingeing because they don't really count?
Facebook paid up to $65m - $20m cash and a 1.25m shares – to end a lawsuit in which Mark Zuckerberg, now its chief executive, was accused of stealing the idea for the social networking site from a company called ConnectU.The case, brought against Zuckerberg by three former classmates, Divya Narendra and the brothers Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, had threatened to derail Facebook.But though both sides had promised to keep the details of the settlement secret, the law firm representing ConnectU proclaimed the amount in anewsletter it sent out in January. Thedetail was pickedup by the Recorder, a San Francisco-based legal publication.Until yesterday, the details of the outcome had been kept secret. Lawyers on both sides went as far as asking the judge to clear the courtroom of reporters. But the law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart Oliver &amp; Hedges then trumpeted "WON $65 million settlement against Facebook" in its newsletter. ConnectU fired the law firm last year, and the two sides are now disputing fees payable: Quinn is seeking $13m as part of a "no win, no fee" arrangement.The casecame to court in July, and it seemed that the court judge would dismiss the case by ConnectU. Its owners alleged that Zuckerberg, who helped set up Facebook, stole the idea, technology, design and business plan while they were students at Harvard.Facebook launched in February 2004; ConnectU, three months later. But it has struggled, and now has fewer than 100,000 members, while Facebook boasts more than 150 million. ConnectU launched its lawsuit in 2004.The basis of the settlement was Facebook's notional value following an investment by Microsoft, whichpaid $240m for a 1.6% stakein October 2007, narrowly beating Yahoo and Google.That valued the site at around $15bn - but the documents used in the court suggest that internally, Facebook has never regarded itself as worth that much - and instead uses the much lower figure of $3.7bn, equivalent to $8.80 per share. Microsoft's investment would imply a value of $35.90 per share – and it was the Microsoft valuation that was used in the settlement of the case. Under their settlement, Facebook agreed to pay ConnectU $20 million in cash and 1,253,326 shares of common stock. The stock was worth $45 million, based on the Microsoft valuation, but only $11 million under Facebook's own appraisal.Chris Scott Graham, an intellectual property litigator based in Mountain View, California, told the Recorder: "$65m is a significant sum — it's certainly more than the cost of the defence."He added: "It's a very small percentage of [Facebook's] valuation and therefore could be argued by Facebook to be a payment based on considerations other than the merits of the claims."
Bobbie JohnsonThe video game giant Activision Blizzard made a substantial loss over the last three months, despite having the world's No 1 game this Christmas.The California-based company registered net losses of $72m (£50m) over the three months ending 31 December, according to financial results issued yesterday.The figures come regardless of the fact that the company – which was formed last year in a $19bn merger between Blizzard, the games division of French company Vivendi, and Santa Monica publisher Activision – is responsible for some of the world's most successful games.Guitar Hero World Tour was the bestselling game globally over the Christmas period, shifting an estimated 3.4m copies. Other hits include the first-­person shooter Call of Duty and the online role-playing game World of Warcraft.Much of the loss was attributable to the merger between the two companies, which was concluded over the summer. Excluding charges related to the deal and other charges and deferred revenues, the company would have earned $429m profit.The chief executive, Robert Kotick, chose to focus on the company's figures across the whole year, which, he said, were better than expected."Activision Blizzard has finished the calendar year as the largest and most profitable third-party publisher with more than $5bn of net revenues. These results exceeded the 2009 financial goals that we outlined over a year ago … we achieved these results one full year ahead of our original plan."However, Kotick said he expected difficult times over the coming months, which are traditionally a slower time for games publishing.Other companies have also felt the pinch, despite videogaming being considered by some to be a "recession-proof" industry. Activision's shares have lost nearly 50% of their value since last summer, but the company has fared substantially better than rivals such as Electronic Arts, which is 69% down on last summer, and the Grand Theft Auto maker Take-Two Interactive, which is down 74%.Last month analysts suggested that a slump in games sales after Christmas could force major publishers to consider drastic price cuts to help stimulate sales."We believe several software publishers are likely to consider additional markdowns," said Colin Sebastian of Lazard Capital Markets in a note to investors – adding that unsold copies of games such as Guitar Hero "may also require price concessions".Faced with the economic downturn, however, Kotick said the company had no plans to change its tactic of focusing on building major franchises rather than developing brand new titles."Ninety per cent of the top 10 best-selling games worldwide were based on proven franchises, validating our strategy," he said. "During the year, we will continue to employ our proven strategies that have worked so well for us over the last decade."
A Republican congressman has caused controversy after sharing details of a trip to Iraq and Afghanistan on social networking website Twitter.Pete Hoekstra, the top-ranking Republican on the House intelligence committee, sent a string of messages from his BlackBerry announcing that he was on the way to Andrews air force base in Maryland and giving brief updates of his visit to Baghdad.The move has angered Democrats who say that he endangered the safety of the six-member cross-party delegation, which was travelling to Iraq and Afghanistan to examine progress made by US troops, as well as their minders.It has also led to an announcement from the Pentagon saying that it would be reviewing communications made by members of Congress while in war zones."Generally speaking, we encourage the members to hold off any communication until they are wheels down at Andrews," Courtney Littig, spokeswoman for Democrats on the intelligence committee,told the New York Times.The text message updates revealed little detail of the trip beyond the barest bones, and impressions that Hoekstra formed on his trip – which he said was his 11th visit to Iraq."Just landed in Baghdad,"he wrote last Thursday. "I believe it may be first time I've had bb [BlackBerry] service in Iraq.""Moved into green zone by helicopter Iraqi flag now over palace. Headed to new US embassy Appears calmer less chaotic than previous here,"he added a couple of hours later.Hoekstra, a Dutch-American conservative who has represented Michigan's second Congressional district since 1993, responded to the criticism by pointing out a number of senior Democrats have given out substantial details of their own trips over recent years."There is no such formal rule or policy,"he said in a statement. "In fact, senior Democrats have followed a different policy. President Obama, Speaker Pelosi, Secretary Clinton and even Chairman Reyes are among the many Democrats who have announced their travel to Iraq or other sensitive destinations before arrival or while in country."Twitter, a social networking site with around 6m users, has grown massively after heavy media attention and take-up by high-profile users like Britney Spears and Lance Armstrong. In the UK it has been heavily promoted by British comedians including Stephen Fry, John Cleese and Jonathan Ross.Hoekstra said that using Twitter allows his constituents to get real-time updates on his activities, adding that he would never deliberately endanger anybody's security.However, despite his hectic schedule in the Middle East he did find time during his trip to respond to critics - by suggesting they should "lighten up"."Love twitter critics,"he wrote. "Spelling mistakes. Sorry but riding in poor light, bouncing around, speed not accuracy. Lighten up. Its called twitter."&#183;This article was amended on Thursday February 12 2009. The subject of the article is Pete, not Mike Hoekstra as we had it. This has been corrected.
Here's what we've been reading this week:• Play Games With Your Resume: How to spin your video game experience for job WIN &gt;&gt;washingtonpost.com• New "Message Bridge" Enables IMs Between Open Source Virtual Worlds &gt;&gt;ostatic.com• E3 exhibitors announced &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Casual gaming to be big news in 2009, says EA &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• EA to launch 'Sims 3' on June 2 &gt;&gt;news.cnet.com• Crossover Play 15-20 March 2009 &gt;&gt;• Problematic usage among highly-engaged players of Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games, CyberPsychology &amp; Behavior &gt;&gt;liebertonline.comFollow us ondelicious!
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
People have been speaking a lot about the memory of technology recently - much of it stemming from the recent comments by Lynne Brindley, the head of the British Library, who said thatwe need to work harder to preserve our digital memories.Although, scandalously, there was no mention of theInternet Archivein there, Brindley hit on a truth - our lives are better recorded than ever, but all that information is more easily lost because we track it in files and formats that we may no longer be able to understand in just a couple of years.So the question remains: how do we make sure we can recover our digital lives at an unspecified point in the future? Yeah, you could translate it from one format to another or assiduously keep everything backwards-compatible. But some researchers in Portsmouth thing they've come up with a better answer - anemulator to end all emulators.Nearly €1m has been given to the faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries researchers to help create software that can look back in time and capture the workings of old computers, files, software and technologies.They also hope to be able to future-proof the software so every single piece of data and software created can be encoded to be read by newer, faster, better computers in the future.This Rosetta Stone for the digital world, they say, could help people recover files from floppy disks, old computers and archaic machines (and the internet too, I suppose) forevermore. Rather than running a single emulator, they hope to code a single contraption that can translate whatever it finds into something your computer can understand.It's part of a €4mEU projectwhich wants to help preserve modern life for future generations: a sort of digi-cultural archaeology that is likely to get more important as the years go by.I'd like to think this is the silver bullet for our memories, but it's also a Sisyphean task - the never-ending attempt to emulate everything for everyone (and, of course, retain working machines that can read those old floppies, too).All I know is that things were a lot simpler when all we did was scratch pictures on the walls of caves.
Call of Duty: World at War had its moments but it failed to reach the heights of predecessor Call of Duty: Modern Warfare. So it was no surprise to see theconfirmation of Call of Duty 6(Modern Warfare 2 or exact title tba) during last night's Activision Blizzard earnings call. No details yet - other than it will be developed byInfinity Ward- but we can assumer that online will be as cruelly addictive as ever. The single player in the original was short and sweet so ideally will be a little longer this time. I've always preferred a brilliant 7-8 hour single player experience over a drawn out 20 hours but Modern Warfare was good enough to leave you wanting more.Activision also confirmed a "major restaging" of Guitar Hero (Synth Hero please), a new racing gaming fromBizarre Creationsand - yawn - a new Bond game.  But it's Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 that we all want, right?
I'd like to replace my PC monitor and the family's old 24-inch CRT television with a single LCD TV/monitor, perhaps somewhere between 22 and 26 inches.Mark McCannIn general, I don't recommend this approach, because of the practical and family problems. First, computer monitors are usually set up for viewing by one person at around a metre or less, whereas TVs are set up for viewing by two or more people two to three metres away. Second, there may well be problems when one person wants to watch a TV programme while others want to surf the net, play a game or whatever.However, I asked Bob Raikes, who runs the Meko consultancy and is managing editor of Display Monitor. He says: "Assuming we're talking about sizes where both products might be available - broadly 15 to 26 inches - then these days, they tend to use similar LCD panels. TVs may have brighter backlights and will typically be 16:9 format to match widescreen TV. Most monitor panels are typically 16:10 (so a TV panel would be 1920 x 1080 pixels, while a monitor would be 1920 x 1200 pixels). However, this is changing as monitor makers are starting to adopt 16:9."Traditional TV brands are generally likely to have better video-processing than the monitor/IT brands, although there are exceptions. So, if you are using the TV to receive digital TV over the air, then a TV may be better. It should also have support for Freeview and a CI slot if you want Top Up TV, etc. The TV may also have better audio facilities and a remote control. On the other hand, if you are watching video from a PC or an upscaling DVD player, set-top box or PVR and using a good digital interface such as HDMI, then the monitor-style product should be fine. The same hardware sold in the IT department of a store is likely to cost less than from the TV department. Profit margins have historically been higher on TV, so that's what the retailers expect."Incidentally, Raikes adds: "Viewers judge screen size by height. To get a widescreen that looks around the same size as Mark's 24-inch 4:3 screen would need a 28- 30-inch LCD."Backchat: Niel Anderson recommends "Avermedia's AverTV Hybrid STB 1080i, a separate Freeview and analog tuner box about the size of a VHS cassette. It allows any monitor with a DVI connection (or suitable adaptor) to be either a TV or a monitor. You don't have to switch your PC on to watch TV, or you can watch TV picture-in-picture in a resizable window on the PC desktop. The quality of the TV picture is better than some dedicated TVs I've seen."Trusted Reviewsliked it a lot less.
I have a Dell laptop with a 2GHz Intel Core 2 Duo and 2GB of memory. I sometimes have five or six large Excel spreadsheets open simultaneously, and my machine is painfully slow when loading or saving data. If I have to start from scratch with a completely new machine, what sort of specification should I be looking for?Christopher Evans-TippingWith a lot of large spreadsheets loaded, you may well have run out of physical memory. To find out, run the Windows Task Manager and click the Performance tab. This will tell you how much physical memory your PC has, and how much is still available. The tab for Processes will also tell you how much each program is using (on my PC, an empty copy of Excel 2007 uses less than 25MB.) You may be able to improve performance by closing down background programs, or adding another gigabyte of memory. Switching to a 64-bit version of Vista SP1 with 4GB will provide a much bigger improvement.To keep some physical memory free, Windows finds data that you're not using and saves it to a large scratchpad on the hard drive (pagefile.sys), so you should also check the amount of free hard-drive space. You should always have at least 1GB free, and preferably 5GB. Windows' performance falls dramatically when you start to run out of resources (cured by a restart) or hard drive space.If you don't see an improvement, disconnect from the net and turn off all your anti-virus software and any other background programs you don't need. If something is checking for viruses as you load and save large Excel files, it's certainly going to slow you down.
After trying to download free clipart, I wound up with Yahoo stuff on my desktop, plus an icon for something called Shredder, which I cannot delete. Also, a file called Winferno has been downloaded, and refuses to give "permission" to be deleted.Alan GidneyBe suspicious of downloads - especially codec, free music and screensaver downloads - as they often come packaged with malware or unwanted software. In this case, I suspect you have been lumbered with what looks like a legitimate program:PC Confidential from Winferno. You should be able to uninstall this using the Add or Remove Programs utility. If it has been damaged and won't go away, your best bet is to re-install a clean version from Winferno and uninstall it straight away.Incidentally, desktop icons are usually just a visual representation of a link to the program. If so, removing the icon is pointless: you need to remove the underlying code.
Despite legions of British fans wishing that they could get their hands on the Kindle 2, Amazon's second-generation ebook reader, the company is staying resolutely silent on its UK launch. Some websites have suggested it could arrive by the end of this year - but that would mean overcoming a series of problems.The first hurdle is a technical one that comes as a result of Kindle's wireless technology, Whispernet. The system allows you to update your Kindle over the air, buy books and get subscriptions updated automatically.It is basically a built-in 3G mobile connection, except that it is not 3G as we know it in the UK. It is something called EV-DO (Evolution Data Optimised) and that technology runs on the CDMA network, which is not supported in Europe.That means no Whispernet - and no Kindle. It's not a difficult job to replace the system with something we could use in Britain, but it does mean that the company can't just start selling the same gizmo on a different continent.The second problem is distinct, but related: even if Kindle did run on Euro-friendly 3G, Amazon needs to make deals with the mobile phone companies to cover the cost of the data you may use.That's a lot more complicated than Amazon expected - after all, a single deal in the US covers more people than in the UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain combined - and the company is having trouble negotiating this patchwork of agreements.In an interview with the Bookseller magazine last year, Amazon UK's managing director, Brian McBride, admitted the legal complications were holding back a Kindle launch in Britain."If you need agreement with the carriers in the US, there is one carrier. In Europe it is a minefield as there are so many operators," he said. "If you buy a Kindle in the UK and want to read it on the beach on holiday in Spain, unless we have signed deals in Spain it is not going to work on that beach."That's not strictly accurate - it would only be Whispernet that didn't work, not the Kindle - but Amazon doesn't want to sell you the gadget if it can't sell you books as well. Even if it manages to overcome the technical and legal issues, there's still the question of actually managing a worldwide release. Could the company keep up with demand?The original Kindle sold out in just five-and-a-half hours, and Amazon wasn't able to replenish supplies for another five months. The Kindle 2 is also being dished out slowly - current Kindle owners get first dibs - but coping with worldwide availability would require smarter planning."This time they at least know what the sales cycles have looked like," said Tim Bajarin, president of the consultancy Creative Strategies. "I have to believe they're going to be smarter about building and managing inventory."
A question of confusion has no simple answer, as shown by an argument over the names of wiki-based sites dedicated to providing answers to questions. Wikia Inc's "Wikianswers" site isanswers.wikia.com. Answer.com's "WikiAnswers" site iswiki.answers.com. And if you're confused, you may not be the only one. These sites work on the digital-sharecropping model of having someone create a page asking a question, and then user-generated content (that is, unpaid labour) gives a reply. Given the possibilities of broad appeal and high search engine rankings, there's potential for significant revenue.Chris Whitten founded FAQ Farm in 2002. In November 2006, having "over 12m pageviews per month" it was sold to Answers Corporation for $2m (&pound;1.35m)in cash. Its name waschangedto WikiAnswers by January 2007. Answers Corporation has applied for atrademarkon WikiAnswers. But its application has been refused for the term being "merely descriptive" and not having "acquired distinctiveness".Wikia Inc's Wikianswers site was started in November 2004 by Hemanshu Desai. But it apparently languished in obscurity. A January 2008 snapshot shows only a very small amount of activity over more thanthree years. However, Wikia is an atypical company. It was created by several high-level people involved with Wikipedia, notably co-founder Jimmy Wales, to commercialise similar concepts. The for-profit Wikia and the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation (Wikipedia's owner) have no major financial connection. But a halo effect from Wikipedia's prominence and widespread recognition can be an enormous benefit to Wikia.In January 2009, Wikia relaunched its site. The similarity of names did not go unnoticed. Arguments revolved around the relevance of first use of the name by what had essentially been a dead site. Further, in a blog post, Answers Corporation chief executive Bob Rosenscheinwrote: "We are admirers of Jimmy Wales but must set the record straight about the recent statement on Wikia's site that he is the 'founder of [...] Wikianswers'. ... Wikia is creating market confusion by associating its Q&amp;A category with our market-leading WikiAnswers domain and site."Additionally, on Wikia's site, an odd edit was made by Wikia's chief executive, Gil Penchina, to the page for the question: "When was Wikianswers launched and who by?" Headded: "Because all wikis are on Wikia - which is founded by Jimmy Wales and Angela Beasley, Jimmy is de facto a co-founder of Wikianswers." That sentence has since been removed. But the absurdity of a company co-founder potentially claiming automatic prominent co-foundership of every single project should be manifest. It is especially ironic in view of Wales's efforts to deny Wikipedia co-founder credit to the seminal Wikipedia creatorLarry Sanger. The lesson here is another example of the commercial value to Wikia in general, and Wales in particular, of the mental associations with Wikipedia. That advantage is not about small incidents with the appearance of conflict of interest, which may excite some critics. As I tell them: don't think small. Rather, the goodwill and social capital that can be harvested is an immense business asset.If any other wiki company (and they do exist) had launched such a confusingly named site, they would likely have been harshly mocked and derided as trying to be a parasite off the name recognition of an already existing site. But the journalistic impulse to frame so much involving wiki sites through the prism of Wikipedia and its hype helps to insulate Wikia from an appropriate analysis of its actions as a startup business. And monetary imperatives have a way of overriding everything else, especially in recessionary times. What's legal is not the same as what's ethical. Trademark law is not the same as morality. In my opinion, Wikia's relaunch of its site using the name Wikianswers is sleazy and unethical in the face of the far more well-known and successful Answers.com.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Andy Chantrill is hoping to do well over the next few years, recession or otherwise. Last week, the entrepreneur was one of the first to buy some of the new .tel domain names as they went on sale.This was the "landrush" phase, when premium names went on sale to people who didn't own them as trademarks. Previously, trademark owners were invited to register their names in the so-called "sunrise" phase; general availability opens on 24 March.Chantrill's idea is to aggregate companies that want to be found as easily on people's mobile phones as through a standard internet search. "Every minute, thousands of people are getting off planes, and what is the first thing that they do? Turn on the BlackBerry," he says. "Some of them will be thinking ahead to renting a car. For them, it's RentalCars.tel - the directory quickly connects them to an agent, saving time and hassle. Or maybe you're thinking of sending flowers? Florists.tel will let you quickly find your nearest florist."Chantrill is among those who have accepted the idea of the latest fashionable domain name as a single point of contact. The explosion of contact information in recent years means that getting in touch with someone can be done through phone, fax, email, website, Twitter, LinkedIn, MySpace and numerous other means; people with a .tel domain will have all of that information, should they choose to enter it, up to date on a single page in a fixed format. There will be no website finessing, no bells and whistles.The technology underpinning the domain works at the heart of its server, so it's possible to bypass the web altogether: there is an add-on available for some phones that will allow you to get at an individual's .tel information via your personal address book as easily as if it were on your phone already.Moody ruseTelnic, the registration company behind the new domain, is understandably bullish. Khashayar Mahdavi, its chief executive, believes the demand will be significant as customers perceive the benefits of individuals being able to find them - although he concedes that if more than one person has the same name there could be elements of confusion. "You can add tags to your domain, though, to distinguish you from someone else," he says. A colleague of his, for example, shares the same name as the lead singer of the Moody Blues, Justin Hayward. He has therefore put "Not Moody Blues" in his tags so that a search for "Justin not Moody Blues Hayward" should find him.Of course, someone could pose as Hayward, unknown to the real celebrity - or as Madonna, or as anyone else. There are commentators who see the emergence of the .tel domain as yet another blank cheque for cybersquatters."It's a real issue," says Mahdavi. "There are already laws to protect people who have trademarked a name." He stresses that his organisation, as a registration operation, isn't offering protection - enforcement of existing laws is not one of the tasks his company performs.Gregor Pryor, a partner in the advertising, media and technology team at the legal firm Reed Smith, remains cautious. "The 'first come, first served' system of registration, plus the ability to register a domain for 10 years, creates further potential for disputes between businesses concerning the registration and use of their name or brand online," he says. "Many companies will have missed the sunrise registration period and will now be subject to the vagaries of the UDRP [uniform dispute resolution policy] process, which is used to resolve  domain name disputes."While .tel is good news for businesses legitimately trying to harness its benefits, it is not so rosy for those who find their .tel domain has already been registered by someone seeking to turn a quick profit."Disputes are a feature of registering any name on the internet. What disturbs some people is the idea of a single point at which all of an individual's information will be available. Nima Yassini is head of digital at the marketing company RMG Connect. "As digital marketers, we constantly hear people worry about the safety of their online details: paranoia about the privacy levels available on Facebook; outrage at levels of identity theft and [there is] endless coverage reprimanding the government for losing personal data disks," she says."I don't see people willing to upload all their details - from Facebook profile to address and mobile number - on to the same internet space. This could be a spammer's heaven." She ponders whether .tel will be any more successful than Wap, or .tv, or .travel, before it.Meanwhile, Telnic remains positive about the impact the new domains will have, but as Technology Guardian went to press, the company wasn't able to say how many registrations there had been, only that Dave.tel was the first to go.Certainly, feedback from the Namepros.com forum suggests there's some confusion about where .tel will be useful. One commentator has bought his brother's name.tel and has been told it's useless because friends will already know how to contact him; others have looked at names such as poker.tel and realised that if you can't put a gambling site there then a .com name is probably better commercially..tel us moreHowever, there is evidence of enthusiasm for buying a .tel domain, tempered by a number of commentators who are reluctant to pump their money into yet another internet address, unique or not.The domains that have been booked will go live on 24 February; until then you'll get a blank page if you type most of them in. Meanwhile, for an idea of how they're going to look, you can find  a handful of demos working - includingKash.tel, for the chief executive of Telnic.
No, that's the wrong way upAnd now, time for some seasonal fun: a demonstration of precisely how effective a very large laminated map is as a sledge. Try doing that with one of your online maps, doubters.Next, The Divorce of FigaroJoe Penna playing The Marriage of Figaro in four guitar parts - no dubbing. As he says: "Over 1000 cuts. 6 hours of guitar tabbing. 1 hour of shooting. God knows how much editing. I was bored."Worried passengers not shownA slow-motion video shows what happens if one blade breaks on a jet engine. Good news: the plane will stay intact.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Most of us have a grand mind for forgetting, as Robert Louis Stevenson observed. But you would have thought the information age, which has seen truly huge reductions in the cost of storing memories, would have changed things by now. However, it has proved not to be. At least, not yet. Computer scientists reckon it won't be long before the history of our entire lives - in audio, video and text - can be contained in something the size of a sugar lump. But, for those who have abandoned carrying a traditional notebook or diary around with them, it hasn't been easy to find an alternative in the digital age. There is, to be sure, an abundance of "remind me" websites, but they are often cumbersome to use on a mobile, especially in the street if you are suddenly visited with a thought that will evaporate if you don't get it down it quickly. Mostly, they are designed with a home computer in mind.There are some useful ones, however, such asrememberthemilk.com, which is good for short reminders you type in yourself. It works quite well as an application on Apple's iPhone/iPod Touch despite the problems of an over-sensitive touch keypad in broad daylight.FutureMe.orgallows you to send an email to yourself, as long as it is more than 90 days in the future. Remind me to say in three months' time if it works. Elsewhere,jott.comwill transcribe voice messages to text that you can send yourself at upwards of $3.95 (&pound;2.65) a month.Evernote.comoffers a substitute memory to store notes, videos or pictures of business cards with a free or premium account, whileohdontforget.comlets you send free text reminders, scheduled to arrive in the future. If you have a BlackBerry or similar device you can email yourself. But it is not the easiest of tasks on the move, and if the phone is a company issue, then the data, including any diary items, belong to them.The easiest way to record thoughts is to speak them into a mobile phone and have the message converted into a text message or email. The technology of voice recognition has been steadily improving in recent years, but has been slow to be adopted in this country. In December 2007 Itestedthe UK-based SpinVox, which converts voice to text on the fly. It worked well - as did a US rival,reQall.com, using a different technique - although at the time it hadn't persuaded any British operators to adopt it. Now, 14 months later, SpinVox still hasn't been adopted by UK operators but has been very successful abroad. It employs 180 people globally, from its head office at Marlow, Buckinghamshire. It claims to be growing at around 100% a year, with most of its operations in Spain and South America - the sort of company Britain needs in a recession. SpinVox's core technology of converting voice to text, in which it claims to be a world leader, is mainly used to convert voicemail to a text message or email, but it can also be used as a memo pad.You can get a free taste of what it is like atspinvox.com, subject to network charges. I used it on a trial offered by the company. Once you have got a few settings right in the phone (and mine proved a bit tricky), it's a doddle. All you do is ring a special SpinVox number and then speak your message. The first time I tried it was word-perfect, probably because I was enunciating properly. Subsequent attempts were more varied depending on how clearly I spoke and on how much background noise was apparent, but the gist of the message always came through. There is a facility to post straight to Twitter.com or your own blog - if you have enough confidence in your enunciation. The eventual cost in the UK will depend on what sort of deal SpinVox eventually does with a mobile operator (it is free in Spain). Knowing the backward appetite of our operators for change, I wouldn't take bets on how long that will be.•victorkeegan.com
In an age of (almost) ubiquitous internet connectivity, network bandwidth is still a precious commodity. And it's especially the case for large data files that need to travel long distances. High-speed networks translate into shorter turnaround times and lower costs for companies.One ultra-fast US network, National LambdaRail (NLR), is now being commercialised by a three-year-old company called Darkstrand. The goal is a collaboration between US research universities and private sector technology companies to provide a national infrastructure for research and experimentation in cutting-edge networking technologies and applications.People powerDarkstrand's proposition should help businesses grappling with new projects to harness the expertise of engineering teams at these national labs through consulting services on projects. "It's not only a high-tech network, but also a human network of skilled experts who have been working with these tools for the past five to 10 years," says Mike Stein, chief executive of Darkstrand.The extensive network links 30 US cities, runs 15,000 miles and provides 10Gbps optical transport for data. In the past, the network was only available to research institutions. Unlike telecom networks, which were designed to handle lower data types of applications, NLR was built for handling large data sets. "These networks were built from the ground up to move large data around," Stein says.The opening of the network to commercial business is designed to provide access to government technology assets and connect businesses to the US national laboratories, where scientists can be contracted to tackle the specialised problems encountered in these high-speed network realms.This highly tailored commercial access to the advanced technology and high performance computing was previously out of reach for businesses. For example, mechanical engineering companies such as Caterpillar or John Deere cannot perform full vehicle analysis in the product design phase. The data is not manageable for them, says Stein.However, NLR's specialised optical network can offer speed and a team of engineers who can put their expertise to work and thus save time. A manufacturer can then simulate all design, market and regulatory requirements in a single, integrated computational model.Similarly, a biotechnology company can utilise the NLR network to reduce the time it takes to push and compute large molecular models and simulate interactions, thus reducing the time it takes to get drugs to market. Among the national labs connected to Darkstrand's effort is Oak Ridge National Laboratory, which has used its experience of helping to design a Nasa space shuttle to help companies perform full vehicle analysis.Darkstrand has already worked with media companies in demonstrations to show how its network can collapse pipeline production times, and link production and post-production communities into one network. A financial exchange can push large volumes of transaction across high-speed nets, thus reducing the load on its own data networks.The idea came about from a business challenge Stein faced in the late 1990s. At the time, Stein was trying to push large media files and went to telephone companies to cut a deal. Not satisfied by the terms, Stein turned to the US labs network TeraGrid. He proposed that the government-funded network could expand into the commercial world.Kids in a candy store"That is the inherent beauty - one can flip the switch on the LamdaRail network and go commercial with it," Stein says.One of the first big breakthroughs with businesses came a few years ago when it helped demonstrate the power of its network with the film industry association CineGrid. Large data files are commonplace in the film industry. For example, the animated film Toy Story 2 required 145 months of high performance computing to do the digital animation, says Stein.Among the audience members at the CineGrid demonstration were executives from Disney, Industrial Light &amp; Magic and Warner Brothers who were impressed by the network capacity and functionality. "I got to see the faces of executives light up  - it was like seeing a kid in a candy store," Stein says.One big challenge for film companies is to perform work-flow distribution of very large data sets that contain special effects and audio. These files are high-definition quality with 4,000 lines of resolution. Distributing the process and allowing teams in different cities to work on specific parts of the project and then reassemble them upon completion is a huge saving of time and money.Today, NLR has 80 networks with speeds of 10Gbps, with plans to add 20 new network pipelines of 40Gbps capacity. What's more, Stein says, Darkstrand is planning to run a test this year with Cern in Switzerland - and its 100Gbps network.
The Tories have called on the government to publish its trading funds review urgently and said that better regulation is needed on government "information trading" so people can "generate new digital business from hidden government data".Speaking on Tuesday at a conference on government data policy, the shadow minister for innovation and skills, Adam Afriyie, said: "In today's economic climate, we must ensure government data policies help rather than hinder economic growth."The Free Our Data campaign is now gaining cross-party support, with the cabinet minister Tom Watson and other ministers pushing for closer investigation of the benefits of making government-collected data available for wider use."The campaign is an important one, all the more so at a time when our economy is in deep recession," Afriyie said.The Conservatives believe that public-sector data need to be opened up to wider use, Afriyie said. Non-trading-fund data such as raw data for crime maps, school league tables or the location of accident black spots "lie unpublished, unavailable and untapped in government vaults".On data held by trading funds, such as Ordnance Survey, Met Office, the UK Hydrographic Office and Land Registry, Afriyie noted: "We see nothing intrinsically wrong with asking users to pay for a service ... but we are instinctively cautious of government monopolies." While he could see the case for the government having responsibility (through OS) for mapping the nation, "with growing opportunities in the digital economy, it's not so obvious that the government should also run map shops".Afriyie was scornful of the government's response until now in examining the benefits and costs of a free-data model. "So far there have been at least five government reports [on trading funds]. And some - like the long-delayed trading funds assessment - have been announced with great fanfare, only to fade with a whimper."He called on the government to publish the assessment: "Let us have the debate."Also speaking at the conference in London, organised by the thinktank Policy Exchange, were Charles Arthur, the Guardian's Technology editor, who is a co-founder of the Free Our Data campaign; Ed Parsons, formerly the chief technology officer at OS and now a geospatial technologist at Google; Steven Feldman, a freelance geospecialist and Shane O'Neill, a consultant who is a member of the government's advisory panel on public sector information (APPSI).The debate followed the online publication of the "beta" version of thereportby the government's Power Of Information taskforce, seeking comments. It will remain available for about another week.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Steven Johnson, the author of Everything Bad Is Good for You, recently argued a case against traditional board games. Classics such as the US game Candy Land and Battleships were described as "games of pure chance" and "moronic" on the weblog Boing Boing in comparison with the digital toys available to his children.These archetypal board games, he argues, are substandard to their contemporary computerised counterparts because they offer no opportunity for the player to make decisions: the first rounds in Battleships are an exercise in randomness, while Candy Land simply pushes players around a track at the whim of directions described by a piece of card. Following this line of thought to its unnecessary end, these dangerous games teach our children to drop in any direction and to covet gumdrops.Johnson trumpets computer games as products of a "much more mentally challenging kids' culture". The result is that the youngest generation have little tolerance for randomness, opting for what they've been weaned on: Super Mario Galaxy. Of this Wii release, Johnson reports: "There is more decision-making in 10 seconds of that game than there is in 10 hours of Candy Land or Sorry." Yes, and the decisions are whether to go left or right, to bounce off this mushroom or the other one and whether to hang out with Bowser or Princess Peach. But Johnson forgets one thing: it may seem as if the kiddies are in charge of their destinies, but in fact, it's the machine that has the ultimate authority. Put that in your pipe and smoke it, dystopians.Indeed, remove the silicon processor and suddenly players have to use their own cranium to do menial tasks, such as decide whether a move is illegal or if it works within the logic of the game, rather than the immediate gratification of shooting things with fireballs. The computer brain does the thinking for you by smacking you down when you try to break your way out of the box. Yet when playing a board game, everyone needs to be more actively engaged in what's going on, particularly if their opponents are accomplished cheats.Will being raised in a world where playthings demand decisions at every turn make children more critical and self-actualised, as Johnson suggests? Well, some research actually says kids are notably uncritical of information they find online. Perhaps this is what our computer masters have been working towards. We, the adults who grew up with Battleships, may be irrationally hooked on one-armed bandits, but at least we don't just take the machine's word for it. Or so the Magic 8-Ball says. But let me shake it again, it may change its little analogue mind.
There's something about Microsoft Windows that seems to cause mass outbreaks of foolishness, and we've just seen another sweep the web. The issue was the number of versions Microsoft plans for Windows 7. The reality, of course, is simpler.If you are planning to buy a PC running Windows 7, then you will probably have a choice of exactly one version. If you are a home user, you will get Windows 7 Home Premium. If you are a business user, you will get Windows 7 Professional. That's most of the retail market disposed of at a stroke.There are, however, a few home and business users, and lots of geeks, who want all the features of both. For them, there's Windows 7 Ultimate, which has everything. Whether it will be widely installed is another matter. However, people who want Ultimate can buy either version and pay Microsoft an extra fee for a painless Windows Anytime Upgrade.Either way, you only have to make one decision: are you a home or a business user? This is simpler than Vista, where you also had to decide whether you were low end (Vista Home Basic) or high end (Vista Home Premium) - a challenge that was apparently too hard for some.This does not, of course, account for all the versions of Windows 7 that will be available. Big businesses will be able to buy the Windows 7 Enterprise edition, and consumers in less rich countries will be able to get a cheaper version, Windows 7 Home Basic. But unless you work for an enterprise, or buy your PC in Brazil, China, India or other "emerging market" countries, you're unlikely to see them.The point is that Microsoft has roughly 1 billion Windows customers - not all of them paying customers - in a wide range of markets. Just like every other rational business, it segments its customers by their needs, their geographies, and their ability to pay, then targets them with specific products. As economics students have been taught for decades, segmentation is the main way to maximise revenues.Offering one version for one price would mean home users in the developing world got enterprise stuff they didn't need at a price they couldn't afford, while US corporations got consumer stuff they didn't want for a much lower price than they'd be willing to pay. The obvious answer is different versions at different prices.But there is one market segment that is a problem, and it remains to be seen if Microsoft can fix it: netbooks. Netbooks sold by Asus, Acer and other firms became a problem for Microsoft because they were a market opportunity for Linux. Microsoft met that threat by supplying Windows XP beyond its sell-by date, at hugely reduced prices. This damaged Microsoft's profitability, as it was making less on XP than on Vista. It was acceptable because Vista was too big and too costly for the early netbooks.Windows 7 is a different matter: it uses far less memory than Vista, and runs well on today's netbooks. But if Microsoft does a half-price deal, that will benefit netbook suppliers at the expense of its top-tier manufacturers.Microsoft's solution is a Windows 7 Starter edition that can only run three applications at once. Netbook users are generally not multitasking freaks, but whether they'll find this restriction acceptable remains to be seen.In the longer term, it may not matter. Netbooks will be limited to 32-bit operations, and will look much less attractive after the rest of the market has moved on to 64-bit Windows 7 PCs with 8GB or more. And that shouldn't take long.
You may not recognise his face, but you'd certainly recognise John Lasseter's work: Toy Story, A Bug's Life, Cars, Ratatouille and Wall-E, to name just some of his writing, directing and producing output.Lasseter was a co-founder of Pixar Animation Studios, and a pioneer of computer animation. In fact,Pixarpretty much invented computer-animated movies - developing from scratch the process that almost every Hollywood studio now uses. It refined its craft with a series of award-winning short films throughout the 80s, and broke into features with Toy Story in 1995 - the first full-length computer-animated movie."It began way back when I first started, in 1983, working with the Lucasfilm computer division, which became Pixar," Lasseter says. "There inevitably comes a time when they say: 'Hey, we have this new computer and it's 10 times faster than the ones you're using.' So everybody logically thinks: 'OK, that means you can do what you're doing, only 10 times faster.'"[But actually] what happens is that it takes the same amount of time, but it becomes 10 times more complex. We have more computer power than you can imagine now, and still our movies take the same amount of time to create."Stars and CarsEach feature is a four-year process, and the animators have to lock down the technology about two years before completion. "That's when you have to say: 'We don't know how to do this, or the movie really requires us to do this'," he says. "In Cars, it was the reflections on the cars and windows; in Monsters Inc, it was the fur; and there's the underwater stuff in [Finding] Nemo. There was a tremendous amount of complexity in Wall-E.Yet this complexity is not the result of clever technology, rather, it was achieved by imitating the way a film camera captures what it sees."That was Andrew Stanton, the director, working with Roger Deakins, the great cinematographer," he says. "[The team] actually had lessons – learning technically what happens with the set of lenses that a cinematographer has to use on a classic Panavision 35mm camera. They studied the way this master cinematographer shoots things. That's why [Wall-E] looks as if it was shot."But that's classic Pixar. What we've always done, since the very beginning, is we have studied what is that unique limitation of the way things look, and we've modelled that into the computer."That's why Pixar films have always had this movie feeling about them. For instance, we invented motion blur for computer animation. The way that a 35mm camera works is that it has a disc that spins – its 180-degree shutter. Half of that disc is clear, and half is solid. As it spins, half of the time it's exposing the frame, and the frame is still. And when the disc is blank is when the frame advances, and it holds there and is exposed. So there is a look that 35mm has in the way that it blurs, because of this framing. So we studied that and we modelled that into our system when we created motion blur, to get that same look. This was on the first short I created in 1984, The Adventures of Andr&eacute; and Wally B. It looked so real, even to myself. But it's not real because our eyes don't see motion blur. It's a limitation of the [film camera's] lens."This understanding of the limitations of how films are actually made, and then modelling that within the computer, is classic Pixar. In live action, you get that for free, but we had to create it."Pixar's visual creativity has developed over the years, from the simple geometric shapes used in early shorts such as Luxo Jr (the lamp that became Pixar's mascot) and the Oscar-winning Tin Toy, to the more advanced character renderings in Toy Story, Monsters Inc and Ratatouille."One of the key things is the speed of the computer being used in an interactive way – by the animators, or the lighters, or the art department," continues Lasseter. "Because the more complex that a model or something that you're doing is, the less it can be interactive, because it's so computationally expensive to do that. Pixar is the only studo that really has a major investment in research, where we're creating our own modelling and animation system, and we have a new system coming online now. It's been years in development, and one of the big issues was this interaction."Yet, as computers become more powerful, and Hollywood relies more on CGI special effects, does the technology ever get in the way of telling the story? Lasseter thinks that sometimes, it does - but for others, not for Pixar."One of the things from the beginning that we recognised is that these are just tools," he says. "That the technology never entertains an audience by itself. And for us, since we invented much of computer animation, we have a pretty good sense of what our tools can do."Like Toy Story - we couldn't do humans very well, so we kept them in the background, you just see feet and hands and stuff like that. But we could do plastic well, so making a film where the main characters were made of plastic was perfect."The next film technology with which Pixar is leading the way is 3D, which has seen a huge resurgence in the past 18 months. Pixar's next release, Up, out in the UK in October, has been made in 3D - as will all its features from now on - and there will be 3D versions of the first two Toy Story films in advance of next year's sequel."We've been interested in 3D for a very long time," Lasseter says. "In 1989, Pixar made a short film called Knick Knack in 3D. I realised very early on that what you're creating inside the computer is a three-dimensional environment. And I've always felt sad that you could only see a two-dimensional window into that three-dimensional space."We did quite a bit of research in holography, in lenticular imagery, to try to get a true three-dimensional view of the world and objects we were creating. I was doing a lot of amateur 3D photography - in 1988, when I got married to my wife Nancy, we took 3D wedding pictures. But there were no theatres you could see 3D in - you have to do a special setup with a silver screen and polarised projectors and all that stuff - and it was a pain that no one got to see [Knick Knack] in 3D."Extra dimension"Theatres started recognising that with digital they could do 3D far more easily than with film. And what's exciting about that right now is that you can't get it at home. That's why theatre owners have been investing heavily in it."And Lasseter believes 3D could help cinemas beat the economic crisis."They make a little premium on the 3D ticket, so it is beneficial for them to do it. You know, going to the movies has always been recession-proof. It's fairly cheap entertainment, it's classic escapism. So in all the recessions and depressions in the last 100 years, movies have done quite well."Bolt, which opened in the UK last Friday, was made from the beginning as a 3D film. It's also the first computer-animated film from Walt Disney Animation Studios, of which Lasseter was appointed chief creative officer in 2006, when Disney bought Pixar."There's one technological advance in Bolt that Pixar's never done before: there is a softness and an interesting quality to the backgrounds," he says. "The artists at Disney said: 'Is there a way in computer animation that we can make the backgrounds look more like they've been painted?'"I got to know some of the classic Disney matte painters such as Harrison Ellenshaw and his father Peter – and when you look at some of Peter Ellenshaw's matte painting from Mary Poppins, which are some of the best ever made, you're shocked at how rough they are, how impressionistic. But with film it just clicks in there. When you see a matte painting where everything is too perfectly rendered, it doesn't look real for some reason."This new technology in Bolt makes the world believable - not really real, but believable. When you stop a frame and study the backgrounds, you realise wow, that's pretty painterly - and you have never seen that before in computer animation. There is a beautiful, rich quality to Bolt that no one's seen before in computer animation."With technology still advancing, what does Lasseter think Pixar will be able to do five or 10 years from now?"It's hard to say," he says. "It's getting to the point where the limitation is in the imagination of the filmmaker: if he can imagine it, chances are that he can make it. Which early on in computer animation was not the case."Clearly, the most difficult thing to create is a human being. That's why, when we've created human characters such as those in The Incredibles, we've kept them fairly stylised. To create a character that's totally believable and realistic is always going to be the challenge. But it depends on the story you're trying to tell."
When you can follow Stephen Fry, Jonathan Ross and the writer Neil Gaiman day by day or even hour by hour, what's not to love? Twitter has certainly benefited from "early adopter" celebrities like these, because they have attracted a vast amount of free publicity. Even "late adopter" newspapers such as the Sun, the Daily Telegraph and the Daily Mail have joined in, writing articles about the trivia picked up from celebrity tweets. When Fry got stuck in a lift, it had more impact than a whole skyscraper burning down in China.It has also been good for the celebrities who have joined in the fun. Gaiman, for example, has been tweeting his way through a promotional tour of the US, talking about a new animated film, Coraline, based on his book. He's also just won an award for The Graveyard Book, so he's been giving interviews about that, too. It's been fascinating to follow him, without all the usual PR buffering between man and fan, and he's shared tweets with an audience that now numbers 23,205. It's unlikely he'd have got that sort of attention on Facebook.The critical issues are whether the number of celebrities is going to grow faster than the number of fans, and whether the celebrities actually participate. Fry, for example, has enough geek skills to cope with 169,069 followers, but what about 2 million or even 20 million? It's going to get to that stage soon.There could also be a backlash against celebrities who sign up but don't really participate. A Twitter stream needs to be more than pumping out PR via an RSS feed, or getting your staff to do it for you - the technique adopted by Barack Obama and Britney Spears. Celebs whose follower lists have rocketed from zero to 50,000 may one day see them tumbling down, as disillusioned fans leave them - and, perhaps, Twitter - behind.
Google syncs phonesGoogle has licensed Microsoft's Active Sync so users can synchronise contacts and calendar with their Google account.Bafta gamesVoting has now opened for Bafta's Game of the Year awards.PC-free film scannerFirebox is selling a standalone Film 2 SD scanner (&pound;119.95) to digitise 35mm negatives and slides on to an SD card.Computer nightmaresThe storage company Mozy has posted the results of its competition for people to video their computer nightmares.iPhone newsITN has launched a video news application for Apple's iPhone and iPod Touch. It's free from the iTunes App Store.Write, kidsWhatAreKidsSaying.com is encouraging children to express themselves by holding writing contests for the under 18s.Waste not ...Defra has commissioned a six-month evidence review on household waste prevention research.Windows for beginnersMicrosoft has opened a microsite for Windows rookies.Netbook chips upIntel is now shipping the N280 Atom chip for netbooks.
Children who spend hours every day on their Playstation or Xbox video consoles may not be rotting their brains, as many parents fear. A report from the European parliament concluded yesterday that computer games are good for children and teach them essential life skills.Contrary to fears about the violent reputation of some games, there is no firm proof that playing them has an automatic negative impact on children's behaviour, for example by causing aggression, said the report from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.Instead, "video games can stimulate learning of facts and skills such as strategic thinking, creativity, cooperation and innovative thinking, which are important skills in the information society."Toine Manders, the Dutch liberal MEP who drafted the report, said: "Video games are in most cases not dangerous. We heard evidence from experts on computer games and psychologists from France, the US, Germany and the Netherlands and they told us that video games have a positive contribution to make to the education of minors."The study called for schools across Europe to consider using games for educational purposes and urged parents to take a greater interest in them."Schools should pay attention to video games and inform children and parents about benefits and disadvantages that video games can have," the report said.The findings are likely to surprise supporters of tougher regulation of computer games, some of which have been blamed for influencing violent crime among children.Last year the mother of Stefan Pakeerah, a 14-year-old boy from Leicester who was murdered by a 17-year old wielding a knife and a claw hammer, claimed her son's killer was influenced by the computer game Manhunt in which players earn points for stealth killings.Keith Vaz, who chairs the Commons home affairs select committee, has called for tighter controls and described Grand Theft Auto, a popular "shoot 'em up" game, as "violent and nasty".The European parliament conceded that "violence in video games can in certain situations stimulate violent behaviour," but said there was no need for Europe-wide legislation. It called for a Europe-wide approach to prevent the sale to children of games intended for adults and urged the introduction of stricter identity checks at the point of sale and a wider application of the age-rating system that currently applies to computer games in many European countries.Total revenues from the video gaming sector amounted to more than &euro;7bn (&pound;6.25bn) last year, the report said and in the UK, video games outsold music and other video products for the first time last year, according to separate research.The growing market for online games needed to be better controlled, the MEPs said, and online games should include a red button on the screen which children or parents could click to disable the game.Manders said the button could also be linked to the administrators of the Pan-European Game Information age rating system, so that when a game player presses it, PEGI is informed and can investigate potentially disturbing games that are available through the internet.
A remaining joy in this gloomy world is that there's no need to venture outside to explore it. Instead, just download Google Earth, install into brain, close eyes – job done.Yep, if you're seeking disk contentment this winter then version 5.0 of Google Earth could be the best 400MB you'll ever set aside on your computer's hard drive. (There's a stripped-down iPhone/iPod Touch version, if you want the whole world in your hands.)Google Earth is an our-planet simulator that's been knocking around for nigh on a decade, the latter half of its life being under the searchsmith's stewardship (inventor Keyhole, Inc was directed down the plughole in 2004). The virtual globe program is grabbing headlines anew because with version 5.0, Google has added new depth – including the ability to take a virtual scuba dive so you can descend the Marianas Trench (because, let's face it, that's the only deep-sea feature most people know).But submerge thoughts of subaquatic ditches: Google Earth 5.0's true headline feature is a satellite-imagery timeline. If you experience exhilaration from eye-in-the-sky spying on your neighbours' back gardens as they are today, imagine discovering how the picket fences have shifted over time. When did they build that carbuncular extension? With Earth 5.0, you can wind back time and take a look (right before cross-checking planning permissions, obviously). Alternatively, zoom out and see how your entire town looked in 1999 – the time slider lets you flit through decades' worth of satellite imagery like a government spook. If it wasn't so brilliant, it would be scary.And that's just the new features. Consider too all that has made Google Earth popular up until now, such as the data overlays – there are dozens. Want to see how Rome looked in 345BC? Google Earth will show you, replete with accurately rendered and textured 3D buildings. It also provides links to all manner of background information, displayed in pop-up panels, from photographs snapped by latter-day tourists to encyclopaedia entries. Enable the live weather-radar layer to see if it's snowing there. If you tire of exploring the seas, surface and troposphere then head into space: Google added sky surfing to Earth's repertoire 18 months ago (and yep, there are historical maps of the stars). This product is the internet in four dimensions.There are alternatives – Microsoft's Virtual Earth and Nasa's World Wind spring to mind – but frankly they're just pretenders. Virtual Earth is confused and confusing, pitched to retailers who want to "engage shoppers by enabling social networking" but also to consumers who want to view pretty "bird's eye" pictures, all the time tied to a web browser – while World Wind's most recent "news" entry was posted in 2007. Yep, Google rules this particular world.There are numerous other reasons to be a Google Earth-phile. Version 5.0 sees the program's existing place-marking system – essentially bookmarks for locations on Earth – extended to enable the recording of virtual tours. Click the record button and then whiz around the globe visiting here, there and everywhere, and Google Earth will capture the entire path, pitstops and all. Add narration if you want and then save the package as a KML (Keyhole Markup Language) file that can be shared with other Google Earth users.For the lost, Google Earth offers turn-by-turn driving directions, which, if you feel the need, can be presented as an animated journey. The very adventurous can hook up a handheld GPS receiver (only Garmin and Magellan models supported, so far) and either overlay saved trip data on to the Google Earth map or call on real-time positioning. Do this on a laptop, slot in a USB mobile broadband modem and you have an in-car sat-nav system offering an unrivalled level of road detail, albeit one that looks like it's been put together by Heath Robinson and bankrupts you through data charges.Really, though, Google Earth is all about the joy of exploration. To this end, Google's programmers hid an Easter egg inside earlier versions, though it's now officially out of its shell – a flight simulator. Fire it up, select an international airport (or just take off from your back garden, if you want) and fly the world in an F16 fighter jet with unlimited fuel. But wot, no guns? Roll on Google Earth version 6.0.Pros:Easier to explore than the real world, and safer tooCons:Useless without net; exploration options can be dauntingearth.google.com
Online poker is a huge business. And easy, players are told. You don't even have to get dressed to play, just sit there in your front room. And, of course, the poker player's dictum of "if you can't see the mark, it's you" (that is, if you can't see a weaker player, you're the one who'll be cleaned out) doesn't apply; you can't actually see anyone else. They could be dressed, undressed - or even, perhaps, "bots": programs written to make money from slower-witted humans.And, the Guardian has learned, bots are indeed inhabiting some poker sites, where they are winning money from humans. It turns out that the only thing keeping the human gaming community in with a chance is the sheer difficulty, tedium, and cost-effectiveness of running the bots at a profit. The Guardian spoke to one former poker bot master. (He requested anonymity because naming him could affect his employment prospects.)Flushed out"The kind of bots that I've run are playing low-limit [less than &pound;50 a day] games picking money off the weak players. They're not a threat to the good players at all. The good players would kick their arses, which is why I put them in the low-limit games," he says.This bot man managed to make an annual return of around &pound;40,000 working on gaming sites. That's about the same as an experienced programming job, but tax-free - you don't pay tax on gambling winnings."My bots aren't bad, they're good enough to beat the weak player, which is all I was ever trying to do. Getting to that stage is interesting and fun. It's the nasty implementational stuff around it [that isn't]. It's the arranging the sequencing of them to all come online and offline, the 'Oh dear, the screen scraper - the stuff that's interfacing with the poker program - is broken again and needs fixing'."The latter problem arises because the poker sites, aware of the trouble if it is known that computers are making money off humans, deter bots by constantly tweaking their own software. This means constant tinkering for the bot master to keep his players in business. Furthermore, the bots can't play 24/7 or they'd be caught."It becomes a really rather dull programming job," says the bot master.People also think they can spot bots because they win and don't chat during games. But good players don't chat either, especially if they're playing eight or more games simultaneously. This isn't a problem for the bot master, but it's the reason that the online pro John Tabatabai got kicked off one site by mistake.Writing good bots isn't easy. There's the AI knowledge (a combination of probabilistic calculations with some stochastic search for our bot man's poker army), the programming experience and the understanding of the strategy of the game at which you're planning to win money.The University of Alberta, Canada, has an army of PhD students working in itspoker research group. It has created great bots. Dr Darse Billings, a consultant with the group, says: "If the average schmo, who knows a bit of programming, is going to write himself a bot, then he's going to be donating to the poker community at least for a number of years, if not indefinitely. If there are programmers who are sharp at both programming and poker, then it is conceivable to write a bot that can win. But someone that smart can take a hell of a lot more money legitimately than by writing a poker bot."Our bot developer is now back doing regular programming. His response to Billings' comments are: "Your average schmo writes a shit bot. The ones you buy off the shelf are rubbish." But for him, the problem isn't writing the bots. It's the logistics. To avoid investigation, you need your bots to win modest amounts and stay below the radar. Instead of one winning &pound;1,000 a day, you need 100 bots that win &pound;10 a day. "But you have to have 100 accounts, 100 user names, and 100 credit cards to get the money out. That's harder than writing the bots themselves."There are methods of getting multiple accounts, but the online gaming sites monitor for this. Changing IP addresses can be done with downloaded software, but getting multiple credit cards is hard. Once you've exhausted friends and relatives you still haven't got that many different bits of plastic. "I didn't want to go down the organised crime route. Buying cloned credit cards off someone: it's not somewhere I wanted to go," he says.Writing bots and playing them online is perfectly legal, it's just a violation of the sites' individual terms and conditions. They can't call the police but they can throw you off the site and seize money from your account."Limiting the number of bots you can use [through the difficulty of having multiple accounts] is a major stumbling block," says our bot man. But he hasn't ruled out going back into business."It was worth my while, if only it hadn't felt like such a job," he says. "If I wasn't able to get a job as a programmer, I'd go back and make money at it. But it took a bit more ingenuity and hard effort, and a lot of fiddly, annoying stuff."Playing for the houseIt's possible he could get a job on the other side of the fence. Many online gaming sites use bots on their sites, but most won't admit it. "It's for liquidity purposes," said one, off the record. Which means they always have someone online to keep the games going.Anyone fancying a crack at being a bot master may prefer to tackle backgammon, where the software development has already been done for you. In 1995, an IBM academic, Gerald Tesauro, presented the "temporal difference learning technique", and the resultant neural network backgammon softwareTD-Gammon. Its successors,Snowie 4and the open-sourceGNU Backgammonnow trounce the world.Obviously, all the account problems are the same for this game as for poker. And because the software is so well known, the sites offering it have automated systems that look for similarities to the way computers play. It's almost like fingerprinting, and you're likely to be caught. It seems amateurs don't have that much to fear from the bots - yet.
Tweet, ministerLast year, Sunlight [Foundation] sponsored the "Let Our Congress Tweet" campaign, where we helped convince Congress to change its antiquated rules on internet use, allowing lawmakers to fully embrace communication technologies (Newly asked questions, 5 February). [The Cabinet Office] minister [Tom] Watson and his taskforce are acting in a similar spirit.blog.sunlightfoundation.com• The recommendations of the report are about using a combination of technology, open data (that is opening up government data to its owners, the public) and direct engagement with the public in order to more rapidly and more deeply engage citizens. It would seem to me that libraries and librarians, as traditional points of interaction between the public and information, could play a useful role. I think advocating and supporting "opener access" is an important library role (one sometimes compromised by library acceptance of DRM or restrictive licensing terms).scilib.typepad.comOpen access for allIt's not just "some enlightened libraries" that provide online access to the OED (Read me first, 5 February). It's available to anyone with a public library card via the library's website.Michael RankLondon• Andrew Brown raises the important issue of open access to contemporary science, currently under the control of the private sector, in the digital age. There are two British institutions either of which could take up this challenge and win world prestige in so doing. Number one choice is surely the BBC, but if it is unable/unwilling to do so, what about the Open University?David HayesBristolWeep not for SonyDavid Reeves isn't humble ('We simply have to suffer,' says Sony Europe's gaming chief, 5 February). I don't care if he gives a snivelling interview about how Sony has to take their licks. He's from RJR Nabisco, which has a reputation for the most extreme forms of corporate greed and excess. OK, he's not evil or anything, but I don't buy it.ps3blog.netAtari callingIf Bushnell had continued to just create games for his friends, would the gaming industry be what it is today ('Technology and games are a big part of life', 5 February)? The answer is probably not, and certainly Atari wouldn't be the household name it is. Yet the mobile industry is still guilty of this - creating things that appeal to people already within the ecosystem. If we want to create more companies with the reach and recognition of Atari, that model has to be scrapped and people have to look at products and services that can reach out to a mass market.smsisthenewblack.co.ukMac Mini to the maxAlan Gent wrote about the - in his view - "pointless" Mac Mini (Letters and blogs, 29 January). Since Apple brought out an operating system with a built-in screen reader, Voiceover, the Mac Mini has been ideally suited to the needs of the blind and visually impaired. It takes up very little room and [it] is no longer necessary to buy a monitor.David MilesIpswich• When I said in my original letter that the peripherals to the Mac Mini would have to be Apple, I was, in part, echoing Roger Larkinson's original point: the beauty of Mac equipment. My Apple keyboard, for example, is a slim 0.25in thick piece of aluminium, with totally silent keys. I suspect that Will Gore, while he is also correct in what he says, is not a Mac owner. It's not just about the Apple logo, or whether they will work - they will; it's the build and the beauty. And now, having boosted the percentage of Mac-related letters considerably, I suspect it's time to go!Alan GentCheadle• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk. Read all this week's letters infull
LCD TV and PCI'd like to replace my PC monitor and the family's old 24-inch CRT television with a single LCD TV/monitor, perhaps somewhere between 22 and 26 inches.Mark McCannJS:In general, I don't recommend this approach, because of the practical and family problems. First, computer monitors are usually set up for viewing by one person at around a metre or less, whereas TVs are set up for viewing by two or more people two to three metres away. Second, there may well be problems when one person wants to watch a TV programme while others want to surf the net, play a game or whatever.However, I asked Bob Raikes, who runs the Meko consultancy and is managing editor of Display Monitor. He says: "Assuming we're talking about sizes where both products might be available - broadly 15 to 26 inches - then these days, they tend to use similar LCD panels. TVs may have brighter backlights and will typically be 16:9 format to match widescreen TV. Most monitor panels are typically 16:10 (so a TV panel would be 1920 x 1080 pixels, while a monitor would be 1920 x 1200 pixels). However, this is changing as monitor makers are starting to adopt 16:9."Traditional TV brands are generally likely to have better video-processing than the monitor/IT brands, although there are exceptions. So, if you are using the TV to receive digital TV over the air, then a TV may be better. It should also have support for Freeview and a CI slot if you want Top Up TV, etc. The TV may also have better audio facilities and a remote control. On the other hand, if you are watching video from a PC or an upscaling DVD player, set-top box or PVR and using a good digital interface such as HDMI, then the monitor-style product should be fine. The same hardware sold in the IT department of a store is likely to cost less than from the TV department." Incidentally, Raikes adds: "Viewers judge screen size by height. To get a widescreen that looks around the same size as Mark's 24-inch 4:3 screen would need a 28- 30-inch LCD."Faster ExcelI have a Dell laptop with a 2GHz Intel Core 2 Duo and 2GB of memory. I sometimes have five or six large Excel spreadsheets open simultaneously, and my machine is painfully slow when loading or saving data. If I have to start from scratch with a completely new machine, what sort of specification should I be looking for?Christopher Evans-TippingJS:With a lot of large spreadsheets loaded, you may well have run out of physical memory. To find out, run the Windows Task Manager and click the Performance tab. This will tell you how much physical memory your PC has, and how much is still available. The tab for Processes will also tell you how much each program is using (on my PC, an empty copy of Excel 2007 uses less than 25MB.) You may be able to improve performance by closing down background programs, or adding another gigabyte of memory. Switching to a 64-bit version of Vista SP1 with 4GB will provide a much bigger improvement.To keep some physical memory free, Windows finds data that you're not using and saves it to a large scratchpad on the hard drive (pagefile.sys), so you should also check the amount of free hard-drive space. You should always have at least 1GB free, and preferably 5GB. Windows' performance falls dramatically when you start to run out of resources (cured by a restart) or hard drive space.If you don't see an improvement, disconnect from the net and turn off all your anti-virus software and any other background programs you don't need. If something is checking for viruses as you load and save large Excel files, it's certainly going to slow you down.Unwanted downloadAfter trying to download free clipart, I wound up with Yahoo stuff on my desktop, plus an icon for something called Shredder, which I cannot delete. Also, a file called Winferno has been downloaded, and refuses to give "permission" to be deleted.Alan GidneyJS:Be suspicious of downloads - especially codec, free music and screensaver downloads - as they often come packaged with malware or unwanted software. In this case, I suspect you have been lumbered with what looks like a legitimate program: PC Confidential fromWinferno. You should be able to uninstall this using the Add or Remove Programs utility. If it has been damaged and won't go away, your best bet is to re-install a clean version from Winferno and uninstall it straight away.Backchat• Chris Riley wanted to convert a PDF file of his book, originally created on an Acorn computer, into a Microsoft Word file. If he still has an Acorn file, Govind Kharbanda says: "I'm guessing Chris no longer has his Acorn, but an easy way around this is to buyVirtualAcorn, which runs Acorn software on both PCs and Macs for &pound;49." George Pearce kindly offered to convert the file for him. He says: "I do a fair amount of this stuff on Risc OS and have most of the appropriate software, including the wonderful Easiwriter/Techwriter, which can save in Word."• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Samsung has delayed the release of its first mobile phone based on Google's Android operating system until the second half of this year.There had been speculation that Samsung, which recently leapfrogged Nokia to become market leader in the UK, would unveil its first phone running Android at next week's Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona.But Younghee Lee, head of marketing at Samsung's mobile device division, said there will be no Android phone at the show, but they are "planning internally" for a release in the second half of the year. She said the company is in negotiations with a number of operators about taking a Samsung-designed Android phone.The news came as Samsung unveiled what it says will be one of its flagship handsets for the coming year - a slimmer version of its highly successful Tocco touchscreen device. In the latter half of last year, the original Tocco became the most popular phone for people signing up to a monthly contract in the UK. Samsung is hoping for similar success from the new version of the phone, which is expected to go on sale next month.Samsung is making touchscreen phones one of its areas of focus for 2009 as the industry faces its first downturn since the dotcom crash, and several executives say the mobile phone market is polarising.The market for entry-level phones is still booming in emerging markets but in more mature markets the middle ground has all but disappeared - consumers are either keeping their existing handsets and trading down to cheaper sim-only deals, or demanding the latest in must-have top of the range gadgetry, including touchscreens. To meet this demand, Vodafone recently launched the BlackBerry Storm, while T-Mobile had hoped to score a hit with the first Android phone, the G1, developed by Taiwan's HTC.Since it hit the shops last autumn, however, sales of the G1 appear to have been disappointing. In the UK, T-Mobile lost 16,000 customers in the run-up to Christmas. In contrast, Vodafone added 449,000 in the same period.There is talk that HTC will announce the next version of its Android phone, the G2, at Mobile World Congress. Leaked online photos, purporting to depict the device, appear to show that HTC has dumped the slide-out keypad for the new model. T-Mobile is not expected to stock the new version of the phone in the UK, though it may carry it in the US.Last week, Matthew Key - boss of Telefonica Europe, which owns O2 - said customers are less willing to commit to 18-month contracts because of the downturn. "The middle ground in the market is starting to disappear, (but) clearly in destination purchase end you have things like the iPhone, like the Storm, like the G1 device," he said.
Nothing is complete nowadays without its own Oscars-style back-slapping event, and Twitter is no exception. In fact, the first entirely unofficial Shorty Awards ceremony will be held in Brooklyn this evening.The Wall Street Journalsays:Three techies, Greg Galant, Adam Varga and Lee Semel, started the contest last fall. Although it has been compared on blogs to the Oscars or the Internet's Webby Awards, the format more closely resembles a democratic election. Rather than recognizing one specific tweet, the organizers broadened the contest to entire accounts.andThe voting ended late last month. The winners, who will travel from as far away as Russia and Australia, will give 140-character acceptance speeches. CNN anchor Rick Sanchez will host, and celebrity tweeters, including former rapper MC Hammer, will appear.The WSJ's Elizabeth Holmes will be live-tweeting the Shorty Awards ceremony, starting at 7pm ET. It looks as though coverage will extend to the Digits blog post,Live-Twittering the Shorty Awards
A new online music service that has thrown open its virtual doors with a claim to be "the way we want to consume music in the future", has swiftly fallen foul of the music industry's licensing practices.Spotify, created by two Swedish entrepreneurs, Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon, has already attracted tens of thousands of users who spread private invitations to their friends after hearing about the site through internet chat. This week the company peeled off the "private" label to allow anyone in the UK to sign up.However, Spotify has been forced to remove thousands of tracks in a row over licensing. This has infuriated users and the software industry, which accused record and film companies of lobbying government instead of adapting to the 21st century.An internet radio service where users choose tracks, or let the company choose them, Spotify is being tipped as the leader of a new generation ofinnovative online music programs. Based in London and Stockholm, it opened up its service here after being "bowled over" by the level of interest.Rather than buying music, users can fill playlists with songs of their choosing or create "collaborative" playlists which have their own web address and so can be passed around and added to by others.Users can pick from a huge catalogue of songs, listen to them for free over the internet and, like commercial radio, hear a few adverts along the way. The service has deals with top labels around Europe, and claims to be doubling in size every few weeks. Dedicated users can also choose to buy a day's worth of ad-free access for 99p, or become a premium subscriber – where there are no adverts at all – for £10 a month.But last month the Spotify catalogue shrank overnight by thousands of songs. The site's global community manager, Andres Sehr,wrote a blog postto say this was required by the record labels, which have strict rules about what can be played where."These restrictions are a legacy from when most music was sold on tapes and CDs and they have continued over into streaming music," Sehr said, adding, "our hope is that one day restrictions like this will disappear for good."The cuts brought howls of dismay from users, while yesterday John Lovelock, chief executive of the Federation Against Software Theft and Investors in Software (FAS IiS), said: "Over the past decade the software industry has evolved to become more user-focused and more adaptable to changing market conditions." By contrast, he said, the entertainment industry had been pushing for more restrictions instead of adapting. "The entertainment sector appear to have lobbied the government to consider establishing a 'pirates tax' on all of us, as well as yet another quango to oversee it, meaning more cost and more hassle. It's time these industries came up to speed in the modern market and changed their business models to encourage their customers to use the internet for their purchasing."Spotify does not yet offer links to let people buy tracks. That could come. For now, the co-founders are putting their own money into the company. "We had the idea in 2002, but realised that the timing might not be right so we waited until 2006," Ek said. "We're adding tens of thousands of users every day now, so it's growing quickly."The company was founded in 2006 by Ek and Lorentzon, two established internet entrepreneurs who claim to have pumped in more than €8m (£7m) themselves. Despite the rocky economy, it already has more than 60 employees and received a €15m injection from two Scandinavian investment companies last year."We're not in it for the money," Ek said. "We do believe there's a very good business opportunity underlying here, but we did this because this is the way we want to consume music in the future."Digital music is dominated by Apple, which uses its iTunes store as a way to convince people to buy iPods. But streaming services such as Last.fm in London, bought by the American media conglomerate CBS for $280m (£190m) in 2007, are growing in popularity. Last.fm's co-founder, Martin Stiksel, said: "There's definitely not such a consolidation as there was in online video streaming, where YouTube basically blew everyone away. There's still all these different business models out there … the jury's still out on the business of online music that's not connected with hardware."One of Spotify's appeals is that it makes instantly listening to music easier than downloading it illegally. Online piracy and illegal filesharing has been a thorn in the side of the music business since the original Napster blew the industry apart in 1999. Many in the record industry still believe the majority of music that people acquire online comes via pirate networks.Other, unlicensed services have generated buzz – but ultimately failed to blossom under intense legal pressure. Muxtape, an online mixtape creator from New York, was an underground hit last year but was forced to close after problems with the record labels it was negotiating with.Although Spotify users cannot keep the tracks they hear, there are no restrictions on how many times they can listen to one track – meaning those who listen on their computer have less of an incentive to download illegally. In the future, the company hopes to provide a service that works on mobile phones, car stereos and even iPods."The ones we want to steal users from are the piracy services, that's our biggest competitor," said Ek. "This idea could be applied to other media as well. Who knows, in the future, Spotify could be something that works for movies, games or a lot of different things."
Having written a lot about iPhone recently, I thought I'd return to traditional Java gaming for a quick survey of current offerings. Here are five of my favourites, all of them worth getting hold of if your handset allows.Here's a clue - one of them has Chuck Norris in it.Pac-Man (Namco Bandai)Released at the close of last year (I'm a bit late with this one) Namco's 'remastered' mobile edition of the coin-op classic is just about as essential as a mobile game can get. Of course, the pill-chomper has been available in Java form for several years, but this new version tweaks the presentation and, most importantly, adds a brilliant four-player Bluetooth mode. Here, one player is Pac-Man, while the others control ghosts – the clever bit is, if you're playing as a spook, there's a fog of war effect that ensures you can only see your immediate vicinity - you'll either have to randomly wander the corridors alone, or work with the other players to form a sort of shouty GPS hive mind. When Pac-Man is finally beaten, the roles are rotated and one of the other players hops in to control him. It's a good idea, as is theonline scoreboardwhich pitches you against gamers all over Europe. Okay, as a Pac-Man reinvention it's not quite up there with Pac-Man Champsionship Edition on XBLA, but this is an accomplished mobile conversion.Luxor Quest (I-Play)The third title in I-Play's Luxor series is another Egyptian-themed take on the classic Zuma stencil. There's a line of coloured spheres working its way along a track and you need to fire coloured balls into the chain to create groups of three or more of the same hue – when you do this, all the connected balls disappear. If the chain reaches the end of the track, you've failed the level.There's the usual collection of power-ups, plus it's possible to bounce your ball off a rebound panel to access tricky areas. What marks this version out is the imaginative selection of background scenarios, ranging from a starlit sky to the inside of a sarcophagus and a top-down view of a burial site. There's also a range of different game modes and a selection of Achievement-style awards to pick up as you work through the 30 levels. Doesn't do anything hugely new with the archetype but gets everything right and, like the excellent Peggle Mobile, will become invaluable the next time you're stuck on a train for hours due to light snow fall.Tropical Towers (Real Arcade)The 'bridge-building' sim has become quite a staple in the casual/indie gaming sector, with titles like Bridge Construction Set and Bridge It (both byChronic Logic) proving popular and of course, the awesome World of Goo achieving mainstream status. But none of those had monkeys. Tropical Towers does. The aim is to build a series of bamboo bridges to allow a box full of simian climbers to get from one side of the screen to the other, collecting bananas on the way. Once you've constructed your engineering masterpiece you click on the crate and the monkeys clamber out, rampaging across your structure, oblivious to its increasingly obvious stress points. All five monkeys must make it across for you to progress to the next level – achieve that and you get a silver mask. If they grab all the bananas on the way, you'll win a gold one instead.It's an absolutely beautiful game, with gorgeous cartoon visuals and lively animation. Watching the chimps swing, leap and often fall across the screen is genuinely funny thanks to the nuanced and expressive characterization; if they get stuck, for example, they all turn to the screen and shrug their shoulders at you, as if to say 'where do we go now?'. When they make it to the exit point they jump and smile adorably. The design is also exceptional, with a perfect balance between intuitive, uncomplicated controls and challenging level structure. There are five islands to work through, each with multiple stages so there's plenty of longevity here – and you'll want to see it all. Just in terms of sheer style and presentation this is a landmark Java release. Add-in one the sort of deep, compulsive experience we'd expect to see from a DS title there is, in fact, a WiiWare version) and you have a very early, but very strong contender for mobile game of the year.Metal Slug 4 (I-Play)For the last few years, UK publisher I-Play has been steadily working its way through the Metal Slug back-catalogue, reliably producing accomplished conversions of the cult sideways scrolling shooter series. The latest edition provides exactly what you'd expect – endless waves of enemy soliders coming at you from all sides as you pile through with machine guns, grenades and your trusty knife. En route, you must free hostages who'll thank you with power-ups, and occasionally you can jump into a tank for some heavy blasting action.There's no plot, there's no point, this is pure late-eighties arcade thuggery, all set in a steamy jungle, packed with cute scenic details. As usual, it's a lot of fun, marred slightly by the complexity of the control system that demands you use the 1, 3, 7 and 9 buttons to shoot diagonally. Of course, this is more to do with the inadequacies of the mobile handset than with any failure on I-Play's part, but you'd hope they would have come up with a more graceful alternative by now. Still, this is classic 2D run-and-gun stuff, tinged with SNK humour, loaded with decent bosses and, like Luxor Quest, boasting an achievement system that maintains your interest as you pummel your way through.Chuck Norris: Bring on the PainPerhaps in the hands of any other mobile game developers this would have been an embarrassingly juvenile endeavour - a scrolling shooter, based around the movie career of cult martial arts star Chuck Norris and adopting the humour of the legendary Chuck Facts website. But this is Gameloft, the French publisher responsible for wonderful movie conversions of everything from Shrek to King Kong. So, in fact, this is truly inspired.The set-up is simple, Chuck must punch, roundhouse and machine-gun his way through three multi-level missions based around key phases of his film career. First he's rescuing POWs in some distant jungle, then he's dishing out justice as a Texan Ranger before finally settling into a New York-based nuclear bomb drama. Between the action sections there are daft jokes, Chuck facts and silly mini-games like throwing bananas at monkeys. It's even possible to take a photo of a friend and paste their face onto incoming enemies.Naturally, there are lots of power-ups to unlock, and a range of boss battles that require ridiculous feats of strength – the first, for example, asks that you take down a helicopter gunship with your bare hands. The humour is hit and miss, but it's all carried out with such gusto and abandon you're sort of swept along, usually with your mouth agape. The ability to pick up a truck and swat enemy soldiers is unlikely ever to become boring.The beauty of mobile gaming is, it's not possible to imagine this being attempted on any other platform. But here, it works, and it's an absolute blast. Bring On The Pain is not exactly a rich, enormously deep gameplay experience, but every stage is alive with detail and ideas. And you can't argue with a game that threatens to roundhouse kick your phone into orbit if you don't follow the instructions properly.
It stretches from the Mirage Casino inLas Vegasto the Opus arts centre inBangalore, from Cape Town'sDoppio Zerobar to the Black Mama club inBogota. On Thursday night, somewhere between 10,000 and 20,000 users of the social messaging service Twitter will take part inTwestival, a global charity party night organised by more than 1,000 volunteers.Since the first Twestival in London in September last year, the charity event has mushroomed into an international phenomenon, with 175 cities hosting parties for Twitter users who will donate upwards of $5 tocharity:water.Events producer and entrepreneurAmanda Roseset up Twestival with PR friends Ben Matthews, Tom Malcolm and Tim Hoang – but none of them had any idea quite how much the idea would take off. The team's 10-page guide on how to hold a Twestival has inspired Twitterers in every continent, franchising the charity event.Volunteers have found venues, offered design services, put together maps and found drink sponsors for all 175 official Twestivals. There is even a Live Aid-style Twestival radio project called Twestival FM which aims to raise $200,000 through donations for music downloads from artists including Bloc Party, Erol Alkan and Imogen Heap.Twestival is accepting donations through PayPal, Tipjoy and Amiando, as well as through cash donations on the night, and to increase competition between different cities the running totals will be revealed at 10pm on Wednesday night.Social media is often assumed to replace real-life friends, so why have Twitter users been so keen to meet other local Twitter users? "Everyone wants to see each other," said Rose. "There's a real global momentum to this now. For me, Twitter feels like an event, like a large room, so Twestival gives you the opportunity to meet some of those people in a relaxed way."Twitter is much more open that Facebook, she believes, and has attracted more people and more interest because of that. There is also a positivity and optimism to Twitter that other social networks and open discussion sites don't have.That might be something to do with the patience required to learn and understand how it works; once you've invested that time, and energy, you're much more likely to make a constructive contribution.High-profile Twitterers Jonathan Ross and Philip Schofield both have a scheduling clash, so neither will make it to the London Twestival. Rose doesn't care if they show, however – she just wants them to tweet about the project to attract as many donations as possible.What celebrity interest has done is taken Twitter to the mainstream – as demonstrated last week, said Rose, when Stephen Fry overtook Digg founder and geek overlord Kevin Rose to become the second most popular Twitter user after Barack Obama.Rose admits that she chose to do Twestival now because of the mood of the moment. Despite the miserable economy, this post-Obama period has a new spirit of optimism and a can-do attitude."This is happening on the back of how everybody feels about Obama," she said. "A lot of people have been surprised that we have done this now, but we're solving a bigger issue, and asking people to give what they can. It's 'act local think global' – that really is happening."What happens after Twestival? Rose will get the first decent night's sleep she's had since this all started; she's had no more than four hours sleep each night for weeks. But all she can think about for now is the target, and she's clearly committed to raising as much money as possible for charity:water."I would do cartwheels if we made over $1m," she said. "That would pay for 50,000 people to get safe clean drinking water for 20 years, so they can spend less of the day finding water and more time being educated.If everyone just gave $20, that would give one person clean water for the rest of their life."
Author and games writer Naomi Alderman discusses her hopes and fears for ebooks as Amazon launch their new gadget - the Kindle 2.Jemima Kiss talks to Iain Dodsworth - the man behind the flexible Twitter tool TweetDeck - to find out his plans.Plus there's news and your comments from the blog and your thoughts in thetweets you sent us this week.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
A big problem for virtual worlds and other MMO environments is the gargantuan amount of space, processing power and RAM they take up on a computer. Developers have been chasing what they believe is the holy grail for some time - pared down, browser-based versions of the same content that feeds back into the full version of the game seamlessly. There was, for example, atext version of Second Life. ActiveWorlds resurfaced in 2007 when they announceda Facebook appof their virtual world. Still  others, like the forthcomingMetaplace, have done away with downloadable content altogether, opting instead for browser-only experiences.Multiverse, a long-standing player on the scene and baby of web veteran (and karaoke king) Corey Bridges, recently demonstrated a new technology which seems to - excuse the pun - bridge the divide. FromCnet:These new tools are at the heart of Battle, a simple Flash game being released Thursday by the Multiverse Network, a virtual worlds middleware company.A simple Flash game that runs on Facebook, MySpace, Friendster, and Kongregate, Battle is really the showpiece behind new Multiverse technology that could, for the first time, make it possible for developers using its platform to build full-scale downloadable, virtual worlds or online games to create scaled-down, 2D, browser-based versions of the same titles and let players compete between them....The immediate appeal to game developers of this innovation is being able to use the Multiverse tools to bring a wide variety of existing types of games to Flash, games that in the past required downloadable clients. And that could mean opening up such titles to far larger audiences, since many people don't want to have to install special software in order to play casual games.This makes it possible for people to pick up multiplayer bouts on the go, on machines that might not otherwise be up for the task, like netbooks or mobile phones. It also offers a gateway opportunity for players who want to try out a game before purchasing the full, 3D option.So given the option of playing World of Warcraft or Team Fortress with your mates in a stripped-down, Flash version while waiting for the bus or killing some time, would you, or do the graphics really matter that much?Check out the technology inBattlehere.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Thisis quite possibly the most fantastic thing I've read about sinceDesperate Housewives landed on my PC:Coronation Street, denizen of British values and cultural pulse of Middle England, is set to make its interactive debut on the Nintendo DS.Of course, as the most accessible, mainstream console out there, it makes sense that Bet and the gang will be transformed into pixels for the handheld machine. But what, pray tell, will people do on the Street? Will it be an interactive story in the vein of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney? Or will it be a hack-and-slasher, as insults are fired across the Rovers like pint glasses flying through the air? No, that would be EastEnders Interactive.Next up, anAmbridgetext adventure on your phone. I can just see it now: Do you choose to a) shear the sheep, b) have a cuppa with your neighbour or c) bake a cake for the summer Fete?Can you tell that I don't watch soaps?More on Corrie fromMCV.
Bomberman is back – and across two screens. Fans of the previous game won't need more than that as recommendation to buy this DS rethink. But those coming new to the tiny pyromaniac may assume that cartoony graphics equals childish challenge.It's certainly childish – your mission is to blow stuff up and, er, that's it – but it's also: a) fun; b) frequently bloody difficult; and c) got that "oh, just one more go" level of addiction down pat. Mission Mode – work through many levels to destroy a computer virus that's brought your home town to its knees – features head-scratching puzzles and punishing "against the clock" rounds.Battle Mode – you v up to seven other players, either real (via Wi-Fi) or DS-generated– is a frantic, eye-popping joy with lots of new features (including warp gates, open arenas and spikes) to add to an already well-crafted challenge.
If you like your sims gentle and absorbing, Hotel Giant 2 lets you loose on 28 anonymous properties in 26 cities.Build your business, make a profit and satisfy those demanding customers aided by smooth 3D views and more than 1,400 features to add value and style to your hotel. Detailed financial information and market research can help, although it's a shame that you can't visit your rivals to see how they're doing things differently.You're also left guessing as to key decisions such as pricing, and fine-tuning your designs can be finicky – for instance, trying to make carpets fit only left my rooms looking like a patchwork DIY nightmare! All in all, though, Hotel Giant 2 packs in bags of gameplay at a tempting price.
On paper, Rise of the Argonauts sounds great. A mixture of Greek mythology, visceral combat and role-playing depth combined with a potentially involving story is a world away from the space marine gaming norm.But as you sit through the slowest opening hour in gaming history – think lengthy conversations, endless to-ing and fro-ing and horribly average visuals – you'll wonder whether to persevere. You probably should. Although the game never reaches the potential in the setting or story, there is certainly enough here for the more patient gamer. The story follows King Jason in his attempts to save the soul of his murdered wife. Despite some Mass Effect-style conversational tricks, this quest essentially involves hacking at enemies and working your way to the end of the anachronistically linear levels.The environments are pretty enough in places, which helps mask the dated animation and character models, and there is something about the story that keeps you playing. Not a classic then, but Rise of the Argonauts is a decent slow burner.
Last month's release of Lord Carter's "interim" Digital Britain report sparked howls of outrage from network wonks across the land. Even as Gordon Brown gushed about the potential of the internet to be as important to Britain's industrial and economic future as roads and bridges, the Carter report's recommendations proposed to turn tomorrow's road-and-bridge infrastructure over to the selfish mismanagement of special interests who want to be sure that their buggies won't be crowded off the digital byways.Among other things, the report called for:• A new rights agency to clear copyrights for online distribution• A national anti-copying scheme to reduce online infringement• Recruiting ISPs to act as judge and executioner on their customers, making British internet connections liable to interference and disconnection on the basis of unsubstantiated copyright infringement claims• A scheme to prevent unlawful remixing and other creative usesThese recommendations represent a kind of wish list from the entertainment companies and telecoms giants, and what makes them especially troubling is their total disconnection with the actual, worldwide experience in establishing successful national broadband strategies. Where is the country whose internet has thrived as a result of draconian punishments for copyright infringement?If Britain's "digital roads and bridges" are to be successful pathways to economic recovery, then it behoves us to consider what has worked historically and globally. This evidence-based approach has much to recommend it, especially the fact that it is grounded in reality, not wishful thinking and special pleading.What recommendations could we expect to see in an evidence-based Digital Britain report?• Net neutralityAt its core, net neutrality is the idea that ISPs and telcos should deliver the packets you request, as quickly and efficiently as they can. Contrast this with non-neutral services where every transaction requires negotiation with and approval from a telco. So, while the internet has given us VoIP (voice over internet protocol) and unlimited free calling from literally hundreds of providers, non-neutral telecoms have given us per-minute billing with arbitrary, impossible-to-understand tariffs for "long distance" and "peak" calling (when was the last time you worried about sending a "long distance" IM?). The neutral internet is one on which any inventor can deliver any service he or she believes the public wishes - famously, it's one in which a British physicist could whip up a little document-sharing software, call it the world wide web and slap it online without having to hire a single smarmy salesman to convince a single telephone company to let him do it.But ISPs (and Lord Carter) argue that neutrality has had its day, and now we need to give permission to telecoms companies to secretly slow down or block access to certain services, granting "preferential" treatment to the kinds of companies who can afford the logistical and monetary cost of bribing them for "premier" carriage.There's no indication that this is good competition or network policy. Countries where network discrimination is widely practiced (like my native Canada) are finding themselves cut off from complete access to novel services like Twitter, and, of course, every single technology that we presently enjoy and profit from on the web (the web, blogging, IM, VoIP, streaming video, online games, etc) sprang into existence on the neutral net. Couple that with the best research from cutting-edge networks like the Internet2 research network that indicates that it's always cheaper to add network capacity than to discriminate in order to cut usage, and network discrimination should be a non-starter.Even more so, network neutrality - a guarantee that your ISP will fill your requests as best as it can, no matter what its commercial relationship with the person you're trying to talk to - is fundamental to securing Britain's digital "roads and bridges".• Anti-copying technologyRegular readers of this column know what's coming here: digital rights management (DRM) technology doesn't work, hasn't worked, and won't work. It is technologically impossible to hand someone a movie, let him take it home, and expect that he won't be able to copy it on his own computer. Computers copy. Things in computers are vulnerable to copying. End of story.The real irony of the Carter report embracing DRM is that the rest of the world is running away from it, very fast indeed. After all, the mega-game Spore was released by Electronic Arts with the notorious SecuROM DRM, and still went on to be the most pirated game of 2008. The iTunes Store is dumping DRM for music, and Amazon's DRM-free MP3 store is booming.What is it that Lord Carter and his advisers know about DRM that the rest of us don't? What magic tricks have they got hidden up their sleeves that can make computers worse at copying?If the objective here is to secure Britain's digital future, the most important thing we can do with DRM is avoid it. After all, DRM's most notable effect on the market is to undermine competition by making companies that produce add-ons to popular products liable to lawsuits because they have to break the DRM to do so. Britain today has a booming economy in small firms that refill and resell printer cartridges - interoperating without permission. But the software equivalent - making DRMed music and games play on new hardware, for example - is prohibited by law.Giving the whip hand to incumbents is no way to safeguard an innovative future.• Preventing unauthorised re-useThe internet generation is growing up in an age of configurable media, where the tools in homes can be used to remix and reimagine the media around them, giving them a fluidity and expertise in technology that may leave us with a generation of media experts ready to step up and become the next wave of British creators.Unless, that is, we continue to prosecute and harass these kids who are using the net to collaborate on and share their remixes, treating them as criminals. No one chased the Beatles through the streets of Liverpool, calling them criminals for playing the popular tunes of the day in order to learn their craft. But today, the multinationals and billionaires who control the rights to the Beatles and other British culture are doing everything in their power to shut down the kids who are noodling with culture using laptops instead of guitars.Lord Carter is proposing to shackle the experimenters who represent Digital Britain's future to safeguard some minor licensing streams for the winners of Britain's analogue past.A real Digital Britain strategy would seek to change the law to legalise noncommercial, transformative use.• Establishing a rights societyHere's an area where I believe Lord Carter got it half-right. P2P file-sharing isn't going away, no matter how much harassment and legal wrangling the record industry engages in. Rather than trying to stop P2P, it makes good sense to let ISPs opt into paying a collecting society a flat rate to legalize the activities of their users. This is how radio and live performance work - the collecting society takes a fee from the venue or the station, and the public don't have to worry about individually licensing every song.Alas, I fear that this isn't what the Carter report envisions - rather, I suspect that they're looking to models like the US SoundExchange, who notoriously turn the lion's share of their fees over to labels instead of artists, and whose licenses are so onerous that they've all but killed Internet streaming services.A licence fee should represent value for money, a breaking of the legal deadlock that has turned the public into criminals.• ISPs as enforcersThe idea that ISPs should be in charge of disciplining their users on the basis of unsubstantiated copyright infringement accusations is at odds with the rule of law and the future of Digital Britain.It's already the case that the internet delivers a free press, free association, free speech, education, health care, employment and many other critical services to the public. It's outrageous to consider stripping people of this critical resource without a due process - that is, without a trial, a judge, the opportunity to face one's accuser and hear the evidence against you.The evidence is in on self-help enforcement by entertainment companies. 30,000 US lawsuits and innumerable takedown - filed by the US arms of the same companies that seek this law here - have provided plenty of evidence about what happens when these companies are given the right to enforce without judicial oversight. They get sloppy and mean - they send takedowns over videos of adorable toddlers dancing in their kitchens while a copyrighted song plays in the background; they sue dead people.If Britain has a digital future, then it's a sure thing that the Internet will becomemoreimportant to Britons, not less, and should therefore bemoreprotected, not less.Legal scholar James Boyle describes copyright policy as an "evidence-free zone." This school of lawmaking has made a disaster of the young digital age. If we are to have a Digital Britain, we must formulate policy on the basis of fact and evidence, not special pleading and rent-seeking.
You've probably heard all aboutiShoot. Written by a programmer at Sun Microsystems in his spare time, this Worms-style artillery shooter blasted to the top of the App Store charts earlier this year and stayed there for weeks earning its creator enough money to pack in his day job and become a professional developer.You may also haveseen the newsthis week about nine-year-old programming prodigy Lim Ding Wen who has developed his own simple painting app for the iPhone. Doodle Kids is doing reasonable business, attracting 4,000 downloads in less than a fortnight and gaining its author international news coverage.There's no question about it, iPhone has become the people's platform. While the PC maintains a healthy indie development scene, Apple's handset, with its low barriers to entry and seamless consumer purchasing system, is the real rags-to-riches machine. In practically a month, you can develop an application that will be available to a global market of enthusiastic downloaders.Publishers? Distribution partners? Specialist development hardware? None of it is necessary. In the same way that cheap, accessible digital technology has brought film and music making to the masses, iPhone seems to have sliced through the painstaking game production pipeline. Everyone can be Will Wright now.Or can they? How exactly do you go about creating an iPhone title?I've spoken to iShoot coder Ethan Nicholas and two British studios involved in iPhone development  -FluidPixel, responsible for fun Lemmings-style platformer,KamiCrazyandConnect2Media's Manchester team, currently finishing off the hugely promising,Go! Go! Rescue Squad. Here are their tips to any burgeoning app stars…1. Buy a MacYou'll need one with an Intel-based processor, running the Leopard version of MacOS X. It doesn't have to be a top of the range model, though. Ethan Nicholas wrote iShoot on a banged-up old MacBook with 1GB of memory, knackered Wi-Fi and an Ethernet port that needed to be wiggled around to get it to work. The machine did however, afford him the manoeuvreability he needed: "most of my available development time involved holding a baby on the couch so my laptop was better suited to the task."Peter Scott, CTO at Connect2Media suggests Mac Minis, "they are more than powerful enough, small, easy on desk space when you already have PCs, three LCD monitors and a bunch of devices. They are also easy to move round, developers can take them home at the weekend if they want to continue to work."2. Down the SDK (software development kit)"Apple provides the free SDK for iPhone development from theirDeveloper site," explains Stuart Varrall, Creative Director at Fluid Pixel. "This includes everything you need to get going, including the development environment Xcode, the iPhone Simulator for testing, performance analysers, interface builders and the full documentation reference library."3. Learn Objective CThis is the primary programming language for iPhone development. "It's an extension of C to include object-orientated principles," says Varrall. "It has scripting elements to it, so is easier to pick up than some languages and anyone with programming experience should be able to transfer their skills.""Here's a short history of Objective C," offers Scott, "It was born out of Smalltalk which was a very early Object Oriented Programming language developed in Xerox PARC (where Window/Mouse computing really begun) and as a consequence was heavily adopted by Apple since as early as the Lisa. Smalltalk is very similar to C.""Objective C was actually created by Next Computing owned by a certain Steven Jobs. When Jobs returned to Apple, he sold Next to the company and so Objective C became the main development environment for the Apple Mac. It is liked because in similar ways to Java, it deals with many of the problematic parts of programming…. It's nice, simple, hides the complexities of the hardware away from the developer and deals with (on the whole) the major cause of programming issues in C and C++ which is memory leaks."Go! Go! Rescue Squad: written in C++, but Objective C is fine for iPhone-only projects.All well and good, but what's the best way to actually pick up the language? "This really depends on where you are starting from," explains Scott. "If you are proficient in C/C++ or Objective C then the learning curve is in getting to grips with the APIs of the iPhone - the best place to start is the iPhone developer site. If you need to learn the programming languages themselves then the best place to start is a beginners book, actually the For Dummies series is very good for this. Also look at one of the many free tutorials online - Googleing 'objective C tutorial' throws up many places to get these.""The official Apple SDK has a wealth of detail along with examples of implementing various features," adds Varrall. "The Apple developer forum is rapidly growing to be the best place for specific questions or to get further clarification on something". He also mentions that iPhone supports Open GL ES which allows heavy optimisation when working in 3D. So if you're thinking beyond a scrolling shooter or Tetirs clone, you'll need to look into that as well. Also, many professional studios write their games in C++ rather than Objective C, especially if they're planning to port the code onto other platforms such as N-Gage of Xbox Live Arcade.4. Start writing something!Forget theory; forget mastering Objective C with your first attempt. Just set yourself a project and start working. "I knew nothing about Objective C, Cocoa, or OpenGL prior to starting iShoot. In fact I barely even knew C," admits Ethan Nicholas. "I hadn't really touched it in a decade. I was a Java programmer for twelve years and it was quite an adjustment moving from a nice safe language like Java to one where a single misplaced byte can instantly crash your program."Nicholas' first aim – and this is more or less standard procedure in the development community when presented with a new platform – was to get something to appear on the screen. "The first thing I worked on was the ground. I wanted to create a destructible landscape with falling dirt. Since I had no idea how to load textures at that point, and had just grasped the basics of Objective C and OpenGL, my dirt "texture" was just solid white.  So the first thing I got onscreen was just a white rectangle that represented the ground.  My wife was fortunately tolerant enough to understand my excitement at getting anything, even just a simple white rectangle, on the screen."By day two, my featureless white rectangle had morphed into a properly textured landscape and most of the dirt-descruction code was working.  By the end of the first week I had a tank on the screen firing shots randomly, blowing holes in the ground.  When I finally got it on to an actual phone and not just the simulator, I found that it only ran at one frame per second, so I had some considerable optimisation work ahead of me."If you can't face starting out on an original project, however, Varrall suggests a couple of modification tasks. "The SDK actually comes with a whole host of sample projects that cover most aspects of development. So the best place to start would be to take one of those and reverse engineer it and work out how it has been constructed. You can then build on these by adding new features and create your very own game very quickly."5. Sign-up as an official developerIf you plan on releasing your masterpiece at any point, you'll need to sign up with theiPhone Developer Program. The Standard cost is $99, and it involves agreeing to Apple's terms and conditions, and signing and returning the contract. Even if you're nowhere near completing the project, you'll need to sign up in order to test your code on an actual iPhone rather than an onscreen emulator. Once you're on the Developer Program you're sent a certficate, which allows you to pair up with an iPhone device.6. Prepare for a few weeks of work…Depending on the time available, and your level of programming knowledge, developing an iPhone game can mean as little as a couple of months' work. "Including learning Objective C, Cocoa, and OpenGL, I spent exactly six weeks on iShoot," says Nicholas. "The hardest part was adjusting to an unsafe language... after twelve years working in Java, it's very difficult to get back into the proper mindset for debugging crashes.  I had one memory corruption issue where it turned out that literally only a single byte was being corrupted, and it didn't cause the program to crash until several minutes after the corruption occurred.  It took me three days to find that one…"KamiCrazy: six weeks to develop with a team of five...The professional studios I spoke to provided similar timeframes, though they involved teams rather than lone coders. "KamiCrazy took three months to develop part-time, so could be done in a month full-time," reckons Varrall, who used three programmers, one artist and a producer. "The programming was focussed on the most part into making the robust engine that drives the game and included the level editor, allowing the levels to implemented with ease. This means that this technology can be re-used and future titles could be turned around in less time. The art took three weeks in total to produce."7. Submit your app to AppleOkay, this is the big one. "Finished games have to be submitted to the App Store using the same interface as music producers use," explains Varrall. "It's a straightforward process of zipping up the file, uploading it with a description, a large and small icon, and screenshots. If everything is alright then it usually takes Apple a week to approve the content and it finds itself in the store. If there is a problem, such as obvious bugs or Lite apps that are mentioned as demos or aren't fully featured, then this can take longer to review and ultimately reject. In this instance you can fix the issue and resubmit as many times as you like.""Any iPhone developer will tell you that the provisioning and code signing is a pain, but once I had that sorted out the submission process was trivial," agrees Nicholas. "Fill in the fields, wait a few days, eagerly anticipate your first sales report... and then watch everybody completely ignore your app as you sell fewer than 20 copies a day.  iShoot wasn't exactly a resounding success in the beginning…"8. Adapt, market and survive!The work doesn't finish once you've made it onto App Store. As it's unlikely you'll have your own in-house QA department, some bugs and design issues may only surface when hundreds of gamers get their hands on the code. Consequently, it may be necessary to submit several alterations.And as Nicholas mentioned, don't expect an immediate response to the release – App Store is an open market, featuring around 20,000 applications and 2,000 games. To get noticed, you'll need to build a buzz around the game: engage with the development and gaming communities, start a blog about the programming process, produce screenshots and mail out press releases to iPhone news sites likePocket Gamer,Touch ArcadeandFingerGaming. And, of course, utilise social networking sites like Twitter, Facebook and Bebo.The iShoot profit graph: releasing the Lite version had a reasonably dramatic effect on sales of the original...Or just produce a free demo version. iShoot was widely ignored for several weeks before Nicholas decided to produce a cut-down 'Lite' version which he made available for free. "it quickly became the #1 free application, and iShoot sales followed suit. Here is an actual graph of my daily sales from iShoot's launch through to when it became number one. To put things in perspective, you see the biggest spike before iShoot Lite was released?  That tiny little bump?  That was Christmas Day, when I made over $500 in a single day. I was quite excited about that at the time."While at the top of the Paid Apps chart, iShoot was getting over 10,000 downloads a day, at $2.99 each. Take out Apple's standard 30% commission and Nicholas was pulling in $21,000 a day. He quit his job at Sun and is now working on a new game ("My next project involves airborne sheep, but I'm afraid that's all I can share at the moment"). You could be next….Useful linksStuart Varrall of FluidPixel kindly provided some helpful links for wannabe App developers…The KamiCrazy development blogThe official iPhone development siteiDevGames- a developers siteIphonedevsdk- a community development forumMobile Orchard- information and useful blog posts148apps- an app review site
Barack Obama has ordered a review of America's cyber defence strategy, opening the possibility of a wholesale change to the country's approach to online security.At the moment, a wide spread of agencies are involved in protecting the US from attack over the internet, including the Department of Homeland Security, National Security Council and the various branches of the military. That situation could be simplified, according to the results of the 60-day review announced by the White House yesterday."The national security and economic health of the United States depend on the security, stability, and integrity of our nation's cyberspace, both in the public and private sectors," said John Brennan, Obama's assistant for counterterrorism and homeland security, in a statement."The president is confident that we can protect our nation's critical cyber infrastructure while at the same time adhering to the rule of law and safeguarding privacy rights and civil liberties."The review will be overseen by Melissa Hathaway, a former consultant who was a high-ranking cyber security adviser to the Bush administration. She will temporarily take on the role of senior director of cyberspace until the completion of her work in April.The appraisal intends to measure precisely what online security measures are being taken, as well as point towards possible changes. It could eventually mean the White House is more involved in cyber security decisions – as well as bringing more power to national security adviser General Jim Jones.Online security is a growing concern for governments around the world, particularly as critical infrastructures such as communications, finance and transport become more reliant on the internet to work. According to former director of national intelligence Mike McConnell, the potential for chaos caused by an online attack on the US is enormous."If you get in our systems and you're trying to destroy banking records or electric power distribution or transportation, it could have a debilitating effect on the country," he told reporters recently.Last year, the US was involved in setting up aNato cyberdefence centre in Estonia– itself targeted by online attackers in 2007 – while more recently there have beenonline skirmishes in Georgia and Kyrgyzstan.On Sunday, vice presidentJoe Biden told Nato security officialsthat the threat of internet attack was among the White House's chief defence concerns. "Our alliance must be better equipped to help stop the spread of the world's most dangerous weapon, to tackle terrorism and cyber security, to expand the writ of energy security," he said.Although any report is likely to suggest increasing the level of partnerships with private companies to help the government, the Hathaway report could also prove something of a boondoggle for the technology industry. Some industry analysts suggesting that contracts to work on US cyber security could run in excess of $10bn by the end of Obama's term in the White House.Some questions about Obama's commitment to hi-tech reform remain unanswered. During his presidential campaign, Obama regularly referred to his plans to improve cyber security and the relationship with the technology industry in general. Despite stating that he intended to appoint the country's first chief technology officer, however, he has yet to name a choice for the role.The job, which would give an individual the responsibility of pulling together government technology and encouraging technological competitiveness, remains unfilled more than three months after the election – the last senior administration post to remain open.Recent speculation has focused on Vivek Kundra, the chief technology officer of Washington, DC – but areportthis week suggested he could instead be preparing to join the Office of Management and Budget.
We talked about thisrecentlybut early figures for 2009 suggest the UK is likely to overtake the Japanese games market - in revenue terms - this year. But as ChartTrack director Dorian Blochpoints out, the Japanese market is in a very different space to the UK.Japan is certainly in decline at the moment, mainly down to the fact that everyone seems to have already bought a DS or PSP, so hardware sales aren't driving software sales – although DSi is flying off the shelves. The very sudden decline of PS2 is also a factor. The Japanese market is about twice the size of ours, so there is room for manoeuvre in terms of people who had a DS four years ago and want a new handheld.The relative failure of the 360 is no surprise but the bigger story here is the failure of the PS3 to even begin to replicate the success of the PS2 in its home market. The Japanese success of the PSP - which has ever growing connectivity with the PS3 - should help in the long term, but Bloch thinks the it will be the new Nintendo DSi which will have the bigger impact.We need to wait until the middle of the year and have a firm date for DSi's launch. Then we'll really know what sort of year we'll have.
Tuesday's edtion of Chatterbox
People regularly draw a comparison between the music industry and publishing. The AmazonKindle, we are told, can be "the iPod of books"; everybody's desperate for the sort of radical success that iTunes has enjoyed; and they are fearful of the damage that digital media could do to an entrenched and slow-moving media business.Everyone's looking at the pattern they've seen in music and video - an old medium changed radically by technology - and waiting for it to hit the book world. But the chances of that happening right now are very small indeed. Why? It's fairly straightforward.The real reason that the music industry came around to the idea of downloads wasn't because they had a startling insight into the future, or even because Apple forced the issue by building a clever ecosystem around the iPod (it didn't launch the iTunes store until 2003). It was because customers were choosing to pirate instead.To put it less glibly, the publishing industry isn't being forced to confront a radical shift in consumer behaviour caused by technology, because that scenario just is not happening. Customers aren't forcing the issue by choosing to abandon books and read pirated text instead. And this means the problem isn't there to be confronted.Oh, yes, there are problems. The publishing industry is having trouble. People aren't buying books. Sales are down. Websites, supermarkets and megabookstores are taking over from smaller retailers and throttling the market.But unlike the music business - who saw those lost customers head straight to Napster, Kazaa or Gnutella - the average book reader isn't turning to legally dubious sources for their novels, or meeting up with book dealers on street corners to pick up copies of the latest bestseller. If they want to share files, they can get somebody to lend them a copy, or go to a place for sharing this information that's wholly supported by the industry (you might know them as libraries).But, when it comes down to it the real issue is that punters are just not bothering to buy as many books... or even any books at all.Authors and publishers are embracing technology when it works for them - as a promotional tool or sales channel - but if they don't act now to boost the electronic book market, it seems unlikely that they'd be surprised tomorrow morning when a pirate had stolen their breakfast.Piracy is a huge problem for industries that produce digital content, but right now you buy a book, not a text document hidden inside a sheaf of paper - however many ebook addicts might want to say otherwise. The book industry's distribution chains have been undermined by the rise of technology, but the physical product remains pretty solid.In fact, the way most publishers look at it, publishing an electronic bookencouragespiracy, because it puts in-copyright text into a digital format which even if it has been locked down by DRM will be broken out in a matter of time simply because it can.The music industry, meanwhile, created this change by switching to digital files instead of analogue recordings. Downloads may be replacing CDs, but that shift has only happened because the first technology enabled the second one. After all, without CDs to rip from in the first place, it would be a lot more difficult to get hold of music the way you want.I'm not suggesting that the only way the electronic book industry can succeed is by promoting piracy. But without it, there's no whip to crack. There's no easy cause and effect to startle the publishers out of their leather armchairs and into action.I suspect that the real change will come as more authors who are already part of the digital age push for new things. But that's a generational shift, and we're still a long way from it.It's not that I don't believe electronic books can't be a success - just that without an outside factor that can push things faster than the industry is comfortable with, progress is always going to be very, very slow.
Photo from Flickr. Some rights reserved.The latest release notes of Apple's Snow Leopard operating system - still in preparation - show that the company is going to build in geopositioning for desktop and laptop computers, bringing it into line with its GPS-enabled iPhone.The Guardian has seen the release notes accompanying the latest seed of the OS release, 10A261, which note thatThis seed includes the CoreLocation framework which lets you determine the current latitude and longitude of a computer. The framework uses the available hardware to triangulate the user's position based on nearby signal information. Additional details can be found at /System/Library/Frameworks/CoreLocation.framework/HeadersNow, what could you do with that? Well, apart from fitting in with the new location-enabled services in the latest version of Apple's iLife, one can see that there's going to be lot of people offering apps that will tell you where your precious computer is at all times - including if/when it's stolen.The new seed includes some other stuff (plenty about garbage collection) and we're hearing that it runs quite noticeably faster, at least on Apple's own apps compiled under the new gcc compiler. And it tells us thatgreat progress has been made in the Grand Central Dispatch (libdispatch) and OpenCL APIs.Grand Central and OpenCL, you'll recall, are the methods being used to get the graphics processing units (GPUs) totake over some of the processing load from the CPU.There's also now Microsoft Exchange support. Though a few bugs do remain, such as-The date shown in the iCal Dock icon does not update correctly.For God's sake! Steve Jobs takes a break and the whole thing gets broken!Still, it looks to me like it's still on schedule to satisfymy prediction of a May launch. But even if it misses, what will you use geolocation in your laptop or desktop for?
For sheer unadulterated belly laughs, Dead Rising, Capcom's Dawn of the Dead-pastiching zombie blast-'em-up, is hard to beat. Your first half an hour with the game consists of you repeatedly asking the semi-rhetorical question, 'No, I can't use that as a weapon, can I?!' Invariably you can, and it seems that each discovery is more amusing than the last. Until you try the lawn mower, at which point this flawed but exhilarating game reaches its comedy zenith.Well, today Capcom officially announced that a sequel is in development. Developed by Canadian studioBlue Castle Games, assisted by members of the original dev team and producer Keiji Inafune, the follow-up moves the zombie onslaught to Fortune City, a Las Vegas-style gambling Mecca, where you'll no doubt be able to swipe at the undead with one-arm bandits or flailing croupiers. From the press release:Dead Rising 2 is set several years after the infamous zombie invasion of Willamette. Unfortunately, the zombie virus was not contained at the conclusion of Dead Rising, spreading unchecked throughout the United States and Dead Rising 2 depicts a country where zombie outbreaks continue to strike.The promo video is pure neo-Zombie movie stuff - all jittery, jump cut news footage viewed as though pirated onto a handheld camera. Very 28 Days Later meets Zack Snyder's Dawn of the Dead. Interesting, but not funny enough. However, one screenshot releaesd by Capcom today shows the lead character attacking zombies with a giant mobile phone. That's more like it.
