What was the first album you owned? A fairly inane question perhaps, but it's one of those stock facts that all civilised human beings are expected to carry around, ready to whip out when awkward silence calls (for the record, my Mum GAVE me New Kids on the Block, Hangin' Tough. It's not like I liked it. Or listened to it. Much).Being asked to recall your first videogame, however, is something that happens pretty rarely. This is probably due to the preference for discussion of music over gaming in polite company, but its actually a much more interesting question.Games, for a variety of reasons, mean much more to most (male) children than music does – go to any playground today and I'll wager you'll hear 10 times as much talk about the new Call of Duty than the new Arctic Monkeys album (don't actually go to a playground, you might get in trouble).Games allow children to escape, imagine, entertain themselves, to play with and relate to other children. The consumption of music, before you're old enough to go to gigs, is a solitary experience. Until adolescence I had little problem deciding where my priorities lay.While you may have dim memories of listening to your first album in the back of the car on holiday in the Isle of Wight, a game, especially as a child, consumes all your attention for weeks, if not months, on end. When you're not playing it,  you're thinking about playing it. When you're not thinking about playing it, you're thinking about what game you want next.Also, while your first album was probably bought for you by knowing parents wishing to steer you towards their favourite band or simply away from scary rap music, videogames were something the generation before us knew nothing about. If my Dad bought me a Dizzy game, it was because I begged and pleaded him for it, not because of his nostalgic fondness for egg related puzzle games.Most likely, your first game was an active choice that not only reflected your young tastes but, through the sheer time spent engaged with them, helped develop them too. Games were (and still are) expensive, and deciding how to begin your collection (and then how to add to it) was a big decision - with no personal spending power you could be stuck with a dud all the way until Christmas.Taking these factors into consideration, it seems fair to say that your first game really says something about the gamer (if not the person) you've become. Had you had happened upon Sensible Soccer, you'd probably be playing Pro Evo right now. If you got stuck withElite, you'd probably be playing Civilisation. And have become an accountant.Just as I wish my first album had been London Calling or Astral Weeks, I'd like to be able to say that my first gaming experiences were with a Mario, or a Zelda. But no, the very first year of my console gaming life were spent playing two rather forgettable games  – Batman, and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, both for the NES. I didn't have any others. My choices were informed solely by my love of comic book characters. Decent games in their own respects (though TMNT was unforgivably tough) they instilled in me a love of platform games that endures to this day.Largely my likes, and dislikes – racing and flying games in particular – have remained constant ever since. How different it could have been if that NES had come bundled with Excitebike. Or, God forbid, I'd opted for a Master System.What was your first game? And do you think it made you the gamer you are today?
There has a lot written about mobile payments in Africa, particularly since the success of M-Pesa in Kenya (this BBC report has the basics).Mobile banking is certainly a growth industry across many African countries: indeed, my esteemed colleague Rick Wray reports thatUK-listed Monitise is hoping to extend the reach of serviceswith a deal to run new systems across a number of African countries.For Kenyans it is clearly an amazingly successful technology, and has generated all sorts of interesting opportunities for people who often live isolated rural lives or do not have access to the traditional banking structure.However, despite the soaraway success of M-Pesa, mobile payments are still in their early days - and while Kenya has eagerly embraced the system, one swallow doesn't make a summer. As such, I thought I'd share a really great post I read from theCGapthinktank (it stands for the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor, but I think we'll stick with the abbreviation) onwhy M-Pesa hasn't necessarily hit the heights outside of Kenya.The Web is full of stories singing the praises of Safaricom's M-PESA, a service that allows Kenyans to safely and cheaply send money to family and friends throughout the country using a mobile wallet. In neighboring Tanzania, M-PESA has been in the market for over a year. Yet it is not garnering the same level of media attention. Despite the close proximity of Tanzania and Kenya, the mobile banking landscape in each is quite different.Among the differences they note are the communities they cover (Tanzania is bigger and less densely populated than its neighbour), a change in marketing strategy and a different pricing scheme.While I'm not playing down the idea that mobile banking offers better living through technology, it's worth seeing that it is not simply the case that building the services will result in automatic success.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox – so chat away.In the meantime, you might want to take a look at this blogpost –What was your first game?– and share your memories with us …
&bull; Lots of Apple rumours ahead of news that the company will hold a product launch in early September (traditionally iPod territory).Gizmodoquoted an anonymous "insider" who suggests a tablet is due inbefore Christmas.The Loopsaysthere will be nothing tabletesque before 2010. Meanwhile, theWall Street Journalreports that the company's board is meeting next week to discussreplacements for Eric Schmidt.&bull; After yesterday'sprivacy kerfuffle, more bad news for Palm after a report byBarron'ssuggesting one analyst told investors thatPre production levels have been slashed by 500,000 units.&bull; You have probably seen the "Megawoosh" video doing the rounds - the guy wholeaps off an enormous waterslide and travels 100 feet before landing in a paddling pool. Unsurprisingly it's fake - a viral promo for Microsoft Germany, apparently.NewTeeVeehas the details on how it was done. Enjoy the weekend!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Chinese officials appear to have retreated from their controversial plan to install an internet filtering system on computers in the country.The industry and information technology minister, Li Yizhong, said today that the notion that the Green Dam programme would be required on every new computer was "a misunderstanding" spawned by poorly written regulations.He said all public computers in schools and internet cafes must install the software – but the government "respected the choice of individuals who do not install it". He said: "Those who overstated and politicised the issue, or even attacked China's internet regulation, are irresponsible," and added that pornography was the main target of the software.His comments appear to signal the end of the protracted debate about whether the Chinese government would force the introduction of the controversial software.Its initial plans met with fierce opposition when they were announced, with many internet users fearing that the software – which blocks pornographic, violent and politically sensitive content – would also be used to monitor behaviour, curb access to information and track users.At first it appeared that the campaign, which was backed by the US government, was gaining ground. However last month, hours before the programme was due to be implemented, officials briefed that there would be a delay, butthe plans would eventually go ahead.Today's announcement appears to make that suspension permanent, with Li saying the government would neither require the programme to come pre-installed on new computers, nor force computer makers to include the programme on a CD with optional software.The government had argued that the software was necessary to clear the Chinese web of "harmful content". But critics said it was a misguided attempt to put the internet genie back in the bottle by a Communist party that now had to answer to about 300 million web users."Green Dam is a mini great firewall placed inside every personal computer," said Michael Anti, an influential blogger in June. "The real logic behind it is that China is a big kindergarten in which even adults are treated as children that need to be 'protected'."The plans had sparked fierce opposition. Wen Yuchao, a journalist and blogger who goes by the online name North Wind, said that more than 1,000 netizens had signed up to his campaign to "climb" the firewall by signing up to proxy servers that bypass the government's controls. And a group of bandit hackers, known as Anonymous, threatened to attack Green Dam if it was launched.
A senior Microsoft executive has called into question the claim by rival web browser Firefox that it has been downloaded a billion times.Amy Barzdukas, a general manager at Microsoft in charge of the company's Internet Explorer browser, said that therecent announcement that Firefox has reached a billion downloadswas "interesting math"."As with any marketing statement, I'd encourage people to be somewhat sceptical about large number claims," she said."It's an interesting number and I have not seen the math [but] how many internet connected users are there? 1.1 billion, 1.5 billion, something in that area."Firefox claimed it had passed the 1 billion downloads mark at the end of July, a figure which includes every update and all downloads made since the program was first launched in 2004.Since its inception, Firefox has chipped away at Microsoft's dominant position and is now the world's second-most popular web browser with around 22% of the market, in comparison to an overall tally of 67% for the family of Internet Explorer programs.Despite the continuing disparity, the program remains a significant competitor to Microsoft, particularly poignant since it emerged as an offshoot of Netscape - the software company that famously clashed with Microsoft in the browser wars of the 1990s.Barzdukas also said that Microsoft would continue its support for Internet Explorer 6 – an 8-year-old version of the browser that is still the most popular way to view the web – until 2014.That is despite the fact that IE6 has come in for huge criticism thanks to its security flaws and outdated systems.Asked if IE6 provided a good experience for web browsing, Barzdukas said that "I don't think anybody would argue that". However, asked if it was preferable for users to upgrade to any modern, secure browser – rather than a program that currently has around 22 known security holes – she responded by saying that Microsoft "would prefer that they would move to IE8"."The reason that a consumer would still be on IE6 at this point is a lack of awareness or the 'good enough' problem," she said. "If you're satisfied with what you're doing and you're not particularly curious about new technology and don't really care, upgrading sounds like a hassle. Part of our communication needs to be making clear that there are significant advantages to upgrading to a modern browser."She refused to comment at length about the ongoing negotiations with the European Commission, which hasthreatened action against Microsoftover the inclusion of Internet Explorer with its Windows operating system.In July the companysaid it could include a so-called "ballot screen"which encourages customers to download any browser they choose. The proposal is still being considered by regulators, and Barzdukas said negotiations were taking place."We have posted our proposal. Nothing is final until it's final, and there are a number of questions about how the ballot would be designed," she said. "That's something we'll continue to work on with the commission."
American sex offenders face new crackdowns on their online activity after officials in Illinois made it illegal for those convicted of sex crimes to use social networking sites.The blanket ban, which turns membership of sites such as Facebook and MySpace into a criminal offence, is the latest attempt to try and limit the online activities of those convicted of sex crimes.The proposals were signed into law this week by Governor Pat Quinn, who also took the opportunity to make it illegal to groom children online, but did not comment on either move.Although several US states havesuccessfully lobbied websites to remove accounts belonging to sex offenders in the past, and many have proposed similar laws, it is believed to be the first time that a law explicitly banning any such activity has been passed.The move had widespread support from local officials, including senator Bill Brady, a state senator representing Bloomington."Obviously the internet has been more and more a mechanism for predators to reach out," Bradytold the Chicago Tribune. "The idea was, if the predator is supposed to be a registered sex offender, they should keep their internet distance as well as their physical distance."Quinn, who took over from disgraced predecessor Rod Blagojevich in January, has already enacted a number of laws aimed at regulating contact between sex offenders and their potential victims. Earlier this month, for example, he also made it illegal for anyone convicted of a sex crime to drive an ice cream truck or emergency vehicle.Nor is it the first time local officials in Illinois have made headlines for their approach to sex and the internet. In March, Thomas Dart, the sheriff of Cook county – which includes Chicago –filed a $100,000 (£60,000) lawsuit against classified advertising website Craigslistamid claims that it promoted prostitution.In Britain, grooming children online with the intention of abusing them has been illegal for several years, while the Home Office has proposed a similar ban on social networking activity.Last year Jacqui Smith, then home secretary,announced the plans- which would compel those on the sex offenders register to disclose their email addresses to the police. Under the proposals, if an account on a site like Facebook or Bebo was linked to that address, they could be imprisoned for up to five years.The Home Office reiterated this earlier this year, while social networks themselves made anagreement with European officialsto provide users with more ways to report abusive conduct.
You've got a wireless broadband connection. You want to be generous and leave it open for other people to use. But a friend says that other users might slow your connection or hack your system. You might get into even worse trouble if they use it to send spam, or download child pornography. What do you do?Is not protecting your Wi-Fi against your ISP's terms and conditions? Do you know?If it's not an unlimited connection, you could be charged extra for bandwidth. Does that change your view?The floor is open. A selection of your comments will be published in the next issue of the Technology section.
French daily newspaper La Provence had the headline Apple, sales boom… products go bust, after a teenager got "a tiny shard of glass in his eye after an iPhone literally exploded in front of him on August 7," reportsFrance 24. According to the TV news channel's web site:Romain, an 18-year-old from Aix-en-Provence in southern France, said his girlfriend's iPhone began making a hissing sound before the screen suddenly shattered, sending broken pieces of glass "flying in the air"."My son was frightened but he did not lose an eye," Kolega toldAFP. France 24 adds:France 24 contacted Apple for comments on the iPhone incident in Aix-en-Provence, but received no reply.The story refers to an earlier incident in the UK, wherean iPod Touch exploded.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
My piece in today's Technology Guardian explores someideas about the current state of Wikipediaas it heads towards the staggering 3 million articles barrier.Because the article relies heavily on numbers, much of it divined through the work of the Augmented Social Cognition group at Parc in California, I thought it was worth running through some of them here and highlighting some of the most interesting statistics.First, I have to say, there are some really good numbers fromstats.wikimedia.org, who do an amazing job of providing information despite the vast size of the database they're dealing with. From this graph you can see a little of the growth pattern: what was exponential growth between 2003 and 2007 has turned into steady growth since then. The curve doesn't change drastically, but that's sort of the point - it's steady, nothockey stick growth.Wikipedia growthBut the best graphs to show the things that are happening - and a sentimentwhich lots of commenters on the story seem to agree withis in editing behaviour, and how hard it is to get changes to Wikipedia to stick around.Parc's ASC teamhas a great blogworth reading for more, but two areas of the study are pretty illuminating. Editing activity is biased towards power users - those who contribute more than 100 edits each month.Meanwhile, the number of reverts - when somebody effectively clicks the undo button - has gone up massively, while remaining static for those power users.Note: this data excludes activity by vandals or bots.I find this fascinating. Does this show that Wikipedia is organising itself differently? And how? Has the community reached its natural limit?One final thing: I was also intrigued by the comment by Ed H Chi that ends the article - that the closest model for this is "population growth studies... where there's some sort of resource constraint".What, precisely, is the resource that is constrained on Wikipedia? Is it the number of editors (and by extension) the amount of time they have to edit? I am sceptical of this argument, since nobody is theoretically barred from contributing and there are more than a billion people online. Is it that enough human knowledge has been collected - the easy blanks filled in - that there is less new material to contribute? I certainly hope humanity can't be distilled into three million articles of encyclopedic knowledge.So what exactly is the scarce resource that's changing the face of Wikipedia? Any ideas?(Updated to fix missing third image of edits excluding robots and vandals.)Thanks to the ASC group atParcfor their work, especially those graphs we've reproduced. The full details of the will be published to time with theWikiSym 2009event in Orlando this October, but in the meantime, the team has been posting some data ontheir blog.
Under the impression that Wii owners are essentially casual gamers, happy with Wii Sports, Wii Fit and Mario Kart?Not according to Sega. Despite "disappointing" sales of the stylised and violent Wii titleMadworldSega president Mike Hayes is refusing to blame the platform itself.It's difficult because it was a critically acclaimed title; it was extreme but good. The thing that we're saying is, Sega would be extremely arrogant to have a title that didn't do as well as we thought on a platform and then say, "Those kind of games don't sell on that platform." I think if you take our slew of more mature games — House of the Dead Overkill did really well in Europe, and for some reason even though it's a big (intellectual property) it did less well in North America. So that's kind of like a win and a miss that's kind of come out neutral.So what does this tell us about "hardcore" games on the Wii?Sega recently released mediocre first person shooterThe Conduitfor the Wii. The popular genre is rarely seen on the Wii and Hayes feels the game has done well.We actually regard The Conduit as a success. We shipped 300,000 units, sold through half of those and now it's at the point where it's selling consistently at a time when Wii sales are generally depressed in the marketplace. So what does that tell you? We still kind of don't know.Despite the relative failures of Madworld and The Conduit – 300,000 units shipped? Let's wait for official sales figures – Sega seem committed to core games on the Wii.What we can say is that we'll still do mature games for the Wii market because with an install base of some 34 million in Europe and America (maybe half of whom don't own Xbox 360s and PS3s)…. So even if you took half of those where they're not into those (core) games, you've still got 8 million consumers to go for. So I think the sheer scale of the Wii allows a shooter, or a mature game, to be a niche but a successful niche. And because the development costs can be less on Wii, that means you can sell less to be successful…. We can take more risks on the Wii.Interesting and candid stuff from Hayes then. Most gamers will be pleased Sega are at least trying to bring more "mature" games to the Wii but how long can it go on for? Will another sales failure or two be the end of it?What do you think then? Can hardcore games – shooters etc – work on the Wii? And if so why are Wii owners not buying them?
&bull; Is Sony ready to launch a cheaper, slimmer PS3? As Keithnotes on the Gamesblog, speculation has gone wild ahead of Gamescom in Cologne. Outlets includingMCVhave reportedthat retailers have been told no new PS3 stock will be available for a month. MeanwhileKotakusuggests that the Xboxcould also see a price cut.&bull; Not long before the Palm Pre hits Britain - but now questions about the handset came to light after developerJoey Hessdiscovered that the phone reports back a lot of to Palm HQ, including your location and the apps you've downloaded.Pre Centralhas aclear writeup of the issues. Palm responded byissuing a statementthat said it wasn't doing anything unusual, and that customers could always turn the features off (although it didn't say how they could do so, or why Palm needs this information).&bull; It's already that time of the week, when you can pick up a copy of the Guardian and get the printed edition of Technology Guardian. In this week's issue, we askwhat's happening to Wikipedia? We talk to legendary Watchmen artistDave Gibbons; and we find out more about theresurrection of animatronics thanks to Walking with Dinosaurs. Oh, and there's much more besides: just 90p from your newsagent, or onlinehere.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I have a four-year-old laptop, a Dell Inspiron 6000. It does all I want. Except when it crashes. It looks like the hard disk is failing. Should I just replace that or go for a new PC? A new disk, though cheaper, will be harder work, and might not turn out to be the problem anyway.Mark OttawayIt's often hard to decide whether it's worth repairing a PC, and it's often harder with laptops: they tend to take more knocks and are more vulnerable to overheating than desktop PCs.You can replace the 2.5in IDE hard drive in an Inspiron 6000 for around £60-£120, for a certified drive, depending on the storage capacity. Reinstallation is simple if you have Dell's operating system disc, though you will have to reinstall your software. Of course, you will have to reinstall the same software and move the same data if you buy a new laptop for, say, £300-£500.Try running HDD Health frompanterasoft.comto see if it confirms that your hard drive is failing. If not, the problems may be with the motherboard, and this is relatively expensive to replace.Backchat: Peter Johnson says: "If you try to replace the hard drive with a larger one you will come up againsta limit Dell puts on the maximum hard drive size." This applies to systems pre-installed with MediaDirect versions 1 and 2, which have a"Host-Protected Area" (HPA)on the hard drive. However, Mark Ottaway reports that HDD Health says the drive is fine.Update 1: Since the problem has not been solved by reinstalling Windows, and no viruses are found, it seems most likely to be a hardware problem. However, it could be as simple as fluff and dust, especially if the laptop has been used on a rug or similar surface. On the Ask Jack blog (below), prdt28 says: "Turn the laptop over and use a vacuum cleaner (on its minimum power setting) to remove dust from the case." In extreme cases, you may have to take the case apart and blow the dust away. Any small particles that short the pins of a chip, for example, can cause crashes. So can loose cable connections.Update 2: Scott Hamilton says the idea of fluff and dust causing "shorts" is improbable but "the dust may of course affect cooling and the resulting overheating can cause failures. Your last sentence is more to the point. After more than 50 years working with electronic systems, my overriding experience is that cables and connectors are the primary sources of faults, and there are many hundreds of contacts involved, particularly with memory boards and with units peripheral to the motherboard. If Mark Ottaway feels confident, he can try at least wiggling all the cable connectors to see if this recovers a bad contact and stops the system crashing."
I was interested to read that iPlayer provides superior sound quality to DAB (Ask Jack, 6 August). Which would be the best way to connect my laptop to my hi-fi to take advantage of this?Stephen GellThe simplest connection is a Y-cable with a jack plug on one end and two RCA phono plugs on the other end. However, you will have to check the actual inputs and outputs for size and type. Connecting "line out" to "line in" or Aux should work, but on a laptop, you may have to use the headphone socket. The output may be too high, so plug the cable in with the hi-fi turned off, and start with the volume control at zero so as not to overload the amp.In some cases, if you have optical S/PDIF ports, you can make the connection with a Toshiba TOSLink or EIAJ digital optical cable. This should cut down the amount of electrical noise, which can be a problem with computer audio.There are also, of course, many wireless systems to make the connection, of which the best known is the Squeezebox.
Can I move Microsoft Publisher (boxed version) from my old PC running XP to my new Vista computer?John ScanlanMoving an application from one PC to another is not recommended, especially if either the hardware or operating system is significantly different. Microsoft provides freeWindows Easy Transfersoftware to move settings and data files but says, "you must first install the programs on your new computer". Sometimes, cheap software is sold tied to the PC it comes on, but you can always reinstall a boxed copy, so that's what I'd do.However, Laplink sellsPCmoveras "the only migration software that can copy, transfer and move PC applications, files and settings". If you try it, make sure you have backups and make a Restore point in case something goes wrong.
I had Acrobat 5 on my computer, which I uninstalled by mistake. Is it important? I also have Adobe Reader 7.Gail HébertAdobe Acrobat is a paid-for program for creating Adobe PDF (Portable Document Format) files. It's not part of the operating system and it seems unlikely that you ever used it, so no great loss.Adobe Readeris a free program for reading Adobe PDF files, of which there are many. However, version 7 is rather old: the current version is 9.1.Adobe Reader has had a number of security problems so you should ensure your version is fully patched (there have been 14 security updates for version 7) or uninstall it andinstall the latestone.Another free program,Secunia Personal Software Inspector, will check all the software that you have installed and tell you if you need any security updates.
Plenty of questions spring out of the case of Canadian technology company i4i, which has been awarded nearly $300m in a patent lawsuit against Microsoft that also led to a judge in Texasinjuncting sales of Microsoft Word.Will Microsoft actually stop selling the software? Will it wait for the appeal? Will it just pay the fine and settle with i4i to end the dispute?The software leviathan is staying tight-lipped on those issues, but there was another question about the case that I wanted to know the answer to: why was it held in Texas?As Jackpointed out previously, the Texas Eastern district is the most amenable to patent litigants in America - fast turnarounds, high success rates and big awards that make it a tempting destination for companies. This 2006 piece from MIT Tech Reviewexplains a great deal of background.I dropped a line to i4i's lawyers to ask them why they picked this district - after all, i4i is a Canadian company and Microsoft is based in Washington state. Was it just shopping around for a friendly court?"I4i sued in Tyler, Texas because the time to trial is short," Doug Cawley of McKool Smith, who was the lead lawyer for the company in this case, told me.He admitted that it was a so-called "rocket docket" but said that it wasn't the case that the judge in question was seen as friendly by patent litigants."In fact, Judge Davis in Tyler worked his way through school as a computer programmer and systems analyst, so he is familiar with this type of technology," he said.You can see some information on Leonard Davis's recent decisions onthe EDTexweblog, which is dedicated to the district courts of the Texas Eastern district. Among them, icrosofties might also be interested to know, Davisrecently rejected an infringement claim against Microsoft(and Nintendo) brought by Texan company Fenner Investments over a technology for connecting old joysticks to games consoles - so it's not entirely favourable to litigants.Cawley also added that the jury forewoman had a degree in computer science. I'm not sure whether that makes a difference or not. And still, it doesn't alter the fact that Texas Eastern has an extraordinary success rate for plaintiffs in patent cases, and that the district has little or no connection to the two companies involved.
Last week'senormous attacks against popular websitesare being largely referred to as a campaign by political activists toshut down the online presence belonging to anti-Kremlin blogger Cyxyxmu. And although there has been speculation over who was behind it, clear information has been hard to come by.However, I've received contact from one of the possible actors to say that they do not support the attacks - even though they disagree with Cyxymu's politics.The government of the Republic of Abkhazia, the disputed territory that lent Cyxymu his monicker, has said that it does not agree with the attempt to silence him. Here's the full statement from Christian Bzhania, a government spokesman:"The Government of the Republic of Abkhazia denounces last week's reported cyber attack on a Georgian blogger writing about the events leading up to the August 2008 war. We think the Internet is a powerful tool for sharing information and reaching beyond borders to encourage constructive debate."Our government strongly supports the right to free speech. The posting by the Georgian blogger was riddled with inaccuracies and falsehoods, but it doesn't excuse an illegal effort on the Internet to silence him. We will cooperate with any investigation into that incident."As an independent nation, Abkhazia is working hard to build a democracy, which includes the rights of its citizens to voice their opinions freely. Our government welcomes all opportunities to engage with the international community, including dialogue on the Internet. But our efforts to interact with the global community continue to be stifled by the policies of Georgia and its western supporters to isolate our nation. We hope the world will join us in encouraging Georgia to open the doors for a legitimate and respectful discussion about a path to peace in our region."(Some background information: the region announced that it was ceding from Georgia in the early 1990s, and pro-Georgian Cyxymu started his blog for refugees of the conflict that ensued.)Elsewhere, after a lot of confusion last week, people at the blunt end of the affair are now starting to discuss things in the open - not least Twitter co-founder Biz Stone, who istaking to the televisionto discuss the events with an appearance on America's Tavis Smiley show (due to air tomorrow). He suggested that the company would take lessons from Google - which was also targeted, but resisted the strikes - on how to fend off the bad guys."What we learned from this was you've got to tune your systems to be able to handle this level of assault, this scale of assault. You know we spent a lot of 2008 catching up with a lot of the popularity of the Twitter, unexpected popularity, getting their technically so we're stable - and along comes this massive attack," he said. "We learned a lot from it: we worked behind the scenes with folks from Google and other companies to figure out how to stop the attacks and how to better deal with them in the future."Update:Silicon Alley InsiderandWiredare both excited by Stone's comment that Twitter worked with Google during the attacks. However, that's not new information: the collaboration between the companies (and Facebook) was somethingwe revealed on the day of the attacks.
In case you've missed all the speculation, industry news source MCVhas revealedthat videogame retailers are finding it increasingly difficult to buy in PS3 stock - this has led several to suspect an imminent price drop, and a hardware re-design. Indeed, there werereportstwo months ago that Sony has two factories in Taiwan primed to start manufacturing slimline versions of the machine. And of course, weknowthat production costs have been slashed by 70% and there's nothing a global corporation likes to do more than pass on savings to the consumer. We should all know for certain next week: Sony is set to announce its plans at theGamescomevent in Cologne.The global install base for PS3 hit 23.8 million at the end of last month, according to Sony. However,current figuresare showing declining sales in the last financial quarter for all of the current consoles - though this can be explained as a seasonal phenomenon: the industry tends to slow down in the summer months.So is this Sony reacting to the recession or seeking to gain on its closest rival, the Xbox 360, in an absolutely key winter period? Or is the manufacturer merely following a well-worn tactic for gradual price reduction? It'll be a bit of all three, naturally. What's clear is that an autumn 2009 release for a slim machine would mean that the PS3 is working to a more accelerated timeline than its predecessor. PS2 received its first major physical makeover in 2004, four years after launch. PS3's could be coming within three years. The pricing is more or less concurrent, though.So, current price £299.99. Shall we take bets at £249.99 for the 80GB model? Lower?
We're all familiar with open-source software, such as the Apache webserver or theLinuxOS, but in the last few years, open-source hardware projects have risen in popularity, including the open-source electronics platformArduino.Open-source hardware has a long history that predates computers with the amateur radio community; and personal computing in Silicon Valley rose out of the hardware hackers of the Homebrew Computer Club.At its heart, Arduino is a programmable microcontroller, which was developed in Italy in 2005. You can connect the microcontroller via a serial or USB connection to a computer running Windows, Mac OS or Linux, and program it using the free open-source integrated development environment.Arduino is often described as a physical computing platform because you can use sensors to measure motion, light or temperature, and to flash LEDs or lights, sound buzzers or run motors. Arduino also has communications extensions that add Bluetooth, Ethernet or wireless-mesh networking capabilities, and can be triggered by events on the web or via web APIs.During the Guardian'srecent hack day, Arduino was used to create a robot that responded to hashtags on Twitter. It powered a device to alert journalists when people were reading their stories, and the team from Arduino consultancyTinker.itbuilt a leaderboard that measured responses to the Twitter accounts of the main British political parties.Alexandra Deschamps-Sonsino, CEO of Tinker.it, says all kinds of people are using the platform, including hobbyists and engineers but also artists and designers – people who don't have a technical background. Clothing designers even use Arduino with special circuit boards that can easily be sewn into fabric.You can buy pre-built Arduino boards or, true to the open-source movement, can download plans and build your own. To rapidly create prototype projects many Arduino enthusiasts use solder-less breadboards. To get started Deschamps-Sonsino suggests going to the "playground" on the Arduino website. It has a list of projects broken down by difficulty and purpose. For instance, there are audio, visual, and communication projects, as well as physical or mechanical projects.Tinker.it and other Arduino suppliers, such asSparkFunin the US, can sell you microcontrollers, lights, sensors and other components for the projects. Tinker.it also holds workshops, and with hardware hacker Maker Faires you can see what's possible with Arduino and other open-source hardware platforms.If, like me, you're taking a stay-cation, Arduino may be a great way to relax and try something new with open-source tech.
Snow Leopard, the next version of Apple's Mac OS X desktop operating system, has moved to Golden Master status, according to reports within the Mac blogosphere. That should mean it's a formality for it to be mass-produced and put into boxes.That's roughly two weeks after Microsoft's Windows 7 also hit the gold stage - with Steve Ballmer beingphotographed holding a golden disk. (We really hope it wasn't *the* gold disk. We really hope they had the real one locked up somewhere safe where nobody could get their sticky fingers all over it.)Anyway, this now allows the speculation to begin on when precisely it will go on sale. Apple has said that it will be "in September". The Unofficial Apple Weblog, which is... well, what it says,suggests Friday September 25th. Given that Windows 7 is going to be installed on machines on sale from October 22, to be distributed to many more companies for installation during manufacture, that's possible. Late in the month is probably better: it gives people time to return from their holidays and arrange the pencils on their desks.(Update: Noted Apple-watcher John Gruber issuggesting that it could be on sale as early as Friday August 28. His sources are often good, but I find that timing hard to believe as it gives the marketing machine no time to swing into gear, and people just aren't around in mid-to-late August.)Snow Leopard won't run on older PowerPC-based Macs, andAdobe has announcedthat the next version of its Creative Suite software will only run on Intel-based Macs (the last PowerPC models were made in 2005; from 2006 it was all Intel-based. Thanks toMactrackerfor enabling the checking.)So it's either update or leave it behind. Snow Leopard won't bring dramatic new features - though it should enable GPU-based processing, asdiscussed in the latest Tech Weekly podcast. That alone might make a dramatic difference to some work.Other pieces related to Snow Leopard and GPUs:•The piranhas of processing await•Apple's Snow Leopard prepares to show off its spots•Amid the expectation, Apple plays it safe
When has a PC had it?I have a four-year-old laptop, a Dell Inspiron 6000. It does all I want. Except when it crashes. It looks like the hard disk is failing. Should I just replace that or go for a new PC? A new disk, though cheaper, will be harder work, and might not turn out to be the problem anyway.Mark OttawayJS:It's often hard to decide whether it's worth repairing a PC, and it's often harder with laptops: they tend to take more knocks and are more vulnerable to overheating than desktop PCs. You can replace the 2.5in IDE hard drive in an Inspiron 6000 for around £60-£120, for a certified drive, depending on the storage capacity. Reinstallation is simple if you have Dell's operating system disc, though you will have to reinstall your software. Of course, you will have to reinstall the same software and move the same data if you buy a new laptop for, say, £300-£500. Try running HDD Health frompanterasoft.comto see if it confirms that your hard drive is failing. If not, the problems may be with the motherboard, and this is relatively expensive to replace.iPlayer hi-fiI was interested to read that iPlayer provides superior sound quality to DAB (Ask Jack, 6 August). Which would be the best way to connect my laptop to my hi-fi to take advantage of this?Stephen GellJS:The simplest connection is a Y-cable with a jack plug on one end and two RCA phono sockets on the other end. However, you will have to check the actual inputs and outputs for size and type. Connecting "line out" to "line in" or Aux should work, but on a laptop, you may have to use the headphone socket. The output may be too high, so plug the cable in with the hi-fi turned off, and start with the volume control at zero so as not to overload the amp. In some cases, if you have optical S/PDIF ports, you can make the connection with a Toshiba TOSLink or EIAJ digital optical cable. This should cut down the amount of electrical noise, which can be a problem with computer audio. There are also, of course, many wireless systems to make the connection, of which the best known is the Squeezebox.Migrating applicationsCan I move Microsoft Publisher (boxed version) from my old PC running XP to my new Vista computer?John ScanlanJS:Moving an application from one PC to another is not recommended, especially if either the hardware or operating system is significantly different. Microsoft provides free Windows Easy Transfer software to move settings and data files but says, "you must first install the programs on your new computer". Sometimes, cheap software is sold tied to the PC it comes on, but you can always reinstall a boxed copy, so that's what I'd do. However, Laplink sells PCmover as "the only migration software that can copy, transfer and move PC applications, files and settings". If you try it, make sure you have backups and make a Restore point in case something goes wrong.Adobe acrobaticsI had Acrobat 5 on my computer, which I uninstalled by mistake. Is it important? I also have Adobe Reader 7.Gail HébertJS:Adobe Acrobat is a paid-for program for creating Adobe PDF (Portable Document Format) files. It's not part of the operating system and it seems unlikely that you ever used it, so no great loss. Adobe Reader is a free program for reading Adobe PDF files, of which there are many. However, version 7 is rather old: the current version is 9.1. Adobe Reader has had a number of security problems so you should ensure your version is fully patched (there have been 14 security updates for version 7) or uninstall it and install the latest one. Another free program,Secunia Personal Software Inspector, will check all the software that you have installed and tell you if you need any security updates.Backchat• Maurice Richardson supports my recommendation of Serif's PagePlus as a cheap way to produce leaflets and posters. He says the Liberal Democrats "use PagePlus exclusively, producing thousands of leaflets across the country. Here in Hatfield the local history society also uses it, as do many others, because of its low cost and ease of use."
Alan Mercer was at his desk in the regional capacity building bureau in Assosa, western Ethiopia, when a man burst into his office, distraught. Right at the end of a four-year master's degree programme, he had lost the only copy of his thesis to a computer virus. Mercer, an IT trainer with Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO), wasn't surprised. "Show me an Ethiopian computer without a virus and I'd ask which foreigner it belongs to," he says.While western countries have partially learned to neutralise the threat of computer viruses, Africa has become a hive of trojans, worms and exploiters of all stripes. As PC use on the continent has spread in the past decade (in Ethiopia it has gone from 0.01% of the Ethiopian population to 0.45% through 1999-2008), viruses have hitched a ride, wreaking havoc on development efforts, government programmes and fledgling businesses.Infection rate"It wouldn't be unreasonable to say 80% of all computers you find in Africa will have some nastiness on them," says Tariq Khokhar, the chief development officer of Aptivate, a non-governmental organisation that focuses on IT. This compares to around 30% in the UK, according to Panda Security. The cost is hard to measure, but ask IT consultants and development workers about the impact, and the stories pour out. Mercer tells of an agriculture bureau employee who lost the multi-year plan for agricultural improvements for the Benishangul-Gumuz region, Ethiopia's fourth poorest area. Jeremy Brown, an IT consultant in Cameroon, says that one client was operating with more than 200 infected files, drastically slowing down its PCs, corrupting confidential information and exposing it over the internet. Even the Congress of South African Trade Unions found in May that its website was spreading viruses to visitors. "Viruses are pretty endemic," says Brown. "All organisations and individuals are affected by them."Viruses spontaneously reboot computers, destroy vital data, and clog Ethiopia's already severely pinched internet connection (it is not unusual to wait 10 minutes to access a single web page). The result: funding applications delayed, small businesses hurt, and hours wasted. "PCs that were bought with limited funds or donated sit collecting dust in the corner of the room because they have been devastated by viruses," says André Mohamed, an IT professional in Ethiopia. "It's a major reduction in productivity and efficiency.""Viruses are our enemy," says Debebe Fikreselassie, the head of ICT at the Benishangul-Gumuz bureau where Mercer is a VSO volunteer. "We are installing free antivirus but the behaviour of the virus is changing [over] time … and developing countries lack money to buy licensed antivirus like Symantec."That hits the nail on the head, agrees Tim Unwin, the Unesco chair of ICT4D, an IT development collective at Royal Holloway, University of London. "The fundamental problem is that institutions in much of the developing world cannot afford the antivirus [AV] protection that those in richer countries can," he says. Khokhar agrees. "For Africa, the cost of AV is pretty damn high. An annual licence of £30 per user per year can get pretty daunting when you've got 1,000 users."Without special pricing, poor countries are forced to rely on free antivirus products, such as AVG. "Writing antivirus software is a fairly brain-intensive task, and AVG just don't have the resources," Khokhar says. "It's not to say something's not better than nothing, but ultimately, the viruses that are going to cause real damage are going to get through."Brand-new PCs are often ridden with viruses from the start when vendors install pirated, infected copies of Windows – Khokhar estimates that around a third of pirated software is already infected. And even when antivirus software is installed, it is almost impossible to keep up to date. The daily update of new virus definitions from Symantec is around 40MB; McAfee's is around 100MB. "On a 56Kb dialup link, we are talking all day to download," Mercer says. Sometimes the update file is removed and replaced by a newer one before the download has had time to complete."The entire national bandwidth for Ethiopia, I can simulate that in my house," Khokhar says. This keeps Ethiopia off the antivirus software provider Kaspersky's annual list of the top 10 countries both originating and being targeted by viruses; in 2008, China led both categories. The Eastern Africa Submarine Cable System (EASSy) would help Ethiopians download antivirus updates faster, but would also expose them to more attacks. "If you wanted a way to get [African countries] on to that top 10 list of countries affected by viruses, the first step is to install a big internet connection," Khokhar says.The financial and technical problems are compounded by the developing world's dire shortage of IT education. "The IT degrees here are totally theoretical. People do not understand the concept of backups, antivirus and data security in the first place," says Mercer.Computer viruses are not the only reason Africa lags behind the west in IT development. Electricity supply, training, and bandwidth management issues make e-business a pipe dream in most places. But people are fighting back. Mercer does a day of antivirus and power-protection training as part of all his training courses, as do many people at VSO on an informal basis.Throw out WindowsUnwin says replacing Windows with Linux would help (80% of viruses are written in China, where Windows dominates). The Ethiopian government has, in fact, made open source software central to its IT plans. Khokhar says it's no magic solution. "If you suddenly had an increase in Linux or Mac use in China, you'd find those two platforms are just as vulnerable." Using better software in general, he argues, would be a better place to start. "If you could somehow clobber RealNetworks, Adobe and Microsoft to say, 'Can you please write software that doesn't have that many exploits, or if exploits are identified, have some mechanism for closing them more quickly' – then that would really help."It's a good bet that virus writers devising ever more ingenious ways of sticking a knife between Microsoft's ribs rarely consider where their handiwork ends up."I'd take them to Ethiopia," says Mercer. "I'd show them the man who lost his agricultural development plan to the virus he wrote. Then I'd show him the kids who will die in two years because the agricultural reforms came too late and the annual harvest failed because the agricultural development plan at the regional agricultural bureau was destroyed by his virus."The sad irony is that Ethiopia's enthusiastic embrace of the computer has made it more vulnerable, as people start dispensing with paper records. "Now, with no backup, and important data on a computer, they are at risk – they have something to lose," Mercer says. Mohamed agrees: "The computer, instead of being an enabler for development, often becomes a hindrance."
It was a week of horror, anger and recrimination on the blog, as this carefully constructed virtual society threatened to collapse in on itself in a haze of bloody gore and, well, bloody Blood Bowl.Reporting from the front line for the very first time was Umboros, who ploughed manfully through the rage and death to bring us this week's super-compact 'Best of'.And keep those photos coming in - you know the drill; anything videogame related, landscape format, clean. Gamesblog + googlemail + comOver to Umboros...August 3-7, 2009Monday got off to a bumbling start as weekend hangovers gradually gave way to working week blues. The recession is hitting us all hard and early chat revolved around the best place to get a cheap Wii motionplus sensor. It was a theme to be echoed throughout the week with numerous tasty summer bargains shared on our erudite corner of the internet. Plans are formed regarding a visit to the Monster Hunter Gathering Hall. With rumours of free beer it's a surprise there hasn't been a mass blog exodus.Things were going well with an unusual amount of game chat, until the subject of 'the worst accident you've ever been involved in' reared its bruised head. It's not often that Chatterbox turns into a contest of one-upmanship (outside of my own geek stories) but Monday afternoon quickly turned into a gore-fest that could turn the stomach of hardened Saw fans. Chubster2010's recollection of a 'helper' posing for a photo as Mrs C suffered two broken arms is guaranteed to restore faith in humanity. Far worse however, was news that Alfienoakes and Kezabien have both witnessed messy suicides first hand. Alfienoakes' story involving a motorway bridge, a corpse and a speeding car is unsuitable for a weekly technology digest.Having offered up the worst that occurs in the world, Tuesday was a return to geekdom as the Blood Bowl league kicked off. Simian has possibly taken things too far with his full match report. Can we expect match programs, scarves and Chatterbox firms arranging hooligan violence in the future? Plenty of chat about UFC, but a slow day was brightened by Mollocate's breakdown in the face of sobriety. Pilfering his colleagues' pockets was the best advice offered up by our entrepreneurial crew in a bid to find some intoxicants. It seemed to work.Wednesday got off to an extremely tetchy start, with Cameroon asking what annoyed us most. His vote was for a co-worker who had the misfortune to slurp his breakfast in Cam's earshot. The London Underground was an understandable source of stress for many bloggers, as were tourists, dilly-dallyers and pensioners. Reclining airplane seats were a great divider; surely they are there to recline? "Unless you're on a night flight you should really leave your seat upright," is the gospel according to Limni.Getting over the pent up frustration from the morning, Jimbob decided to be proactive with his question: "Using only the objects immediately within arms reach, what would be your first choice to kill as many as your co-workers as possible?". Answers varied from the traditional letter-opener stabbing to the inventive use of a tin of spam.Upset at the four-sided dice chat, TonyHayers and Goody turned to more mainstream pursuits and set up the fantasy football league for all the budding Skinners and Badiels on the 'box. It's for the sportsmanship, for the glory and most importantly for the arguments and bickering over who has cheated by signing Chelsea or Manchester United players.Team building exercises were the order of the day on Thursday. From hitting frogs with sticks (not an RSPCA approved outing) to visiting bird sanctuaries, the audacity of employers and their determination to make colleagues socialise as well as work proved too much for regulars. Again and again we prove what a merry bunch we all are deep down. As long as you don't try and talk to us.The chat degenerated (again!) from there to who on the blog had paid for sex. No-one was prepared to admit to this, however both NickT and Dizzyisanegg have allegedly been offered cash for their 'services'. As the day progressed bickering broke out amongst many parties about the appeal of UFC - or lack of it - and who are our worst bloggers, making me wonder why any of us bother coming here in the first place. A rousing suspicion that Limni is secretly taking note of all our weaknesses caused enough concern among the regulars to ignite a Mutually Assured Destruction blackmail scheme, which if it came to fruition would cost half of the bloggers their jobs and boost the UK's productivity considerably.Friday saw the first impressions of Eidos' new Batman game. Most bloggers were underwhelmed after the hype and delays. Philosopher King summed it up: "Boring, boring, boring. Not un-pretty (but what Unreal engine game is?) but no environmental interaction, repetitive combat, bizarre camera... I gave up and deleted it."SilverFox was welcomed back after months of absence, having been the unfortunate victim or a burglary. Various prized possessions were stolen, including irreplaceable sentimental items: his PS3 with Wipeout HD. We then learned of all the ways demonic insurance companies ensure they don't have to pay you any money. There are more than mortal men could dream of. Much of the day was spent arranging the Monster Hunter meeting for the London PSP fans. Is it safe to post your phone number on the blog? Shewrog wasn't scared to find out.Friday ended with Cunning's revelation that the blog has spawned a loving relationship between Automatic and himself. It is nice too see a beacon of humanity in a week where relationships were strained. Next week we find out if everyone survived the Monster Hunting…Quote of the weekAutomatic "God damn, they're all so cute that I'm going to be puking rainbows shortly!". Now the real test of the relationship; will Cunning hold your hair?Other quotes"I really need to get myself some better armour, as the stuff I've got now just doesn't have enough defense and even the big chickens are dealing me some brutal damage."Sounds like Office Pest needs a new job."My worst experience was having to drive someone with badly burnt hands to hospital. The smell was awful, mainly as it just smelt like cooked meat, quite tasty."Davefalse skilfully manages to combine a bad accident with cannibalism."In a general free for all, the old b*****s clump together and float from side to side like an organic floating nursing home that's lost it's moorings."Luckily this is just Mollocate's local swimming pool, not the river Clyde.MoviesAntichrist, Blood: The Last Vampire, The Proposal, Bruno, Versus, Gone Baby Gone, Bronson, Mega Shark vs. Giant OctopusMusicThe Shamen, Mos Def, The Stone Roses, Lady Gaga, F**k Buttons, Health,BooksConsider Phlebas, Ulysses, The Stand, The Spanish Civil War, Century Rain, The Road, House of Cards, The City and The City, Money, Zombie Survival Guide, WWE Wrestlers' autobiographies
The new BlackBerry Curve 8520 leaves me feeling like Sonny, the young boy who befriended Skippy the Bush Kangaroo. I know it is trying to tell me something. I just cannot work out what it is.What's that, Curvy? I have a Facebook update? No. Is it an instant message? Or what about a phone call? No, not that either. Is someone offering me their "sexxxi pix" on Twitter? Unfortunately not. Perhaps Uncle Wayne has fallen down a mineshaft again? Or has your battery just run out?First things first. I did not read the manual – frankly, there wasn't one, though that may just have been because the box that I received had already been pilfered - but having used the very easy-to-navigate setup wizard I had the BlackBerry device synced seamlessly with my webmail, so I was not overly concerned. I then slid across to the BlackBerry Apps store – which for some unknown reason is not on the home screen collection of six icons but buried in the BlackBerry menu underneath it – and downloaded a few applications. Well, whoever had the handset before me had already stuck TwitterBerry and Facebook on it and I just added a few free news apps, but downloading them is a doddle, even though the device lacks 3G connectivity. Having been scared out of my skin on numerous occasions by unfamiliar handsets suddenly ringing at me with ear-splitting force, I then switched the whole thing to silent via the profiles icon. I logged into a few of the apps and got sidetracked by my emails.Then the buzzing started. Ah-ha, it will have alerted me to something. But there is no big friendly message on the home screen telling me why it wanted my attention. Then it went off again. Still nothing. But wait – what's this at the top of the screen? Squinting closely, there is a little email icon with a number next to it. Oh, and a Facebook icon with the number 2 next to it. And a weird clock thing. Hunting around the BlackBerry's menus (and trust me, there are a lot of them: every application has its own menus – just click the Blackberry icon or the trackpad; and different bits of the same application have different menus) I discovered that its default setting is to alert you to absolutely everything. The email icon is easy enough to understand, but what two things I had from Facebook I never did find out, despite numerous visits to the application. In desperation, I ended up pawing at the little icons, wishing it had a touchscreen, like a drunken late-night shopper at Tesco who has opted for the self-service checkout rather than face slurring at a human being. I kept expecting the device to shout "unidentified moron in the graphical user interface".Yes, the optical trackpad is a nice departure from BlackBerry's usual trackball, and when it comes to email the myriad of menus give way to single clicks, but this is a BlackBerry device so you'd expect it to get email right. It's the interaction between apps and device where things start to fall apart and where RIM still has a lot of catching up to do with Apple. The Curve 8520 is BlackBerry's new "entry-level" phone – though it is likely to appeal most to corporate users looking to save money – and it's free on Vodafone for anyone willing to sign up to a two-year contract at £25 a month. After that amount of time, I'd have gone mad.Pros:Responsive qwerty keyboard that makes email very easy.Cons:Over-reliance on confusing menus; poor integration with apps.uk.blackberry.com
As the song goes, a man&nbsp;hears what he wants to hear and  disregards the rest. Of all the indictments in the Conservative-sponsored independent review of the NHS's £12bn computerisation programme, the most damning may be its account of the way that the programme's originators wilfully disregarded painfully acquired wisdom.The new study, led by the healthcare informatics veteran Dr Glyn Hayes, observes that the National Programme for IT followed closely on the heels of two important reports.The first was on a series of IT pilot projects at 19 NHS demonstrator sites between 2000 and 2003. That programme, called ERDIP, tested the technical and ethical boundaries of creating community-scale electronic health records.You would have expected the national programme to absorb and build on this work, rather as the Apollo moon programme learned from the Gemini programme about manoeuvring spacecraft in orbit. Instead, ERDIP was airbrushed from history. The independent review finds it "extraordinary that the ERDIP recommendations were largely ignored".The reason, of course, was that the ERDIP findings were inconvenient. The evaluations stressed the need for closely involving system users – and patients – in the design of electronic records, and for introducing IT as part of improvements to patient care, not as an end in itself. This implied that the national programme's massive scale and gung-ho timetable were unrealistic.To return to the space example, it's as if the Gemini programme had concluded that many more years of work was needed before spacecraft docking became a realistic proposition. Even in the go-go 1960s, Nasa would have paused for thought.The NHS could dismiss inconvenient criticisms and, in the national programme's early years, it was doing its best to control the flow of information about its IT projects.Executives deployed "commercial confidentiality", misleading press releases (including one covertly modified after publication) and even the threat of legal action to deter critics.Which leads me to the second fount of wisdom ignored by the NHS chiefs. Hayes's review calls attention to a study called The Challenges of Complex IT Projects, published in April 2004 by the Royal Academy of Engineering and the British Computer Society. This identified a series of reasons why large-scale public sector IT projects tend to go wrong, and suggested steps to mitigate the risks. Again, it stressed the need for closely involving users in development, rather than foisting systems upon them. Again, the findings were ignored: the NHS tried to impose remotely procured standard systems.Hayes's review says that "in an ideal world", the ERDIP and Complex IT Projects reports would already have been heeded. However, "since they have&nbsp;been largely neglected, it is important that they play their part in this review and, where there is still scope for redirection, shape future developments".I can go one better than that. Almost unnoticed outside the specialist press, the institutions behind the Complex IT&nbsp;Projects report published a follow-up last month, calling for the adoption of engineering values in IT. Predictably, this means putting a professional  engineer in charge. But it also means building large systems in incremental steps from firm foundations, without tolerating the level of software error that is the norm in many commercial products.Most significantly, the report notes a distinguishing characteristic of engineering: that, "when a major failure occurs, the root causes are investigated, and the lessons are learned by the whole profession". However inconvenient those lessons may be.If we take only one message from the spate of investigations into the NHS's foray into large-scale computerisation, let it be that one.
The patent-friendly US District Court of Eastern Texas has granted i4i an injunction that prevents Microsoft from selling copies of Word that infringe its XML patent. This would affect copies of Word that can open .XML and .docx files containing custom XML, including Word 2003. Microsoft has 60 days to comply.i4i (Infrastructures For Information) is a Canadian software company with about 30 employees. It sells, among other things, software for manipulating XML in Microsoft Word.Judge Leonard Davis ordered Microsoft to pay $40m for wilful infringement, $37m in prejudgement interest, and $21,102 per day until final judgement is reached.Microsoft will appeal rather than remove the XML functionality or withdraw Word. If it loses, then presumably i4i will seek to enforce its patent against other companies, too.The Microsoft Blog at Seattle PIreports:"We are disappointed by the court's ruling," Microsoft spokesman Kevin Kutz said in a statement. "We believe the evidence clearly demonstrated that we do not infringe and that the i4i patent is invalid. We will appeal the verdict."It's not clear why he was disappointed. The Eastern Texas court is widely regarded as the home for "patent trolls" and litigating software companies (not all patent trolls) seem to like it a lot.The Patent Prospectorhas pointed out some of the reasons:What litigators already know: rocket dockets are the best bet; jury trials trump bench trials for awards; being plaintiff is advantageous. East Virginia and Western Wisconsin have the fastest rockets in their dockets, but offer only an average 50-50 chance of success. Mid-Florida and East Texas report the highest patent holder success rate, 67% &amp; 55% respectively.In trials, the success rate in East Texas is 71.9%, and the median damages awarded come to $19.7m. This is why you wouldn't go to Florida Middle, where the median is only $335,612: you win, but you win peanuts.Just as the European Commission is a friendly venue for anti-trust tourists, and London for people seeking to exploit the UK's libel laws, East Texas attracts litigants by giving them a good chance of winning, and winning big.In this case, the winners included McLean Watson Capital Inc, from Toronto, and the Northwater Intellectual Property Fund, which "acquired a stake in i4i and helped fund the case against Microsoft," according to Canada'sGlobe &amp; Mail. And certainly the lawyers never lose.But anyone who has read a chunk ofi4i's US PatentNo 5,787,449 might well have doubts about the competence of the US Patent Office in granting it, and it seems even more unlikely that the average judge or juror in East Texas is competent to adjudicate on it. Perhaps someone should tell POTUS that the US software patent system is broken.Having said that, you have to wonder whether Microsoft has a rational legal strategy. Given its track record for losing lawsuits, and its presumed familiarity with the East Texas courts, you'd have thought it would either have found some way to move the case or change its Word code so that it couldn't be seen to infringe i4i's patent. If the latter is impossible, of course, then the XML open standard could be in trouble, too.Either way, Microsoft stands to pay around $290m on top of the cost of defending and appealing the case, and who knows what other costs to the software industry at large.
Innovation for the nationThe Science Museum is holding a Festival of Innovation at Wroughton, the airfield it uses for storing large objects, on 12-13 September. Wroughton is usually closed to the public.Panoramic sweepsSony's new 10.2 megapixel Cyber-shot TX1 and WX1 cameras have a "sweep mode" that automatically creates panoramic images from multiple pictures.Handheld Freeview TVAugust International has launched the DAC900C all-in-one handheld Freeview TV set/recorder/media player with a 9in LCD screen.Cinemin comingWowWee says its Cinemin Swivel, a portable battery-powered "pico projector", will soon be available at £299.99.Panasonic – tough on phonesThe company known for Toughbook laptops is introducing the ruggedised KX-TG6481ET DECT home phone.Malware beyond WindowsKaspersky Lab has published a report on malware threats to "alternative operating systems".Leaky feederSolwise is now offering "radiating coaxial cable" (£8.60 per metre) for delivering Wi-Fi in public buildings, lift shafts, and tunnels etc.Business eReaderPlastic Logic will launch a wireless business-oriented ebook reader next year.
If the world is to resume sustainable growth, we will need new relationships that break down barriers both between companies and within them. It won't be easy because a main engine of expansion – excessive credit growth – will be switched off. It is a big hole to fill. We must instead create new ways of doing things using the internet and social networks that we are only just starting to explore but which have huge potential, from healthcare to gaming. Some enlightened companies already use Facebook and Twitter to bond staff and encourage ideas. But this usually happens within departments, not between them, thereby removing a source of synergy.A decade ago, hopes were high that the dotcom companies would herald a new era of enlightened capitalism. Goodness knows we needed them. The likes of Yahoo, Amazon, eBay and Google were mainly started by idealistic graduates. But instead of nurturing the innovative impulse that spawned them, the dotcom giants have hit the well-worn take-over trail. Google's purchase of YouTube, Yahoo of Flickr, and eBay of PayPal are merely the tip of the iceberg. Look up their acquisitions on Wikipedia and you get a worryingly long list. Amazon, instead of establishing a presence in adjacent markets, has gobbled up existing companies. Why move into audio books when you can buy audible.com's 90%+ market share? Why extend into old books when you can buy AbeBooks? Yahoo has linked up in search with its deadly rival Microsoft, which started as an idealistic company but has since fought by fair means and foul to a 95% market share of PC operating systems. Google's "Don't Be Evil" pledge is on the back-burner (afraid of the trade descriptions acts?) and the company has been criticised for abusing its power – though it remains more idealistic than others. It still allows employees time to do their own thing.&nbsp;What should a new model company look like? Imagine if a company and its customers were their own open source community. Some already are – ritesolutions.com is a US hi-tech company with an internal market where employees can turn their ideas into tradeable stocks within the company, and are subjected to a kind of peer review. IBM has been experimenting with international staff collaborations, and the Guardian is itself exploring ways of enfranchising its readers.The new buzz word is "open business model" for corporations not only to embrace change on the fly – cue Twitter, etc – but to enable collaboration between competitors where it would be synergistic. Such companies may need a different structure to the centuries-old joint stock company whose extra income goes to shareholders rather than the creators of the added value. Maybe we need a fresh kind of internet-based company with a new share structure to reward invention and to share risks.If companies co-operate in hitherto barred areas then the overwhelming priority is a universal micropayment system. We all love the free nature of the web – and that will continue – but if we are to create wealth and jobs from the limitless opportunities of the internet, then micropayments, as I have long argued, are the key. Not a thousand different schemes but a universal one enabling people to charge anything down to a cent a page for their creativity. If Rupert Murdoch has to lead the charge then so be it.But the sector most in need of a new model is banking. The web was supposed to get rid of – or at least replace – middlemen. But banking, where vast profits were made by the intermediaries, never produced a disruptive company. There is no eBay for banking. There are interesting small experiments, such asZopa, which matches lenders with borrowers but no attempt to dislodge the huge, if now discredited powers of the banks. Why, why, why?twitter.com/vickeegan
Not according to the makers of tr.im, the URL shortening service that announced this week it would be closing down and probably erasing all its data – causing much uproar."There is no way for us to monetise URL shortening," the site's authors wrote. "Users won't pay for it, and we just can't justify further development since Twitter has all but anointed bit.ly the market winner. There is simply no point for us to continue operating tr.im and pay for its upkeep."The sideswipe at its rival bit.ly has a whiff of sour grapes – after all, it was only adopted as Twitter's default partner in May after a long-term flirtation with granddaddy tinyurl.com (bit.ly is also used by Technology Guardian).But the truth is that there has been an unsustainable explosion in address-shortening services. Alongside tr.im, bit.ly and tinyURL are is.gd, snipURL and icanhaz.com, along with others provided by big websites such as Digg.com.But while the sudden spurt of growth shows that there is certainly a market, they are struggling to find a way to make money. Bit.ly has decided its basic service will operate as the loss-leading front end for a data collection system it plans to expand.Like tr.im, it collects information about every URL it creates and offers users statistics about them. That data is&nbsp;useful to website owners – who want to track how effectively their links work&nbsp;– but bit.ly also plans to build a news service on top of the information, mapping current events by understanding what people are linking to and clicking on right now. It's an unproven model, but one that has already persuaded investors to pump more than $2m (£1.2m) into the company.While making money from shortening URLs may the biggest problem for the companies creating them, users should be worried about some more fundamental things. What happens if a service shuts down? Will you lose all your valuable tracking data? Will all those links simply die? Could it break the web?For tr.im's users, the answers to all these questions is "yes" – and although there are charitable organisations such as the Internet Archive who could step in to save tr.im's data, it is the users who are often left to mop up the mess after such closures.All of this makes Joshua Schachter, the founder of the web bookmarking service Delicious, sound even more prescient – he pointed out in April that URL shorteners may not be such a good thing after all."Shorteners are bad for the ecosystem as a whole,"he railed on his blogin a widely read post (http://bit.ly/linkrot). Unless we do something to make link shorteners accountable, he suggested, the most likely outcome "is that we don't do anything and that the great linkrot apocalypse causes all of modern culture to disappear in a puff of smoke".
A price war is about to hit the games industry – and for once it's not good news for consumers. Last month, Activision announced it would release its eagerly awaited shooter Modern Warfare 2 with an RRP of £55 – £15 more than most new console releases. And there was more: the former boss of Sony Europe, Chris Deering, said publishers would soon consider pricing games at £70 to make a profit. This seemed to embolden Activision's chief executive, Bobby Kotick, who told reporters last week he would be willing to go higher than £55, especially with "premium" editions of games.One thing is clear: it now costs around $30m (£18m) to build a title for PS3 and Xbox 360, 10 times more than the average PS2 development budget, but publishers aren't making 10 times more money. Something's got to give – and it looks like it's going to be us, the gamers. In some ways, we can't really complain; cartridge titles on machines such as the N64 and Snes regularly retailed for £50-£55. It's only with the advent of cheap optical media that prices dropped. And these days publishers have to provide significant post-sales support.Retailers are worried, pointing out there's a bit of a recession on, so perhaps raising prices isn't the best idea. The tactic could lead to a horribly misshapen industry, in which a handful of "tent pole" titles are released every year – doubtless big sequels and entertainment franchise tie-ins. Original projects will migrate to download services such as Xbox Live, creating a chasm between budget releases and the massive Triple A showcase releases.There's got to be a better solution. The answer may be dynamic in-game ads, which have been employed in a number of Xbox 360 titles. According to the market research outfit Emarketer, US companies are set to spend $170m on in-game advertising by 2013, which should help to offset those dev costs – although gamers aren't always pleased about the&nbsp;intrusion, and ads were recently removed from the PS3 title WipeOut HD as they doubled loading times.Ultimately, publishers may just have to sit down, read Chris Anderson's latest book, Free, and rethink how they deal with pricing. Perhaps they should look at the mobile phone or pay-TV businesses, offering different tariffs for differing groups of customers; a fixed low price for those who just want to bomb through the single-player missions and don't mind a few ads popping up in the process; and a higher price, or subscription charge for those who spend weeks playing online and downloading new weapons. It'll be complicated but at least it could mean not filling shelves with £70 copies of Michael Bay movie tie-ins.
1:Wikipedia enters a new chapter2:Facebook prepares 'Facebook Lite' for mobile and dialup abroad3:Judge rules that DVD copying software is illegal4:Why I'm blogging about my cancer | Jeff Jarvis5:MSI goes viral with a butt-clenching video6:Guardian data blog: How does the NHS compare to US healthcare?7:Orange performs call charges U-turn8:Who needs an Edinburgh festival programme when they have iPhone EdFest?9:Director of Oxford Uni's Future of Humanity Institute, Nick Bostrom's #Activate09 video is now online10:Breakfast briefing: Microsoft cosies up to Nokia for Mobile Office(updated to add 10th link. Um.)
Dave Gibbons, the man who co-created Watchmen in 1986 with the writer Alan Moore, is in demand. Interest in the world's best graphic novel – described as the Citizen Kane of comic books – has been given a fresh boost by the appearance of a movie adaptation directed by Zack Snyder, and by Watching the Watchmen, Gibbons's new book about its creation.Gibbons also co-created Rogue Trooper for the comic 2000 AD, and in a 30-year career, his credits include Superman, Batman, Doctor Who, Dan Dare and Green Lantern, to name but a few. Time magazine called him "a genius – one of the major comic book artists of the 21st century, or the 20th, or really any other century you care to name".I joke with him about his superstar status, but he's well aware of the limitations of his fame. "I've just got back from being a superstar at Comic-Con in San Diego," he says. "Then I went down the gaming end [of the convention] to sign something I'd done for a games company, and people were walking right past and ignoring me."At a convention in Australia, I was talking to some of the voiceover people, who did the voices for anime and computer games. They, in their field, were as much superstars as us, but we'd never heard of them, and they'd never heard of any of us. So it's quite a localised kind of fame, but it's nice, because if I feel like being famous, I know where to go, and if I don't, I just don't go there!"Force for goodGibbons is now using his fame to help raise the profile of what is, after all, one of the UK's core creative industries: he's promoting theDigital Artist 2009 awards, backed by Intel and Future Publishing. Gibbons is a judge in the competition to find the digital artist of the year, and has contributeda masterclass videoon how he uses digital media."There are 13 categories, but the thing that I'm most excited about is called Intel Stars of Tomorrow. There are two awards, one for people aged 16 and younger, and one for 17-25. The hardest thing [for young graphic artists] is to just to get the ball rolling, and it's a way for young people to get their work seen," says Gibbons. "And if they're lucky, exhibited."Traditionally, graphic artists crafted things by hand and were extremely fussy about pens, pencils, papers and so on, but Gibbons says: "I'm known for being very enthusiastic about using technology. A lot of the attraction is the way that it streamlines the process and takes a lot of the drudgery out of it."You can draw on different layers, move things around, scale them, rotate them … it becomes very fluid. With lettering, you can input it on a keyboard, and then at the end of the day, rather than having to parcel up a lot of fragile artwork, you can send it electronically almost anywhere in the world, instantaneously. It's made it extremely simple to collaborate with people in other countries. When I was doing Watchmen, the writer used to send me pages of script in a taxi at £50 a time!"Gibbons uses Photoshop software on his Mac, and Manga Studio, from Japan: "It's tailor-made for doing comics: it's got some wonderful drawing tools in it. I use a Wacom Cintiq tablet, which has an LCD so you're drawing on what you're drawing, not looking away at a screen. That's my weapon of choice, now, for professional work. You can get different nibs for the pens, with different degrees of resistance. You can also swivel it round, and so on."I apologise in advance for asking Gibbons what he thinks of Comic Sans, a Microsoft typeface partly derived from his Watchmen lettering. It was only intended for Microsoft's cartoon dog, Rover. However, as a free Windows 95 font,it has been used everywherefrom product packaging to vehicles to official notices. It's the only thing that, temporarily, clouds his blokey geniality."It's just a shame they couldn't have used just the original font, because it's a real mess. I think it's a particularly ugly letter form," he says. "The other thing that really bugs me that they've used an upper case I with bars on it: it looks completely wrong to the comic eye. And when you see store fronts done in it, it's horrible."There are people who specialise in lettering, and I've had my hand lettering made into a digital font. I picked up a copy of the Dandy the other week, and I was amazed to see that it was completely lettered in my hand-lettering font. It was quite a thrill, really, having been a Dandy reader years and years ago."Virtual libraryOne of the less obvious but very powerful effects of computers on graphic arts is that it provides vast amounts of reference material. Growing up in England, Gibbons had been an avid reader of US comics – his grandad bought him his first Superman comic when he was seven – and was fascinated by things that were boringly ordinary to Americans but strange to him."When I first came to New York City, what I was thrilled about was not the Empire State Building, or the Statue of Liberty, it was the fireplugs in the street. These things that Jack Kirby had drawn. Or these cylindrical water towers on top of buildings that Steve Ditko's Spider-Man fights used to happen in and around. So it's always been this kind of exotic Babylon,"he told Time magazine.He says: "One of the things you have to be able to do, as a comic strip artist, is to draw things repeatedly from a variety of angles, so you need references, and you find the best picture you can. Nowadays you can go on the internet and find several million pictures of New York City, you can use Google Street View, you can use Google Earth and have a three-dimensional model of New York … to me, there's an enhanced richness with comics, because artists can get their hands on reference and give it that texture that relates to reality."It shows how computers are now used throughout the cartoon's process, from research and execution to delivery."The problem used to be that the people who knew how to do computer graphics were techies, and artists didn't know how to do computer graphics. Now that isn't the case," says Gibbons. "Computers have become much more artist-friendly in terms of software, and artists have become much more familiar with computers in their everyday life. So it is really turning into a tool that depends on the talent of the user, rather than the technological knowledge of the user."Now when I look back at my work, I can't always tell what I drew with what: your style overrides it. If you're using a computer as an artist and expressing your personal vision, I think your personal vision comes through."
MSI (Micro Star International) is the junior member of Taiwan's big three PC brands, but a viral video on YouTube will increase its name recognition, even if it doesn't sell too many machines.The video -- billed asGuy Catches Laptop With His Butt-- sort of demonstrates just how thin are the laptops in its X-Series range. (Ireviewed an X-340in Technophile.) But it's also a challenge. MSI is alsoholding a competitionfor people to make their own "crazy" X-Slim videos. The prize is an X-Slim laptop plus the chance to Xperience Paradise in the form of a free trip to the Great Barrier Reef, and there will be 15 winners. That could tempt at least a few video experts to have a go.The video might have been inspired byGuy Catches Glasses With Face, but it's funnier than the average computer promotion. There's obviously a downside, but it might not be as much of a downside in Asia as it is in the pretentious parts of California. And at this stage, MSI presumably takes the view that all publicity is good publicity.
Yet again, Wikipedia is about to break new ground. The website that has become one of the biggest open repositories of knowledge is due – within the next week or so – to hit the mark of 3m articles in English.It's all a very long way from January 2001, when Wikipedia launched. Its first million articles took five years to put together, but the second was achieved by 2007. It was not just the number of articles that grew, but also the number of people involved in creating them. During Wikipedia's first burst of activity between 2004 and 2007, the number of active users on the site rocketed from just a few thousand to more than 300,000.Learning curveHowever, statistics released by the site's analytics team suggest Wikipedia's explosive growth is all but finished. The quickening pace that helped the site reach the 2m article milestone just 17 months after breaking the 1m barrier suddenly evaporated: adding the next million has taken nearly two years. While the encyclopedia is still growing overall, the number of articles being added has reduced from an average of 2,200 a day in July 2007 to around 1,300 today.Elsewhere, the number of active Wikipedians (those contributing to the site in some way) now comes in at just under 500,000. That is a 61% increase in the past two years; hardly shabby, but nowhere near the increases seen in the past. At the same time, however, the base of highly active editors (who contribute new words to the project and marshall the billions of pieces of information the site contains) has remained more or less static.From the numbers, it looks as though Wikipedia is stagnating. Why?One of those who has spent his time studying what happens on Wikipedia is Ed H Chi, a scientist who works at the Palo Alto Research Center (Parc) in California. His team, theAugmented Social Cognition group, wanted to understand what was happening on the website in order to build better collaborative software."For a long time, the understood model for all kinds of large knowledge systems on the web was that they grow exponentially," he says. "The accepted explanation was that the rich get richer – things that receive a lot of attention end up getting a lot more attention."Wikipedia fitted that model perfectly in its early days. However, when Chi and his colleagues looked at the recent data, they realised this approach did not fit any more. But with a site as complex and sprawling as Wikipedia, simply crunching the numbers proved a major task in itself.First they spent a significant amount of time downloading a carbon copy of Wikipedia: every article, every edit and every piece of information ever to cross the site's servers. Even when compressed, the files stretched to an enormous 8 terabytes – the equivalent of more than 1,200 DVDs stuffed with information. Decompressing in preparation for analysis took almost a week. But when the group fed the data into their 60-machine computing cluster, they got some surprising results.Chi's team discovered that the way the site operated had changed significantly from the early days, when it ran an open-door policy that allowed in anyone with the time and energy to dedicate to the project. Today, they discovered, a stable group of high-level editors has become increasingly responsible for controlling the encyclopedia, while casual contributors and editors are falling away. Wikipedia – often touted as the bastion of open knowledge online – has become, in Chi's words, "a more exclusive place".One of the measures the Parc team looked at was how often a user's edit succeeds in sticking. "We found that if you were an elite editor, the chance of your edit being reverted was something in the order of 1% – and that's been very consistent over time from around 2003 or 2004," he says.Meanwhile, for those who did not invest vast amounts of time in editing, the experience was very different. "For editors that make between two and nine edits a month, the percentage of their edits being reverted had gone from 5% in 2004 all the way up to about 15% by October 2008. And the 'onesies' – people who only make one edit a month – their edits are now being reverted at a 25% rate," Chi explains.In other words, a change by a casual editor is more likely than ever to be overturned, while changes by the elite are rarely questioned. "To power users it feels like Wikipedia operates in the way it always has – but for the newcomers or the occasional users, they feel like the resistance in the community has definitely changed."While Chi points out that this does not necessarily imply causation, he suggests it is concrete evidence to back up what many people have been saying: that it is increasingly difficult to enjoy contributing to Wikipedia unless you are part of the site's inner core of editors.Include me outOne person who typifies that feeling is Aaron Swartz, a 22-year-old programmer who lives in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Something of a wunderkind in the software development world, Swartz used to spend a lot of time working on Wikipedia – in 2006 he even stood for election to the Wikimedia Foundation, the organisation behind the site (his bid failed). These days, however, he rarely checks in."I used to be one of the top editors …now I contribute things here and there where I see something wrong." The reason, he explains, is that the site feels more insular and exclusive than in the past. "In general, the biggest problem I have with the editors is their attitude," he says. "They say: 'We're not going to explain how we make decisions, we basically talk amongst ourselves.'"There's no place on Wikipedia that says: 'Want to become a Wikipedia editor? Here's how you do it.' Instead, you basically have to really become part of that community and pick it up through osmosis and have the tradition passed down to you."Swartz's experience certainly correlates with the figures unearthed by Parc, even if his attitude is not shared by everyone.Given the history of the online world – where escalating growth can continue for years – it seems unlikely that this gradual slowdown was inevitable. Instead, it could be the end result of a battle between two competing factions of Wikipedia editors.On one side stand the deletionists, whose motto is "Wikipedia is not a junkyard"; on the other, the inclusionists, who argue that "Wikipedia is not paper".Deletionists argue for a tightly controlled and well-written encyclopedia that provides valuable information on topics of widespread interest. Why should editors waste time on articles about fly-by-night celebrities or wilfully obscure topics? Inclusionists, on the other hand, believe that the more articles the site has, the better: if they are poorly referenced or badly written, they can be improved – and any article is better than nothing. After all, they say, there is no limit to the size of the site, and no limit to the information that people may want.Less is more?The two groups had been vying for control from early on in the site's life, but the numbers suggest that the deletionists may have won. The increasing difficulty of making a successful edit; the exclusion of casual users; slower growth – all are hallmarks of the deletionist approach.Swartz, an avowed inclusionist, says the deletionists have won – but says he understands their motivation. "When Wikipedia is in the news, it's always because someone found this inaccuracy, or somebody's suing Wikipedia … It's always about how Wikipedia screwed up. So of course what they're going to be worried about is not how to make Wikipedia grow and have more content, it's about how we keep Wikipedia out of trouble and how we stop people from messing it up."Still, there remain unanswered questions. Could its growth ever halt completely? How big will the site be when the editors decide that the sum of human knowledge is catalogued? Could a new website take Wikipedia's place by toeing an inclusionist line?Parc's research doesn't give any answers, but Chi has identified one model that Wikipedia's growth pattern matches. "In my experience, the only thing we've seen these growth patterns [in] before is in population growth studies – where there's some sort of resource constraint that results in this model." The site, he suggests, is becoming like a community where resources have started to run out. "As you run out of food, people start competing for that food, and that results in a slowdown in population growth and means that the stronger, more well-adapted part of the population starts to have more power."
Facebook is preparing a service called "Facebook Lite" - but it is not, as some have inferred, a clone of Twitter, the service that Facebook tried to buy last year.Instead, it's precisely what it says: a stripped-down version of Facebook, intended for deployment in countries around the world where bandwidth is limited, and where always-on broadband connections are a rarity rather than the rule - unlike the UK and US.It is also aimed at mobile phones, where data downloads are slower than broadband - but which are pervasive in Asia, its fastest-growing region for users.The service is presently being tested in India, with plans to deploy it in Russia and China, the company hastold TechCrunch.Hundreds of people in India are understood to have received invitations to try the service out in the past couple of days - but the link failed because it was not ready to run. Non-invited users who try to access the stripped-down site - athttp://lite.facebook.com- are simply redirected to the main Facebook site.Facebook described it as "a faster, simpler version", and in a response to TechCrunch said it would be "similar to the Facebook experience you get on your mobile phones":Facebook "Lite" is a fast-loading, simplified version of Facebook that enables people to make comments, accept Friend requests, write on people's Walls, and look at photos and Status updates. We are currently testing Facebook Lite in countries where we are seeing lots of new users coming to Facebook for the first time and are looking to start off with a more simple experience.With Facebook's servers principally located in the US but with its fastest growth coming in countries beyond its shores, the company is seeking ways to bring on users while not tying up their dialup connections, which at 56 kilobits per second (kbps) are roughly one-tenth as quick as even slow broadband connections - and only one-fortieth as quick as the 2 megabits per second (Mbps) baseline suggested as acceptable by the Digital Britain report.The "Lite" version is expected to use smaller pictures and lower-resolution videos in order to speed up downloads of the page.Cherian, on Twitter,told the Guardianthat its positive points were "better friends tab" but that the negatives were that it was "too Twitterlike, too much text and white space, more scrolling, overall..very boring."Facebook presently has 250m users, but the majority of those are in the US and Europe, where broadband is pervasive. Ananalysis of its growth for the first three months of this yearshowed that non-US users make up about 70% of users.Growth of Facebook by region January-March 09. Source:O'Reilly. Click for larger version.The fastest growth is in Asia, though, with countries such as Indonesia and the Philippines in the lead. But Asian countries also have many well-established social networks, and in those with good internet connections, mobile phones are often key to that connectivity. Being able to produce a version of Facebook that loads quickly on mobile phones is thus essential to its wider growth.Facebookthis week bought FriendFeed, a much smaller US-based social network aggregator, for an estimated $50m, bringing on board a team of experienced ex-Google professionals.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
American software company RealNetworks has been banned from selling a program that lets people make copies of their DVDs, in a US court decision that could have far-reaching implications.After a year-long case over the legality of the company's RealDVD software, a district court in San Francisco ruled that Real had violated America's copyright laws and granted a preliminary injunction against Real to prevent it selling the program.The ruling stops Real from selling RealDVD, a piece of software that allows to make back-up copies of their movie discs and save them to their computer. Although free DVD ripping software is readily available online, Real raised the hackles of Hollywood executives in 2008 because it paid for a license to the DVD Copy Control Association, believing that it could be interpreted to allow the services they wanted to provide.In her ruling, Judge Marilyn Hall Patel said that the complex meant that it was not illegal for consumers to copy their own DVDs – just illegal to produce a program that allowed them to do so."While it may well be fair use for an individual consumer to store a backup copy of a personally-owned DVD on that individual's computer, a federal law has nonetheless made it illegal  to manufacture or traffic in a device or tool that permits a consumer to make such copies."The case was brought by the Motion Picture Association of America - the consortium representing Hollywood studios that has become notoriously litigious in the face of unauthorised downloading and online file sharing.Dan Glickman, the head of the MPAA, hailed the verdict."We are very pleased with the court's decision," he said. "This is a victory for the creators and producers of motion pictures and television shows, and for the rule of law in our digital economy.""Judge Patel's ruling affirms what we have known all along: Real Networks took a license to build a DVD player and instead made an illegal DVD copier."Campaigners had argued that consumers had the right to make personal copies of material they had legally obtained, and that Real should not be punished.Lawyers for the MPAA, on the other hand, said that Real was breaking the terms of its license and profiting from a system that made it possible for consumers to rent or borrow movies for a nominal fee before copying them.The court sided with the film industry, largely because it said broke a licensing agreement to access privileged details of the copy protection codes, known as the content scramble system or CSS.Although Judge Patel earlier ruling that CSS was a trade secret – indicating the possibility that she might rule against Real – another company, Kaleidascape, had recently been ruled to have not violated the law in a similar position.Another scheme for unscrambling the code, called DeCSS, was also challenged in court after its creation - but Jon Lech Johansen, the Norwegian teenager credited with working on the system, was acquitted by a court in Oslo."Real will likely appeal this ruling,"said Fred von Lohmann, an attorney with the campaign group the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "Whatever the outcome of that appeal, this ruling sends a chilling message to any technology innovator interested in delivering new products that interact with the DVDs you own."Real Networks, based in Seattle, said that it was "disappointed" in the ruling and would take time to examine the verdict closely before considering whether to appeal."We have just received the judge's detailed ruling and are reviewing it. After we have done so fully, we'll determine our course of action," the company said in a statement.
&bull; Microsoft and Nokia are getting ready to announcea deal to bring Mobile Office to hundreds of millions of mobiles, according toCNet. No solid details right now, but a press conference on Wednesday is likely to clear things up.&bull; It hasn't had a great deal of coverage, but the RealDVD case -in which Hollywood is arguing that software to back up DVDs is illegal- could have far-reaching consequences... and it has seen its first  real blood drawn. A district court in San Franciscogranted an injunction against Real Networks to stop it selling the program, reports theNew York Times.&bull; It might not exactly be jaw-dropping news, but theLA Timestakes a look at the wayfree web content is undermining the porn industryin California's San Fernando valley. There's nothing lurid in there, but it's probably NSFW, unless reading about porn is something your colleagues won't bad an eyelid about.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Yesterday we asked you to tell us your highlights of the last sort-of-40-years of the internet. Thanks to the hundreds of you who did,using this form.Submissions have ranged from a romance born of discussion of string theory in a science chat room and queuing for email addresses outside Manchester town hall to the use of internet relay chatto report on the 1991 Soviet coup attemptthrough a media blackout (with some clear parallels to this summer in Iran).Then there are the technical developments, such as the 1977 creation of the modern PC and Apple II computer, the Mosaic web browser in 1993 and the debut of Netscape Navigator in 1994 – which (and 1995 is coming through as the most common year) was the application on which many of you first saw the web. The strangest location so far in which to do that is a school surrounded by a cattle farm in Egypt.Please keep offering suggestions. The idea (outlined more fullyhere)  is to tell the story of the internet using the internet – that is, the people who use it.Other recommendations include LiveJournal's introduction of the concept of "friending" in 1999 (developed more fully by Facebook from 2003), the first virus –Creeper– in 1971, the 1994 opening of theCyberia cybercafe, theClare Swire email of 2000that showed no email is private, Usenet in the early 1980s, Gaydar's 1996 launch and a first email from grandma in 2008. There are also a fair few who have described their early experiences downloading porn. Thanks.We still want to know more of what you think is significant so, using theformat the bottom of this page please volunteer your suggestions. This is a work in progress. But we will publish updates in the weeks ahead. In the autumn we hope to produce an impressive told-by-the-people version of the internet story.In the meantime, here is the hotch-potch list of 30 internet events we started with yesterday, already greatly improved by your contributions.Or go straight to the form.
If you've seen any speculation that Sony might "jump the gun" and release the PlayStation 4 before Microsoft launches an Xbox 370 (or 720 or 360 II or whatever), then you can blame John Carmack, the co-founder of id Software. He gave Polish magazine CD-Action a half-hour interview, during which he speculated: "Whether Sony wants to try and jump the gun to, you know, to prevent the same kind of 360 lag from happening to them again seems likely."But it's not a prediction, and he didn't reveal any inside knowledge that suggests Sony has such plans.Even if Sony did plan to get to the next gen platform first, that doesn't mean it would make it. In the development of the current generation, Sony had a couple of years' start on Microsoft, but proved unable to get the PS3 out first, for a variety of reasons. One of those was the new-fangled Cell processor, developed mainly by IBM, and another was the new-fangled Blu-ray disc system. Sadly for Sony, it turned out that a slightly souped-up GameCube -- much less powerful than a PS3 -- massively outsold both its higher-tech rivals, and it came third in a race of three.Still, it's worth listening to what Carmack has to say about the next generation of games consoles in part 3 of his talk. The parts are onYouTubeand on CD-Action:John Carmack opowiada o Rage - pół godziny gorącego materiału prosto ze studia id Software.If you don't have the time, gamesindustry.biz has a good account inCarmack: New console will "end up shipping earlier rather than later"One thing Carmack clears up is that the final version of Rage should run at the same speed on the three big games platforms -- that's PC, Xbox-360 and PS3, of course. In a story in Edge, he'd complained the PS3 "rasteriser is just a little bit slower -- no two ways about that."RAGEgame's official Twitter feed said:"The Edge Magazine article has caused quite a ruckus. We are committed to ensuring that gamers on all platforms have a great RAGE experience."
It's been available in Japan for ages, but soon UK gamers are going to get their creative fingers on Flipnote Studio, a cool little animation application for the Nintendi DSi. On August 14, it'll be downloadable from the DSiWare for nothing!Flipnote Studio allows you to draw a series of up to 140 pictures, which can then be animated like a simple flipbook. You can even import photos as black and white images from the DSi Camera Album as well as sound effects via the microphone. A pen, eraser and paint brush provide the basic tools with layering, shrinking and enlarging available for more advanced users. Your creations can then be shared with friends either by saving to SD card or swapping via the Wireless Communication feature.There's also a dedicatedFlipnote Hatenawebsite where users can post and rate animations. Over in Japan, the site is mediated by users who can report (the utterly inevitable) inappropriate content.Apparently, over 100,000 animations have been uploaded so far, and any of these can be downloaded and edited by other users.This will be fun!
A while ago, I posted a quick story aboutthe best videogame documentaries. Well, if you're quick you can watch the latest attempt at analysing game culture before it gets a DVD or TV release.The excellent Snagfilms is showingSecond Skin, a new doc about massively multiplayer online games for free, until Thursday. Directed by Juan Carlos Pineiro Escoriaza, the feature-length film was premiered at the SXSW festival in March. Here's some more info:Second Skin takes an intimate look at three sets of computer gamers whose lives have been transformed by online virtual worlds. An emerging genre of computer software called Massively Multiplayer Online games, or MMOs, allows millions of users to interact simultaneously in virtual spaces. Of the 50 million players worldwide, 50 percent consider themselves addicted. From individuals struggling with addiction to couples who have fallen in love without meeting; from disabled players whose lives have been given new purpose to gold farmers, entrepreneurs and widows, Second Skin opens viewers' eyes to a phenomenon that may permanently change the way human beings interact.It's an interesting look at the allure of games like World of Warcraft and the effect they've had on people's lives.
Charles speaks to Evgeny Morozov, blogger for Foreign Policy magazine and Graham Cluley of security firm Sophos to find out how and why Twitter, Live Journal, Google and Facebook were targeted by denial of service attacks last week.  The answer it would appear is an attempt to silence one Georgian blogger - Cyxymu, who was a critic of last year's conflict between Georgia and Russia in South Ossetia. Charles finds out about him, why Twitter was so badly affected, and why distributed denial of service attacks from botnets are less successful than they were earlier this decade.Charles also speaks to Jen Husun Huang, Co-founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Nvidia.  He discusses why the graphics processing unit will become more important to the future of computing.  Instead of being used just to process intensive visual tasks, the GPU can be used to crunch data to much better effect than a CPU with multiple cores.  Hear what the benefits will be, and how the GPU differs and works.Plus there's this week's news, including the state of surveillance in Britain, details of Facebook buying FriendFeed, and Spinvox's latest troubles. Bobbie Johnson is your presenter, and he's most grateful to you for helping push theGuardian Tech Twitter feedover the 1 million follower mark...Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
And so this is how we measure progress on the internet: not in afternoons and coffee spoons, but by which medium people use to reporting that they're giving birth.You've had the first web page about a baby being born, and then there was thefirst webcast birthin 1998 (I think I hid behind the chair), and now we're doing the - well, it's not the first birth on Twitter, but the fact that the woman doing so is married to Evan Williams, co-founder of Twitter, gives it a certainje ne sais quoi.Anyway, Sara (for that is her name) has been discovering for herself that giving birth isn't necessarily a barrel of laughs.Hencethis oneat about 5am BST (9pm PST, where she is): "Dear Twitter, My water broke. It wasn't like Charlotte in Sex and the City. Now, timing contractions on an iPhone app."That would beContraction Tracker.However, there are some things for which thereisn'tan iPhone app.Pain relief being one: "The Contraction Tracker was fun until the contractions got painful."The tale goes on (you canread it here) - an hour ago she got her epidural, which is painkillers to the max: it's a spinal nerve block which would lets you give birth while appearing on Strictly Come Dancing (note to TV producers: this is not a serious idea, though if you commission Strictly Come Birthing I'll want a cut). Sara is also discovering that thereisn'tan app for actually giving birth. Well, there had to be a limit somewhere.We're looking forward to the first Twitter baby. I suppose. Though it has to be said that our own Jemima Kiss had this down last month. Babies? They're soo last month...
Here's one for the domain name speculators among you: according toDomain Name Wire, Yahoo has paid $80,000 for theOMG.com address.It's not a bad deal, given that Yahoo recently started flogging off some of the huge library of domains it owns - including contests.com foran apparent $380,000. But why bother? What is Yahoo going to do?OMG is, of course,Yahoo's celebrity news website- though you'd be forgiven if you thought it was simply the general reaction to most of the company's business decisions over the past couple of years. By slapping barely-there stories about celebrities alongside huge pictures of the latest, it follows in the footsteps of AOL'sTMZand Microsoft'sWonderwallas a place for the public to slake their thirst for the glitzy.I'm not sure whether a dotcom name will be enough to give OMG a kick in the bum - and, given that celebrity news is hardly an under-represented category, I don't know if I want it to -  but it can't hurt the site's chances.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Google has unveiled a new version of its search engine which it says will be faster and more accurate than ever before.The upgrade, which insiders have dubbed "caffeine", was announced on Monday after the companyopened up access to web developers. It is intended to replace the technology giant's main search engine after tests have been completed.Although little about the surface appearance of the new version has changed, engineers promised that radical changes behind the scenes would vast improvements for ordinary users."For the past several months a large team of Googlers has been working on a secret project: a next-generation architecture for Google's web search," said the company in astatement on one of its blogs."It's the first step in a process that will let us push the envelope on size, indexing speed, accuracy, comprehensiveness and other dimensions."The company claims that significant changes to the way the system works will improve the experience for users – although it will also send shockwaves through the community of marketers who try and optimise their results to appear higher up in Google's index.The moves comes despite Google's extensive lead in the search engine market – a domination which has provided it with billions in profits.Despite that lead, a series of threats have emerged recently that have seen the company redouble its efforts. Chief among them is Microsoft's continuing effort to break into the top tier of the search business, which has so far includedrebranding its search engine as Bing.comand scoring a deal totake control of Yahoo's search business.Other possible contenders for the future of the business have emerged, too, including a "knowledge engine" called Wolfram Alpha, designed by British-born physicist Stephen Wolfram; and the emergence of so-called "real-time search" through websites like Facebook and Twitter.Caffeine allows Google to index the web at a higher pace - gathering more information and doing it faster - but the company's search quality specialist, Matt Cutts, rejected claims that it was developed in response to the actions of rivals."I love competition in search and want lots of it, but this change has been in the works for months," hewrote on his blog. I think the best way for Google to do well in search is to continue what we've done for the last decade or so: focus relentlessly on pushing our search quality forward."Whether the upgrade will have a significant impact on Google's business has yet to emerge, but Martin McNulty, director of search marketing specialist Trafficbroker, said that it could give it a significant boost."Google's Caffeine is undoubtedly faster, almost twice as fast at times. It's like a Google Gti," he said. "The launch of Bing has been a good thing, although unfortunately more for Google than Bing if the level of innovation continues at this frantic pace. Google is still very much in the driving seat and is still setting the pace."
It's almost like LucasArts suddenly realised the value of the old games they had gathering dust in their proverbial gaming cupboard. Following on from Monkey Island, Indiana Jones and the rest comes yet more retro goodies.Super Star Warshas beenreleased for the Wii, with the other two games in the series out soon. Okay, it's not theGrim Fandangore-release we all want but let's not complain.Back in the early 90s the Super Star Wars games were as close as you could get to reliving the original trilogy. Ok the films didn't feature any tricky platforming but hey, the graphics were great for their day. When I remember the games – and I haven't played or seen them since 1994 – I think of extreme difficulty and impressive audio. The landspeeder level sticks out too. I'm guessing the music won't be as impressive this time round but the difficulty level – after 15 years of softening up as games have gotten checkpoint-friendly and generally easier - will likely be a killer. Will today's gamers have the patience to persevere with Skywalker and co?Anyway, Super Star Wars – are you tempted? And what do you want to see released next from the LucasArts archive?
