One of the most innovative sessions at theEIGFwas part of the screenings programme which ran parallel with the trade conference. Although many of the elements of this strand were blatantly product-oriented (not necessarily a bad thing when you can hear Ian Livingstone talk about the origins of Lara Croft or Neil Young talk about the beginnings of The Sims), Culture of Fear was not designed to unveil a new product or re-hash an old one. Instead, it aimed to provoke participant discussion, and evoke severe paranoia, particularly timely in this post-Manhunt era.Culture of Fear was curated by journalist and broadcaster Emily Newton Dunn as part of theonedotzerodigital arts touring exhibition and re-launched at the Odeon on Friday the 13th. Of course, along with the traditionalDoom3's (Activision, 2004) and the innovative inclusion ofMunch's Oddysse(Microsoft, 2001) there were a few sneaky preview titbits thrown in to the presentation including severely disturbing preview footage fromSilent Hill 4: The Room(Konami, coming September 2004). Certainly, though, the game that freaked the whole house out was the big-screen showing of the opening FMV fromProject Zero II - Crimson Butterfly(Ubisoft, 2004). Talk about goosebumps.I grabbed Emily after her presentation to ask her how videogames purposefully court a culture of fear and what it might mean to the perception of gaming outside faithful circles.What are the various aspects involved in the culture of fear?Fear creation (the techniques being used in games), real world fears being explored in games (environmental, conspiracy theories etc) and the fear that surrounds video games as a medium, particularly the backlash against violent games. I'm currently putting together awebsiteon it. If anyone wants to contribute or wants to know when it launches, email me at loafer+at+armchairassassin.com. I'm currently trying to write ablogon fear in and around video games but it's a little sporadic at the moment!What factors in game development contribute to a sense of fear in the player?It really depends on the game type although of course there are techniques that work across the board like audio, colour palettes and peripheral extras (like the rumble pack or immersion techniques such as you'll find in the opening scene ofEternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem(Nintendo, 2002) or [the voice-activated]Lifeline(Konami, 2004)). Pacing and narrative are particularly important for survival horror games as the developer becomes both director and editor. This type of game typically has the most linear storylines because of this and use the most filmic techniques. The new action horror games likeThe Suffering(Midway, 2004) are crossing over and using real world fear topics like death row, mob mentality and unethical human experimentation to unsettle the player as well. Then you've got your good old boogyman standard shock tactics of things going boo in the night...What games are the scariest you've ever played? Why?I'm a bit of a delicate flower when it comes to scary games and once even had to turn the sound down on Lara! However, I'd say the most scary games that I've played have beenForbidden Siren(Sony, 2004) and Project Zero. Both have very strong storylines that instantly grip you, lots of spooky goings on and psychologically mess with your mind.How is in-game fear different from film-generated fear?Many games borrow fear creation tactics from the silver screen. However, a computer game by definition is interactive and developers are using ever more innovative ways of exploiting that relationship.What forthcoming technologies will assist in generating fear in players?The future is wide open as there are already multiple technologies that are not currently being used to create fear in video games such as theEye Toyor even the headset capabilities of online play. Imagine if you're playing online and someone else is controlling what's coming to get you.What are some of the pitfalls for the games industry when it courts a culture of fear?Mass hysteria! Games still have that kiddy hangover and the industry is not doing enough to address that problem. It's a shame that the majority of games that cross into mainstream press and hit the front pages are typically the violent ones that are associated with some terrible event. Developers being close lipped about their games when this happens doesn't really help either. It is easier [to blame games] than to look at society's ills and deal with them.Why weren't some of the more controversial games like Manhunt and GTA included in the Culture of Fear programme?The games [that were included] were taken from the onedotzero lensflare archives. Unfortunately, Rockstar have been very reticent to get involved and particularly didn't want to be associated with anything that even looked at violence in video games. I'm hoping that they will relent in the future.
San Jose Mercury News columnistDan Gillmoris one of the world's leading technology journalists - and after patrolling the silicon valley beat for the past decade, it's no surprise. He wrote extensively about the dotcom boom of the late 90s and had a front-row seat when the industry collapsed in 2000.Now he's releasing a book,We The Media, which examines how grassroots journalists are challenging big media's dominant position in news coverage.Dan will be taking some time out to join us for a webchat this Thursday, August 19 at 3pm GMT - and he's readyto answer your questions.
While publisher Sony has shunned the traditional London-based September-time gaming love-in that encompassesECTS, the star-studdedGame Stars LiveandEGNthis year, they've definitely stepped up the competition a notch, and are planning on re-injecting games culture with player-based fun fun fun. The consumer playground "PlayStation Experience" will be rocking throughAlton Towersat the end of September. Check out the details atgamesindustry.biz. Talk about bringing the message to the masses.It looks like an incredible event, with chart-topping bands, famous faces and loads of new games, thrilling rides and more. Superb choice of venues gang.
I thought Edinburgh Fringe audiences were way beyond shockability. I thought they prided themselves on being unshockable, with a dignified, bohemian, "Oh ho, I know your game, mister, don't think you're going to get a rise out of me by making a joke about the Holocaust".I've seen jokes about paedophilia and September 11, disabilities of all sorts, race and gender. I can't say I've been offended by any, though after 20 minutes of crass misogyny from Reginald D Hunter the year before last, I did hatch a plan with a friend to glass him in the face, which we had to abandon since she was on the Perrier committee (impartiality and all that) and I have no hand-eye coordination (I might have done her by accident).This year, Tim Fountain has done the impossible; he's   caused an old-fashioned controversy. He's done this with Sex Addict, a show in which he chats about sex, casual sex, sex and the internet, sex before the internet, and finally goes on to Gaydar (an internet sex site) and, with the help of the audience, chooses someone to go and have sex with, an experience he shares with the following night's audience.This paper, in a news report at the start of the festival, said: "Few people would actually go to the lengths of sleeping with a perfect stranger on every night of the festival as the premise of their show &#91;Fountain's&#93; act will no doubt scandalise and depress in equal measure."The List's critic expected something "soulless" but found it very funny. The London Evening Standard said the show was "artistically criminal" and made Big Brother look like Strindberg.   Gaydar took out a cease-and-desist order two days ago, and Fountain had to rewrite the last 20 minutes.He's been called a degenerate Alan Bennett, and is said to make the Marquis de Sade look like a prim neurotic.I think it's safe to say that, while not everyone's been scandalised, the scandal has reached an impressive pitch - I wouldn't have thought you could get a reaction like that, this decade, short of slaughtering an animal on stage, and it would have to be a cute one.People, it seems, still see promiscuity as immoral. I have never understood this: I understand the ethical concerns surrounding infidelity, since mendacity is involved.But I do not understand, outside a religious framework (and none of the critics - though I have yet to consult the Catholic Herald - object on those grounds), how one unattached person having sex with another can have any more ethical import than two people sharing a table in McDonald's.Gaydar objected on the basis of the privacy of its users; this seems at least partly ridiculous, since users post pictures and details with the overt intention of alerting the wider world to their availability.The Big Brother comparison, along with words like "depressing" and "soulless", seems to object to the idea of a man having sex in the service of entertainment.This is unfair to Fountain, who would be on Gaydar every afternoon whether he were doing a show about it or not - he's slept with "5,000 men and one woman, and counting."There's no way you'd get time to do that, if you were just doing it for one Edinburgh Fringe; plus, I know him socially, and he's always been full of excellent Gaydar stories that I'm certain he didn't make up. Fountain says some gay men object because they think he's giving away their secrets."I said last night, 'How many of you go cottaging?' Total silence. There were two guys looked at me like fucking daggers, and I saw them in the cottage that afternoon!"Overwhelmingly, though, it is the idea of sex without any emotional dimension that discombobulates. There seems to be a feeling that, since this is how animals do it, for people to do the same is on some level dehumanising.This is as absurd as thinking it's dehumanising to eat when hungry. More pressingly, promiscuity has always been a useful tool in shoring up prejudice, whether that be homophobia or gender war.If gay men are more licentious than straight men, and being licentious is a bad thing, that is a way to maintain a bigotry that would otherwise sound ridiculous. And if men, generally, are genetically predisposed to be more promiscuous than women ("Of course it's not just gay men," Fountain said."Men would shag a wall if it had blue mascara on"), and promiscuity is immoral, then it falls on women to uphold the moral welfare of society, as they are not prey to the same bestial urges.In other words, every   conservative social division (apart from racism - oh, and classism), whatever battering it takes from decades of liberalism, is still protected by this illogical first principle: it is wrong to have sex with someone you don't care about.The more people you have sex with who you don't care about, the more wrong it is. Bizarrely, no one ever feels compelled to explain why.So all these words (depravity, soullessness, criminality) are lobbed without critical judgment. Fountain asks a legitimate question - what's wrong with this behaviour? - and nobody will answer.Oh well, it's probably for the best; the Fringe needs one shock tactic that still works. Otherwise these jokers will start killing animals on stage. And I'll object in the strongest terms possible.zoe_williams@ntlworld.com
Despite the uninspiring headline "Transparency Begets Trust in the Ever-Expanding Blogosphere",this piecein theOnline Journalism Reviewtakes a good look at the relationship between webloggers and mainstream media:"'People trust The New York Times and Washington Post and link to them,' [Technorati founder David] Sifry says, 'but there are a huge number of people who are going outside the bounds of traditional media to these new media forms to get their information and, more importantly, to participate in the discussions around news and topics.'He says we shouldn't be too surprised by the results, which reflect a shift in user behavior that has been taking place for some time. The idea of the Web as a place where we randomly surf for news or conduct task-oriented hunt-and-peck Web searches has given way to a new metaphor: the Web as virtual corner bar, where community and conversations reign.'The Web is not chiefly about a library or a news stand,' Sifry says. 'You have to start thinking about the Web as this humongous event stream. The Web is a set of ongoing conversations that weave together into this new kind of omnipresent social fabric.'"OJR takes a look at Technorati'sattention index, and points to four reasons that bloggers might be trusted over mainstream reporters - niche expertise, transparency in motives, transparency in process and forthrightness about mistakes.Perhaps that's going a little too far - after all, the anonymity of blogging offers far more inscrutability when it comes to "transparency in motives" than most of the other big media mentioned on the list - but it's no surprise that some sources are more popular than others: it shows that building up trust with readers is a hugely important to online publications... still something many commercial brands don't seem to realise.[PS: Guardian Unlimited comes in at #5]
Online travel agent ebookers yesterday started the process of rebuilding its shattered share price after a disastrous profits warning last month, by assuring investors that trading in its crucial third quarter has been encouraging.The company, which specialises in long-haul destinations, said travellers were looking further afield for their holidays. Shares in the company, which lost a third of their value on July 28 when the firm warned that underlying profits for the year would be less than expected, added 17.5p to 140p. A month ago they were trading at almost twice that level.News yesterday that ebookers is searching for a non-executive chairman, coupled with the high profile of the new finance director, Michael Healy, raised questions about future involvement of the company's founder, chief executive and chairman, Dinesh Dhamija.Mr Healy, whose conservative view of the business was blamed by Mr Dhamija for last month's profit warning, was the public face of the company when it reported a rise in second-quarter sales yesterday but denied that he was looking to oust his boss."I am a very ambitious gentleman and I have managed business before. But I have no intention to topple Dinesh. He's chief executive, so the intention of finding a non-executive chairman is really to give more structure to the board in terms of proper corporate governance."The company also announced the departure of commercial director Peter Liney. He joined in February 2003 when ebookers bought high street travel agent Travel Bag. Mr Healy said that as ebookers looked to move all its business online Mr Liney's experience was no longer relevant.That move to all-online sales helped ebookers increase sales in the three months to end-June by 14.6%, compared with the previous three months, to &#163;135.6m. Online sales grew 62%, compared with the same period a year ago, to &#163;51.6m. But the company made an overall loss of &#163;5m for the six months to end-June.Mr Healy said he did not expect a "big loss" for the last half of the year. "We need to start to show good levels of profitability and I am fairly confident we can do that."&#183;The online travel group Iglu.com reported a 250% increase in annual pre-tax profits to &#163;1.1m on turnover up 35% at &#163;22m. The ski holiday specialist estimates it now accounts for about 10% of that market.
[Off topic] The good news is that I am still in top place in the Onlineblog Friends league in the Guardian's new Fantasy Chairman game. The bad news is that there is only one way this could happen: I am still the league's sole entrant. Turns out that I should have given you the leaguecode number, which I have finally retrieved from my inbox, rather than the name.So if you want to sign up to the Onlineblog Friends league, the league code is00692and the password isonlineblog. (You can stick this to your monitor along with all your other supersecure passwords.)People whose teams have lots of suspended and injured players and ones who can't get in the team are particularly welcome: they will feel right at home with my lot.
Digital Bridgesis, today, launching 3D Pool, the very impressive and self-explanatory 3D pool sim, created byDistinctive Developments. Compatible with current Java handsets, it's the first mobile pool/snooker title that doesn't just provide an unrealistic top-down view of the table. Nope, you get a couple of unmistakably three-dimensional views as well, each from a different height, providing a player's-eye view of the action.But does this add to the gameplay?Well, yes. Most of the time. If you overlook a few things.The table, reproduced in simple, flat-shaded polygons looks fine. Very good in fact. It'll take you back to the early days of 3D visuals, before things like bump mapping and bi-linear filtering arrived to confuse graphics card buyers. Controls are simple too: up and down select between the three available views, while right and left move you around the table. Hitting the 5 key allows you to choose where you're going to strike the white, and hitting 5 again starts the power meter. That's it.There are a few problems, however. Left and right movement isn't entirely smooth, so often you won't quite be able to make the shot you want because you can't get the cue to point in exactly the right direction. Also, a shot that appears to be lined up perfectly in say, the very low 3D view sometimes looks completely wrong when you switch to the top-down perspective. You can spend ages tweaking the angle, swapping between views several times - then you make the shot and watch in horror as the object ball spasms wildly off a colour, sending it in completely the wrong direction.This is okay when you're playing against a mate in the handset-swapping two-player mode, because you're both subject to the same capricious control system. But in one player mode, against a range of progressively tougher opponents, it drives you mad when your seemingly perfectly placed shot skews way off target.Ball physics is generally very convincing, even though the cushion bounce is a little over enthusiastic. Forget about trying a soft pot, hoping the ball stays near the pocket if you miss. Chances are it'll rebound off the lip and scuttle away slowly but surely for several seconds as though the table were on a slight but noticeable slant.But these are only trifling concerns. A 3D pool game with a few slight imperfections is far better than any overhead 2D effort. And even if it exasperates you at times, you'll slink back for more the next time you have five minutes free. There's even a trick shot mode, for heavens sake.
Even though I was on the go, I still managed to cram a few precious moments of play time between the EIGF sessions, and for your delectation here's what I digitally attended to over the weekend:Made in Wario(Nintendo Gamecube, on import, and GBA, 2003). The EDGE Award winner was already in my GBA on the way up to Edinburgh, as it has rightly been since its release last year. A truly magnificent game, it gives validity to the concept of "interstitial gaming", or pick up and play. Basically, as you progress through the fast-as-lightening levels of mini-game after mini-game, the clock speeds up and your brain begins to freak out. It's better than drugs, it's better than caffeine. There is absolutely no explanation for this madness but by golly it hooks you faster than crack. In a good way.Although it's not out in the UK until early September, the Gamecube version is an honest and literal replica of the GBA portable release with a few unforgiving multiplayer options which saw the controller thrown across the room in adolescent-esque fury (It wasn't me, it was the very grown up Max). More to come on that one later.Animal Crossing(GameCube, on import). A really lovely little title that combines the best elements of the offline versions of The Sims with a superb social swapping idea. You are an animal and you're new in town. You've got to get your bearings, talk to people and work in the local shop to pay your rent. That appears to be pretty much it. There are lots of little neat ways the game uses time and interaction, though the artificial intelligence has a tendency to get sexually confused. It didn't like that I was called Biscuit, for one. For two, it thought I was a boy when I was actually a girl. Computers, eh?When it's released in late September in the UK, it will come with its own memory card on which you save your games with the intention of swapping them with your friends. Apparently every Animal Crossing town is different, which offers millions of animal-populated landscapes to explore. The really nice touch is that you can leave messages or gifts in friends' houses. A feel-good game, dare I say it, for all the family.To counteract all of this Nintendo action, I also spent a small amount of time playingSerious Sam: Next Encounteron the PlayStation 2 (Take 2, 2004). This game is pure, unadulterated catharsis. There are waves and hordes of monsters, many of them quite bizarre, running at you. Shoot them. Shoot them all. That's it. Great for those moments when you need a wee pick-me-up and there's no more coffee in the house.It is a truly old school title, but with new school brawn. Superb graphics and hilarious sound make this a game that I put into my PlayStation again and again.On the drive home I got to 25,000 on my mobile phone version ofGalaxian(Namco, 1979). I would love to show off a screenshot of my high score in this classic arcade game, but alas the cameras don't work on themselves and I don't have another. You'll just have to take my word for it.It seems I got a lot of play time in, even though I was otherwise-occupied. I predict that this week I will mostly be playingSudeki, and at least one of the above, however I'm not a fortune teller. Anything can happen. Check back next week for the most-played of the gamesblog and perhaps re-discover a little something you'd forgotten. Still in search of Salmon Run.
"The virtual baked beans were falling fast. The unopened can had to go somewhere, but where? Not the simulated freezer. 'This food wouldn't spoil in that location,' the computer-generated voice said. 'But the quality of food could be affected, or you might be using space in your freezer unnecessarily'," reportsAP."Another lesson learned from the Fantastic Food Challenge, a package of four computer games designed to teach people who get nutrition aid such as federal food stamps how to make better use of their food."
A blink-and-you'll-miss-it snippet of news from this morning's Guardian:Art house flicks get hi-tech clips."The UK Film Council said yesterday that it would invest £13m in new digital projection equipment for British cinemas. In return, cinemas will be asked to show more specialised, non-blockbuster films."Last weekImax announced plans to open 12 more screens across Britain. Are cinemas finally about to embrace the future?Well, it's great that money is being pumped into improving projection equipment across Britain's sometimes rather Dickensian picture houses- and with the movie industry actually enjoying one of its most profitable periods for years, asking cinemas to try out a little more niche programming probably won't hit their pockets too much. But I do hope a corresponding effort goes into making versions of classic movies available on these new formats - it would be a shame to have high quality equipment that isn't able to show high quality movies.
Magic Box posted somenew screensof Capcom's recently announced Biohazard Outbreak: File 2 yesterday. The same images are also littered around Capcom Japan'sdedicated website. This is the sequel to last year's multiplayer online zombie fest set in a T-Virus-riddled Raccoon City. File 2 is due out on PS2 in Japan this autumn, while the original is soon to be released in the West as Resident Evil Outbreak - minus the, some would say crucial, online element.The shots look impressive, but isn't it all beginning to look rather familiar? The grubby back alleys, the boarded-up doors, the enormous mutant spiders. Design lethargy could well be creeping in behind the lumbering undead. Which is perhaps why Resident Evil 4, coming to Game Cube next year, is going to be set in Europe rather than Raccoon City and apparently features no zombies. Instead you'll find yourself in a threatening village filled with bizarre locals. The design team has obviously taken a recent holiday in rural England.By the way, if you want to be kept up to date with all things Resident Evil,thisis the site to bookmark.
"Raj Reddy, a pioneering researcher in artificial intelligence and a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, plans to unveil at the end of this year his new project, called the PCtvt, a $250 wirelessly networked personal computer intended for the four billion people around the world who live on less than $2,000 a year, reports theNew York Times(via CNET)."He says his device can find a market in developing countries, particularly those with large populations of people who cannot read, because it can be controlled by a simple TV remote control and can function as a television, telephone and videophone.""Because his low-cost computer doubles as a TV and DVD player, Reddy believes that he will be able to use it as a vehicle to take computing and communications to populations that until now have been excluded from the digital world."The project is being backed by Microsoft and Korean manufacturer TriGem among others. One of the interesting things the NYT points out is the question of bringing digital technology to often illiterate rural populations.
As the Big Brother housemates enjoy their 15 minutes of fame, broadcaster GMTV is planning to offer its six million daily viewers a slightly more modest prospect: five seconds of photo-fame.Next month the breakfast TV station will become the latest broadcaster to enable viewers with camera phones to interact directly with the show through picture messaging (MMS). The best photos sent in will be displayed on-screen around editorial items such as "back to school", with viewers able to show off their children in their first school uniform to the nation."People want to see themselves on screen," says GMTV head of interactive Nog Sawdon. "We already have text messaging to screen, this gives viewers their chance to get on TV, to get their five seconds of photo-fame."The past few years have seen broadcasters embrace text messaging as a hugely successful way to add interactivity to programes, with everything from voting to on-screen text chat. The evolution of 160-character black and white SMS to MMS, with the ability to add photos, sounds and even video, offers broadcasters far more powerful potential to add mobile interactivity to formats.A comparatively tiny number of consumers own camera phones.   According to figures released by the Mobile Data Association in June, there were 11m MMS phones in the UK as of March, giving a penetration rate of 24%. But with mobile operators pouring millions into marketing campaigns to promote next-generation handsets, growth is rising quickly and broadcasters are starting to jump on board.Giving viewers a way to become a visual part of the programme they're watching is an exciting prospect for viewers and broadcasters alike."It's a great opportunity to get content from your audience at very short notice," says Celador's head of digital Bruce Vandenberg. This year 10,000 viewers signed up for   Channel 4's first Big Brother picture alerts. However, Andy Taylor, head of C4's interactive division 4Interactive, reveals the broadcaster also used the series to trial its first MMS-to-screen services."On some Big Brother's Little Brother shows we offered the ability for viewers to send their photo in to be displayed on screen alongside their text messages. It was a toe in the water for us," he says. "It will definitely take off. People love to see themselves on screen."The first to take the leap was the BBC, back in April. Viewers of the BBC3 Johnny Vaughan vehicle Live at Johnny's were encouraged to send in picture messages of themselves to be praised or ridiculed on the Theme of the Day section. Although numbers were low, the corporation was encouraged enough to put MMS at the heart of its primetime Saturday night BBC1 show Johnny and Denise - Passport to Paradise, a Celador production.Viewers were again asked to MMS photos into the studio, with Johnny and Denise ad-libbing around the best ones live on air at the end of the show. BBC controller of business development and emerging platforms Angel Gambino this week revealed that the first show saw 8,000 photos submitted by the audience."This was very encouraging," says Hugh Griffiths, head of data at O2, which ran the service for the show in   conjunction with MX Telecom. "This is a new medium and as the penetration of MMS continues to climb we'll see increased usage. The extent to which people want to be creative with pictures is pretty limitless."At the BBC, Gambino is pleased with its experiments but says work to determine how to integrate picture messaging into programming formats is only just beginning."The numbers did drop throughout the series so we have to work out why," she says. "Is this just about novelty or can we make it part of a more entertaining format. For instance, broadcasters need to look at the peer-to-peer aspects of MMS, building a community around a show by sharing images."What's clear is that broadcasters are quickly starting to understand the potential of MMS, that it's not merely a more colourful form of text messaging but can become an integral part of the creativity of the show.ITV recently integrated picture messaging into its Sunday afternoon motorsport show Speed Sunday, filling the screen with images such as   viewers' kids dressed in full formula one kit. ITV head of mobile Jane Crossley says she's noticed MMS changing the perception of mobile interactivity by production teams, which often resisted including SMS in programming in its early days. "There is an enthusiasm to embrace it, which is the difference effected by a visual medium," she says.This week Endemol is set to announce its first show using inbound picture messaging. But director of interactive media Peter Cowley believes such applications are only scratching the surface of what picture messaging offers to broadcasters."I applaud the BBC for pioneering MMS, but with Johnny and Denise it seemed like a bit of a bolt-on rather than really adding anything to the theme of the show," he says. "This is such a rich form of media on mobile and it's much better for viewers to be able to receive content from the show itself."Endemol recently announced plans to launch a soap opera built for MMS. The 16-week comic-strip-style series, FanTESStic, is set to launch in the next few months. "This is an experiment to see how rich content works on the phone," says Cowley. "People will be able to interact in ways such as voting for an outfit for the heroine to wear, then receiving a picture of it back to their phone, so they feel there's value in participating."Mersey TV is planning to go one step further in the integration of MMS and broadcast media, with the launch of an MMS spin-off of Hollyoaks, developed with Opera Telecom. The series will use characters from the show, building on storylines from the TV series. The action will be portrayed, like a picture book, with a "slide-show" of five picture messages."This is a fantastic way to provide extra value to your audience," says Cowley. "Broadcasters need to come up with more creative ways to use MMS to add value to all of a show's two million viewers rather than just the fame of the ones that send photos in."At Celador, Vandenberg also believes the multimedia capabilities of MMS allow broadcasters to leverage the strength of existing shows, creating new media channels that give extra value to the viewer as well as new revenue streams for the company."We want to build a number of propositions around CD:UK for instance, with the possibility of backstage pictures of the bands appearing on the show sent to your phone as a subscription service," he says.However, it's not all about images. C4's Taylor points out that the unlimited amount of text a MMS message can display means broadcasters can provide far more compelling content to their viewers than with the 160 character limits of SMS."We want to extend all our SMS services, such as news, cricket and style tips alerts, to MMS. You can send a real news article now," he says.The possibilities for broadcasters seem limitless. With the drop in interactive TV voting for Big Brother this year - down to 2.8m from 5.3m last year - highlighting the lethargic approach of the public to the medium, mobile multimedia offers the TV community perhaps its best interactive opportunity.&#183;Justin Pearse is features editor of New Media Age
My name is Paul Carr and I am the editor-in-chief of an email newsletter. No, spare me your well-intentioned pity. I'm all too aware that - like head chefs for McDonald's and senior sales directors for Tena Lady - I'm cursed with having a reasonably cool job title in a terribly embarrassing market sector.Of course, we email newsletter editors have found crafty ways to conceal our embarrassing secret. Some of us write newspaper columns, others launch successful spin-off print magazines and TV shows. Still others attach lengths of hose to our car exhausts and find a garage with a tightly-sealed door. But no matter how hard we try, nothing can alter the fact that, at the end of the day, we are members of the third-least-well-respected sector of the media, after people who design flyers for nightclubs and whoever writes Vernon Kay's jokes. And the reason for our low regard? Spam. The world is so swamped with junkmail that it's almost impossible to understand how email can have any value as a serious publishing medium.This point was driven home for me two weeks ago when complaints started pouring in from subscribers to The Friday Thing who hadn't received their weekly issue. At first we were baffled, as only those who really don't understand their own technology can be. But the mystery was solved when we re-sent the issue to those affected. We received dozens of identical "bounce" notifications, each claiming that The Friday Thing had been rejected as spam. Despite all the affected readers having seemingly different email providers, the accounts were all actually powered by the same company. A company that was convinced we were evil spammers.The matter was resolved with a dozen tedious emails - but why had we been labelled as spammers in the first place? It seems that a subscriber to one of our free publications had been struck down with a nasty case of email amnesia. We've all done it. Subscribed to a newsletter. Opted in. Twice. And then forgotten all about it until the first issue arrives. Then we've got mad. "How dare these Friday people spam me," we've cried as we plough through page after page of double-opt-in email newsletters in   search of "hot d3als on Vi3gra". And then we've reported the evil Friday spammers to our big corporate email provider who has investigated the matter thoroughly.Only kidding. What the email provider actually does, it seems, is to simply take the complainant's word for it and bounce any future mail sent by The Friday Thing to any of its users. Brilliant. Just imagine if the Royal Mail operated in the same way. Someone signs up for a free trial copy of Maxim on a whim, forgets they've done it and complains to the Royal Mail about lad-mag junkmail. The Royal Mail responds by refusing to deliver any of Dennis Publishing's magazines to anyone in Britain. Of course there'd be an outcry. But when it happens to email magazines, no one is in the least bit surprised - least of all the publishers themselves. In fact, the problem has become so common that many "serious" email publishers - ourselves included - are seriously considering moving to alternative methods of distribution. The Friday Thing has already started publishing its full contents on the web (behind a subscribers-only wall) and we're ramping up our experiments with print.But it shouldn't have to be like this. Email is a fantastic publishing medium - easy to read, easy to print, completely cross-platform compatible and virtually instantaneous. It's also home to some quite excellent publications - Popbitch, NTK, B3ta, Snowmail and ...  well ... modesty forbids. And yet if the success of the entire medium is dependent on some chump at a corporate email provider with an itchy banning finger then we might as well all give up and go home.So, is there anything that can be done to save email publishing from this electronic Fahrenheit 451? Of course there is. First of all, email providers can realise that it's in their own best interests to ensure that they don't chase away their users by blocking emails that they have actually asked - or in our case paid - to receive. Then email publishers and email providers can put their electronic heads together to work out a way to stop legitimate publishers being tarred with the spam brush. The most logical solution is for some enterprising company to create a register of legitimate, double-opt-in email publishers that providers can refer to when deciding who to bounce.I'd be more than happy to pay a subscription fee to get that kind of legitimacy, and I'm sure other email publishers would too. If I were more technically competent I'd create it myself. But I'm not, so instead I'm imploring someone else to do it - or come up with a better idea - before it's too late. Otherwise we're going to have to give up email publishing altogether and start selling che3p Vi3gra to the masses. If you can't beat them ...
For any of eBay's millions  of regular users, being  beaten to an item that  they have been nervously  bidding on for hours can  ruin their day. As the  popularity of the site has soared, so  has the likelihood that the users will  be trumped at the last minute by a  similarly committed speculator.  Which is why the relaunch of eBay's  mobile telephone service and other  similar services will, the industry  hopes, finally ignite mainstream  interest in mobile content.Ebay has had a mobile presence  since 2001, but under a new deal with  web technology company Volantis it  will be vastly improved and better  promoted throughout the site. The  new service will alert eBay members  when they have been outbid on their  item and, assuming they have a compatible  phone, users will be able to  immediately click through to a site  that allows them to increase their bid.  If required, it will also alert users  when they have won an item or, if  they are selling, when a bid has been  received or if the item has been sold. The company is also working on new  ideas, including a service that lets  eBay sellers automatically upload  pictures of their goods from camera  phones to the site.While revenues for mobile data  services have continued to rise over  the past two years - fuelled by the  huge rise in the number of colour  phones on the market capable of  taking photos and accessing mobile  sites via GPRS - the breadth of  content available remains patchy  compared to that on the web. "Part of  the attraction with it is that the market  really came together in the fourth  quarter of last year," says Volantis  chief executive Mark Watson.Until now, revenues have mainly  been generated by the youth market:  downloadable ringtones, wallpapers  and games. Text alerts aside, much of  the content available even through  successful mobile portals such as  Vodafone Live, is simply repurposed  web content. Five years ago, it was  addictive, truly interactive services  such as eBay, Friends Reunited and  Amazon that first drove people to  spend an increasing amount of time  on the web (up to an average of  16 hours a week in broadband homes,  according to new Ofcom figures).Mobile operators and mobile content  and technology companies are  stepping up the search for services  that will persuade customers to use  their phones for more than  just talking. Whether it's  eBay going mobile,  gambling sites such as Victor  Chandler launching a  mobile offering or Lastminute.com allowing you to book  a restaurant table on your handset,  the key is reconfiguring existing sites  in a way that is unique to mobile.Middle-men like Volantis are looking  for ways to provide a "seamless",  one-click service for mobile phoneusers  in a bid to circumvent the  compatibility problems and technical  hitches that have turned  users off in the past.  "I recently looked at a survey of  103 handsets released onto the  market and no two handsets are the  same in terms of standards. That's  because, unlike the PC, the phone is a  fashion statement," says Watson. "If  they have to stop and think about  what they're doing, then it  becomes a turn-off."Volantis, which also configures  mobile content for Lastminute.com and Emap brands such as Kerrang!,  last week announced another  deal to work on mobile services for the  BBC. The firm will work on a new  trial offering video clips of  Olympics coverage. As in the  online world, there is little  doubt that BBC content will  encourage people to access  mobile content, but it is also  guaranteed to trigger protests  from commercial competitors.Other mobile companies such as  Cognima are looking for innovative  ways around the limitations of the  network operators. It has developed  a system called Cognima Snap, for  example, that allows users of camera  phones to quickly and easily send  their photos to an online album,  bypassing the operator's own MMS  protocol that can reduce picture  quality by a factor of four. Chief executive  Simon East, who formed Cognima  in 2001 after a long spell as vice  president of technology at mobile  technology company Symbian, believes  the market is "crying out" for  services that allow users to share  photos and video clips with friends  and family. Again, the key is making  them easy to use.Rob Bamforth, a senior analyst at  research company Bloor, agrees. "Up  till now there has, perhaps, been too  much of a  concentration on  location-based stuff," he  says, referring to the initial  rush towards services that would  tell you the location of the nearest taxi  cab office, restaurant or pub. While  they were undeniably useful, the huge  resources pumped into developing the  services were not translated into users  because they were too fiddly to use,  and there were easier ways of finding  somewhere to go for a pint.Bamforth also believes that the  networks need to look at their  pricing. Following the example of the  internet market, operators are starting  to look at charging a monthly  tariff for "all you can eat" content  rather than charging per kilobyte of  data, which means little to most people. "If the  pricing is done  right, it will really  perk things up," he says.Jeremy Wright, cofounder  of mobile marketing  company Enpocket, believes that  multimedia texts are the ideal showcase  to "push" users through to  mobile content. His company is  working with Vodafone to target cuspeotomers  interested in certain types of  content and will then send them  seamlessly through to it via MMS.Now that all of the major operators  have a Vodafone Live-style portal,  the challenge is to guide mobile  phone-users through to it with content  and services that will make it  worth their while.There are lessons to be learned from  the internet, and the motivation to  gamble, shop, bid and play on the  move is a powerful one. The key battle  is getting people to use the services in  the first place. "There are now large  numbers of people with MMS handsets  who can access these  services. It's just a case  of giving them the  reasons to do so,"  says Wright.
When it comes to performance motorbikes, it is a taboo to talk about 'sense', 'safety', or 'risk avoidance'. But compared to speedway bikes, most motorcycles have more in common with supermarket trolleys and golf buggies. Speedway is a sport that not only defies reason, it actively flies in the face of logic. If lemmings were looking to take up something more dangerous than cliff diving, speedway would be a good starting point.Let's start with the bikes. They have no brakes, no gears, no suspension and they can't turn left. There's only one footrest, the seat isn't designed to be sat on and one handlebar is longer than the other. They have 500cc engines, cost upwards of £6,000, weigh about as much as Olga Korbut and go at 120mph. They'd beat a Formula One car off the grid - acceleration is 0-62mph in under three seconds. Then there's the track - a 400m oval of flat, slithery shale, enclosed by steel crash barriers.The aim is to go hell for leather around the gravel track as fast as possible. In short, it's not the sort of sport your mum would love you to take up. And yet, speedway is thriving - and rapidly returning to its Seventies heyday. There are 40 teams, from London to Glasgow and Newport to Ipswich, competing in three leagues. There is also an active Grand Prix fixture list and crowds often number more than 40,000. Sky Sports is even televising every speedway round up to and including the final event of the Grand Prix, at Hammer, in Norway on 2 October.To see it for myself, and to get a taste of the speed and the shale, I've come to the circuit of the Arena Essex Hammers. Here, having been kitted out in Kevlar body armour, back braces and steel-soled boots, I'm joined by the three-times world long-track champion Kelvin Tatum, MBE. In speedway circles he's a legend. It's a bit like being taught to drive by Michael Schumacher.Kelvin arranged for me, a total novice, to ride a bike with a slightly smaller engine than his, but which looked like the real thing. He talked me through the finer points of accelerating around bends while the bike skidded sideways and an ambulance ominously rolled into view at the end of the track. You know things are serious when a 'crash' nurse is on hand. Kelvin started by giving me a demonstration. He gunned the engine before drifting out on to the dirt.A quick wheelie and then he was hammering down the straight, heading unstoppably for the crash barrier. At the last moment he leaned violently to the left and set his bike into a graceful curving slide, shale fanning out from his back wheel... Not bad, I thought.Then it was my go. 'Steer with the throttle and the rear wheel,' said Kelvin, with a twinkle in his eye. 'Be aggressive with the throttle.' Did I manage it? Sort of. That's me in the picture. But by the end of 25 laps, having cheated death a dozen times, I decided to retire from speedway. I'll leave it to Kelvin - and the lemmings.
"Apple has filed for a European design trademark which may provide a tantalising glimpse of the company's long-awaited tablet computer. The filing, made in May this year but only published this week, covers a "handheld computer" and contains sketches of what look[s] like an iBook screen minus the body of the computer," reportsThe Register.
The auction of shares in Google began yesterday despite the latest in a string of embarrassing mishaps, when the company's founders admitted they might have broken securities rules by giving an interview to Playboy magazine.In a filing with the securities and exchange commission, the company said it did not believe it had violated the rules but described the seven-page article as a "risk factor".The interview with Larry Page and Sergey Brin hit the news stands in the United States yesterday. It meanders through topics, including the privacy issues of Google's planned email service, the search engine in China, the effort to maintain the company's culture and "fun elements" and a deconstruction of the Google motto: "Don't be evil"."Apparently people like it better than 'be good'," Mr Page explained.The entire article was included in a filing with the SEC with the warning that if it is held to be in violation of securities rules then the company "could be required to re-purchase securities sold in the offering".The interview took place in April before the initial public offering plans were announced. In the filing, Google said it did not believe it had broken the rules and would "vigorously" contest any claims that it had.The SEC had no comment. But people with knowledge of the workings of the watchdog said the ball was in Google's court. "It comes down to how confident Google's lawyers feel because the SEC couldn't render a judgment on an issue like this that quickly. SEC staff would need to properly research this and if there ever are charges against them it is done through a very formal process," said one.According to the rules governing a stock market flotation in the US, companies are banned from promoting themselves other than through the formal IPO process.By including the full text of the article in its filing with the SEC, Google might have avoided charges but the regulator could still argue that it was not included in a timely manner.One option for Google would have been to delay the flotation for a so-called "cooling off" period. In May, software maker Salesforce.com delayed its IPO for a month after its chief executive gave an interview to the New York Times.Hours after the interview was made public late on Thursday night, Google an nounced that the auction would start yesterday, signalling its determination to press ahead. If all goes according to plan, then share trading is expected to begin next week. Google would not provide any details on how the auction was progressing. It is hoping to get up to $135 a share, valuing the company at $36bn (&#163;19.7bn). The flotation, which is using a complex Dutch auction to set the price, has been plagued with problems.Institutional investors reacted coolly to the use of the unusual auction method, in the belief that the price could dive in the first few days of trading. Technical problems pushed the schedule back a week and Google also admitted it had failed to register more than 23m shares awarded to staff.IPO experts said the general air of uncertainty clouding the float could put potential investors off. Bruce Foerster, chief financial officer of Aurora Capital in Florida, said: "Throwing a bid in on Friday, in a world in which events pop up at a moment's notice, is not something I'd want to do."In the past few days a number of technology and internet companies have pulled their IPOs because of the hostile market conditions, including MatchNet, Claria Corporation and PlanetOut.
Steven Seagalwww.stevenseagal.comSteven Seagal, the star of countless brain-free action flicks, reckons he "was born with a serious spiritual consciousness" and his calling is to "serve mankind and ease the suffering of others". How he counters this with his acting is anyone's guess but, as this official shrine demonstrates, there are more sides to Seagal than the granite foreheaded cop with martial arts skills we know and love from movies such as Under Seige 2. As well as his Buddhist beliefs, Seagal is also a musician who has just released an album, Songs From The Crystal Cave, only in France - the big surprise being, judging by the samples here, his songs are actually pretty good. But then according to the great man himself "music is the language of the divine".Turtle TVwww.turtletvnetwork.comImagine a world where humans are replaced by turtles who start their own TV channel. That's the entirely acceptable concept behind this smart site, which features real life hard-backed reptilian creatures (no relation to the teenage ninja variety) undertaking a variety of film projects. Go to the video section to witness spoofs of The Matrix, Psycho and TV news bulletins. While you're there, be sure to check out "The One With The Blazing Saddles" which stars George Bush in a turtle disguise and The One With The French Chef, starring an inebriated cook attempting to prepare Crickets In Wine Sauce. Once you've exhausted those you can play a game of Turtle Hurtle or, if the mood strikes, purchase a Turtle TV bra.The Prodigywww.nekosite.co.ukChildren born when the Prodigy recorded their last album, The Fat Of The Land, will be starting junior school shortly after the Essex dance mavericks release their follow-up. Not that the seven-year gap has deterred this wonderful fan site, which has kept going despite having no new music to rave about - just as well considering the band's own site consists of nothing but a digital clock. There's a comprehensive roundup of Liam Howlett's sudden burst of activity, including their own interview, videos and a track-by track description of Always Outnumbered, Never Outgunned. Hope it's worth it.
If you're feeling down, cats will cheer you up. For proof go towww.amazingcatcollection.comand check out the live action Puma T-shirt.According towww.yogakitty.com, higher consciousness is not just for humans any more. In a series of videos, they demonstrate how you and your pet can recharge each other's chakras using yoga.Not all cats are as chilled,www.mycathatesyou.comfeatures galleries of demonic, human-despising little tykes, which is utterly understandable if their owner has bought them a tailored outfit from Catprin (www.petoffice.co.jp/catprin/english/) or named them "Cake" which according to The Index Of Famous Cats (www.citizenlunchbox.com/famous/cats.html) is what Warren Beatty calls his feline pal.To keep tabs on kitty happeningswww.catnews.comfeatures a daily array of news morsels.While you can see life from a kitten's perspective at Cat's Diary (http://sendingfun.com/catsdiary/flash.asp) - "Day 752. My captors continue to taunt me with bizarre dangling objects."
ManhuntNews coverage of the recent tragic murder of 14-year-old Stefan Pakeerah by 17-year-old Warren LeBlanc saw the re-emergence of the old "videogames turn harmless child into psycho killer" headlines. Beloved of the painfully ill-informed tabloid press, in this case they evidently caused the equally reactionary Dixons and Game to pull Manhunt, the title involved, from their shelves. Never mind that it has an 18-certificate and should never have been bought for a child of that age, or that tens of thousands have played it without committing any acts of violence. The final twist came when a spokesman for Leicestershire police confirmed that the game was actually found in the bedroom of the victim rather than the murderer: "Police investigations did not uncover any connections to the videogame: the motive for the incident was robbery." Don't expect front page retractions from The Mail any time soon.F-Zero GP LegendGame Boy AdvanceUnlike Wipeout, which added dance music and a plethora of semi-effectual weapons to the mix, the F-Zero series has always been about driving, although ramming your opponents into its circuits' electrified crash barriers is as fun as it ever was. Controls have been tightened to make it easier to find your way around corners at speeds of 1,000+ kmp/h, and getting the hang of your air brakes eventually leads to truly majestic lines through some memorable sequences of bends and chicanes. Story mode's challenges range from testing to actually sadistic and there's also a set of Gran Turismo-style driving tests to play with. Simpler and more user-friendly than its forebears, this still has enough tricky bits to appeal to old hands without scaring off FNGs.&#183;Nintendo, £35Chronicles Of Riddick: Escape From Butcher BayXBoxAlthough Chronicles Of Riddick the movie is turkey enough to warrant cracking out the redcurrant jelly, the similarly entitled game couldn't be more different from its largely empty silver-screen counterpart. Set before Pitch Black, the first Riddick film, this tells the story of his escape from three increasingly dangerous maximum-security prisons and the acquisition of his "eyeshine" that lets him stalk enemies in the dark. Success comes through a mixture of conversation, exploration and violence, in this case often perpetrated with fists and sharpened metal "shivs", a system that works surprisingly well in the game's first person viewpoint. From its deeply unpleasant and effective sound design to the balance between physical puzzles and superbly weighted fist and fire fights, Riddick is a breathless and intense experience that manages to sustain an impressive level of polish throughout.&#183;NG Vivendi, £40
Leading UK mobile gamer developerMorphemehas just started a weekly newsletter, and it's quite an amusing read - as you'd expect from a company that named a game, Balloon-Headed Boy. I love the fact that they couldn't really afford to get a real athlete to sponsor their newly released Olympics title Jeremiah Manford's Athletics, so they made one up. At least he can't bring disgrace on the sport by missing a drugs test and then falling off his motorbike! Or maybe they're saving that for the sequel.The HTML version of the newsletter is righthere, or you can subscribe to the email version on Morpheme's home page.
Some nice chap on theAnandtechforum has posted a huge list of free games available for download all over the internet. What's more, lots of people are adding to what is now a quite substantial and interesting collection.Browse the listhereand fill your hard drive with goodies.
[Off topic]With the Premiership season about to start, I finally entered my team in the Guardian's newFantasy Chairmangame. Following Neil's suggestion, I've also added an Onlineblog friends league, and you are invited to join. If you are already registered in the game, you can join or leave a league at any time, and it requires no extra work. The league is calledOnlineblogand the password is onlineblog (yes, a lot of midnight oil went into that). If you are not playng the game, you can still sign up for £5. Don't worry if you miss the first few days or even weeks: it's not going to make any real difference over a season. That's even more true than usual with the Guardian game, because some of us haven't yet figured out how to play it ;-)
Eurostar customers can make substantial savings when buying tickets online by pretending to live in America and paying for their purchases in dollars.Price comparisons on the company's website revealed Americans pay a third less for some fares between London and Paris.Some of the biggest savings are made in first-class travel, though travellers purchasing a standard-class, semi-flexible return can also find prices around 20% cheaper if paid for in dollars.The savings arise when a customer opens the Eurostar homepage and selects a country of residence. From then on timetable and price information is given in the local currency.Last night Eurostar admitted the difference in the pricing system but said British customers were welcome to pose as Americans to secure lower prices if they wished.Research last night showed a person living in the UK wanting a London-Paris standard ticket returning the next day would have to pay &#163;199. A person living in the US could secure the same tickets for $300 - &#163;162.80, or a saving of 19.6%, at current exchange rates.First-class travellers can expect even greater savings. A semi-flexible, first-class return for the same dates for a UK resident worked out at &#163;349 while Americans would pay $418 - &#163;222 - or a saving of 36.4%.A Briton paying in US dollars may be charged a transaction fee by their credit card company but far less than the savings on offer.The price difference is partly a result of the pound's strength against the dollar but also shows how Eurostar is setting higher ticket prices in the UK market.Railfuture, a consumer pressure group, last night condemned Eurostar. Peter Lawson, its president, told the Daily Mail: "The pricing imposed on UK travellers appears to be a serious anomaly. It is very unfair."It cannot be right that British travellers should be charged so much more than other people on the same train who happen to have paid in dollars. We have been concerned for some time about the high ticket prices on Eurostar."The train operator said it was within its rights to charge different amounts. Spokesman Paul Charles said: "You get a difference on prices for training shoes, clothes and other things around the world. Everyone has different prices for different markets. A pair of jeans in Gap will be a different price in New York versus London and we are no different."Mr Charles added Eurostar had no objection to British customers registering to pay in dollars and pointed out the non-flexible, standard fare started at &#163;29.50 one way. The US fares start at $45, which is under &#163;25.Last year it emerged British tourists on holiday in the US paid considerably more than Americans for car rental. But the biggest savings are to be had by flying. An easyJet flight from Stansted to Paris for September 8, the same date as the Eurostar quote, worked out at &#163;43 return.
It comes billed as "the most frightening game ever created", but as Doom 3 went on sale in British stores yesterday, its distributors dismissed accusations that the violence on-screen can encourage violence off it.The sci-fi horror game involves the shooter struggling against zombies, lost souls, demons, maggots and various other monsters unleashed from hell. Along the way, graphics depict exploding heads, chainsaws, axes and decapitations.It has been granted an 18 rating by the British Board of Film Classification.But 10 years after the original Doom was released, creators say Doom 3 is a retelling of the story with superior 3D graphics, and sound and lighting used to create a sense of dread.The original Doom was linked to the Columbine school massacre when it was claimed that the teenage killers Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold were influenced by the violent nature of the game.Last month, the graphically violent Manhunt game was pulled from the shelves after parents of a murdered schoolboy claimed his killer was obsessed with the Playstation 2 game. Stefan Pakeerah, 17, was beaten to death with a claw hammer and stabbed by Warren Leblanc, also 17, who had lured him to a local park.But Tim Ponting of Activision, the distributor of Doom 3, told the BBC: "Doom 3 is a game suitable for an adult audience, marketed appropriately to adult consumers who make their own choice whether to purchase."There is a robust, well-proven regulatory framework in place and Doom 3 has been fully approved for distribution in the UK with a BBFC rating of 18." It has taken the Texas-based developers id Software four years to complete the making of the game, which costabout &#163;8.3m to create and was initially expected to be on the market a year ago.Id Software's chief executive, Tim Hollenshead, said its creators took inspiration from feature films such as Alien, making Doom 3 feel like an interactive horror film."Add in the most ferocious lineup of demons hell has ever brought to bear and you have an experience so intense that you'll need to keep your heart medicine handy," he said.Retailers have been warned by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport that anyone selling an adult game to a minor could be jailed for six months.Computer experts have described the release of the original Doom in 1994 as a watershed in computer games where the player first became the shooter. Since then the franchise has grossed more than &#163;55m.There have been reports in the UK of thousands of illegal copies of the game after it was leaked on the internet following the US release last week.ELSPA, which classifies computer games along with the BBFC, said yesterday it was important for the public to remember that most people who play the games regularly are in their late 20s and early 30s.
It's the bit of car ownership that you never see in the glossy magazine adverts. You take delivery of your brand new car and before you've got a few miles down the road you find yourself back at the dealer and trying to get the windscreen wipers to work.A few days later, water starts pouring in through the driver's door, and the final indignity, it breaks down on the motorway.They used to be called "Friday afternoon cars" - those produced by workers desperate to get away quickly for the weekend. Even in these days of round-the-clock car production, most factories still seem to churn out the odd lemon.While it's tempting when you collect a new car to grab the keys and make for the open road, an hour spent diligently examining the bodywork and making sure everything works, is time well spent.Check the paintwork is regular and unmarked and that the panels are properly aligned - and only sign to take delivery once you are happy.However, that will only reveal so much. Newspaper motoring sections regularly feature stories of readers who take their car back to the supplying dealer 15 times to no avail - but what should you do if it happens to you?The Supply of Goods Act 1994 and its update (Sale and Supply of Goods to Consumers Regulations 2002) state that a car has to be "as described, fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality" at the time of delivery.Clearly, if the car won't drive properly or the doors leak water every time it rains, then you are perfectly in your rights to reject it.The act actually protects the buyer for up to six years, although, in practical terms, most buyers will want to return the car within six months.If the buyer returns the car within that period, the burden of proof is on the dealer to show the car was fit for purpose.Shaheen Musaret, a lawyer who works for the Consumers' Association, suggests unhappy buyers park the vehicle in a safe place then advise the dealer that you are rejecting it, and that it will be returned when the purchase price is refunded."This is a huge problem and we currently get 20 calls a day on this issue - and it's very difficult to advise on, as each claim is different."Generally, the quicker the claim is made the more chance it has of succeeding."We suggest buyers don't let the dealer try and sort out the problem but reject it as soon as they unearth the major fault. Some dealers will do anything to drag out proceedings so that they can argue the buyer is out of time."It you are going to let them try and resolve the problem, put it in writing that you reserve the right to reject the car if it fails to remedy the problem."She says those who buy their cars on hire purchase agreements have an extra level of protection as they can also reject the car to its legal owner - the finance house."It will all depend on what's considered reasonable. If you've done several thousand miles the dealer will argue that you've consented to accept the car and can no longer reject it in favour of a full refund."Even if you've covered a few thousand miles, you are still within your rights to seek compensation if the car is unfit for use - although Ms Musaret suggests you are unlikely to get a full refund.Lastly, it should be noted that you will not be able to successfully reject the car unless the problems is considered serious.If you simply no longer like it, or it suffers from one minor problem, you are unlikely get your money back.Look east for reliabilityThe Consumers' Association has named the UK's most unreliable car manufacturers and it makes grim reading for those who bought supposedly reliable German marques.Japanese manufacturers continue to top the table. Honda, Mazda, Lexus and Toyota have been joined by Suzuki for the first time in the "excellent" list.But the other end of the table German brands are no longer living up to their dependable reputation.VW dropped into the lowest category last year, and has been joined by BMW and Audi - which has dropped two places in two years.Ford is the only non-Far Eastern manufacturer to be named as excellent or good.In alphabetical order, the manufacturers named by Which? as"poor" are:Audi (1,009)BMW (1,388)Chrysler (140)Citro&#235;n (1,243)Daewoo (266)Fiat (694)Land Rover (493)Peugeot (1,932)Renault (2,096)Rover (1,252)Saab (469)Vauxhall (2,610)VW (2,610)&#183;Source: The Consumers' Association. The survey of 80,000 randomly selected readers of Which? provided information on 34,277 cars up to eight years old. Sample size in brackets.
Oh how I wish for properly-functioning technology. The second day of theEIGF, slightly shorter with a nod to the rousing party that occurred the night before, was chocka with fascinating stuff, put to the soundtrack of the tap-tap-tap of wifi'd bloggers with laptops that actually worked. Sigh. I can only dream.The day started out appropriately with the ever-entertaining Seamus Blackley pouring his panel of Hollywood and games industry professionals strong Bloody Mary's, which certainly made the ubiquitous discussion of the two media's relationship a little but more surreal. Continuing the emerging theme of the conference, the question of risk was tackled, both in the creative and the financial spheres. What was appealing, however, was that the panelists, including Brad Foxhoven, co-founder of games developers Tiger Hill LCC with film legend John Woo, Neil Young, head of Electronic Arts' Maxis studio and Mary-Margaret Walker, co-founder of games industry recruitment agency Mary-Margaret.com, shifted the conversation from the well-covered and thinly-veiled desire to be more like the film business to the application of the creative structure of the movie world. A potentially controversial contention was that games makers should hire teams per project, which then would evoke, like in film and television, a product developed by the best group of appropriate people money could buy. They reiterated that the industry is in a creative lull, however placed the blame on a lack of collaboration between adept individuals.The debate over the role of the PC in the future of interactive entertainment was tackled in the next session, but unfortunately the two debating sides had too much vested interest in the opposing point of view to make a real case for their own positions. Although it was intended to be light-hearted, there was an avenue that could have been developed in the session, particularly down the road towards the potential for the PC to attract a mass market audience. Once again the industry, represented by both the presenters and the audience, ignored the casual gamer and simply forgot that the preponderance of their purchasers are 18-24 year old boys. That's not the mass market! Indeed, the people's platform truly is PC, but for some reason the games industry continues to ignore what opportunities may arise from it in favour of being railroaded into thinking that their only option is to create titles that appeal to the PlayStation generation.This issue was approached in a roundabout way in the next panel discussion, in which Charles Cecil, CEO of Revolution Software, explore the potential for the future of the virtual actor. It was a striking session, particularly because all three contributors entertained the notion of depth of emotion and artificial intelligence, and their importance in advancing the concept of a computer game from a pastime to a cultural and artistic phenomenon.Both days of the EIGF witnessed a thoughtful convergence of real creative talent from across a broad spectrum of industries. From the music biz to economists to film folks, the games world is reacting very positively to the influx people from more well-established professions, and for many of the people who work in a genre that is traditionally considered child's play, it feels good to know that their work is being embraced by such a pool of grown-up diversity. Although there is some way to go before games reaches adulthood, festivals like the EIGF assist in its maturity. Looking forward to next year already, especially because I expect to have much better technology, a digital camera and wifi.
Wowee, Nintendo's Made in Wario has been chosen as the 2004 EDGE Award, beating crowd pleasers EyeToy and the controversial Manhunt. It was voted for by a panel of industry and games academic luminaries from around the globe who were presented with a shortlist of ten titles which the staff at the Future Publication had selected from 2003's top reviews.Made in Wario is, quite literally, the most insane game ever made. It's made up of billions of rapid-fire mini-games, from tooth-brushing to dog-paw-shaking to flying squirrel photographing to snot-sniffling to eye-drop dropping. Each mini-game fires up on the screen for approximately a millionth of a second and, by using wits and vague memories of previous attempts, the player must instantly react and perform the appropriate task. Some of the games fall into the "extremely surreal" category and only barely translate from the original Japanese format."One of the reasons it's proven so successful with everybody," explains EDGE Games Editor Margaret Robertson, "is because it is a game that loves games just as much as you do."This is the second year the award has been made, and the second award for publishers Nintendo. Their previous success with action adventure Metroid Prime and this year's take home are part of the "Nintendoism" of gaming, according to the company's David Gozen. It's really good to see the difference from last year, with Metroid Prime and Wario this year," he explained. "It just shows the depth of talent Nintendo has." Perhaps this recognition will inspire greater developer confidence in the platform, who are reportedly cutting back their supply of products for the GameCube.The inclusion of Manhunt in the list was a considered decision by the magazine editors, one which was made before the events in Leicestershire transpired a few weeks ago. As Robertson explains, "For EDGE, this is a game that forces the industry and forces players to confront that central of whether or not violence is acceptable as interactive entertainment."WarioWare, Inc. managed to beat Edinburgh-favourite driving game Project Gotham Racing 2, Prince of Persa: Sands of Time, In Memoriam, Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow, the beautiful Viewtiful Joe, Legend of Zelda: Four Swords+ and human-magnet sim Katamari Damacy, as well as the previously-mentioned camera-based EyeToy and the uber-violent Manhunt.
Well, it's Friday and that means it's time to take a look all the fabulous new releases you can go out and buy this weekend. Of course, Doom3 will be at the top of everyone's shopping list, but Id's latest is far from alone. You can also pick up Chronicles of Riddick and, erm, Transport Giant in which you take command of an international transportation company. Oh and if you're twelve, there's the latest Yu-Gi-Oh! title. Don't all rush to the shops at once, eh?Doom3PC, £34.99 Id/Activision Finally it's here! And so far, reactions have been mixed. Generally, everyone agrees it's a technical tour-de-force, boasting more special effects than the latest Bruckheimer epic, and shifting the graphical benchmark to such a degree, you can almost hear legions of rival developers scuttling back to the drawing board. However, Id's determination to stick with the classic Doom gameplay ethos – linear design, minute characteristaion, daft enemies – may have left it out of step with titles like Far Cry and Halo. Judge for yourself.Chronicles of RiddickXbox, £39.99 Starbreeze/Vivendi Another nice looking game that plays with some trendy graphical effects to impressive effect. You can find Steve Boxer's review righthere.Transport GiantPC, £29.99 JoWooD/Koch Media Ever dreamt of running your own international transport network? Shut up, of course you have. And this strategy title, which spans 200 years of industrial innovation, promises to indulge those previously impotent fantasies. Featuring over 130 different vehicles and 60 different products to transport, it could well be the most comprehensive commercial transport simulation this year.Yu-Gi-Oh! Reshef of DestructionGBA, £29.99 Konami The latest Yu-Gi-Oh! title recreates all the fun of the ridiculously successful card trading game, but on the GBA. Features 800 cards, including three Egyptian god cards. And that is probably all you need to know.
I was walking down a street off Covent Garden in London  this week when I counted seven people in front of me all by themselves but talking on  mobile phones. The callers were all unconnected with each other and there was no one between them who wasn't talking on a mobile.Together they took up most of the street. I have no idea what they were chatting about except that, almost certainly, these were not calls that would otherwise been made on fixed lines when they got home. Mostly, such conversations would not have happened without the new technologies.The same is true of text messages and emails which have made it much easier for people to strike up relationships with each other and opened up new layers of communication between people that didn't exist before and which are still under-researched.As this week's Ofcom report into the communications market noted, the world is in the midst of a digital revolution. It is happening so quickly and in so many areas simultaneously that much of it is not even regarded as news anymore. Consumers are migrating in their millions from fixed line phones to mobiles, from copper wire to wireless while the old copper wires - thanks again to amazing technological breakthroughs - are being used to pump multi-channel television and broadband to our homes.Analogue television is speedily ceding supremacy to digital television - in which signals are sent in the binary code of 1s and 0s - and new digital gadgets from iPods to mobile DVD players are gaining ground rapidly. The mobile phone itself, the fastest adopted consumer product in history, is now gobbling up rival products including television and radio sets, MP3 players and cameras.There are now about 50 products that could be sold separately but which are bundled into mobiles (though not all into the same one). Where will it all end? In March 1993, I wrote an article in the Guardian saying that the battle of the future in economics would not be between Keynesianism and monetarism but between digital and analogue economies and pointed out that "the world is going digital at a dizzy rate".That has turned out to be true, in the sense that ideological disputes in economics have almost vanished and the main difference is between standard Keynesianism of countries like Britain and the reckless over-the-top Keynesian expansionism of the US.But in terms of the digital revolution, I didn't have a clue about what was about to happen. There was no mention of the internet, nor of mobile phones let alone the Wi-Fi revolution. None of them were on the radar screen as mass phenomena in 1993.The digital revolution is now nearing critical mass. Phone calls - whether from mobiles or fixed lines - will soon migrate to the internet. Radio and television will eventually be all-digital  - the main stumbling block being what happens to our second, third and fourth sets - and digital downloads are sweeping all before them in the music world.Meanwhile digital additions are invading cars, consumer durables, maps, aircraft, transport and the health service while simultaneously a whole sub-economy has been created by the growth of companies like Amazon, eBay and Google that would not exist without digitisation and the internet.It is fairly easy to predict some things that are likely to happen because a continuation of Moore's law - a doubling of computer power every 18 months for the same price - will ensure that computers and mobile phones get smaller and more powerful.Mobiles, the most predatory product ever invented, could destroy whole businesses -such as digital cameras, mobile radios and MP3 players - while falling costs will usher in a new era of videoconferencing for personal and corporate use. If all goes well, the UK could have the world's most efficient health service in five years time thanks to new technology. (It could prove a disaster if technology fails).  Vehicles will be taxed according to where they are not what they are.Everyone will be able to record their entire lives on the internet if they want, and have minute video cameras attached to them to record possible muggers (with the results automatically scanned using facial recognition techniques to instantly identify the attacker). And so on, and so on.What is difficult to predict is the equivalent of the internet and mobiles 12 years ago: products in embryonic form now which will become mega a decade hence.  All we will know is that, as happened with the explosion of mobiles, it will all look obvious once it happens. Hindsight, like everything else, will just get better and better.&#183;Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian Online
"America Online Inc (AOL) is introducing a budget PC to the US market bundled with its Internet access software in both Spanish and English, as it looks to lasso novices and Spanish speakers alike with the offering. The AOL Optimized PC will go on sale in Office Depot Inc retail stores across the US later this month, offering novice users an easy way to get online, AOL said Thursday," reportsIDG News Service."The entry-level PC system, including a monitor, keyboard, mouse and printer, is selling for $299.99 with a 12-month membership commitment to the AOL service for $23.90 a month, bringing the total to $586.79."Comment:The AOL PC is being made by Systemax and also includes a copy of OpenOffice.
"The Norwegian hacker famed for developing DVD encryption-cracking software has apparently struck again — this time breaking the locks on Apple Computer's wireless music streaming technology, reportsAP."Jon Lech Johansen released on his Web site — defiantly named "So Sue Me" — a software key that helps to unlock the encryption Apple uses for its AirPort Express, a device that lets users broadcast digital music from Apple's online iTunes Music Store on a stereo that's not plugged into a computer. "
It was announced yesterday evening at the EIGF that the first BAFTA Interactive New Talent Award was proffered to Paulina Bozek, the producer of SCEEurope's karaoke title SingStar. Not only is this event notable as the first BAFTA Interactive New Talent Award, but it also recognises a woman's contribution to the games industry. Congratulations Paulina!Paulina was awarded the Interactive BAFTA for her creative and innovative role in the realisation of a title which continues to see sales skyrocket to non-traditional audiences.Furthermore, Sony has witnessed the sales of their PlayStation 2 consoles increase since the title's release, many to first-time gamers, repeating the recent success of another British-developed product, Sony's EyeToy.SingStar, released by SCEEurope in May 2004, featured a 40% female development team, including programmer Charu Gupta. Gupta comments, "I think SingStar is such a success because we aimed to make a high quality product that was sociable, fun and inclusive. I think having a varied team helped since we had more balanced, diverse approaches and opinions to investigate.""I'm happy they chose a game that's unusual and original," offered Bozek. "It's nice to recognise individuals who wok on any game," she said of her recognition. "I hope more women will win more awards in this industry in the future."Polish-born, Canadian-reared and London-based Paulina started her interactive career in Montreal in the PR and Communications offices of UbisSoft. She quickly moved into development and began working at London's SOHO studio in 2003.SingStar has been one of the few titles to be publicised in female-specific press, including gossip rag heat and girl magazine Bliss. Let's hope this trend continues.
In one of the more bizarre promotional efforts of late Capcom today released a "revolutionary viral campaign " to hype the forthcoming Resident Evil: Outbreak on PS2. TheT-Virusis spread by email and SMS and also includes a zombie ringtone. There are prizes for those who "infect" other people, but of more concern was the line in the press release that said "infected celebrity gamers including TV presenter Aleks Krotoski." Aleks? You kept that quiet didn't you? I thought we were a team? Bloody celebs. (Alexs - only joking, you're great, especially if you can bring us back some of Edinburgh's finestdeep fried confectionary)
Google, the web's number one search engine, said yesterday that the auction for its highly anticipated $3.3bn (&#163;1.8bn) float is expected to open this morning. Through a notice on its initial public auction website, Google said it expects to open the auction at 9am New York time. It said it expects to announce the float price next week.Google had earlier alerted investors that its bidder registration process would close at 5pm New York time last night and then it would quickly gear up to begin accepting bids for the 25.7m shares it plans to sell to the public.Google did not disclose how many potential investors had registered for a bidder ID.Google is using a version of a "Dutch auction" to sell its shares to prospective investors, saying it chose that method to give everyday investors better access to its stock.In the auction, Google will take bids from hopeful investors, who will need to outline how many shares they want to buy and at what price.In a typical auction, the offering is launched at the highest price at which all of the shares offered can be sold to potential investors. But Google has left itself some room, saying it could price the IPO lower to get a wider distribution of its shares.Google expects the shares to be priced between $108 and $135, according to offering   documents filed with the US securities and exchange commission, which could value the company at more than $36bn.Investors must have a "bidder ID", obtained through registration to participate in the auction and an account with one of the 28 securities firms underwriting the sale.Meanwhile the online edition of the Wall Street Journal reported that the SEC was looking into an interview that Google's two founders - Sergey Brin and Larry Page - gave to Playboy magazine. Citing an unnamed source the paper said there were concerns that the information might have breached regulations ahead of the auction.
Dell, the world's largest personal computer maker, posted a higher quarterly profit, in contrast to a profit warning from its rival Hewlett-Packard issued hours earlier yesterday.The Texas-based company said net income for the second quarter rose to $799m (&#163;434m) from $621m a year earlier.The market had been awaiting Dell's profit report after HP shocked Wall Street by releasing earnings much lower than expected. HP also gave a weak forecast."In a slower growth environment, like the one we are going into - an environment where component prices decline - Dell will take share from HP," said Marty Shagrin, an analyst with money management firm Victory Capital.Dell, which does not hold an inventory and sells directly to customers instead of through stores, benefits when component prices fall, as it can pass on the savings to customers, slashing prices faster than its rivals.
Google founders Larry Page and Serge Brin have become embroiled in yet more financial controversy just hours before the start of the company's long awaited £20bn floatation.The Stanford university graduates, who founded the company six years ago, could come under investigation by US financial watchdogs after giving an interview to Playboy magazine which became public just as the company announced it would begin the auction of its shares.The interview, given during the so-called "quiet period", threatens to delay the float because US regulations restrict what executives can say while preparing a stock market float.In the seven-page interview the two founders talk about how great and popular the company's search engine is and how it even saved a users life.The interview was sent to some subscribers yesterday, just hours before this morning's announcement that the unusual Dutch-style auction of around 26 million shares would begin today.Would-be US investors who registered their interest in the auction can now bid for the shares, which the company hopes will be priced at between £60-£75 each.Staff at US financial watchdog the Securities and Exchange Commission have examined the interview but have yet to decide if the information it contains could constitute a breach of its regulations.The interview was conducted on April 22 at Google's Californian headquarters, a week before it filed its registration for an initial public offering but while the two founders would have been discussing the float with banks, including its two lead underwriters Morgan Stanley and CSFB.In the interview Mr Page tries to distance the IPO from the heady boom-bust days of the internet goldrush."We have more than 150,000 advertisers and a lot of salespeople. Millions of people use Google. It's a completely different thing."The US regulator is particularly sensitive to promotional remarks, known in America as "gun jumping" and "ramping the market."Four months ago the SEC forced Salesforce.com to delay its IPO for six weeks after chief executive Marc Benioff collaborated on an article published in the New York Times.Should Google face a similar fate, it will just be the latest in a long line of gaffes that have taken the company from hero to zero status with many would-be investors.Earlier this month, the flotation hit a "logistical snag" after the company was forced to admit to US financial regulators that it may have broken federal securities laws by failing to register £16m in so-called "buddy" shares, issued to staff and existing shareholders prior to the float.Investment funds have been advising their clients to steer clear of the float, concerned that public appetite for the stock could over-inflate the initial share price in an echo of the dotcom boom of four years ago.But if it pans out as planned, Google's flotation will make billionaires of its founders and multimillionaires of the chief executive Eric Schmidt and board members John Doerr and Michael Moritz, who between them will retain over 55% of voting rights in the company.Google said today it hoped to announce the flotation price for its shares early next week.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
As the headset crackles into life, Brighton-based gamer Jason Conduct, 31, is hooked. "Cover me" says his American team-mate as the two players, separated by 3,000 miles, seek out the enemy in Full Spectrum Warrior. Playing your favourite video games against human competitors from around the world is now the norm for millions of gamers. But this is online gaming with a difference - both players are using Xboxes rather than PCs.Not so long ago, the PC was almost the only way to play online. This was fine for techies or those who wanted to play simple parlour titles, but if you wanted to enjoy the latest console blockbuster with friends you had to crowd around one TV. Not any more - PlayStation 2 and Xbox have joined the party. Indeed Xbox Live, the service that allows Xbox owners to play together online, recently celebrated its millionth user.Online console gaming has a short history. The Sega Dreamcast blazed a trail in 2000 and had some success with Phantasy Star Online. However, the relatively low sales of the machine, combined with dial-up access (which limited the type of games and number of players) meant that the experiment was short-lived.Sega's experience didn't put Sony and Microsoft off and both launched their online offerings in 2003. After a slow start, both are booming, leaving rival Nintendo in the cold.Sony, the market leader, launched its service quietly, and in Europe the numbers of subscribers is still relatively small. However, in the US, the service has taken off, with 2.6 million players. Most are attracted to the American sports titles. But Microsoft is taking   it even more seriously than Sony. "Online gaming is hugely important today and will be even more so in years to come," says Stephen McGill, UK head of marketing for Xbox. "In five years' time, people won't be asking if a game is online - all games will be online." Shawn Hargreaves, lead programmer at developer Climax, agrees: "Online will increasingly come to be where games are judged."Xbox Live is owned and run by Microsoft: it looks after the technical support and, crucially, the customer relationship. This was why Electronic Arts, the world's biggest publisher, initially opted to run its online games on the more open PS2 service. However lengthy negotiations and, no doubt, some serious money, means that EA will be releasing Live-enabled games from this autumn.But online gaming is still a minority interest, despite this recent growth. The barriers are quite high - you will need some technical knowledge, a broadband connection and, if you're using a PS2, additional hardware. Despite this, McGill is confident: "Home network kits such as routers are becoming more affordable and easier to set up."There seems little doubt that the next generation of consoles - expected around 2006 - will be equipped for online gaming. Screen Digest predicts that the sector as a whole will be worth $2.2bn by 2007, and console gaming will make up a large part of this.Key to this growth will be encouraging casual players to try it. McGill says: "We are launching content and services such as Xbox Live Arcade that will appeal to a wider audience and we are working with key partners such as retailers and broadband ISPs to excite a wider audience."But players like Conduct are already convinced of the merits of online console gaming: "You feel slightly ridiculous when first donning the headset, but nothing quite prepares you for the first time you actually play online. Playing cooperatively with somebody you know is a true gaming pleasure and surely the way forward."
At last week's LinuxWorld show in San Francisco, IBM vice president Nick Donofrio responded to the threat to open source/free software, but too late for last week's column.The issue is software patents. America has them, and Europe could get more of them - unless the German, British, French and other governments wake up to the stupidity of what they are trying to do.The problem is that "software patents" don't protect programs - that's done by copyright - they protect ideas and methods. Every substantial program is made up of thousands of ideas and methods, and if many of these are patented, it becomes almost impossible to write open source software.Richard Stallman, the father of the free software movement, has been arguing this for years, in Online and elsewhere.It is a real problem. According to Open Source Risk Management, a company that wants to sell legal insurance to Linux users, Linux could infringe 283 patents, including 60 of IBM's and 27 of Microsoft's. Similar warnings from theFoundation for a Free Information Infrastructure, an anti-software-patent activist group, have just led the city of Munich to suspend its proposed move to Linux.Basically, Munich's message is that European governments can either support open source software or software patents, but not both.This is also a dilemma for computer giant IBM, which has been the leading campaigner for software patents. IBM takes out more   patents than anybody else (3,288 US patents in 2002 alone), and boasts that its "e-business strategy is being fuelled by the world's largest portfolio of software patents". It may be impossible to write a serious program that doesn't infringe on them.But at the same time, IBM is a strong supporter of open source Linux. It doesn't offer its own Linux distribution, but makes billions of dollars a year from Linux-related hardware sales, consultancy and services.At LinuxWorld, Donofrio tried to distance IBM from the issue. He said: "IBM has no intention of asserting its patent portfolio against the Linux kernel... unless we are forced to defend ourselves."While this is meant to give us warm cuddly feelings, it falls a long way short of a written contract, and offers no practical support. Indeed,   under what circumstances would IBM sue Linux to defend itself? If it won't sue over the kernel, what about middleware and applications? IBM owns and develops vast amounts of high-priced proprietary software that could face competition from free programs.Donofrio also spoke in favour of innovation and "respect for Intellectual Property when applied to IT". In other words, IBM is not about to stop taking out software patents, or stop seeking to make money from its patents, or litigating to enforce them.Donofrio is saying: we're nice guys: we won't kill you unless we have to. There is no guarantee that the next round of IBM managers won't take a different view of how to maximise their profits from Linux, or that the current lot won't simply change their minds.&gt;Useful linksStallman on software patents"http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/stallman-patents.htmlDonofrio's speech &#91;PDF&#93;http://www-1.ibm.com/press/LinuxWorld_Donofrio.pdfFFII pageshttp://swpat.ffii.org/index.en.htmlhttp://swpat.ffii.org/players/ibm/index.en.html
Sky last week gave details of the second incarnation of its Sky+ satellite receiver/digital video recorder. The broadcaster has chosen to stick with what it believes is a winning formula, rather than making major changes.The key upgrade is that the new version, which is due to appear in October for &#163;399.99, features a 160GB hard disk. Existing versions of the unit feature a 40GB hard disk that can archive up to 20 hours of video.Sky subscribers clearly have an appetite for larger hard disks on their video recorders, as the AV press has recently been full of features describing how to replace the 40GB disk with a larger capacity one.Yet while the 160GB Sky+ has room for up to 80 hours of programming, it still might not be enough for users who may want to archive programmes without storing them on DVD or VHS.We are, however, likely to get a real glimpse of how digital video recorders will develop next year, courtesy of cable companies NTL and Telewest. Although neither is in a position to comment, both are developing innovative video services to offer their subscribers in 2005.Rather than souping up their digital TV decoders to feature a hard disk (although this is an option), both are believed to be working on services that enable users to store programmes on cable companies' servers.This system has several advantages over hard disk-based digital TV decoders. Firstly, the companies can offer consumers a huge amount of storage, far in excess of the current Sky products. The video recording systems will also be cheap. In theory, the cable companies could offer it as a free upgrade to existing packages, or charge a nominal monthly fee for it. Just like Sky+, their services will be easy to use as they will work seamlessly with existing EPGs.Crucially, though, the services could be available to all the cable companies' customers very quickly, massively widening the number of consumers in the UK with access to personal video recorders. It could easily dwarf the existing customer base of Sky+, which is currently around 350,000 subscribers.Over in the US, the manufacturers of the original hard disk-based personal video recorder, TiVo, recently halved its price to fight back against cable and satellite-based competition.It will be interesting to see how Sky responds. I suspect the 160GB Sky+ unit won't still be &#163;400 come December 2005.
iRiver's digital music players are held in fairly high esteem by MP3 enthusiasts who praise them for their excellent sound quality and innovative features.For the recently launched H340 40GB hard disk-based player, iRiver has added what is certain to become a key facility on rival models: a colour screen. The 2in display doesn't make it any easier to find your way round your music collection - iRiver needs to work on the interface. However, the device now moonlights as a reasonably good quality picture viewer, displaying JPeg images. Another neat feature is that you can connect certain digital cameras to the player via USB to transfer the images over - a lifesaver when you are on holiday. Like its predecessors, the H340 offers playback of MP3 and WMA files, a voice recorder and FM tuner, and battery life of 16 hours.Its key flaw is its size: it is both bulkier and heavier than its key 40GB rival, the Apple iPod. Nevertheless at &#163;360 the H340 is an innovative player.www.iriver.com
Sell outThe expansion of eBay (The web's Wal-Mart, August 5) has certainly been amazing, but I suspect it has reached its peak now that businesses are flooding in.Auctions in some areas are becoming meaningless, as identical items are listed in endless succession by the same trader. When it is nearing the end of an auction, if the trader does not feel it has reached a satisfactory price, the item is pulled out as "no longer available" or "error in description". Professionals looking for bargain-priced used items, such as antiques, do not bother to bid until the last 15 seconds or so. They put in a guaranteed winning bid, leaving those who have been bidding for seven days or more angry and frustrated.Usually you can buy new items more cheaply by using a search engine and I am sure many others like me are giving up using eBay. Maybe there is room for a competitor to move in and separate the dealers from the general public?David WilliamsCirencesterMatrix sellingI take issue with the idea that items sell for less on eBay. Last year I watched incredulously as an iBook went for double the current market price.However, there is one type of auction which is highly irritating: this is the "I am not selling this item (typically a plasma TV for $75.00), only information on how to obtain one". These are matrix deals, which   produce a few winners and a lot of losers. If you are the 10th person and the matrix is 25, you won't get anything until person number 250 buys in. These matrix sites are nothing to do with eBay and I wish eBay would would prevent people from using their site to advertise them.Trevor DaviesOxfordVisual appealAll this talk of the advanced possibilities using the latest nth generation mobile phone technology leaves me cold. Like many middle-aged men, I have needed reading spectacles for some years but do not necessarily want to have to wear them when making a call. Does any manufacturer produce a mobile phone that does the basics but has a large, well-lit screen with large and distinct characters that can be read without resort to reading spectacles?  Perhaps we need a focus group.Laurie WhiteHerefordAddressing BTThe contract to maintain an email address at BT states only that it must be accessed via the BT Yahoo! pay-as-you-go dialler (desktop icon) at least every 90 days. Other times, Derek Heckle (Feedback, August 5) can use his broadband access. Failure to use the dialler will cause BT Yahoo! to offer a &#163;1.50 per month Premium Mail option to maintain the email addresses. I know what I'd do.Donald HawthornInvisible theftBanning devices with portable storage capacity from the workplace (Take away, August 5) is unlikely to make much of a difference to data theft.There are many invisible ways of stealing data that don't require anything as bulky as an iPod or digital camera. Any moderately competent person can simply send files out by   email, then cover their traces, for example.This is a typical "sticking plaster" solution advocated by network administrators, nothing more.Ben McPhersonLondonAnyone with an internet account and a compression program can squirrel sensitive information out of an organisation. Either you have access to that information or you don't.Alan GoldbergSecurity fearsPresumably, like one of my friends, Michael Mitchell (Feedback, August 5), also refuses to use ATMs for fear of fraud, thus limiting his withdrawals to when he can visit his bank during working hours? There is a risk to everything we do, but users need to be realistic about the level of risk (at a guess one in 100,000 or lower for online banking transactions?). We must balance the risk against the benefits and check that there is a reasonable level of security.To gain access to my Nationwide account I have to enter three pieces of information, one of them by mouse (to foil keyloggers). The convenience is that at any time of the day, anywhere in the world, I can check my balance and recent transactions, transfer money between savings and current accounts, pay bills, alter standing orders etc - invaluable to those who travel a lot.Michael MillerSheffieldTaxing emailsReady, steady (August 5) describes some faltering moves forward in the use of e-government services. To experience real foot-dragging, just try and contact your Tax Office &#91;Inland Revenue&#93; by email. But don't hold your breath waiting. What are they frightened of?Name withheld
Images of IraqIraq is already home to some prolific bloggers - a few of them serving in the US military - but the weblog is not the only form of personal record coming out of Iraq that makes compelling reading. Artnet, an online gallery and magazine, regularly publishes the online journal of New York artist Steve Mumford.   Embedded with the North Carolina National Guard, Mumford has undergone three tours of active duty in Iraq and his work takes the long tradition of war artists into the age of theinternet. His watercolours and sepia drawings that accompany his long, detailed episodic writings are fantastically vivid, even in an age saturated with television and photography from the Iraq war.Elsewhere, pictures of a more   controversial nature are the subject of Camera Iraq, a relatively new site that describes itself as "a clearinghouse for thoughtful discussion rather than a locus of invective".Camera Iraq is dedicated to the mass of disturbing images - not for the fainthearted - being published on sites such as Russ Kick's the Memory Hole (which has recently established a blog) and enlightened news organisations.www.artnet.com/Magazine/featureswww.camerairaq.comwww.thememoryhole.orgRe: Your shirtSpam shirt is a new site that offers you the chance to turn your "spam into glam". For &#163;30, you can recycle some of your unsolicited email into "sparkling" new T-shirts. You can buy   off the peg or design your own T-shirt from a nifty web application that allows you to pick a shirt, colour it and then adorn it with your very own spam or choose from a selection of spam classics, complete with dodgy syntax. The site says it is a "way of recycling irritating, useless spam messages into an expression of personality and style".www.spamshirt.comLet's talkAn ambitious project to get the world to say what they think of the US in the form of 30-second videos was launched on Tuesday by William Brent, a film-maker and former Wall Street Journal correspondent in Beijing. Brent and his team say: "US policies impact the whole world, but non-Americans have few ways   to communicate directly with mainstream America." The site already has a number of media outlets and educational institutions who plan to distribute submitted work in time for the presidential election in November. How many people in the US will be willing to listen to the world remains the $64,000 question.www.talktous.orgYou've got GmailIt may still be in beta, but third-party Gmail applications are already appearing on the web. Mark Lyon has already written more than a dozen. So if you want to import your existing email into Gmail, you know where to go.www.marklyon.org/gmail/gmailapps.htmNew &amp; noted60th anniversary of the Warsaw uprisingwww.um.warszawa.plNew Nasa portalwww.nasa.govDaisy Goodwin: poetry doctorwww.daisygoodwin.co.uk/publications/doctorSix of the best:Athens 2004Official sitewww.athens2004.comAncient Olympicswww.perseus.tufts.edu/OlympicsTeam GBwww.olympics.org.ukThe gamewww.olympicvideogames.comFish olympicswww.liverpoolmuseums.org.uk/nof/fishDon't forgethttp://sport.guardian.co.uk/olympics2004
We live in an increasingly mobile world, where we're expected to be connected to many different PCs and servers - no matter where we are or what we're doing. We may need to work on a file only to find we left it on our office PC, or we may get a call in the middle of the night asking us to reboot the mail server. The only problem is that we're miles away, and there's no chance of getting back to the PC or to the server in time. But help is at hand, because this is a job for the new generation of remote access software.Remote access tools come in many shapes and sizes. There are tools for helping people access desktop PCs and servers wherever they are, and with whatever device they are using. Others help support desks see what users are doing, to help solve problems. Then there are tools that deliver applications to desktop PCs and laptops, keeping the programs on servers where they're easier to manage.A good remote access tool uses as little bandwidth as possible, so you can use slow GPRS mobile phone connections as well as high-speed broadband. Some tools can even reformat remote screens so that you can work with them on PDAs and smartphones. PocketWatch's Pocket Hub service will allow you to control your PC from a Wap-enabled phone.We're probably most familiar with tools such as VNC and Microsoft's Remote Desktop, which deliver a desktop view over a network. You can use the remote machine from your current device, without having to change keyboard or mouse. System administrators find these tools useful - allowing quick access to remote servers without needing to go into the machine room. Microsoft's technology only works with Windows systems, though there are clients for Windows CE and Apple Macintoshes. The open source   VNC is a different kind of beast, and supports Unix and Linux as well as Windows: this allows Linux users to work with Windows systems, and vice versa. There are VNC viewers for most operating systems, including handheld devices, which can connect to any machine running a VNC server.VNC was developed in the AT&amp;T research lab in Cambridge, but after it closed, several of the VNC development team founded RealVNC to manage the development of the VNC platform, and to work on commercial versions. The first enterprise version will be released next month, with security and encryption enhancements, and the ability to link into enterprise authentication services. The RealVNC team has also been involved with another company, Adder, to link VNC into a hardware remote control - a KVM box over IP.Apple has used the open source VNC code as the basis of its Remote Desktop tool. This can be used to install software packages, as well as watching up to 50 client desktops at the same time - not just Macs, as Remote Desktop can work with any VNC server on any operating system.Helping other users without leaving your desk is a considerable time saver, and it is strange that many businesses don't take advantage of the tools that are built into their PC's operating system. Windows XP   includes Remote Assistance. This allows a help desk to work directly with a user's PC. Password-protected sessions allow users to control access to their PCs, and chat windows allow the helpdesk staff to communicate with them. The helpdesk can share control of the PC with the user, or just watch while the user demonstrates the problem. And Remote Assistance isn't just for the office: it's ideal for suporting users who work from home.Tools such as Citrix's recent purchase, GoToMyPC, allow you to use a web browser plug-in to access your PC from anywhere. Unlike some remote access tools, GoToMyPC lets you copy files from a remote PC to the system you are working on. It can be tedious working remotely over a dial-up line, so working with a local copy of a file can make things easier. 3a Lab's LogMeIn.com offers similar features, plus file synchronisation and sharing.Remote access support tools are an important part of the tool box for companies that provide IT services to small businesses. With the rise of business broadband, they allow support without a visit - helping the provider to work with more clients, and delivering an improved service at the same time. There's no need to wait for a visit for a simple reconfiguration. Remote access means that it can be carried out when server load permits, or in a gap between emergencies.Another set of remote access tools deliver applications to users' desktops. This approach means that IT departments   don't have to maintain hundreds, or even thousands, of desktop installations. Tools such as Citrix Metaframe and Tarentella's Secure Global Desktop deliver the application's user interfaces while running the application on central servers, helping businesses consolidate on blade servers to keep costs down. As only the user interface is delivered remotely, it is easier to keep data secure, and it is possible to add a further layer of security by encrypting remote traffic.Remote access isn't just about remote desktops. It's about tools that deploy software across an enterprise; and that can help rescue and recover PCs. The more calls an IT help desk can deal with in a day, the happier the users - and it helps the business's bottom line.There's also a useful side effect of remote access: some tools, such as those from 1E, allow operators to turn off desktop PCs that have been left on, wasting electricity.
Is it essential to have ringtones of your music now?It's funny you say that as I was reading a magazine recently and flicked onto the ringtone page and most of them had Eyes On You for download. I think it does all help build a profile for an artist these days. It's not as essential as the CD, as the song is what we put all our time and effort into making - I think the ringtone just helps people identify with the track.Will the ringtones or MP3s replace the CD?In all honesty, I'm thinking that what will happen in the next five to 10 years is that our national charts will become based on downloaded music. It's far easier to download a track now than it is to go and buy a CD. I buy lots of my software over the net from the States. There's also a great throat spray for singers calledEntertainer's Secretthat you can only get from America.Mobile?I've got a Sony Ericsson T630 with T-Mobile - although I'm not very happy with it. IfT-Mobileread this I'd like to say that they're doing nothing to help me - even though I've called them up about it numerous times to ask them to sort me out a different phone. It all looks very flashy with the digital camera and everything, but it's just not very user-friendly. It's unbelievable how clued up all the kids are nowadays with their technology - they will take photos from their phone and upload them to my site. For digital pictures I've got aCasio Exilimwith 3.2 megapixels, which is nice but it doesn't have an optical zoom.Broadband?I'm with Telewest onBlueyonderbroadband. I had problems with it in the beginning but I'm finding it really good to use now. It's so weird, as once you've had broadband there's no way you can go back to a dial-up connection. I get so frustrated when it takes longer than a couple of seconds to load a page - I couldn't live without the internet now.Do you download music?Not illegally - I'm not going to lie as I have done it before. It's very tempting if you're after an old song to just grab it online, but   I have to stand by my message not to download illegally. I've got iTunes on my G4 laptop and an iPod, which makes life very easy. I also have a PC.So you run both platforms, Mac and PC?What I've found is that a lot of people in the media industry tend to use Macs because they're so good for graphics and music. My producer, Rishi Rich, uses a Mac withCubaseto work on so I've got Cubase installed on my laptop   so I can record my vocals and work on my lyrics on my own. A lot of studios run on Macs so I can take my iPod or G4 down and transfer tunes straight from them or on to them. A lot of my writing is done on the road so I can take the music on my iPod, work out a melody then record it into Cubase.Instant messaging?I did useMSN Messengera lot but I rarely have the time these days. Email is crucial to me    though so I want aBlackBerry. I also can't find a phone that's quick enough for my text messaging as I'm so quick at texting it's ridiculous! You get some phones that have the foldout keypad to give you the Qwerty system, but I'm so used to using the phone keys that I stick with them.Visit:www.jaysean.comhttp://www.ohhla.comwww.mtv.comhttp://punjabicity.comwww.soasians.comwww.nuthingsorted.comwww.bbc.co.uk/asiannetwork
Digital cameraAnother FinePixFujiflm has announced a late October launch date for its new flagship digital SLR camera the FinePix S3 Pro, below. The successor to the company's well-received S2 Pro, the camera marks the debut of its 12.3 megapixel Super CCD SR. The camera also features a polycarbonate shell developed by Nikon that supports accessories including F-mount lenses and Speedlight flashes.Other enhancements over the S2 include a unique film simulation mode that replicates the look of traditional images, dual-shutter release buttons for easier vertical shooting, and a start up time of around half a second. Fujifilm hasn't yet named a price for the model, though it is expected to retail for less than &#163;2,200.www.fujifilm.co.ukMP3Bravo MaestroPackard Bell has become the latest company to enter the digital music market with a range of players, including a model set to rival Apple's iPod mini.Available in September,   the Pocket M@estro sports a 5GB hard disk, can play back both MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA) music files and features an FM radio and voice recording facilities. The M@estro, which has a battery life of seven hours, is expected to retail for around &#163;200, with a 2.5GB version selling for less than &#163;150.Packard Bell has also introduced a trio of Flash memory-based players including an &#163;100, 128MB wearable player, the AudioDream.www.packardbell.co.ukVideoMini moviesArchos is to introduce what is likely to be one of the smallest personal video   players on the market. Its Gmini 400 is around the same size as a standard 20GB hard disk audio jukebox. However, the inclusion of a 2.2in LCD screen means that users can watch movies they have transferred to the player in the MPeg4 format in addition to listening to WMA and MP3 music.The player boasts 20GB of storage, includes an FM radio tuner and CompactFlash card slot, and connects to a PC via a USB 2.0 cable. Battery life is rated at around 10 hours. It is expected to retail for around &#163;330 when it goes on sale in the UK next month.www.archos.comMobile phonesThe portable gameMobile phone network 3 is to offer subscribers video highlights of Premiership football goals minutes after the games have ended. Phone owners will be able to download goals and controversial incidents from matches from 5.15pm on Saturdays, and five minutes after the game has ended on other days. Previously, footage was only available a day after the match.The football download service, which also includes action from the UEFA Champions League, will cost &#163;5 per month to view all the highlights, or 50p per game.Vodafone, which has a similar deal with the Premiership, is expected to offer football video downloads when it launches its 3G service later this year.www.three.co.ukStat of the week:  Battle of the search enginesGoogle's huge flotation still looks set to raise around &#163;20bn despite the problems. But while the guys from the Googleplex dominate the search market, a large number of users choose other options - cheery news for competitors.
XP upgradedMicrosoft has finally shipped its Service Pack 2 (SP2) for Windows XP, and the long process of updating hundreds of millions of PCs is now under way. The full download is more than 200MB, and this targets corporate networks. Those users who have already installed SP1 and other updates will have smaller downloads, estimated at around 75MB. SP2 adds new features and new versions of components such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth software, DirectX graphics and the Windows Media Player. Most importantly, it will increase security, at the expense of incompatibilities with some existing software and websites. Users of PCs with AMD's Athlon 64 processor will get a bonus, because SP2 exploits its on-chip Enhanced Virus Protection.Microsoft is encouraging users to obtain SP2 via XP's Automatic Update feature. This will enable the company to control downloads and avoid overloading the internet.www.microsoft.com/ukSerious securityBuying a new passport will be no laughing matter after the UK Passport   Service's decision to ban smiling. The guidelines for biometric passports will forbid smiles in photographs, as well as sunglasses and fringes covering the eyes. The Passport Service says that face recognition software works best when people adopt a "neutral expression, with their mouth closed". The regulations pave the way for the introduction of face recognition systems in 2005.www.ukpa.gov.uk/identity.aspStaying in touchAshford borough council is issuing teleworking software and internet phones to enable its call centre staff to work from home outside normal office hours. The adoption of VoIP telephony will enable the council to extend contact hours without keeping offices open through the evening and weekends. Staff will access their applications from home using Mitel's 3300 Integrated Communications Platform over a broadband connection. VoIP was chosen as a more cost-effective solution than standard telephones. The move is a trial, pending the introduction of a multimedia call centre infrastructure that will add email and web callback features.www.ashford.gov.ukWhere am I?Hire-car drivers using Streetcar can use a free mobile phone location service to find out where they are and get directions. The firm, which hires cars for periods from 30 minutes from locations in south and west London, has equipped each car with a unit that includes a mobile phone, SIM card and handset, used to unlock the vehicle.This car can then be tracked by Mapaphone's location service, if customers are late back, or if they call in. Streetcar's co-founder Andrew Valentine says the service, initiated two weeks ago, is accurate to around 100 metres. So far, it has only been used for tests.www.mystreetcar.co.uk
Wouldn't it be nice if you could wander down the high street, sit on a park bench, or pop into any cafe and know that you would always have wireless broadband available to your notebook computer or handheld? It is the sort of dream being sold by Intel's Centrino advertising. The city of Bristol is turning it into reality.Bristol has just opened the first stage in the development of the UK's largest public wireless network, which is being assembled from a number of Wi-Fi hotspots, knitted into a single system called StreetNet. Anyone can use it, and it's free.The system isn't so much a cloud as a worm, which follows the main roads. Start at Queen's Road, walk down Park Street and along College Green, then either go to the Watershed area by the docks or turn left towards St Augustine's Parade. By the autumn, the Wi-Fi coverage should be continuous, and it is hoped to extend it further.Bristol was already a centre of wireless innovation, thanks to the Mobile Bristol project being run in conjunction with Hewlett-Packard's nearby development lab, with the   support of the Department for Trade and Industry. This gave rise to a number of Wi-Fi projects, including Riot!, the world's first "located radio play" in Queen Square, and Harbour Trails, a typical tourist application providing a multimedia guide on a trip on a Bristol ferry.The local council was also working with Cityspace, which was setting up i+Point touchscreen information kiosks in the city centre, including some at bus stops. It wasn't hard to see the next step, which was to connect all the bits together.Phil Stenton from HP Labs says: "Cityspace put forward the proposal to do StreetNet, and the council was thinking about it, and we thought it would be a good way of extending our network. So we went halves with them - with Cityspace - and co-funded a pilot scheme turning half their proposed kiosks to run using 802.11 &#91;Wi-Fi&#93;, to create one big hotspot in the centre of Bristol. And the council has gone for it."The council was coming from a different direction: the i+Point kiosks were part of Bristol's award-winning Legible City project, which included local information services and a Travel Bristol internet journey planner. Legible City wasn't particularly   aimed at tourists, says local councillor Helen Holland: "We were interpreting the city to ourselves as much as anyone - increasing people's involvement, and making sure they had a better feel for what's available."The journey planner worked well, and the kiosks proved popular, with kids queuing up to send their email. They also allowed residents to interact with the council, to do things like reporting that streetlights weren't working. It was also important to the council that they were socially   inclusive: you didn't need to own an expensive portable computer to use an i+Point.The expansion from kiosks to Wi-Fi hotspots and then to an urban "hotzone" brings many more capabilities, according to Marc Meyohas, Cityspace's managing director. "The council can use it for their own employees, connecting via a virtual private network (VPN), and they can use it for &#91;internet-based&#93; CCTV cameras, bus shelters, traffic signals _ It also has a consumer angle: people with PDAs or laptops can go to the StreetNet landing page and surf the internet. Providing free access is good for the council, and it's good for the citizens," he says.StreetNet is also a powerful way for Cityspace to expand its product range. "Cityspace's business is urban digital networks," says Meyohas. "We already have a terminals business, with millions of people using our terminals in bus shelters. We're now present in about 50 local authorities, and we have Wi-Fi hotspots on Oxford Street: we expect to deploy StreetNet in about a dozen cities this year, but Bristol is the biggest hotzone."Brussels is now installing 20 i+Point kiosks, delivering free Wi-Fi within 300m, and Moscow has also signed up. There could already be a Cityspace hotspot near you, but you might not know it unless you knew where to look. However, Meyohas doesn't think the answer is to increase the signposting, but for the   signage to disappear.Mobile phone users don't have to look for notices that tell them they are within range of a transmitter, and Meyohas reckons Wi-Fi users should not have to do that either: it should just be there.Indeed, ubiquitous Wi-Fi is an idea that is attracting the attention of city administrations right round the world, including Long Beach, California, and Atlanta, Georgia. Some smaller US communities such as Hermiston, Oregon, and Grand Haven, Michigan, have already installed citywide Wi-Fi networks. Many more will follow.Meyohas now wants to get the Bristol hotspot operating effectively then offer the same sort of thing to other local authorities, who will share the cost of the infrastructure instead of having to fund it on their own. "Our whole concept is to provide a complete turnkey solution," he says. "Our pitch to local authorities is that this is a key urban utility for the 21st century. We think it can have a really positive impact."Mobile Bristolwww.mobilebristol.comBristol: Legible Citywww.bristollegiblecity.infoTravel Bristolwww.travelbristol.orgCityspacewww.cityspace.comHot Citieswww.muniwireless.com
