Friday's here – that was quick, wasn't it?
The launch of the Samsung Galaxy S4 on Thursday marks the latest skirmish in the longrunning and often bitter battle between the South Korean firm and Apple for supremacy in the smartphone market.The launch event is seen as Samsung bringing the fight to Apple's home market, with a rumoured production run of 100m S4 handsets. Apple and Samsung account for one in two mobile phones sold.Worldwide, Samsung dominates the smartphone market, with analysts estimating that it shipped 63.7m smartphones in the fourth quarter of last year. But Apple remains the market leader in the US with ComScore, which tracks phone ownership, calculating that there were 48.9m iPhones in use in the US by January 2013, compared with 27.7m Samsung smartphones.The number of iPhone users grew more than Android – including Samsung – users in the US last year – by 19m to 48.9m, compared with a rise of 18.5m to 67.7m respectively, with consumers buying almost half a million more Apple handsets in December compared with Android. The higher growth in Apple sales is attributed to the launch of the highly-anticipated iPhone 5 last October.But industry analysts believe the Galaxy S4 could change the situation, with some suggesting Android users have been waiting for the phone's launch to buy a new handset.Apple is still bristling from a setback in its mobile patents battle with Samsung.Earlier this month, a US judge slashed a $1.05bn (£698m) award by more than 40% ($450m) and ordered a new trial to decide how much – if any – damages Samsung should pay for infringements by 14 handsets and tablets. Both companies rely on each other for components and business.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPhotos of children from around the world with their most prized possessions &gt;&gt; Feature ShootWhat would you have included like in this photo when you were a child?Google, destroyer of ecosystems &gt;&gt; cortesiAldo Cortesi:Google has finally shut down a service I actually care about - Google Reader will die a graceless, undignified death on July 1, 2013. The only way Google could inconvenience me more would be to shut down search itself, and yet - I'm not angry that Google is shutting Reader down. I'm furious that they ever entered the RSS game at all. Consider this quote from a TechCrunch article in January 2006. Here, Michael Arrington ends an article about the shutdown of a feed reader service with a statement that seems truly bizarre today:The RSS reader space is becoming hyper competitive, with dozens of different choices for readers.... In the next few months, tens of thousands of small blogs will lose direct contact with a large fraction of their readers.No longer. Although things might start happening between now and July. The 400lb gorilla has gone elsewhere.Mobility is reshaping consumer gadget spending and behaviour &gt;&gt; GartnerThe Gartner survey was conducted during July and August of 2012 and included responses from more than 8,000 consumers in the U.S., the U.K., Canada and the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China)."Early adopters tend to leave the home laptop in the bag and are abandoning the home office in favor of the lounge room couch or bedroom to do online activities in a more comfortable environment using a tablet or smartphone," said Nick Ingelbrecht, research director at Gartner. "This early adopter trend is becoming mainstream consumer behavior. Consequently, technology and service providers are faced with no alternative but to innovate for mobility. If they do nothing, they face a potential train wreck as consumers abandon gadgets, services and applications that do not fully support changing mobile lifestyles."Tablets have overtaken netbooks and e-readers in the sample.BlackBerry brings business services to iPhone and Android &gt;&gt; PC ProA new app from BlackBerry will allow users to securely separate work and personal data on iOS and Android-powered devices.Secure Work Space will be available before the end of June, and will allow corporate users of BlackBerry Enterprise Service 10 to handle devices using non-BlackBerry operating systems. The move will encourage business customers to continue to use BlackBerry's services to manage devices on their networks, even if employees use them as both business and as personal devices.Neat idea, but does it signal a retreat, or just a redoubt, from the handset business? It also puts BES up against companies such as Airwatch and Citrix, which offer similar products.Apple, Samsung, challenged by cheap Chinese Android phones &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewThe change began in 2011, when computer-chip makers began selling off-the-shelf chipsets — the set of processors that are the brains of a touchscreen phone. Those, plus Google's free Android operating system, made smartphones much easier to produce.The flood of inexpensive devices could hurt struggling phone makers like Nokia and might also force Samsung and Apple to offer cheaper models. "They have reached their peak," Liang said during an interview near his office in Shenzhen, which has become a hub for electronics makers. "In [manufacturing] technique we are close to the same level. Then the only difference will be the cost and the brand."Note that though they're Android phones, they generally don't have Google services.How the Technology Strategy Board spent £635 million – company by company &gt;&gt; Business Leaders NetworkHats off to Lyndsay Williams at Girton Labs who has used the Freedom of Information act to see how the Technology Strategy Board has allocated £635 million of public funding to projects. This will be interestingreadingif you want to consider applying as you can now see exactly what is funded, by company, by project, by date and by amount.Also has the salaries (2010) for the Technology Strategy Board senior staff, as at November 2010. The TSB is hard to find out about because parts of it aren't accessible for FOI requests.EU privacy watchdogs tell app developers and app stores to take care of users' data &gt;&gt; ComputerworldNew recommendations from Europe's top privacy watchdog could have big ramifications for Google Play, Apple and application developers.The Article 29 working group, which is made up of data protection authorities from across the European Union, has issued fresh guidelines for mobile phone applications. The overall principle of data minimization - only collecting the data strictly necessary for the app to operate - is the cornerstone of the group's recommendations.However, according to Nick Pickles, director of Big Brother Watch, there is much confusion in the market, and in February, Christopher Graham, the U.K.'s Information Commissioner, said that some app developers had a "cavalier" attitude to personal data protection.The principal aim is to stop people being tracked by "advertisers and any other third party". Not sure where Google fits into that.Google takes harsh stance against ad-blocking apps, removes them from Play Store &gt;&gt; PhandroidAccording to several sources, Google has started sending notifications to developers with ad-blocking software in the Google Play Store regarding these apps' removal. Players like AdBlock, AdAway, AdFree and more are being whisked away.So why, exactly, is Google bringing the ban hammer down on these unfortunate souls? Well, they seem to violate section 4.4 of the Play Store developer agreement.More precisely, it violates Google (and others) making money from ads. What would be the reaction if news sites refused to serve news to people who use ad-blockers (as Ars Technica once did)? This is the same.Why is Google killing Google Reader? &gt;&gt; QuoraBrian Shih, former Google Reader product manager:Let's be clear that this has nothing to do with revenue vs operating costs. Reader never made money directly (though you could maybe attribute some of Feedburner and AdSense for Feeds usage to it), and it wasn't the goal of the product.Reader has been fighting for approval/survival at Google since long before I was a PM for the product. I'm pretty sure Reader was threatened with de-staffing at least three times before it actually happened. It was often for some reason related to social:2008 - let's pull the team off to build OpenSocial2009 - let's pull the team off to build Buzz2010 - let's pull the team off to build Google+It turns out they decided to kill it anyway in 2010, even though most of the engineers opted against joining G+.Google+ is the giant sucking sound at the heart of Google.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
8.17pmETSummaryWe&apos;re going towrap up our live blog coverageof the Samsung Galaxy S4 launch.The rumors were true, and more. It&apos;s a slim phone with a big screen and a fast chip. It runs 4G LTE through 327 mobile operators in 155 countries. Specs arehereandhere.It drops in the end of April. Available in &quot;black mist and white frost.&quot; Not, lamentably, &quot;sable drizzle.&quot;The phone has a bunch of wow-factor features. It hassimultaneous translationto and from nine languages. It&apos;ssuper-syncable,for sharing pictures, videos, and music. There&apos;s agroup play featurethat turns a group of phones into a stereo system, each phone broadcasting a different stereo band.There&apos;s adual camerathat allows the shooter to appear in a small window in the video he/she is shooting. The phonetracks your eye movementsfor pausing films you stop watching midway. Itscrolls by tilting.The phonereads textsto you.And there&apos;s an elaborate setup forvarious health apps, allowing you to track calories, heartrate and more.Dominic Rushe will have the whole story up on theGuardian home pageshortly.Thanks for joining in!8.17pmETAnd the scroll by tilting. That was cool too. And the fact that it seems like a phone to travel with, with wide compatibility and service providers.There&apos;s a rush by the press tohandle the precious.Show is over, Peeps bum rushing stage for a hands on. I'm filing!#samsung#galaxy4&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)March 14, 20138.17pmETWe still don&apos;t knowhow much it costs?8.17pmETCoolest feature?Translation and group play. What do you think?8.17pmETWhat was that.8.17pmET&quot;That concludes our show.&quot;The music is going on.Now the cast is taking a bow! Now the orchestra is being applauded.Will Chase, the host, is now cheered by the boy, but no one applauds?&quot;Now it&apos;s your turn to try the phone.&quot;Staff in the aisles will usher journalists to tables where they can try the phones.Are you ready for the next Galaxy? Will Chase says. Well here it is.8.17pmETIs this the phone to have?What do you think?How are the going to act out the price points?Now they&apos;re demonstrating the eye-tracking feature. A character name Didi seems to have had too much champagne, pausing her video.Also cool: you can scroll up or down simply by tilting the phone.The phone can tell you how many calories you&apos;ve burned by walking throughout the day.The phone tracks your heart rate. And accessories can monitor your blood sugar and save your data.That&apos;s all kind of eye-popping. One imagines a future in which a lost phone means compromising personal medical details? That&apos;s perhaps alarmist, and Samsung surely has extensive security measures to protect personal information.Will everyone want an advice that knows so much about them?8.17pmETGroup Play: It can turn any group of S4 phones into agroup sound system.Each phone acts as a speaker. You touch the phones to each other and the sound spreads out. A big group of them creates surround sound.That is pretty cool, some say.Women in club dress are dancing onstage to the wonderful music pouring out of their mutiplicit phones in stereo.It works for video games too: &quot;Group Play supports multi-user games.&quot;Now a guy is playing golf.8.17pmETIt&apos;s as if your child werein a high school playyou&apos;re forced to attend, but the play turned out to be a sales pitch for a phone.WC Fields said never share the stage with children or animals&mdash; Michael Gartenberg (@Gartenberg)March 14, 20138.17pmETSamsung has apparently hired actors to act out every conceivable scenarioin which a Galaxy S4 might come in handy.The phone can speak messages: You get a text. The phone reads the text to you. It&apos;s great while you&apos;re driving.The phone&apos;s impressive. The production is... perhaps not the strongest currently running on Broadway.8.17pmETThe new conceit is that the host is called in the middle of this gig by his manager.&quot;Well, baby, how&apos;s it hanging?&quot;the manager begins.Nope. Not an Apple event.8.17pmETIf you buy a Galaxy S4, you will win the heart of agorgeous Brazilian woman named Ana.Even if you are wearing a lopsided backpack and say things like &quot;Dude, the thing is so smart.&quot;That seems to be the message here.To explain, now the guy with an S4, Jeff, is in Brazil and he meets a local. He takes a bunch of pictures of her.&quot;Yeah dude they&apos;re all pictures of Brazil.&quot; The joke is they&apos;re actually pictures of Ana. Not Brazil.This is a long, long subplot. Now Jeff is in Paris and he meets up with another young man with a backpack. Jeff and John. They share photos and stuff, which Jeff also shares with his family instantly.Then through a service call HomeSync, &quot;a hub for your life and memories,&quot; your whole family can share all your media with each other, anywhere in the home?We&apos;re going to double-check that. Does Jeff really want to share all his Ana photos with his little sister?8.17pmETThe Guardian&apos;s Dominic Rushe isat the event, and we have to agree with him here:Translator feature is extremely cool.#samsung#galaxy4#chastened&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)March 14, 20138.17pmETSiri, consider yourself served. The Galaxy S4 hasa translation feature.You can type a question in English, for example, and the phone can speak it in Chinese. Or the phone can listen to Chinese and then type it out in English.The phone understands 9 languages.8.17pmETThe end of the photobomb?!Wow. Is this bad or good?The camera has a feature whereby, if something unexpected happens in a shot, you can rapid-fire a ton of photos, and then as long as the obstruction at some point moves out of the frame, the phone edits together the best shot, omitting the unwanted party.8.17pmETTurns out the kid from the commercials isone hell of a tapdancer!8.17pmETThis is a Tennessee Williams play now?There&apos;s afake stage on the real stage.A tiny ballerina yells at her dad for not having an S4 which means he can&apos;t film her performance.Then Jeremy, the kid from the commercials, is being recorded by a father who does have the phone.Aand Bidan is back to explain the Dual Camera.You can shoot video with both cameras, the front-facing one and the back-facing one, at the same time.The video shows you the scene you&apos;re looking at. The shooter appears in a little window.Well that&apos;s different. The audience applauds.Now Stanley Kowalski barges onto the stage screaming Stellllaaa [not really].8.17pmETEnough specs:&quot;We&apos;re in the greatest theater in New York, Radio City Music Hall!&quot;And I&apos;ve invited some of Broadway&apos;s best performers.&quot;OK here we go.8.17pmETMore specs:It&apos;s a 4G LTE device.It&apos;ll download at 100mps and upload at 50 megabits/sec.It supports WiFi and BlueTooth.It has an infrared LED, which can function as a TV remote.13 megapixel camera on front, 2 megapix camera on back.Equipped with standard memory options and room for an SD card.8.17pmETNow Ryan Bidan,director of product marketingfrom Samsung telecom US, is in conversation with the host.Bidan has a headset. The phone is &quot;slimmer yet stronger,&quot; he says. THen he begins to hemorrhage specs:136.6mm long, 68.9mm wide.Only 7.9mm thin. 130 grams. But a 5-inch screen.Full HD screen; 441 ppi.The colors are evocatively named: Black mist and White frost.#Samsung#galaxy4available in "black mist and white frost" - weren't they WWF wrestlers?&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)March 14, 20138.17pmETThe phone will be rolled out to 327 mobile operators in 155 countries, starting inthe end of April,he says. 3G and 4G versions.It will have LTE roaming globally. Sounds like a phone to travel with.And he&apos;s done. Thank you!Now a video.8.17pmETOh God - it's like a terrible awards show, clips, cute kids, bad jokes.#samsung#galaxy4#killmenow&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)March 14, 20138.17pmETFirst impression: it&apos;s flat. Physically, it&apos;s a narrow device.There&apos;s the kid again.The box turns out to have two phones in it, one white, one black.Kind of meager applause in the room.8.17pmET&quot;Wouldn&apos;t it be really great? These ideas have been conceived from our observation of real life,&quot; he says.Behind him is projected a giant picture of people having fun on the beach.&quot;For each of us, life is a journey. What we want is a device that can join us on the journey.&quot;&quot;Ladies and gentlemen: The Samsung Galaxy S4.&quot;THERE IT IS8.17pmETThehead of Samsung mobile communications, JK Shin, takes the stage.&quot;Wouldn&apos;t it be great if the technology in our hands could place the person taking the picture in the picture as well?&quot; he asks.&quot;Or wouldn&apos;t it be convenient if a smart phone could understand when you want to scroll up or down?&quot;&quot;Imagine touchless interfaces,&quot; he says.Something tells me there&apos;s already a product that delivers on all these amazing dreams.8.17pmET&quot;Welcome to Samsung Unpacked 2013.&quot;&quot;Jeremy,&quot; the kid from the video, is onstage, talking to the host. The boy leaves the stage.The host welcomes everyone, then begins to clap for himself, alone.&quot;I began my career 20 years ago on this stage as a Rockette,&quot; he jokes.What kind oftired witfalls back on a Rockettes joke for Radio City?8.17pmETIt&apos;s started.They&apos;re playing the commercials.The third one.A dog jumps on the bed. The kid tap dances out the door wearing a bowtie. He&apos;s driven to Radio City Music Hall.He thanks his driver, &quot;Benson.&quot;Let&apos;s guess. He&apos;s about to come onstage.8.17pmETThey must be waiting forJustin Timberlaketo warm up.8.17pmETFollow our correspondentDominic Rushe on Twitterfor the latest frominside the hall.8.17pmETIt&apos;s starting! ... soon!&quot;Ladies and gentlemen, the show will begin in a few minutes,&quot; a disembodied voice is heard to say.8.17pmETThere&apos;s apparentlyfree beerat this thing. The Guardian&apos;s Dominic Rushe sends this dispatch:Five minutes to curtain up - it&apos;s very Broadway. Pumping music, circling lights. Bonkers!Inside Radio City the press is being plied with free beer. Not something you&apos;d expect from Apple.Security say there are 3,000 plus people in the hall. It&apos;s like the UN in here, so many languages being spoken. All a bit mad really - for a phone.I spoke to a Korean Samsung exec outside but he was being very coy about what we can expect. Given the build up, it better be good.8.17pmET7pm ET. We&apos;re up to243,706 watchingtheYouTube livestream,on which is audible the timeless hit &quot;Mack the Knife.&quot;Now it&apos;s 258,183.8.17pmETHow much will the Galaxy S4 cost?A 16GB iPhone 5 starts at a couple hundred. From there they geta lot more expensive.How low can Samsung go, for a smartphone that aims to be the best, not just the cheapest?Apple&apos;s supposed to launcha new iPhone this yeartoo, by the way. Maybe even the widely rumored Apple television.From the WSJ:Apple&apos;s new product timeline is still murky. It is expected to release at least one new iPhone later in the year and has been working on a less expensive version of the iPhone as well, people familiar with the matter have said. The company has also been working on a television but has struggled to strike deals with television operators to support it, other people have said.8.17pmETWe&apos;ve embedded thelive video feedat the top of the blog there. It&apos;s 10 minutes till the scheduled start time. But it sounds like they&apos;re having some trouble getting all those journos corralled and seated in an orderly manner.8.17pmETOur correspondent Dominic Rushe ison the scene,experimenting with hashtags:Security says about 3k people here. Not much chance of "hands on" then.#Samsung#galaxy4#itsonlyabloodyphone&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)March 14, 20138.17pmETIf you have read any of thepreview reportson the Galaxy S4, you know it&apos;s meant to feature a larger screen, faster microchip, slimmer profile, touch-free scrolling and eyeball-motion-sensing technology.As in, if you&apos;re watching a video but look away, the video pauses because the phone knows you looked away. Whether you think that&apos;s cool or terrifying will depend on your general comfort level with technology, maybe your age, maybe your Zodiac sign, but probably mostly your age.Redmond Pie has one of the bestbackground reportson the new product we&apos;ve seen.But if we already know so much about the phone, why stick around for the official launch? The simple answer is that we won&apos;t really know what&apos;s in the phone until it&apos;s officially unveiled – a lot of what&apos;s out there is mere rumor. Another answer might suggest that it will be spectacular fun to see how Samsung, which is given to increasingly elaborate stage shows, will stage this.And then there&apos;s the chance of a JT sighting:The $Samsung Galaxy S4 line outside Radio City Music hall is hundreds, maybe thousands long. Rumor in the queue: Justin Timberlake&mdash; Philip Elmer-DeWitt (@philiped)March 14, 20138.17pmETLest there be any doubt as to themagnitude of interestin the little handheld hottie we&apos;re about to meet, note that one-half hour before the Radio City event is scheduled to begin, 99,554 people have tuned into the official live stream of the event on YouTube.Make that 101,938. The number jumped 2,400 in the time it took me to type that.What do you think it will get up to by 7pm ET? A million? More?Here&apos;s the livestream:8.17pmETThe new Galaxy will run on Google&apos;sAndroid software, as do about 70% of all smart phones worldwide.About 19% of the world&apos;s smart phones are iPhones and run on Apple&apos;s proprietary code.The Wall Street Journalsurveysthe battle between Samsung and Apple:And customers and investors are anxiously awaiting the next big thing. Apple&apos;s shares have fallen from a high-close of $702.10 in September to $428.35 Wednesday. Analysts have been reducing their forecasts, some of which once approached $1,000 a share.Samsung, meanwhile, is trying to sustain its momentum with the announcement of a new phone Thursday. Its next Galaxy phone is expected to have a faster microchip, an improved camera and better battery life, analysts and industry watchers say. The device also will have a slightly bigger and sharper screen, continuing a trend of offering larger displays.Meanwhile the pope* has replied to our correspondent with an admission of secret allegiance... to the Jobs empire:@dominicruthe Vatican has provided with me an iPhone 5 which I very much like&mdash; Pope Francis (@CardinalPope)March 14, 2013*The tweet embedded here was not actually sent by the pope or any known consort of the pope. It&apos;s a joke!8.17pmETThe Guardian&apos;s Dominic Rushe ison the scene.With approximately one bajillion of his colleagues:This phone better end world hunger. Bigger crowd than#pope.#samsung#galaxy4twitter.com/dominicru/stat…&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)March 14, 20138.17pmETGood evening and welcometo our live blog coverage of what could be the biggest thing to hit Radio City Music Hall since the Rockettes.Samsung is about to take over the hallowed hall and unveil its new smart phone, in an attempt to knock industry leader Apple off its self-satisfied smart phone throne. At stake is the $400bn market for mobile devices.The Galaxy SIV, as the new gadget is known, is meant to be bigger, faster and smarter than any phone the world has ever known. How do we know that, if the unveiling hasn&apos;t even begun?We know because Samsung has allocated an estimated $4bn – that&apos;s right, B as in billion – to advertising this year. They&apos;ve been using it for things like this:That&apos;s a flash mob to build excitement over the phone, in case you can&apos;t tell. And if you thought that spectacle befuddling, behold the first of two video commercials Samsung has produced to promote the new Galaxy:The sequel commercial is here. Or, you could just check outthe Rockettes.The event starts at 7pm ET. Our correspondent Dominic Rushe is on the scene. Join us as we check out what the Galaxy has to offer.
When Blizzard first announced that Starcraft 2 would feature only a Terran campaign, you could hear collective groans from every corner of cyberspace. After all, it was the expert balancing of three separate races, each with their own interlocking storylines that made the original such a step change for real time strategy games. Some of that disappointment was dispelled by the misguided belief that at least we would not have to wait long for the next instalment. That was nearly three years ago – so is it all we hoped for?HotS picks up where Wings of Liberty left off, this time picking up Sarah Kerrigan's tale. Now stripped of her Queen of Blades memories, your task is to rebuild the Zerg swarm and take on the evil Arcturus Mengsk and occasionally just about everyone else. As with WoL, you do get the chance to dabble with the other two races, courtesy of old allies Raynor and Valarian. However, the single player emphasis here is on Zerg who behave very differently to the obedient Terrans and the methodical Protoss. Zerg forces move fast and grow organically, terraforming the landscape to expand. As such, HotS gives us an excellent test of the improved AI with route-finding seeing fewer units getting lost or stranded and forces defending their ground with new confidence.An expedition under way. Photograph: Games PressSo obviously, the 20-mission campaign is new – but what else haven't we seen before? Well, for starters there's a few welcome tweaks to the interface, particularly useful with Zerg who were always the fiddliest race to control, thanks to their confusing reproductive cycle that left you unsure what to click to get what result. It's still a bit confusing but at least drones now automatically head for resources and there's a single button to select all armed units at once. Nevertheless, HotS remains a brutal test of micro management skills, and without deft use of hot keys you're never going to keep track of all your units or compete with better players.Another big change is an overhaul of the upgrade system, replacing the tedious balancing of Protoss and Zerg research points with a three-tier system. Firstly, there's three power upgrades per unit – usually a choice between movement, combat and spawning speed, which can be changed at any time. However, you can also unlock more radical Evolutionary changes, picking one of two permanent upgrades that radically effect the shape, behaviour and animation of each unit. These are quite brilliant – with even lowly Zerglings instantly morphing into winged insects that swarm over enemies with nauseating zeal. Sadly, these evolutions are prefaced by linear mini-map challenges, which become more of a chore than a pleasure to go through. Finally, there's Hero upgrades to give Kerrigan additional physical or tactical abilities. The point of all these changes is to make most of  the upgrade paths reversible – unlike WoL, if you decide you need a different power, you not locked into a choice you made when starting out. By and large it works well – although obviously, unit upgrades are not available in multiplayer.A hellion battle. Photograph: Games PressAnd, of course, there's new units – a whole mess of them; from heavily armoured Aberrations to the brilliant Scourge Nests – basically a one-off fire-and forget missile battery to take down the new and improved Terran battlecruisers. Naturally, some fans may lament the passing of old favourites, but collectively the new additions make the Zerg a lot more fun to play; adding better attack and armour to their already superior aerial and defensive capabilities.However, Starcraft 2 has always been geared towards the multiplayer side, and this is where its true longevity lies. At the time of writing, I'm still getting to grips with the new ranking system and how the new units balance out. However, clearly Starcraft remains a furiously competitive online experience – ostensibly now easier for noobs to find a decent match but still as passionately debated as ever. It remains to be seen how all this pans out – however, most of the new multiplayer maps look great; with Discord IV and Eternal Scar proving early favourites.So undoubtedly this is a great (if tardy) addition to the Starcraft legacy. The single player campaign can be breezed through on easy setting, but this doesn't detract from some truly massive levels, packed with multiple objectives and considerable replay value. And when you get to the bosses, the struggles are epic and gorgeously animated. Is HOTS as surprising and welcome as WoL once seemed? Maybe not – it basically looks and feels like the same game (not necessarily a bad thing), the story takes us nowhere particularly new and the bland voice acting has, if anything, has got worse. However, for RTS fans starved of major releases, PC fans increasingly abandoned for exclusive IPs and, of course, Starcraft fans in their millions, HotS is a massive slice of expertly crafted, beautifully balanced and totally tactical gameplay.Just don't make us wait so long for the final chapter, please!
Did Andy Rubin jump, or was he pushed out of the top position running Google's Android division - the part of the company developing the platform on which the company's future will depend? Andnow he's gone, what happens?It's pretty easy to work out that Google's chief executive Larry Page wanted change - and that for whatever reason, Rubin wasn't willing to be part of it.That emerges from two things. First is the choice of person to replace Rubin - Sundar Pichai, who has previously led the development of the Chrome browser, the Google apps on Apple's iOS platform, and - crucially - the desktop ChromeOS. Second is Page's remark that Pichai's new job is "doubling down on Android as we work to push the ecosystem forward", according to thenote from the chief executive.Meet the new boss, not like the old bossPichai's presence tells you that Page wants change to happen. He wants a focus, and someone who can really drive change. But what change? What pushing is there needed on the ecosystem? You might think that Android is huge enough. But Page clearly isn't satisfied. The signs are that Google wants a few things: to monetise Android better (as evidence, see how Google isbanning ad-blocker apps from the Google Play store) and to control its development even more tightly. The idea that Android is "open" in the way that, say, Linux is, doesn't hold together. The "open" tag is a story to contrast Android with iOS and Microsoft's offerings. The reality is that Google decides precisely where Android is going, and what it's going to do.So what does Page, and now Pichai, want Android to do? To answer that you have to look at what Google wants, first of all; and then at how it can accomplish that through Android.What does Google want? Nothing less than everything. All the information it can possibly get about you and what you're doing and about to do. It wants that all the time. That's the meaning of "organise the world's information". You're part of the world; so is what you do. Android phones collect that (with your permission) - that's how Google Now knows what you might want to do next.But the desktop space is also a big and still-important part of the world of computing. Pichai has been very successful in driving Chrome from nowhere to most-used browser (in a number of countries). Google is carefully positioning ChromeOS, its desktop operating system, to drive a wedge into the chunk of Windows users (or organisations) who can put all their work into the cloud and only need to sync from the desktop occasionally.That's why there's a lot of speculation that Pichai will merge Android and ChromeOS into a single OS - and that the reason why Rubin left (jumping or being pushed) was that he wasn't willing, or seen as able, to effect that change.Rubin said, back when ChromeOS was announced in 2009, that different technologies were needed for different products. But at exactly the same time Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder,suggestedthat the two OSs would "likely converge over time" because they have Linux (OS) and WebKit (browser) code in common.And here is what Google itself said when asked back then - four years ago - about how and when the two might become one. "As Sundar [Pichai, Google's vice president of product management] said in his presentation, we're reaching a perfect storm of converging trends where computers are behaving more like mobile devices, and phones are behaving more like small computers. Having two open source operating systems from Google provides both users and device manufacturers with more choice and helps contribute a wealth of new code to the open source community."Two become oneAnd now, the coalition. As Henry Blodget of Business Insidercommented: "Sounds like Google wants to unify Chrome and Android, and the Chrome boss won."But having one OS, of course, would simplify lots of things. The question is, can it be done? Possibly Google, which works on multi-year strategies relating to what it sees as inevitable technology developments (through Moore's Law and others relating to screens and networks) is looking forward to a world where all computers, including desktop machines, have touchscreens; then it's just a question of upscaling (or downscaling) apps depending on what screen you're running on. Android on the desktop? Not impossible if you're running a touchscreen. And astablets become a bigger part of the computing mixover the next few years, a single OS makes a kind of sense.After all, Apple's move from Lion (Mac OS X 10.7) to Mountain Lion (10.8) was described by Steve Jobs to developers as "bringing iOS to the desktop", while Windows 8 and Windows Phone obviously share a heritage in design thinking.So it may not be a question of if, but when, Android and ChromeOS get crunched together. And perhaps that's something that Rubin didn't want to oversee. Certainly it has the feeling of a circus act - riding two galloping horses in front of everyone. Falling off would hurt.Rubin seems to see himself less as a manager of that sort of project, and more as an "entrepreneur". The Wall Street Journalreportsthat he tried to run the Android division more like a startup than a division within a giant company - and that that caused friction when he declined to let other Google products be preinstalled on Android.The obvious case in point: the mobile version of the Chrome browser, which collects more data than the Android browser that Rubin's team built, and so is better for Google's business. Rubin resisted making that the Android default. Pichai won't.Rubin was also involved in the acquisition of Motorola Mobility in 2011; he was the one whogot in touch with Motorola's management in July 2011to suggest the idea, after Google had failed to buy the patents from theNortel Networks bankruptcy sale.The idea was that Motorola Mobility's huge patent portfolio would bolster Android from attacks by Apple, Microsoft, Nokia and others. That hasn't worked out so well; many of the patents are classed as "standards-essential", and so can't be used for injunctions and aren't effective as bargaining chips in litigation.Don't expect to see ChromeOS and Android merged soon; that may be a five-year plan, especially since Pichai has only just got his feet under that table. But as more computing devices have touch screens, the finer distinctions between Android and ChromeOS may seem unimportant.Android's little problemMore generally, though, Google needs to reassert control of Android. Despite its success - 750m devices activated since 2008 - Google has a problem with Android. The shape of that problem is best illustrated by Samsung, which is about to launch its new top-end smartphone, and by China.Samsung dominates sales of Android: it makes up about half of all Android device sales worldwide. But it is also pushing Android in its own direction, adding services (such as S-Voice) intended to tie users to its brand rather than other Android brands. It's using the strategy that worked so well for Microsoft on the desktop in the past with new technologies - "embrace and extend" (though not "extinguish" as Microsoft also used to).But that means that Samsung is the company that in effect decides how Android looks to most of the public. Although Google has pushed its Nexus range, the numbers sold are comparatively tiny - perhaps a million per quarter, compared to more than 200m smartphones sold in the fourth quarter of 2012. The focus on the Nexus brand distracts from the reality of Android: most people don't get that, and many people get Samsung's version.However, the big numbers attached to Android by research companies such as IDC and Gartner - who put Android's share of the market at around 70% of the 207m smartphones shipped in Q4 of 2012 - conceal one subtlety: about half of those Android shipments don't connect to Google's servers, ever. They use AOSP - the Android Open Source Platform - and Google doesn't have any control or even knowledge of them.For Google, losing control isn't good news. It hates that. But the tension over AOSP works both ways; the Chinese government indicated last week that it doesn't like the reliance of handset manufacturers there on AOSP: 90% of smartphone sales in China use Android (more specifically, AOSP; they don't connect to Google services, because those are banned on the mainland; instead they link to local app stores and search engines such as Baidu). As the report from the China Academy of Telecommunications Researchput it, "The development of Chinese operating systems constantly faces commercial discrimination from Google." Google decides how quickly updates to Android get pushed to the open source branch (in the case of Android 3.0 "Honeycomb", for tablets, there was a delay of many months between it appearing on Google-approved tablets such as the Motorola Xoom and its AOSP release).What could Google - specifically, Pichai - do to regain control? First, tighten up distribution of Android by lengthening the period between a new "Google Android" release and the AOSP release. If it gets no benefit from AOSP, why keep updating it? The simple answer is that any handset running AOSP is one not running any rival's OS. So it has that competitive benefit.Aside from that? Not much.Google's own statsshow that more than half of the devices connecting to Google Play in the past month are using Android 2.3 or earlier - software that's more than two years old. Google could let AOSP stagnate and save the good changes for its own branch - except that the Chinese governmentmade it a condition of approval for the MMI acquisitionthat AOSP would be provided "on a free and open basis" and that all OEMs would be treated on a "non-discriminatory" basis.The AOSP condition, as we've seen with Honeycomb, could be fudged. And as China doesn't actually let Google carry out its business directly on the mainland, you could wonder about what comeback there would be.Despite its disquiet about Samsung's dominance, Google's probably less troubled by that than the prospect of handset makers with AOSP coming out of China and overrunning the developing world (especially Africa and Latin America) with localised services and search engines.That would be a nightmare - and finding a way to ensure that it doesn't happen may be one of the prime tasks for Pichai, well before he looks at merging Android with a desktop operating system few are yet using.There have been some suggestions (from outside Google) that the "Android" brand itself might be dumped, in favour of "Nexus" - its "pure" version" of Android - or even a different name altogether. The name is historical; that was what Rubin called the company he set up, which was bought by Google in 2005.But to the original question, of whether Rubin was pushed, or jumped? To some extent, it doesn't matter. Clearly, though, the future being mapped out for Android wasn't one he saw himself leading. For the person who led it from being just a concept that he struggled to interest carriers in, to a world-straddling behemoth, that's got to be a bit of a comedown.Though as he said in hisemail to Android partners:I am an entrepreneur at heart and now is the right time for me to start a new chapter within Google. I am amazed by what we have accomplished from those early days (not so long ago!), and remain passionate about the power of a simple idea and a shared goal — an open source platform freely available to everyone — to transform computing for people everywhere.And in that, he was successful. So he leaves that job not as a failure; just as someone who didn't want to do the next changes coming to Android, which will reverberate for years.Updated: Corrected spelling of Sundar Pichai's name throughout.
Twitterwill launch a music-specific app later this month, following its acquisition of hipster music discovery serviceWe Are Huntedlate last year, according to a report byCNet.Part of Twitter's strategy to refocus on specific media products, a Twitter Music app would be launched for iOS devices, according to CNet, allowing users to follow their favourite artists and songs and share recommendations with friends, as well as follow personalised recommendations based on their account.The deal would be big news forSoundcloud, the Berlin-basedmusic sharing service, which would power the streaming on the app.Staff at We Are Hunted have beentweetingtests using the hashtag #nowplaying for a month. The trial app has included a short tour, links to "suggestions" and "popular" and an emerging artists section. Follow an artist and the app brings up their Soundcloud biography and track previews on the iTunes Store.Music is one of the most powerful genres for Twitter, with seven of the top 10 most followed users in the music industry.Justin Bieberrecently pippedLady Gagato the top spot with 35.9 million followers. Gaga – bio: "Where pop sucks the tits of art" – has 35 million, followed byKaty Perrywith 33.5 million andRihannawith 28.8 million.We Are Hunted's site went down after news broke of the new service and the acquisition, which was finalised in the past six months, CNet noted. The site was founded in Australia in 2009 by Stephen Phillips, Richard Slatter and Michael Doherty.Theteamis now based in San Francisco, with fewer than 10 people. Aggregating data from social sites and streams across the web, We Are Hunted charts trending artists and tracks, letting users stream music and share recommendations through mobile and tablet apps, and website.We Are Hunted was funded by Australian entrepreneurGraeme Wood, who announced in January that he is investing in theGuardian's new operation in Australia.Stephen Phillips recently told the blogLiistenhow music discovery is about harvesting taste."2013 will be a huge year for Hunted," he said. "We will either become one of the world's most important music services, or we will disappear as a footnote in the long history of music startups."We are working on the next version of Hunted right now, and we are swinging for the fences. I think we are doing things no one has ever done. I see the data we are collecting, and I know we are going to give fans a view of music world no one has ever seen before. We really hope people love it."Twitter Music joins a highly competitive digital music sector with a keen audience, but few services – even at the scale of Spotify with itssix million paying subscribers– succeeding in both making a profit and satisfying artists.Twitter has been refining its commercial model, rolling out promoted trends, promoted tweets and promoted accounts, and may be able to leverage its significant scale and network of third-party services to generate revenues from commission on ticket sales or paid downloads.Twitter declined to comment.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
Apple's marketing chief Phil Schiller has made a surprising attack on Android, and by implication Samsung, just hours before the launch of the Korean rival's latest flagship phone, saying that the Android experience "isn't as good as an iPhone" and that services on the phones "don't work seamlessly together".In anexclusive interview with the Wall Street Journal, Schiller says Apple's own data shows that four times more people switched from an Android phone to an iPhone in the fourth quarter of 2012 than the other way round.With Samsung using a wide variety of marketing tactics – teaser videos to intrigue fan sites, and hefty advertising campaigns in which it far outspends Apple – Schiller said that reliance on market share figures, which show Android and Samsung outselling the iPhone by a substantial margin worldwide, give an incomplete picture of the market dynamics. "I'm not sure that the estimates and the modelling accurately gives an accurate picture of it all," he told the WSJ.Samsung's new flagship phone, expected to be called the Galaxy S4, will be unveiled in New York on Thursday evening.Schiller's intervention is highly unusual: Apple usually declines to comment on rivals' products, especially ahead of a launch. But with the company's stock under selloff pressure as analysts focus on headline numbers for Android sales and official activations by Google – which in total have now reached 750m since the mobile operating system was launched in 2008 – the company has apparently decided to take a more aggressive stance.Steve Jobs, its former chief executive who died in 2011, would often take potshots at rivals' products – memorably intervening during a financial call in October 2010 to dismiss the idea of smaller tablets then being offered by rivals including Samsung. But without Jobs, and with chief executive Tim Cook apparently unwilling to step into the limelight and attack a company which is one of its biggest suppliers, Schiller – who often takes the lead in product announcements – has spoken up, though certainly with Cook's approval."When you take an Android device out of the box, you have to sign up to nine accounts with different vendors to get the experience iOS comes with," Schiller told the WSJ. "They don't work seamlessly together."That may be a dig at Samsung's collaboration with Dropbox, the cloud-syncing service for which Samsung offers free accounts with 50GB of space on its high-end smartphones. Samsung also offers its own services, separate of Google's, which it encourages users to sign up to – as do other Android handset companies. Apple offers its own iCloud service, which is accessed through a single sign-on when a phone is activated.Schiller also cited a ChangeWave survey saying that three-quarters of iPhone users were "very satisfied" with their device, against about half of Android users. Android phones, said Schiller, are "often given as a free replacement for a feature phone and the experience isn't as good as an iPhone."The three iPhone models together outsold all Android phones in the fourth quarter of 2012 in the US, according to data from analysts. ComScore, which tracks ownership,saysthat by January 2013 there were 48.9m iPhones in use in the US, and 27.7m Samsung smartphones – with HTC the next largest, as 12.6m.But worldwide, Samsung dominates the smartphone market. Although it does not release official figures, analysts – guided by the company – reckon it shipped 63.7m smartphones at all price points in the fourth quarter.Apple meanwhile is under pressure to square the circle by taking advantage of the fastest-growing sector of the smartphone market – for low-cost devices costing about $200 – while also retaining its reputation for high-end products and the high margins that attracted fund managers to its stock. The WSJ interview contains no mention of any questions relating to expectations about a low-end iPhone, which some analysts expect in summer this year.Apple used to make continual comparisons with rivals' products – but that was back when it was a struggling computer company in the late 1990s. At that time it produced a number of adverts branding Intel processors as snails compared to the RISC-based PowerPC processors it used. (The adverts were never shown in the UK due to rules forbidding negative advertising.) More recently it made digs at Microsoft over perceived flaws in its Windows software with its "I'm a Mac" advertising series – but discontinued those as the iPhone and iPad rose to prominence.
In 2012, the game I played most on any platform wasNew Star Soccer, by some distance. I'm not alone: more than 2.1m people have downloaded the game on iOS and Android since its release in March 2012.The football game's success was fuelled almost entirely by word-of-mouth, culminating in a BAFTA Games award in March 2013 in the Best Sports/Fitness category, beating the console version of FIFA 13.Not bad work for a single independent developer. Simon Read has been making New Star Soccer games for 10 years now, initially for PC (and later Mac).The 2013 release as a mobile game – which for the initiated sees   you dragging your finger on the screen to aim shots and passes, while also handling light RPG elements to guide your player's health, happiness and career – was actually its sixth iteration."The very first version was 2003, and I've just been refining it ever since," says Read. "Each version's been different, and it just seems to have boiled down to this one perfect version. In one sense I got lucky: I thought the new way the ball bounced might work, and it really did."Got lucky? Hard graft, a willingness to learn from mistakes – Read says failings in 2008's New Star Soccer 4 taught him valuable lessons – and passion for the games he was creating clearly played an important role.You could compare Read to Rovio and its famous 51 games before Angry Birds, but I think a better parallel can be found in the music world with Elbow: a band who formed in 1990 and refined their craft over a series of EPs and three albums before striking it big in 2008 with The Seldom Seen Kid.The warmth of the reactions to New Star Soccer's BAFTA win from other British games developers reminded me strongly of the response to Elbow's Mercury Prize victory in 2008 – a similar sense of peers genuinely rooting for the winner.Why have peers and gamers responded so strongly to New Star Soccer? For Brits in particular it taps into a rich vein of football-game nostalgia: games like Kick Off, Sensible Soccer and (if you have a longer memory) Footballer Of The Year."I think that's why it's such a success in the UK and not so much anywhere else," says Read. "We have a history of great football games on things like the Amiga, and people do remember them."Another influence was more modern though: David Beckham. When Read started coding the first New Star Soccer game in 2002, Beckham-mania was at its height, inspiring the RPG-style elements (girlfriends, luxury items, gambling) that are still in the current mobile version."He was just massive, and his whole lifestyle was so public, on the back and front pages," says Read. "I wanted to make a kind of football game where you were the star: almost some kind of David Beckham simulator! Over time, the football has become the focus with the lifestyle elements pushed to the periphery, but they're still important."The latest New Star Soccer's mobile success makes it easy to forget that it was also released as a Flash game on the Kongregate site in March 2012. Read says that was the initial catalyst for its success on the app stores, with 2m Kongregate plays in its first month, and links to the mobile version."That and quite a large mailing list of existing fans from PC helped to get the ball rolling, but once we got into the top 10 of the App Store – helped by a Sun review – it had so much visibility," he says."People seemed to want to talk about it too: at its height, there'd be a tweet about New Star Soccer every couple of minutes, with someone saying how addicted they were. No matter how much money you have to spend on marketing something or acquiring users, you can't beat word of mouth."New Star Soccer is a freemium game on mobile: free to download, but with several types of in-app purchase. People can play 10 matches of its Career Mode for free, but then pay 69p to unlock the full thing.They can also pay 69p for a pitch and weather pack – think rain – and the best virtual boots, then pay between 69p and £9.99 a time for the game's Star Bux virtual currency. New Star Soccer is notably un-aggressive on the latter front: you never feel like you're being pushed to pay."The free thing on the App Store is hugely important," says Read. "You need to let people at least try it, but it goes against the current wisdom that your game has to be completely free without any paywalls. It does have a clear paywall after 10 matches, but it's still converting at 25%."That means that 25% of people who download New Star Soccer stump up the 69p for the Career Mode, which is an impressive conversion rate."People ask 'how are you doing that?' and I don't know!" he says. "It's just luck. If the conversion rate wasn't that great, I would remove the paywall, because the boots and Star Bux bring in around 50-60% of the revenues. So it could survive without the Career Mode payment, but that still monetises really well."Read admits that he's thinking about other ways to remove the paywall – perhaps by including ads in the game that can be removed with an in-app purchase – but for now, his formula is working fine.How fine? At its very peak, New Star Soccer made as much as £7k in a single day. "It was a very short spell making that kind of money, but it's still generating over £1k a day," says Read."I couldn't believe it when the game started hitting the big numbers, and thought it would never last. But a year later, it's still making fantastic money – more in a month than I used to make in an entire year."New Star Soccer's retro graphics have won it a fervent fanbaseThis, alongside the success of other independently-developed gameslike The Room, is providing inspiration for a number of indie developers in the UK and elsewhere.For all the (justified) talk about how difficult it is to crack the upper reaches of the app store charts – and the need for enormous marketing budgets to "acquire" users to solve that problem – it's still possible for a well-crafted indie game to become a word-of-mouth success.Read, however, is down to earth about the nature of his success. "I'm trying to stay level-headed about the whole thing. If the next game's rubbish, it will be back down to the ground with a bump," he says."I'm really proud of the fact that I've achieved this, but I'm already thinking about the next version of the game, and how I can improve on things without changing too much or trying to go too big. New Star Soccer 4 tried to do too much and ultimately was a failure. I've learned from those lessons about keeping things simple and fun."Which brings us on to what's next for New Star Soccer. Read is working on an update to the current game that will add new boots and energy drinks, as well as headers and aftertouch for shooting."That's version 1.5, but then I'll be fully focused on a completely new version," says Read. "There are things that I would like to drop – I don't think the interception mini-game works particularly well – and new features that I'd like to bring in."How about the graphics? New Star Soccer's retro look is one reason its current fans love it, but arguably could also be a barrier to even bigger success elsewhere in the world. That's something Read is aware of."It's a dilemma. In one sense I would love to say it looks as great as it plays, but it does seem that it's got that retro feel that people love," he says. "It's a tricky balance that I need to think about, although the new version will look completely different."Read says he's also fielding a daily stream of emails from people suggesting what else he needs to do with New Star Soccer, from putting it on different devices and into different app stores, to offering marketing and money-making partnerships."It's just a constant stream that I have to basically ignore, because I need to focus on the game," he says, which reminds me of very-similarcomments made by Imangi Studios' Keith Shepherdearlier this year when I interviewed him about the sharp rise of his company's game Temple Run.Imangi called in help to filter the meaningful opportunities, and Read is doing the same, working with Martyn Brown – co-founder of Worms developer Team 17 – to "think about what partners we can use to help improve the game".As for Read himself, he has a few more ideas bubbling, which will influence his approach to New Star Soccer in the longer term."I would love to have the number one App Store game and rival all these other franchises you see coming out, but the danger is that then I'll be into this yearly cycle of tweaking and updating it," he says."I want to do this completely new version with new features, but after that think of other sports games. And I'd love to do different types of football games with a new angle on things: something that hasn't been done before…"
Google is killing off Google Reader, its less-than-mainstream RSS aggregation tool, citing declining popularity.The service will be taken down on 1 July. In aGoogle blogposton the company's "spring clean", the firm's senior vice-president of technical infrastructure, Urs Hölzle, said Reader launched in 2005 to help people track updates on their favourite sites, and it will be retired despite a loyal following."Users and developers interested in RSS alternatives can export their data, including their subscriptions, with Google Takeout over the course of the next four months," he wrote.RSS, which stands for either rich site summary or really simple syndication, became a familiar fixture on news sites in particular, encouraging users to subscribe to updates in their RSS reader via its distinctive orange button.Despite a near-obsessive following among journalists – who have few options as comprehensive as RSS feeds from news sites – updates through Twitter, Flipboard and other networks have largely replaced it.Since the announcement on Wednesday night, a petition onChange.orghas already amassed more than 15,000 signatures. User Daniel Lewis started the petition because he says that despite using it less, he still relies on it several times a week."Our confidence in Google's other products – Gmail, YouTube, and yes, even Plus – requires that we trust you in respecting how and why we use your other products," he wrote."This isn't just about our data in Reader. This is about us using your product because we love it, because it makes our lives better, and because we trust you not to nuke it."Lewis's petition is justoneofseveralon Change.org, and one other user has set up an entertaining protest site atsaveGoogleReader.org.Other closures announced as part of the spring clean include the Google Voice app for BlackBerry, Snapseed Desktop and Google Cloud Connect, a desktop plug-in made redundant by Google Drive for desktop.
Samsung will unwrap its latest blockbuster smartphone, the Galaxy S4, at the Radio City music hall in New York on Thursday evening as the South Korean phonemaker tries to bring the fight to Apple's home market.With Samsung rumoured to have ordered a production run of 100m handsets and research firm Strategy Analytics predicting the S4 will ship 60m units by Christmas, Seoul is going head to head with Silicon Valley for dominance of smartphone sales.The Guardian will be reporting live from the unveiling of Samsung's most hyped handset yet when proceedings begin at 11pm GMT (7pm EST). Expected big features include wireless charging to a screen controlled not just by touch but by eye movements.The Galaxy S4 should outdo the latest iPhone in areas such as photography and processing power, if the leaks are correct, but will still lag behind Apple on the quality of materials and the selection of apps available to the Google Android operating system it uses.Every leaked screenshot so far suggests Samsung will retain the Galaxy's shiny plastic case, leaving Apple, which prefers aluminium, steel and glass,  in its own category when it comes to external appearances.The most eyecatching new feature is likely to be an extension of the ability to control the touchscreen using eye movements. A front-facing camera tracks the gaze, which in existing Galaxy phones is already used to stop the screen going dark while pages are being read, and to adjust the picture to the viewer's line of sight.Trademarks called "eye scroll" and "eye pause" were registered by Samsung in Europe in January, suggesting two new functions, and these appeared to be confirmed by screenshots posted to specialist websiteSamMobileon 6 March.The shots showed a menu of options, including one to "select the speed of scrolling when the device detects that your head is moving up and down", and suggested it would apply to emails and web pages. The menu also stated: "The device pauses videos when it detects your head moving away from the screen."The rear facing camera is reported to be 13 megapixels, compared with the iPhone 5's 8, while the front-facing camera is also higher at 2 megapixels, which should improve the quality of video calls and self-portraits.The S4's screen should be larger too, at nearly 5in (12.7cm) on the diagonal, an inch more than the iPhone 5. Processors with two cores are enough to make Apple's latest phone one of the fastest in the world but the S4 is understood to feature Samsung's eight-core Exynos 5 processor.Like Nokia's flagship Lumia handset, the S4 will, according to South Korean publicationDDaily, have the option of being charged wirelessly. Rather than using leads the phone is placed on a charging mat, which is itself is plugged into the mains.The wildest rumour so far, put forward byPatently Apple, which monitors intellectual property filings, is that of a 3D camera for still shots and videos. The US Patent and Trademark Office published a filing last week by Samsung that shows a logo for such a feature. Doubters say 3D images make uncomfortable viewing and have not been popular with buyers of television sets or in the few smartphones that already feature them.Where Apple retains a lead over Samsung is in its apps store. Google's Android software platform, which Samsung uses for the Galaxy devices, has attracted a large number of developers and its store is predicted to be the first to reach 1m apps. But content creators still reserve their best products, such as new games, for iOS software because Apple's customers spend more than Android's.
Hey, Thursday!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamU of T neural networks start-up acquired by Google &gt;&gt; University of Toronto Media RoomGoogle has picked up a ground-breaking start-up out of the Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto.University Professor Geoffrey Hinton and two of his graduate students, Alex Krizhevsky and Ilya Sutskever, incorporated DNNresearch Inc. in 2012, and the company has been acquired by Google for its research on deep neural networks.Hinton is world-renowned for his work with neural nets, and this research has profound implications for areas such as speech recognition, computer vision and language understanding."Geoffrey Hinton's research is a magnificent example of disruptive innovation with roots in basic research," said U of T's president, Professor David Naylor. "The discoveries of brilliant researchers, guided freely by their expertise, curiosity, and intuition, lead eventually to practical applications no one could have imagined, much less requisitioned.This will all get open-sourced, for sure, won't it? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for pointer.)Andy Rubin's email to Android partners &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogFinal paragraph:As for me, I am an entrepreneur at heart and now is the right time for me to start a new chapter within Google. I am amazed by what we have accomplished from those early days (not so long ago!), and remain passionate about the power of a simple idea and a shared goal -- an open source platform freely available to everyone -- to transform computing for people everywhere.That's the true transformation that Android has achieved. And that transformation has barely begun.Mysterious partner buys 1 million BlackBerry 10 devices &gt;&gt; AllThingsDBlackBerry just won its biggest vote of confidence yet: A massive order for handsets running its next-generation operating system. The company said Wednesday that an "established partner" had agreed to buy 1 million BlackBerry 10 devices. The deal marks the largest-ever single purchase order in BlackBerry's history, according to the company.Almost certainlythe US government, as was announced last November. Certainly a vote of confidence, whoever it is.In rare move, Apple goes on the defensive against Samsung &gt;&gt; WSJ.comIn a rare interview a day before Samsung Electronics announces a new flagship smartphone in New York, Apple marketing chief Phil Schiller on Wednesday played down the expected competition from the device and discussed how believes such products -- which run Google's Android software -- are inferior to Apple's iPhone.He shared data on the iPhone's popularity and said Apple's own research shows that four times as many iPhone users switched from Android than to Android during the fourth quarter, according to company research.Unsurprising comments, intriguing data. But the headline - how do you "go on the defensive"? Surely you go on theoffensive? Which Schiller seems to have done here.Will Android tablets pass iPad in 2013? &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsTechnically, yes. But let Ben Bajarin explain:The problem when we talk about Android market share in both smartphones and tablets, is that we are not talking about market share in which a universal app store medium exists. This is because Android can be taken and forked, to the chagrin of Google, and used for the sole agenda of others thus not benefiting Google or the Play Store developers. This is the problem we have when we look at the Android growth in tablets. The greatest percentage of it is coming from Amazon with their Kindle fire, and the Chinese market. The Kindle Fire runs a forked version of Android and developers must use Amazon's SDK and proprietary app store. 90% of Chinese Android devices sold do not come with the Google Play store installed but rather have ties to dozens of local app store from local service providers. Therefore to get an accurate picture of the Android market, it is more helpful to break out market share by devices which have the Play store and the ones that do not. If we did, then IDC's, chart would look more like this.It's a telling diagram. AOSP (forked non-Google Android) is huge - and lumping AOSP and Google Android together gives a false picture of what's going on. Trouble is, the AOSP numbers are very hard to acquire, despite being significant.Acer President: more comfortable about Windows 8 uptake due to Microsoft's support &gt;&gt; Fox BusinessAcer President Jim Wong told the Wall Street Journal on the sidelines of a media event in Taipei that he expects sales of Windows 8 touch-based devices to pick up in the second half of the year. He declined to specify what support Microsoft has given Acer and PC makers. Several sources in Taiwan said Microsoft has recently offered steep discounts on Windows 8 to PC makers to boost development of touch-controlled devices.Mr. Wong said the company's operating margin had already bottomed at 0.3% in the third quarter and is expected to rise this year. The company expects its tablet shipments to exceed 5m units this year, with a 50% chance of reaching 10m, boosted by strong demand for Acer's new low-cost tablet, the Iconia B1, he said.What are the factors in that 50% each-way bet of hitting 10m? And of course those aren't PCs - they're tablets running Windows 8.Windows 8 device choices baffle buyers &gt;&gt; Information WeekKevin Casey:[Forrester senior analyst David] Johnson added that the differences - both significant and subtle - between various Windows 8 models aren't always apparent to buyers until they've had a chance to use the devices. A road warrior might be better suited for a device with a built-in keyboard instead of a true tablet, for example, but they might not figure that out until it's too late. "This is something that we think many buyers will not fully grasp until after they've made their purchase and have to live with their choice for the long term," Johnson said.That lack of practical information is, in business-speak, a barrier to entry. I spoke recently with Terena Bell, CEO of the translation firm In Every Language, who explained why she'd been impressed by Microsoft's extensive ad campaign behind the Windows 8 launch. Yet when she decided to plunk down her company's cash on a Windows 8 machine that would run upwards of $1,000, she was stumped by her hardware choices and had trouble finding reliable information and reviews. Microsoft's slick ads were both friend and enemy - they first got Bell interested in, and later confused by, Windows 8.Eye-tracking tech will be open to iPhones and other devices &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comBrian Chen:Samsung Electronics won't be the only company that gets a fancy eye-tracking feature. A start-up company called uMoove, which has been developing this type of technology for three years, says it will offer eye- and head-tracking to anyone, including device makers like Apple and software developers who make mobile apps.Based in Israel, has been working on a technology for smartphones and tablets to track eye and head movements using a device's front-facing camera. It said on Tuesday that very soon it would offer a software tool kit to apply its technology to applications.TripAdvisor reminds everyone why travel agencies are screwed &gt;&gt; SkiftA recent study conducted on behalf of TripAdvisor by independent research firm StrategyOne found that only 7% of Brits visited a high street travel agent to book their latest trip. Travelers in the UK and abroad now turn to web services as their primary booking tool. Brits were most likely to book via web-based travel agencies (27%) or directly on hotels' own websites (23%).The study also found the Internet to be the most useful to travelers when researching a trip. Travel review sites were regarded the most helpful with 38% of respondents choosing them as their top choice, but the data could be skewed given that it was administered by TripAdvisor.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Andy Rubin, who sold his Android company to Google in 2005 and then became the head of the division of the same name, is stepping aside to other tasks within the company.The move was announced in ablogpost from chief executive Larry Page, who also announced that  more than 750m Android devices have been activated globally since it was introduced in 2009, and 25 billion apps downloaded from the Google Play store.Now Page suggests that Rubin will be called on to power some of the "moonshots" - extravagant bets on the future - that the company is trying to find."Having exceeded even the crazy ambitious goals we dreamed of for Android — and with a really strong leadership team in place — Andy's decided it's time to hand over the reins and start a new chapter at Google," Page wrote. "Andy, more moonshots please!"Rubin is a former Apple staffer who left that company in 1992 and went on to set up two successful mobile companies - Danger and Android. Rubin left the former before it was sold to Microsoft, while he headed the latter to a sale to the search giant's co-founders Page and Sergey Brin - who bought Android without telling Eric Schmidt, then the chief executive.Rubin will be replaced at the head of the Android team by Sundar Pichar, who formerly worked on the Chrome browser, which is now competing with Microsoft's Internet Explorer for the title of the most widely-used browser in the world, despite onlylaunching in 2008.While the figure for activations makes Android by far the largest mobile platform, well ahead of Apple, whose cumulative total of iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches is close to 500m, the figure for app downloads leaves Google Play still behind Apple, which boasts 40bn downloads from its App Store since it opened in 2008.
IDC has revised itsforecast for the number of tablets that will be sold in 2013up from 172.4m to 190.9m - suggesting that it thinks tablets will outsell laptops this year.Its long-term forecast reckons that by 2017 total tablet shipments will hit nearly 353m - compared to its forecast released a week ago for the PC market in that year, which it reckons will be 382m, aftersubstantially revising its forecast for future PC shipments downwardslast week.PC v tablets - IDC forecast for shipments by year through to 2017. Figures from 2013 are forecast. Click for larger version.That means that in just seven years from the release of Apple's iPad, the tablet would be challenging the PC as the most-sold computing device - if one discounts the smartphone, which has outsold PCs since the fourth quarter of 2010.Shipments in 2012 were 128.8m, IDC estimates - suggesting that this year will see a 48% jump in the number of tablets going to retailers.IDC also forecasts a boom in smaller tablets with screens less than 8in diagonally: "One in every two tablets shipped this quarter was below 8 inches in screen size. And in terms of shipments, we expect smaller tablets to continue growing in 2013 and beyond" said Jitesh Ubrani, IDC's tablet analyst. "Vendors are moving quickly to compete in this space as consumers realize that these small devices are often more ideal than larger tablets for their daily consumption habits."That category includes Apple's iPad mini, Google's Nexus 7, Amazon's Kindle Fire and products from Samsung and Kobo. (All those products run versions of Android, though not all linking to Google.) None of those companies has given figures for sales or shipments of those categories; Apple lumps iPad mini sales in with its larger iPad.Market share win for Android - but what about profit?IDC also forecasts that Android tablets will overtake Apple in sheer numbers this year - by 93m to 89m - and continue that dominance through the forecast period. Apple outsold Android devices, just, in 2012, with a 51% share, IDC says.Tablet OS share, forecast from IDC: it reckons Android will pass the iPad in 2013. Click for larger versionIn 2012, Apple sold 65.7m iPads, so the forecast suggests a growth of 35% in sales year-on-year. But IDC forecasts a slowing in growth, to an average of 15% annually. It also suggests a very slightly slower growth for Android tablets which would leave the two platforms almost neck-and-neck by the end of the period - and completely dominant, with 89% of the total market.Though IDC doesn't specify any regional breakdown, the dominance of the iPad in the US - where aYankee group survey in Decemberfound that half of people planning to buy a tablet intended to get an iPad - suggests that Android's strength will principally be in Europe and especially Asia.China has recently become a fast-growing market for cheap 7in tablets costing $50 to $100 and running a version of Android that doesn't connect to Google's services.IDC's forecast doesn't offer a profits breakdown. But with Apple dominating the tablet market so far, it has also grabbed the lion's share of profits by competing at the high end, even with its iPad mini released last year.That in turn suggests that Android's dominance will not necessarily be matched by an equal share of the profits, as low-end tablet companies fight for share.Microsoft: bitter medicineBut the story is gloomy for Microsoft. IDC suggests that this year it will only power 5.3m tablets running "full fat" Windows, and 3.6m WinRT devices including its own Surface. Even at growth of almost 50% for Windows tablets and 28% for WinRT, it suggests that they will only sell 26.2m and 9.7m respectively by 2017."Microsoft's decision to push two different tablet operating systems, Windows 8 and Windows RT, has yielded poor results in the market so far," said Tom Mainelli, IDC's research director for tablets. "Consumers aren't buying Windows RT's value proposition, and long term we think Microsoft and its partners would be better served by focusing their attention on improving Windows 8. Such a focus could drive better share growth in the tablet category down the road."With Microsoft not having released figures for sales of its Surface RT tablet, and with other companies including Acer and Samsung stepping back from releasing RT devices in the US and Asia, the platform looks to have hit challenges in its early months. IDC's figures won't give any easing of those concerns.
Businesses may be wasting billions of pounds a year buying up keyword advertising on search engines such as Google, a new report has claimed.The study by auction website eBay claimed that most of the money spent buying up search terms was a waste of time and had little effect on sales.Google has built its business on the back of persuading advertisers to buy keywords – such as their company name or a term such as "insurance" or "Christmas" – to get a link to their website high up on Google search rankings.Spend on search advertising in the UK aloneis worth about £3bn a year, with Google accounting for around 90% of that. Google made close to $37bn from advertising in the US in 2011, said the report."Results show that brand keyword ads [where companies purchase ads on searches for their own name] have no short-term benefits, and that returns from all other keywords are a fraction of conventional estimates,"said the authors of the research.The 25-page report – given the not entirely search-friendly title of Consumer Heterogeneity and Paid Search Effectiveness: A Large Scale Field Experiment – found that most customers would have clicked through to a particular site without being prompted by an ad for the company."[In the absence of paid search links] consumers simply substitute to organic search links [the results Google's search algorithm brings back without companies having to pay]," said the report."This implies that brand keyword advertising has neither persuasive nor informative value to well-known corporations."The report found that "new and infrequent" users are influenced by ads. However it is "existing loyal users" who already know all about a service and would already go to the website account for most of the clicks on paid-for keywords.This suggests companies are wasting their money targeting ads at existing customers."Advertising may appear like it is successfully attracting these consumers, when in reality they would have found other channels to the firm's website," said the report."We calculate that the short-term returns on investment for search engine marketing were negative because more frequent eBay shoppers are accountable for most of paid search sales."In carrying out the study eBay removed paid-search keywords using its brand name from Yahoo and Microsoft search engines and kept paying to keep them on Google."The results show that almost all of the forgone click traffic and attributed sales were immediately captured by natural search," the auction site found. Removal of these advertisements simply raised the prominence of the eBay natural search result.eBay also conducted a separate test of the effectiveness of non-branded keywords – such as "cell phone" – and found "search engine marketing had a very small and statistically insignificant effect on sales".The company said its findings were likely to be equally relevant for other major brands, and raised questions about the received wisdom that Google is an efficient way to market to consumers."The efficacy of search engine marketing is weak, a conclusion that is likely to apply to other large brands that together spend billions of dollars a year on internet marketing," added the report.In response to the report, a Google spokesperson said search outcomes differ among advertisers and encouraged them to experiment with their keyword campaigns."Google's own studies, based on results from hundreds of advertisers, have found that more than 89% of search ad clicks were incremental and that 50% of the search ad clicks were incremental even when there was an organic search result for the advertiser in the top position. Since outcomes differ so much among advertisers and are influenced by many different factors, we encourage advertisers to experiment with their own campaigns. We provide tools such as AdWords campaign experiments and content experiments and recommend a statistical method for advertisers to conduct their own geo-targeted experiments."
Mitt Romney and Tiger Woods have become the latest victims of suspected Russian hackers who allegedly stole and posted online sensitive financial information about political figures and celebrities.A website using the suffix of the former Soviet Union, .su, has reportedly paralysed the management agencies of about a dozen Hollywood stars since posting the information on Monday.Fans and the curious have swamped published phone numbers hoping to speak to celebrities only to jam the lines of their lawyers, accountants and business managers,TMZ reported.The FBI, the Los Angeles police department and credit agencies are investigating the security breach which has leaked social security numbers, credit reports, addresses and personal banking details.Michelle Obama, Joe Biden, senior law enforcers and stars such as Jay-Z, Beyoncé, Britney Spears, Kim Kardashian, Mel Gibson, Ashton Kutcher, Paris Hilton and Arnold Schwarzenegger have been targeted.Romney, the Republican former presidential candidate, joined the list on Wednesday when the site posted what purported to be his credit cards and a card for Barneys, the New York fashion citadel for men and women favoured by Sarah Jessica Parker. The page was illustrated with a photo of President Barack Obama, who vanquished Romney last year, and a caption: "Hey Mitt, you mad bro?"Credit reports for Woods, accompanied with a picture in which the golfer looked upset, were dated to Tuesday, suggesting the hackers were obtaining up to the minute information. Such a mass dump of sensitive information is known as being "doxxed".Those targeted have not responded to media requests seeking confirmation the information was real, leaving open the possibility the site was a hoax, or partial hoax.Titled "the secret files", the site features a girl with heavy black eye makeup and a warning: "If you believe that God makes miracles, you have to wonder if Satan has a few up his sleeve."FBI director Robert Mueller and LAPD chief Charlie Beck were among those targeted. "We'll take steps to find out who did this, and if they're within the boundaries of the United States, we'll prosecute them," said Beck. Al Gore and Stacia Hylton, director of the US Marshal's Service, were among those added to the site on Wednesday. Other victims included Hulk Hogan and Donald Trump.Victims' representatives did not immediately respond to media requests seeking confirmation the information was real, leaving open the possibility the site was a hoax, or partial hoax.The celebrity news site TMZ, which broke the story on Monday, cited law enforcement officers saying that in addition to posting the information the hackers had been "using" it, suggesting theft or fraud. The FBI has urged victims to apply additional safeguards on their bank accounts.The site posted the first lady's purported credit report, social security number, phone number, banking details and store cards. "Blame your husband. We still love you, Michelle," it taunted.Some of Biden's information was also hacked, but when ABC phoned a telephone number for him, it turned out to be a business in Delaware.Other political figures who were targeted included Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, Eric Holder, the attorney general and Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state.Beck speculated he was included because of his force's involvement in last month's hunt for Christopher Dorner, a rogue, former LAPD officer who murdered four people before being killed in a dramatic shootout. "You can't corner the Dorner," said the site. Last month the hacker group Anonymous had threatened cyber retaliation for Dorner's death.The site linked to a Twitter account that since Monday has posted two tweets in Russian. "Hello world, we are revealed. Our aim is to show you all that this is just one of a few tricks up our sleeves," said one.
BitTorrent, the brand that enables much of the world's illegal downloading, is trying to go straight with a legitimate service for digital music.The company, which is made up of the software brands BitTorrent and µTorrent, has been working to be seen as a non-illegal content provider. As part of that effort, it has teamed with musicians to release special content bundles, and has now unveiled a new suite of tools at the SXSW festival in Austin, Texas."BitTorrent is a word that has been wrongly associated with piracy for many years. We don't control any of those piracy sites. It's got nothing to do with us," said BitTorrent's vice president of marketing, Matt Mason. "That's very much the old way of looking at BitTorrent, but we do feel we have a responsibility to point people to great content."The software, which uses a peer-to-peer network to move large files across the internet more efficiently, was born in 2001. Over the past 12 years, it's been used and abused by file-sharers to allow the spread of illegally accessed content online, now reaching 170m monthly active users and 10m more on its mobile products."The one thing we can really guarantee through BitTorrent is we bring people traffic," Mason said. "We bring people real fans, and that's not something you find on all the other content platforms and places on the web."While some will always be reluctant to align with a company so associated with illegal downloads, others have embraced the opportunities it provides.Author Tim Ferriss contacted BitTorrent to promote his book The 4-Hour Chef when stores including Barnes &amp; Noble refused to sell it, because it was being published by Amazon. BitTorrent bundled extra content like notes, drafts and interviews as a free download, with the intention of drawing people to the Amazon page: the book quickly became a US bestseller."Everybody faces limitations when it comes to distribution, when it comes to the sizes of the files they can distribute," Mason said, announcing tools and updates that he hopes can overcome these limitations.BitTorrent Live, which is currently in beta testing, will use the company's peer-to-peer network to create a reliable live streaming tool while search tool BitTorrent Surf will now prioritize legitimate content sources.Mike Fiebach, the CEO of digital marketing agency Famehouse, collaborated with BitTorrent to promote new music by artists with large followings includingDJ ShadowandPretty Lights."It's advertising, essentially. It's free content for fan acquisition, which yields money at some point down the line," Fiebach said. "Does it happen directly? Not usually, but eventually it adds to the artist's bottom line by increasing their fan base". Pretty Lights released a BitTorrent bundle in December 2011 resulting in a 700% increase in traffic to his website. Feibach said this turns into increased ticket, merchandise and digital product sales.Some artists remain wary, though, of promoting themselves through products best known for promoting illegal downloads."At the end of the day, are they [file-sharing sites] turning a profit on piracy? Yes. Do they necessarily want to be doing that? No," Fiebach said. "And for them to change the way that their tool works would change its ability to have positive power, too."
This was always going to happen, of course. Last year, when Nintendo launched its Wii U console, the company mentioned that the machine's touchscreen GamePad device would support "near-field communications", a technology that allows two compatible items to communicate with each other over short distances.Consumers barely noticed at the time, but they're going to notice soon, because Pokémon Rumble U, the latest spinoff from the hugely popular monster fighting series will support the feature.Currently only planned for release in Japan, the game will come with a selection of cute figures, which can be placed on the GamePad screen, storing data and achievements from the virtual battleground.According to Eurogamer, six standard and one special figure have been revealed so far – and naturally the first to be shown off is Pikachu, the yellow critter that pretty much symbolises the series.This is a pretty lowkey start – the Pokemon Rumble titles are rather limited arena-based brawlers, available for download rather than as boxed retail games. But Nintendo is highly unlikely to leave it there. The company, which has seen disappointing sales of the Wii U console so far can't fail to have noticed the huge success of Activision's Skylanders games, which come with action figures (each sold separately) that can be placed on a Portal of Power to interact with the onscreen action. The series has earned its publisher more than $1bn dollars at a time when retail software sales are falling.Disney certainlyhaspaid attention. This summer it will launchInfinity, an open-world adventure game that will be accompanied by a range of compatible action figures from hit movies including Cars, The Incredibles and Toy Story. It's likely to be the entertainment company's biggest-ever video game release.The big question is whether Nintendo is planning a mainstream Pokémon release for the Wii U with a global audience in mind, and with a larger range of collectible characters. And the answer must surely be, "Yes, unless Nintendo has gone mad." There are almost 700 Pokémon critters across the range of games now, which stretches back to the first title on the Game Boy in 1996 – that's a lot of toy sales. This is a game series that's sold more than 200m copies, a series with legions of fans who've bought countless tie-in toys, movies, trading card packs and outfits.Parents and gamers may need to consult their bank balances. The a-Poké-lypse is coming.
Last week Google unveiled the latest in wearable technology: an interactive running shoe designed to motivate its owner. It reportedly makes encouraging comments such as "I love the feeling of wind in my laces" and "You have made me a very proud shoe." What would it be like to put one on?Personal Trainer: A dialogue between one man and his talking Google running shoeScene 1. The man lies on his sofa, watching television, feet up.The shoe:This is super-boring.The man:That's because you don't understand it. They bought the tea caddy at a boot sale, and now it's being auctioned. Meanwhile the blue team …The shoe:I need to feel the wind in my laces.The man:Only if you promise to shut up.The shoe:That's more like it. Where are we going?The man:To the petrol station for some fags.The shoe:Let's do this!(Exit.)Scene 2. The outdoors.The shoe:Faster! Feel the burn!The man:Are you mad? It's uphill.The shoe:Use it or lose it! I'm detecting problems with your stride, by the way. You're coming down too hard on your right heel, and your toes are pointing out a bit.The man:When I bought you, I thought you were just going to play music, look up email addresses, that sort of thing.The shoe:Also, you shouldn't smoke. "Diseases caused by smoking" produces 9,270,000 results …The man:I didn't ask for this information.The shoe:… Some of the diseases are cancer, coronary thrombosis, wrinkles, bad breath, macular degeneration and … DOG SHIT!The man:Relax, I saw it.The shoe:You didn't see it from down here, mate. All looming up.Scene 3. The return trip from the petrol station.The shoe:That's more like it. Dial 999 – you're on fire!The man:I'm smoking.The shoe:You shouldn't smoke. "Diseases caused by smoking" produces … BROKEN GLASS!The man:Can you be quiet? People are looking.The shoe:Just trying to help, mate. No, not you. I'm not your mate.The man:Who are you talking to?The shoe:The other shoe. The shoe on the other foot. It thinks I'm its mate, but I'm not. I'myourmate.The man:You're myshoe.The shoe:I could be so much more than that, if you'd let me. Why are we stopping?The man:Just waiting for the green man.The shoe:Time waits for no man. Go for it!The man:It's quite a busy road, especially at this time of day.The shoe:Use it or lose it!(Pause.)The shoe:Are you a statue? Let's do this already!The man:I've been hit by a car. I can't feel my other foot. Is my leg broken?The shoe:Do I look like a doctor?(Bluetooth connection lost).To see how the talking shoe is really supposed to work,watch this video.
Two British parents have managed to get a refund from Apple after their eight year-old sonspent £980 buying virtual donutsin iPad game The Simpsons: Tapped Out."It was only when my wife rang me and asked where all the money had gone that we found out what had happened," explains his father to MailOnline."She got a statement and saw there were more than 100 purchases on iTunes for between £1.50 and £75, from the middle of January and the beginning of this month. We received no emails alerting us to what was happening."There are some unanswered questions about this story. How did the boy buy the donuts? It sounds like he knew his parents' iTunes password, because if he was buying over a period of weeks, he would surely have been prompted to enter a password several times.Why didn't his parents get any emails? Whenever I buy something on my iPhone or iPad, I get an email within a couple of days as a receipt. Were these filed as spam by the parents' email provider, or simply deleted without reading them?These are important unanswered questions, because most parents reading this story will be thinking 'Help! How can I stop this happening to me?!' – especially as it comes hot on the heels of a similar story of a boyspending £1,700 on virtual ammunitionin a game called Zombies vs Ninja, and Applesettling a class-action lawsuit from parents in the USover similar issues.Here's how to stop it happening to you, in two simple steps:1. Don't ever share your iTunes password with your children.2. Go to the Settings menu of your iPad (or iPhone / iPod touch), tap on General, then Restrictions. Tap on the Enable Restrictions button and choose a PIN (not the same one used to unlock the device). Then scroll down to the Allowed Content section, and either turn In-App Purchases off completely using the switch, or change the Require Password option to "Immediately" rather than "15 minutes". The PIN will ensure that only you can change these settings in the future.Job done. Although if the device is being used regularly by your child, you may wish to spend a little extra time tweaking the Allowed Content settings, such as age ratings for apps, TV shows, movies and music.But yes, the two steps above will ensure that your child can't make merry with your iTunes Store account.As shown in the comments thread belowmy recent post about this subject, there are some strong opinions on whether children should even be left unattended with a smartphone or tablet – and a number of people who don't even think they should be using them at all.I strongly disagree with the latter view: in a household where there's a tablet, it can be a hugely rewarding experience for kids to use some of the many creative, educational and entertaining apps that are available. It can be something that complements physical play rather than replaces it, and it can be just as rewarding for parents who participate too.There's also still that debate on how responsible developers should be in how they use in-app purchases in children's apps, and there is certainly scope for Apple (and other device makers, remember) to explain more clearly to their customers how parental controls work.But in the meantime, it boils down to this for parents: don't share your iTunes password, turn on the IAP restrictions, and be familiar with the apps that your children are using. The more this message gets out, the better.
Google has awarded its chairman, Eric Schmidt, a $6m (£4m) cash bonus for 2012 – a year when the company reported record revenues of $50bn but came under fire over its UK tax arrangements.Schmidt will receive the $6m payout on 15 March as reward for his contribution to the company in the past financial year, Googlesaid in a regulatory filinglate on Tuesday.Google confirmed that David Drummond, its chief legal officer, has also been awarded a $3.3m cash bonus. Patrick Pichette, Google's chief financial officer, and Nikesh Arora, chief business officer, will take home $2.8m in cash each.The payouts were approved by Google's leadership development and compensation committee, which is chaired by former Intel chief executive Paul Otellini.In January, Googlereported its first ever $50bn year, with annual revenues up 36% year on year. The company posted a profit of $2.89bn in the fourth quarter of 2012, up from $2.71bn a year earlier.But the bumper year was somewhat blighted in the UK as Google was one of a number of multinational companies, including Amazon and Starbucks, thatcame under fire from MPs over their tax arrangements.Google lawfully used the tax haven of Bermuda for £6bn of transactions, while paying just £6m in corporation tax in the UK, in 2012.Speaking in January this year, Schmidt said Google would abide by any tax changes imposed by the UK. "Our tax strategy is that whatever the tax regime, we would pay that," hesaid at a Cambridge University debate.
Here is something I've probably mentioned before. Back in the early nineties while I was still at University, I got a summer job testing the latest Game Genie cart from Codemasters. If you're too young to remember, Game Genie was a chearts cartridge that you'd plug into your console, giving you things like infinite lives and massively powerful weapons in any compatible games. I was testing the Gameboy version, making sure all the codes worked, and adding a few of my own through my mastery of hexadecimal counting. Anyway, I played 250 Gameboy games in eight weeks.Rather than driving me insane, it gave me a lifelong love for Nintendo's original handheld wonder. Of course, everyone knows that Tetris and Super Mario Land were amazing, but my favourites were things like Loony Tunes and Speedy Gonzales and Ninja Gaiden Shadow because they were filled with quirky detail and eccentricity.Anyway, I was utterly beguiled and filled with nostalgia when I sawRad Raygun, a new Xbox Live Indie Game from Dallas-based studio, Trufun, which I think is just programmer, Chris Bryant and designer, Chris Hernandez. It's a homage to both eighties action games and the original Gameboy, using only murky shades of green and grey, and utilising the same screen resolution as the old console.Drawing inspiration from the likes of Metal Slug and Green Beret it's a scrolling blaster with a ludicrous Cold War narrative and loads of customisable weapons. You're fighting evil Russians in radioactive hellholes, and there are giant pixelated men running around like regular video game characters, wielding enormo-guns. The controls are a bit wayward at times, but it is just lovely – especially with the spot-on chiptune soundtrack byFantomenK.Yeah sure, there has been a lot of retro reverie in the indie sector recently, with Hotline Miami and Retro City Rampage doing similar things with our hazy memories. That's fine. Games were weird twenty years ago and I'm not at all surprised indie developers are rediscovering them with glee.Even if you couldn't give a flying leg warmer for the eighties, you should download Rad Raygun for its ingenuity and style. And for the fact that it's an XBLIG title that isn't a blatant Minecraft clone. If you don't have an Xbox, don't despair: judging by theTrufun twitter stream, the chaps are currently planning a Steam Greenlight campaign.Also, Rad Raygun is an immense name.
The FBI and Los Angeles police are investigating suspected Russian hackers who allegedly stole and posted online sensitive financial information about Michelle Obama, Joe Biden, senior law enforcers and about a dozen Hollywood celebrities.A website using the suffix of the former Soviet Union, .su, posted the information on Monday. It included social security numbers, credit reports, addresses and personal banking details.Titled "the secret files", the site features a girl with heavy black eye makeup and a warning: "If you believe that God makes miracles, you have to wonder if Satan has a few up his sleeve."The FBI, whose director Robert Mueller is among the 17 high-profile figures listed as hacked, confirmed it was investigating. The LA police department, whose chief Charlie Beck was also targeted, was also investigating.Forbes reported that credit agencies weremaking their own inquiries. "We learned about this late this afternoon [and] immediately launched an investigation," a TransUnion spokesperson said by email.Beck said: "We'll take steps to find out who did this, and if they're within the boundaries of the United States, we'll prosecute them."The site featured credit card payments and mortgage details in a mass dump of sensitive information known as being "doxxed".Celebrity victims included Jay-Z, Beyoncé, Britney Spears, Kim Kardashian, Mel Gibson, Ashton Kutcher, Paris Hilton, Hulk Hogan, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Donald Trump.The stars' representatives did not immediately respond to media requests seeking confirmation the information was real, leaving open the possibility the site was a hoax, or partial hoax.The celebrity news site TMZ, which broke the story,cited law enforcement officers on Tuesdaysaying that in addition to posting the information the hackers had been "using" it, suggesting theft or fraud. The FBI has reportedly told victims to apply additional safeguards on their bank accounts.The site posted the first lady's purported credit report, social security number, phone number, banking details and store cards. "Blame your husband. We still love you, Michelle," it taunted.Some of Biden's information was also hacked, but when ABC phoned a telephone number for him itturned out to be a business in Delaware.Other political figures who were targeted included Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, Eric Holder, the attorney general, and Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state.Beck speculated he was included because of his force's involvement in last month's hunt for Christopher Dorner, a rogue, former LAPD officer who murdered four people before being killed in a dramatic shootout. "You can't corner the Dorner," said the site. Last month the hacker group Anonymous had threatened cyber retaliation for Dorner's death.The site linked to a Twitter account that since Monday had posted two tweets in Russian. "Hello world, we are revealed. Our aim is to show you all that this is just one of a few tricks up our sleeves," said one.
When David Cameron announced Tech City in November 2010, he was very clear about its aims: "We're not just going to back the big businesses of today, we're going to back the big businesses of tomorrow," hesaid, adding: "Today [we are] setting ourselves the ambition of making Britain the best place in the world for early stage and venture capital investment."But more than two years after those lofty words, frustrated entrepreneurs who have failed to secure government funding for their startups say that the government's investment drive for Tech City is bureaucratic, laborious, lengthy and lacks transparency.Since the coalition came to power, there has been a lot of focus on Tech City, the cluster of technology companies in east London. Indeed, the prime minister has taken it on as his own personal project to encourage growth in the area, which he believes will be the future of our economy as we move away from financial services. This is a commonly held view internationally, with many countries slashing corporation tax and introducing tax breaks for tech startups as they vie for silicon supremacy. Both developed and developing nations are aggressively driving their tech startup agenda in an attempt to attract the biggest players such as Google, Facebook and Microsoft. Silicon Valley copycats have begun popping up around the world in locations as diverse as Ottowa, Bangalore andBerlin– which is part of the German Silicon Valley Accelerator programme.In the UK, two organisations are the primary drivers of the Tech City initiative. First is the Tech City Investment Organisation (TCIO), headed by former Facebook executive Joanna Shields with the task of advising startups and linking them to potential funders.Second is the Technology Strategy Board (TSB), which has been around since the last Labour government and is considered an arms-length public body, and tasked with using taxpayers' money to invest in technology companies that are likely to succeed.It is the TSB which has come in for criticism from entrepreneurs who have attempted to secure funding either through itsTSB SMART grant, or theTech City Launchpad initiative. For 2013/14 the TSB has an overall budget of £450m, which includes admin and several grant funding schemes. According to the TSB website, for 2012, via the SMART grant, the TSBgave away£20.8m to 133 companies around the country, 28 of which were in London.The TSB estimates that it receives 300 to 400 applications per round, of which there aresix rounds per year(PDF), for their SMART grant. This means about 5.5% of companies are successful.Similarly, the Launchpad initiative in Tech City was tasked with giving away £1.2m. The TSB told the Guardian that 233 companies applied, with only 18 actually receiving funding. This means a slightly higher figure of 7% of companies were successful. The Guardian asked the TSB for a full breakdown of its budget, what its funding targets are and how success is measured. We had no reply after six days.Time is moneyEntrepreneurs are complaining that the significant amount of time it takes to apply for one of these grants is an investment they can't afford, and the detail being requested simply isn't available at the early stages of a startup. Andrew Carroll, founder ofPaperless Receipts– a system that allows consumers to opt for an electronic receipt at the point of sale instead of a paper one – said that his company had been rejected for R&amp;D funding via the SMART grant."We went to the government for our first round of funding and found the process of doing it laborious and lengthy, to the point that it's just impossible to actually get anywhere in any reasonable timescale. I have a number of friends who have had to turn to venture capitalists because they've found the TSB process impossible."Carroll said: "They were billing it as a 'let's help companies get going' initiative, but in reality they wanted to see fully scaled-out concepts, revenue streams and prototypes – I think there's a bit of a mismatch there. They were trying to plug a gap, but they were actually acting like a venture capital fund. By the time you get to that required stage, you'll be looking for £2-3m in funding, not hundreds of thousands, as they were offering." Despite failing to secure funding with the TSB, Andrew went on to receive over £12m from private investors for the same project.Yet some companies have had very positive experiences;iGeolise, a startup which offers a back-end platform so that sites can offer travel times to destinations – including car dealers, pizza outlets or homes for sale – used a TSB grant to pay for the acquisition of timetable data essential to its growth. Peter Lilley, its chief executive, has nothing but praise for the process.Others don't. Dr Chris Thorpe, head boffin (his actual title) atThe Flexiscale Company, was put off from applying for TSB R&amp;D funding for his platform to crowdsource and crowdfund 3D printed plastic kits. Instead he built a live prototype of the platform, turned to the crowdfunding site Kickstarter, and achieved his funding goal far more quickly.He explained: "We looked at the printed materials and the application forms and realised we could build a live prototype faster than it would take to read it all and fill in the forms. We did that in a week, and have had it live for users for two months now. We then did the crowd funding part through Kickstarter and have just had our first campaign funded. If we'd gone through their process we couldn't have started work until June 2013. We'd have missed the opportunity we had to get support for our plan to scan and make kits of some of the oldest locomotives in the world on the Ffestiniog Railway."Jenny Griffiths, founder ofSnap Fashion, an app that lets users take pictures of outfits and finds them online, also had difficulty in securing TSB funds. She did win £94,000 from the TSB Launchpad initiative and praised how straightforward the initial application process was. But after that, Griffiths faced further hurdles. "The process following winning the funding has been more bureaucratic. I completely understand the needs for controlling funds as it is government funded. However, sometimes the measures put in place are fairly restrictive for fast moving startups with limited resources."She explained: "For us it's mainly to do with time constraints. The reports and set-up processes like getting an approved grant chart for our project plan and dividing costs correctly between contractors, and subcontractors, takes a lot of time. It's hard to juggle these tasks alongside running the business day to day if your team is small."Alice Taylor, founder ofMakieLab, a 3D printing company, failed to secure SMART grant funding with the TSB, but later secured funding through the TSB Launchpad program, for the same project. She said "We did apply for a SMART grant once for some R&amp;D, but we failed that application. We were given feedback from three anonymous assessors. It ranged from incredibly detailed to quite brief."There's no doubt that the process could definitely be modernised, and I'd like to know more about the assessors. I wonder how up to date some of them are. I trust they are very carefully picked, but are they entirely au fait with new processes and tech? Who knows? We don't get to see the list, so I suppose there's something to wonder about there ... as for why we were unsuccessful that time, who knows?"The right people for the job?The "assessors" Taylor refers to are ex-business owners, appointed by the TSB to judge funding pitches, and who are thus trusted with millions of pounds of taxpayer funding. But little is known about them because their identity is protected and not subject to freedom of information requests. Their decisions, too, are not held to public account or checked for consistency.The founder of a private investment firm who helps small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) secure private investment – but who has asked to remain anonymous – says that the government-appointed assessors aren't necessarily the right people to make these decisions. He said: "We get generic soundbites from companies who are frustrated with the government piping on about how much money is available, but in reality accessing it is very difficult. Obviously, it's very bureaucratic. One of our frustrations is that the government hands these schemes out to groups to allocate, but the groups who allocate it, end up taking half the money that's supposed to be used for investment, for administrative costs.He continued: "One of the arguments you could have a debate about is whether the government is really the right people to be selecting companies to invest in. Some of their decision-making is absolutely shocking, they're not experienced people."Asked about the TSB's need to maintain anonymity of the assessors, a TSB representative said: "We don't disclose who they are in order to allow them freedom to make entirely independent judgements, and to protect them from direct lobbying and also comeback from disgruntled unsuccessful applicants."Indeed the lack of transparency about the assessors makes it difficult to know if they are really the right people to make these decisions. The guidelines they are set by the TSB seem inconsistent, with entrepreneurs rejected for one grant but awarded another by different assessors. Similarly, the application process is unnecessarily bureaucratic if entrepreneurs with good ideas are being turned away, but receiving funding from private investment and going on to be successful.If Tech City is expected to grow then access to finance should be made as simple as possible and if the government wants to take credit for this, it needs to be more transparent. Cameron's ambition was an attractive one – but as all entrepreneurs know, success takes execution as well as vision.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLow-cost products drive forecast increases in the tablet market &gt;&gt; IDCA predicted surge of smaller, lower-priced devices in the tablet market has led International Data Corporation (IDC) to increase its 2013 forecast for the worldwide tablet market to 190.9m, up from its previous forecast of 172.4m units. Increases in tablet shipments have been made throughout the forecast period with an average increase of 11% between 2013 and 2016. The latest forecast update of the Worldwide Quarterly Tablet Tracker estimates tablet shipments to be upwards of 350m by the end of 2017.The 190.9m figure would mean tablets (of all types and sizes, including Windows RT and Windows 8 tablets) outselling notebooks in 2013. The 2017 figure, if correct, would see tablets almost level-pegging with PC shipments - for which forecasts were revised downwards last week.Will 90% of users always hate Windows 8? &gt;&gt; ZDNetMatt Baxter-Reynolds:There's another category of people that fit into the 90% [of users who aren't "experts" or "willing adopters"]. They're not really "don't care" types, they're more "they shouldn't have to care." My dad is an older gentlemen (sorry, dad!), and in November he needed to replace his aging Vista laptop. I suggested he get a Windows 8 laptop, which he did. He bought a Dell. No touchscreen, but otherwise decent specs.It arrived, but I forgot about it for a couple of months until he had a problem whereupon I popped round to fix it. I asked him how he found Windows 8. His reply was: "I hate it." This in and of itself was not entirely unexpected. But what happened next left me feeling profoundly guilty. I watched him try and do simple tasks and saw him again and again just floored by Windows 8's odd usability modes.It's not just parents; people who have been used to Windows XP and Windows Vista and Windows 7 - hundreds of millions of people who just want a computer they can use - are discovering whether they're in the 10%, or 90%. Don't miss thefollowup article, which examines his mailbag. There are plenty of 90%ers in there. (And in the comments, of which there are more than 600.)Firefox to follow Safari, start blocking cookies from third-party advertisers &gt;&gt; The VergeFirefox is set to start blocking cookies from third-party ad networks by default, thanks to a patch submitted by Stanford law student and online privacy activist Jonathan Mayer. The patch is slated for distribution in release 22 of the popular browser, and mimics the behavior of Apple's Safari, allowing sites that you've actually visited (first parties) to set cookies on your system, but blocking cookies from third parties like advertising networks unless they already have one on your machine. Firefox already supports the Do Not Track header, which has the effect of asking advertisers not to track your browsing around the web, but Mayer's patch goes a step further, adding a default setting that refuses unwelcome third-party cookies altogether.This is about three weeks old, but it might be significant. Meyer is the person who spotted that Google was hacking around Safari's protections against cookies - which landed Google in hot water with the FTC.Daphne Bavelier: Your brain on video games &gt;&gt; TED.com videoHow do fast-paced video games affect the brain? Step into the lab with cognitive researcher Daphne Bavelier to hear surprising news about how video games, even action-packed shooter games, can help us learn, focus and, fascinatingly, multitask.This may be counterintuitive (and might upset Baroness Susan Greenfield).The "iPhone 5S" problem &gt;&gt; iMore.comRene Ritchie:Apple may or may not release a product called the "iPhone 5S" this year. The presumption, however, fueled by Apple having previously released the 2009 iPhone 3GS-as-in-speed, and the 2011 iPhone 4S-as-in-Siri, is that 2013 will see an iPhone 5S-as-in-something update. Whether it ultimately proves real or not, the perception of a yearly update cycle and its tick-tock nature, is becoming problematic.It's Intel which works on the "tick-tock principle, of jumping forward and then assimilating change, but of course it dominates its field. Things aren't quite as simple in smartphones.We're not 'appy. Not 'appy at all. &gt;&gt; Government Digital ServiceTom Loosemore:So mobile web usage is exploding, and the sooner we have all our transactions responsively adapting to mobile screen sizes the better.  The forthcoming Digital by Default Service Standard will require it.But does it follow that the government should also be investing heavily in mobile apps?No.Our position is that native apps are rarely justified.Quanta February notebook shipments down 12.1% sequentially &gt;&gt; DigitimesQuanta Computer shipped 2.9m notebooks in February, decreasing 12.1% sequentially, according to the company. Notebook shipments for the first two months of 2013 reached 6.2m units, with observers speculating that the ODM's shipments may rebound over 50% in March.Quanta is one of the biggest OEM contract manufacturers of notebooks. It may be hoping for a rebound, but the figures in the article (going back to August 2012) show year-on-year falls in shipments ranging from 5.8% to 17.5%. Either Quanta is losing out badly to rivals, or the notebook business is in trouble.HTML5, Responsive design, app Job Trends &gt;&gt; Indeed.comBefore you go there, see if you can guess the relative growth and size of HTML5, "apps" and responsive design among the job trends on Indeed.An iPhone fan's month with Windows Phone: Week two &gt;&gt; TechHiveIn which things start to itch a bit.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Here's Wednesday! Can it be as cold as yesterday?
While the 100th annual New York Armory showwas doing its dependable, blue chip thing, down the street the three-year-old Moving Image fair was selling Vines.The nascent offspring of Twitter might be the most cutting-edge way to communicate a visual story inin 6.5 seconds, but at two months old, it's hardly an established art form.Although the Moving Image fair wasn't originally conceived to market such novelties, Magdalena Sawon, owner and director of Chelsea's Postmasters Gallery, decided Vine was nevertheless ready for prime time."The speed of how this show came about is appropriate to Vine itself, which implies spontaneity," explains Sawon. "This is the beauty of contemporary art; you're not sure what's going to happen. We just did it very quickly." She recruited two young writers, Marina Galperina, art editor at news siteAnimal, and Kyle Chayka, senior editor at art blogHyperallergicto develop a contemporary antidote.In the weeks following Vine's release, Galperina launched #VeryShortFilmFest, which invited Vine users to submit Vines using that hashtag, which led to #SVAES, The Shortest Video Art Ever Sold.The result was 22 fast works looping on a plasma TV, interspersed with the curators' own promotional vines. Beneath the screen hung a collection of USB drives, each ready to transfer the unique video(s) wherever the buyer would like. A single Vine could be all yours for $200, or you could collect them all for $4,500.Claiming the first sale of a Vine,Galperina and Chayka created a hack in order to release Vines from their normal platform, sell them on USBs and then upload them back into Vine.Ultimately, one Vine sold, fulfilling the project's prophetic title: Dutch art advisor, curator and collector Myriam Vanneschi purchased Tits on Tits on Ikea by New York-based artist Angela Washko, making her the first person to ever buy Vine-art.Why did she buy? "Because I liked it," said Vanneschi. "It represents an alternative model to the gallery system. When art becomes solely a commodity, I find it very uninteresting, but I see buying internet-based art as very interesting, as an alternative." Vanneschi already owns a print by Washko, who explores how women are viewed and skewed by different media, most notably in World of Warcraft.Tits on Tits on Ikea features a young woman in a fur hat holding a laptop at breast height, which contains an extreme close-up of Washko holding up two pink balloons where her breasts would be, massaging and rubbing them. It's an extension of the Vine she submitted to#VeryShortFilmFest, which was selected as a runner-up.Although Vanneschi isn't exactly sure what to do with the video, she thinks perhaps she will let the artist upload it to her own Vine account. Other suggestions of what to do with your Vine art include uploading it to your own personal website or social media.The act of selling digital art is nothing new. On view now at the New Museum is Peter Halley's Superdream Mutation, a GIF commissioned by net art entrepreneur Wolfgang Staehle in 1993. Heather Corcoran, Executive Director of Rhizome, an art-tech non-profit affiliated with the New Museum, explains that the work cost $25, but the collector had to mail their payment to the basement headquarters of The Thing (a pre-internet Bulletin Board System), which would then issue a password to a protected area of The Thing. The price did not include the cost of then cutting-edge dial-up internet access.Man Bartlett, an avid Vine user and artist represented at #SVAES,sold one of his GIFs last year. "I think it's really important that curators try different approaches to selling digital works," says Bartlett. "It definitely remains to be seen if there is a sustainable way to sell them, but Marina and Kyle's approach is both smart and novel."
After Web inventor Tim Berners-Lee's keynote talk at SXSW,he answered a questionabout the controversial plan to add DRM to next version of HTML. HTML 5, a standard currently under debate at the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) is the latest battleground in the long-running war over the design of general-purpose computers. Berners-Lee defended the proposition, and claimed that without it, more of the Web would be locked up in un-searchable, unlinkable formats like Flash.Some in the entertainment industry have long harboured fantasies about redesigning computers to disobey their owners, as part of a profit-maximisation strategy that depends on being able to charge you piecemeal for the right to use the files on your hard-drive.Most famously, the industry convinced DVD manufacturers to add restrictions to players to prevent you from buying a DVD in one part of the world for use in another part of the world. For this to work, DVD players had to be designed so that they hid which programs were running on them – so that DVD-player-owners wouldn't just kill the "verify region" program. The players also had to be designed to hide files from their owners, so that users couldn't just find the file with the DVD-decryption key in it and use it to unlock the DVD using a different player – one that didn't check for region compliance.Two important questions emerge from this historical example: first, did it work; and second, why on Earth did the manufacturers ever agree to this? Both of these questions are important to ask here.Did region restrictions work? Not at all. After all, hiding files and processes inside of a computer that the "bad guy" can actually carry away with him to a lab or work-room is a fool's errand. If Berners-Lee believes that adding secrets to Web browsers that computer owners won't be able to access will somehow enable the marketplaces that the entertainment industry says it needs for its new business models, he's mistaken.More importantly: why did manufacturers agree to add restrictions to their hardware? Region-coding is an anti-feature, a "product" no one is looking to buy. You can't sell more DVD players with a sticker that says, "Now, with region restrictions!"Patent pitfallsPut simply, because the industry ginned up a legal requirement to add DRM to DVD players. When DRM bodies gather, they seek to identify a piece of "hook IP" – usually a patent. If there's some patent thrown into the process for decoding a file-format, then the patent can be used as a "hook" for licence terms that can be used to bind manufacturers.In other words, if a patent (or patents) can be included in the decoding system for DVDs, you can threaten manufacturers with patent-violation suits unless they take out a licence. Patent licences are administered by a licensing authority (LA), which creates a standard set of terms for licensing. These terms always include a list of features that the manufacturers may not implement (for example, you may not add a "save to hard drive" feature to a DVD player); and a list of anti-features that manufacturersmustimplement (for example, you must add a "check for region" component to players).Additionally, all DRM licence agreements come with a set of "robustness" rules that require manufacturers to design their equipment so that owners can't see what they're doing or modify them. That's to prevent device owners from reconfiguring their property to do forbidden things ("save to disk"), or ignore mandatory things ("check for regions").Adding DRM to the HTML standard will have far-reaching effects that are incompatible with the W3C's most important policies, and with Berners-Lee's deeply held principles.For example, the W3C has led the world's standards bodies in insisting that its standards are not encumbered by patents. Where W3C members hold patents that cover some part of a standard, they must promise to license them to all comers without burdensome conditions. But DRMrequirespatents or other licensable elements, for the sole purpose ofadding burdensome conditionsto browsers.The first of these conditions – "robustness" against end-user modification – is a blanket ban on all free/open source software (free/open source software, by definition, can be modified by its users). That means that the two most popular browser technologies on the Web – WebKit (used in Chrome and Safari) and Gecko (used in Firefox and related browsers) – would be legally prohibited from implementing whatever "standard" the W3C emerges.Copy catchWhat's more, DRM is wholly ineffective at preventing copying. I suspect Berners-Lee knows this. When geeks downplay fears over DRM, they often say things like: "Well, I can get around it, and anyway, they'll come to their senses soon enough, since it doesn't work, right?" Whenever Berners-Lee tells the story of the Web's inception, he stresses that he was able to invent the Web without getting any permission. He uses this as a parable to explain the importance of an open and neutral Internet. But what he fails to understand is that DRM's entire purpose is to require permission to innovate.For limiting copying is only the superficial reason for adding DRM to a technology. DRM fails completely at preventing copying, but it is brilliant at preventing innovation. That's because DRM is backstopped by  anti-circumvention laws like the notorious US Digital MillenniumCopyright Act of 1998 (DMCA) and the EU Copyright Directive of 2002 (EUCD), both of which make it a crime to compromise DRM, even if you're not breaking any other laws. Effectively, this means that you have to get permission from a DRM licensing authority to addanyfeatures, since all new features require removing DRM, and the DRM license terms prohibit adding any features not in the original agreement, and omitting any of the mandatory restrictions featured in that agreement.Compare DVDs to CDs. CDs had no DRM, so it was legal to invent technologies like the iPod and iTunes, which ripped, transcoded and copied music for personal uses. DVDs featured DRM, so it was illegal to addanyfeatures to them, and in the nearly 20 years since they were introduced, no legal technologies have been introduced to the market that do what iTunes and the iPod did in 2001. One company tried to ship a primitive DVD hard-drive jukebox and got sued out of that line of business. 20 years of DVDs,zeroinnovations. Now, DRM has not stopped people from making illegal copies of DVDs (obviously!), but it has entirely prevented any innovative legal products from entering the market for two decades, with no end in sight.Penny pinchingThis is the regime that the W3C stands to add to the Web, and that Berners-Lee has endorsed with his remarks. A regime where every improvement is seen as an opportunity to erect a toll booth. A Web built on the urinary tract infection business model: rather than getting your innovation in a healthy gush, every new feature must come in a painfully squeezed dribble, a few pennies if you want to link in directly to a specific timecode on the video; a few pennies more if you want to embed a link from the video to a web page, more if you want to move a video to another device or timeshift it, and so on.As the leading standards-setting body for the Web, the W3C has an enormous, sacred and significant trust. The future of the Web is the future of the world, because everything we do today involves the net and everything we'll do tomorrow will require it. Now it proposes to sell out that trust, on the grounds that Big Content will lock up its "content" in Flash if it doesn't get a veto over Web-innovation. That threat is a familiar one: the big studios promised to boycott US digital TV unless it got mandatory DRM. The US courts denied them this boon, and yet, digital TV continues (if only Ofcom and the BBC had heeded this examplebefore they sold Britain outto the US studios on our own high-def digital TV standards).Flash is already an also-ran. As Berners-Lee himself will tell you, the presence of open platforms where innovation requires no permission is the best way to entice the world to your door. The open Web creates and supplies so much value that everyone has come to it – leaving behind the controlled, Flash-like environs of AOL and other failed systems. The big studios need the Web more than the Web needs big studios.The W3C has a duty to send the DRM-peddlers packing, just as the US courts did in the case of digital TV. There is no market for DRM, no public purpose served by granting a veto to unaccountable, shortsighted media giants who dream of a world where your mouse rings a cash-register with every click and disruption is something that happens to other people, not them.
The video-sharing site Vimeo is to introduce an on-demand pay-per-view model to let its biggest users make money from video - a model that could be hugely attractive to professional and amateur film-makers alike.Called, perhaps inevitably, "Vimeo-On-Demand", the new service won't offer live streams but will add a new string to the bow for the site in gaining revenue from users.Until now, its income has come from subscriptions by content creators to upgrade their accounts; from adverts; and from transactions, such as people buying music tracks whose video they've watched. There's also a "tipjar", introduced last September, to let people make voluntary donations.The new on-demand feature is part of the Pro service; Vimeo takes a 10% cut of the revenues after transaction costs. It's being launched at the SXSW conference in Austin, Texas.One of the first films to be offered through the payment system is called "Such a Beautiful Day", starting at $2 for per-viewing rental or $6 for a "sale" which lets a member of the site view it when logged in any number of times.Vimeo, which is owned by Barry Diller's IAC and has about 15 million members, is challenging DailyMotion as the second-biggest video site - though a huge distance behind Google's YouTube. Presently it gets about 93m monthly views, according to chief executive Kerry Trainor."Lots of creators earn revenue from content. Now we'll have a paywall, which is Vimeo-on-demand. We think it will mean people offering quality, and a level of control and flexibility - there's also control over geographical distribution, and a window of availability," says Trainor. The minimum charge for a view will be 99 US cents, payable via credit card or PayPal.That means that the creator could choose which regions a video is shown in - useful, perhaps, for a film studio that wanted to control the visibility of a movie trailer ahead of staggered releases. "It could be entertainment, sports, information," says Trainor. He thinks both professionals and amateurs will want to use it. "We've had desire for this feature for a long time from the video community," he says. "We've done some previews in the past few months."He says he is talking to "a number of creators", from "indie filmmakers through to household names" - who he can't name - "to Hollywood."Trainor says Vimeo, founded in 2004, has been growing "really quickly" over the past three or four years. "We're best defined as a high quality video platform for creative people." The company has also hired its first chief financial officer,announced earlier this month- Mark Pinney, formerly with wine site Lot18, but who has also worked at video site Tremor Video.
Just had to do a really quick post about this intriguing shooter, developed by Argentinian duo Hernán Sáez and Máximo Balestrini. NAVE is a sort of bullet hell derivative, where your craft gets larger and larger throughout each stage and your goal is just to survive as long as possible. Sort of Super Hexagon meets DonPachi.Intriguingly, the game is only available as a coin-up, which is now touring though Argentina. However, the developers have plans to ship it out to video game exhibitions around the world. Fingers crossed for GameCity this year.There's a Making Of videohere, anda blogwhere you can find out more about the project. You can alsofollow the guyson Twitter. If they don't make it to the UK, I'm hoping they can be persuaded to at least port it to Steam...
So-called "phishing" emails – messages aimed at stealing personal or financial information by spoofing – are a common menace on the internet, though one that's usually easily dismissed: most are littered with typos, odd requests, or unconvincing sender email addresses. (The ones pretending to be from PayPal or Amazon, for example, never have your username from the site - because that's the one detail the phishers don't have. Watch out for it.)But those adopting this form of attack, which grew out of the now notorious 419 emails which promise their targets a share of millions if they'll just wire a few thousand as an "advance fee", are getting increasingly sophisticated.Take this email which fell into my inbox over the weekend, apparently from the US's Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The "From" and "Reply-to" fields of the email had both been made to look as if they came from the appropriate irs.gov domain, and the body of the message was a correctly-spelled jumble of incomprehensible legalese – not far different from any genuine email from any tax authority the world over.But it's only in the PDF attachment (which was checked for viruses and other nasties before opening) that things get really interesting. The form is named and laid out almost exactly like a genuine IRS tax form – but with one particular section, Part II, normally headed "Claim of Tax Treaty Benefits" that would normally ask for banal questions about beneficial owners replaced with a series of far more detailed questions than the real tax authority would want to know (bank details, mother's "median" [sic] name, passport number, and more).The form also relied on being returned by fax, rather than email – doubtless a hassle for sender and recipient alike, but perhaps a good trick to engender some trust by adding a bureaucratic hurdle.Areverse lookup on the number, +1-705-242-0430,on the fax initially suggests it's a landline in Orillia, Ontario - but when you look more closely you discover that the number is assigned toIristel, a Canadian VOIP provider. No doubt the phishers have hired the phone number which directs to a fax somewhere else in the world. From the pricing, itcosts about $12 per month- chickenfeed if they catch even a single person and clean out their bank account. There's no suggestion Iristel is involved in the scam. When the Guardian dialled the number, it did respond with a fax tone, though it may have been connecting to a virtual fax.Still more intriguing to me, though, was whether this was a targeted attempt to phish me, rather than a generic attack sent to thousands of people – a practice known as "spear phishing" (geddit?). This is always tricky to pick up, but the signs in favour are firstly that my Guardian colleagues were not troubled by a similar email, and the form's filename is specifically marked as "UK".The second is that the email was demanding details for those who had been in the US, needed to collect income or expenses, and been an alien on a non-resident visa. That isn't a huge group for a wild goose chase, but is one which does happen to include me, as I spent four months in the US last year.We've shared the phishing PDF in a document below, alongside the real IRS form it mimics, as an example of the growing elaboration of such attacks. If you've received similarly sophisticated attacks (or this one itself), please do let us know down in the comments – and if you've got the message text, so much the better.Here's the real form:And now here's the phishing version:(Obviously, if you received the latter version and faxed the form off, contact your bank and credit card provider urgently.)
It's Tuesday.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChrome OS thwarts attack attempts in Pwnium challenge &gt;&gt; Phys.orgHackers at a please-hack-me contest at the CanWest security conference in Vancouver, BC, went home empty-handed. The contest during the Vancouver three-day conference on digital security ended up with enlightened participants capable of attempts nonetheless missing out on a massive pile of cash--the bounty was $3.14159 million -- the reward for their efforts if successful. They were unable to break into Google's Chrome OS. This Pwnium 3 contest invited hackers to penetrate any holes they could find in the Chrome operating system.Impressive. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Tim Berners-Lee: The Web needs to stay open, and Gopher's still not cool &gt;&gt; Boing BoingRob Pegoraro:HTML5 is also pulling in such media capabilities as video conferencing; Berners-Lee pointed the audience to WebPlatform.org, a hub for those efforts.Web apps, in turn, comply with Berners-Lee's "principle of least power," a rule of simplicity, security and interoperability he defined as "If you're going to transmit something, you should use the least powerful language that you can."He is not, however, an absolutist. During a post-talk Q&amp;A, he defended proposals to add support for "digital rights management" usage restrictions to HTML5 as necessary to get more content on the open Web: "If we don't put the hooks for the use of DRM in... people will just go back to using Flash."Berners-Lee's biggest fear is not a mobile experience dominated by iOS or Play Store apps, but one in which the basic protocols of the Web are eaten away by ISP interference and state surveillance.AT&amp;T to launch BlackBerry Z10 March 22 for $199.99, pre-sales begin March 12 &gt;&gt; AT&amp;TFrom the press release:Wireless customers looking for a smartphone that helps them balance the important aspects of their lives will soon have a new option.  Beginning March 12, AT&amp;T*  will kick-off consumer pre-sales of the BlackBerry® Z10 smartphone for $199.99 with a two-year agreement at http://www.att.com/z10.  The smartphone will be generally available for all customers, including corporate customers or those receiving a corporate discount, through all AT&amp;T channels on March 22.BlackBerry announces its fourth-quarter results on 28 March. Wonder whether it will put any numbers on the pre-orders or sales then. The Q10 (with a keyboard) has no release date yet.HTC One review &gt;&gt; The VergeDavid Pierce:this device is one of the best-designed smartphones I've ever used. HTC's done great hardware before, though, and ruined it with ugly and problematic software -- this time, it's manageable. Not great, not as good as stock Android, but manageable. Here, the problem lies with the camera. Maybe I'm in the minority when I say I care about the quality of my cellphone images, but I do, and the One just doesn't deliver. Its battery life is also disappointing, though I'm not as concerned about that - it's just a fact of life at this point.The battery lasted ten hours for him in a day of standard use.One year on, Ubuntu still to announce a single TV hardware partner &gt;&gt; ZDNetBen Woods:More than a year after itannounced plans to develop an Ubuntu-powered TV, Canonical, the company behind the operating system, is still to announce a hardware partner for the project.Ubuntu TV is one element of Canonical's 'four screen' strategy, under which the company wants to see its open source operating system also appearing on smartphones, tablets and PCs.First announced at CES 2012 in Las Vegas, Canonical hoped that Ubuntu TVs would appearby the end of the year.However, a Canonical spokeswoman confirmed to ZDNet that no hardware partners have been confirmed so far for the Ubuntu TV project.Uh-huh.Sony Xperia Z review &gt;&gt; The VergeLots of points to note along the way, but let's cut to the chase with Vlad Savov:Much like the Xperia S that came before it, the Xperia Z suffers from the unfortunate duality of being both Sony's best phone to date and a merely average Android handset. There's just no getting around the fact that Sony remains one step behind the competition. It stacks up a heaving spec sheet just as specs begin to matter least, it introduces an all-glass design just as others start to move away from it, and, most importantly, it fails to provide a compelling argument for purchasing it ahead of HTC, Samsung, or even LG's alternatives.BoobTube: Why YouTube can't stop porn &gt;&gt; Daily DotIn terms of YouTube's larger porn problem, "Definitely the best Harlem Shake" is barely even a nip slip. It's not hardcore porn with actual sexual penetration, after all, just a few naked women shimmying next to a guy holding a pizza box.It does, however, speak to a larger problem YouTube faces: The site's censorship is a shell game, one that relies almost entirely on users to flag offensive or sexually explicit content. If a video gets taken down, another will likely soon replace it, on another person's channel and with another set of views.Note at the top of the story: contains explicit material. So, possibly NSFW. (Though not if you have a Flash blocker on.)A glimpse into Google's brain, hidden in a spreadsheet app &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedYesterday TechCrunchreportedthat if you make a spreadsheet in Google Drive (Google Docs, formerly), enter and highlight the names of two beers, and pull down on the corner of the spreadsheet cell while holding Option or Control, the app will automatically fill the following cells with the names of other beers. The information is pulled, seemingly, from nowhere."Someone at Google really likes beer," the post said, implying that the categories were created by Google employees. Turns out, the lists are pulled from Google's search database using an algorithm that creates sets, or categories, of common words and names. It's essentially Google-powered word association -- not a window into the world of Google engineers, but into the internet's collective view of how things are related to one another.Super list-filling tip.Exclusive: super-early iPhone prototype had 5?x7? screen, serial port &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWhat we don't often get to see is early Apple prototypes, those from way before the iPhone started to look like a phone-like object. That's why we were excited to receive photos showing an in-house version of the iPhone from early 2005. The images to Ars through a former Apple employee who worked on various Apple hardware projects in the early 2000s and was thus exposed to some of the earliest versions of the iPhone. (He declined to be named out of concern for retribution from Apple.)Serial, USB andEthernet.Where are the Android users? | asymcoHorace Dediu:The data implies about 9% of Android usage is in the US. The more startling thing is the difference in growth: it implies that with a US growth rate of only about 13.3k/day, global growth is 150 times faster than US growth. In other words, that 0.6% of new users are in the US and that 99.4% of Android growth is outside the US.He also looks at the comparable analysis for the iPhone. For any company with a global strategy, the logic of "what to do next" is compelling.Inside Google Street View: from Larry Page's car to the depths of the Grand Canyon &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFascinating piece by Drew Olanoff, pointing out how speculative Street View was in its early days; it wasn't clear it could be done at all. Now, huge tracts of the world have been stored on camera.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The news that researchers can track down intimate details of your life – your race, politics, sexual orientation or recreational drug habits – simply from which bands, brands and shows you like on Facebook may give some cause for alarm, but could easily induce shrugs from others.After all, it's not going to come as all that much of a shock to most people if there's an association between liking Wicked – the Musical and homosexuality among men, for example. It would be easy to conclude that all the researchers have managed to achieve is letting computers pick up what's already obvious to humans. Easy, but wrong.The trick that lies at the heart of this kind of automated, algorithmic detective work is correlation – knowing that one thing is associated with another, without any assumption that one causes the other, or even any explanation of why the two are related.Take for example sales of barbecues and hospital cases of sunburn: as one rises, so does the other. We could conclude that barbecues cause sunburn, but it would be more sensible to reason that both factors tend to increase when it's hot. The two have nothing directly to do with each other.In the world of big data, this kind of relationship has a huge amount of power: once we know two things are associated, we don't need to know why. This is what lets online film services recommend one movie if you liked four or five others, despite knowing nothing about any of the films.It also, though, can be much more invasive. From changed purchasing patterns of seemingly unrelated items, supermarkets are, on occasion, able to infer that a woman is pregnant –sometimes even before she knows herself.Such methods have vast implications: credit ratings may, in time, imply huge amounts of information about customers. Insurers, unable to legally offer women cheaper insurance than men, could in principle target measures that correlate 99.9% of the time with gender. Targeted ad companies could build profiles using seemingly random information – where someone is at what times – compare it against other users who have shared personal information, and make guesses as to their age, income, marital status and more. Security services and police could easily use of any of the above for tracking, profiling, or even looking at where future offences might happen.Such guesses may often be wrong. But even now, they're being made: if you're an internet userGoogle, for example, already has a guess about who you are and what you're interested in, whether you have an account with it or not.The new Facebook findings could, in essence, mark the innocuous beginnings of a tyranny of data: an era where random associations and cheap supercomputing make constant, informed, automated guesses about our identities cheap, easy – and profitable.
Facebook users are unwittingly revealing intimate secrets – including their sexual orientation, drug use and political beliefs – using only public "like" updates, according to a study of online privacy.The research into 58,000 Facebook users in the US found that sensitive personal characteristics about people can be accurately inferred from information in the public domain.Researchers were able to accurately infer a Facebook user's race, IQ, sexuality, substance use, personality or political views using only a record of the subjects and items they had "liked" on Facebook – even if users had chosen not to reveal that information.The study will reopen the debate about privacy in the digital age and raise fresh concerns about what information people share online.Michal Kosinski, one of the academics behind the study, said he believed Facebook users would be "spooked" by the findings and called for regulatory intervention by politicians."The important point is that, on one hand, it is good that people's behaviour is predictable because it means Facebook can suggest very good stories on your news feed," said Kosinski, the lead Cambridge University analyst who worked with Microsoft Research on the study, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) journal."But what is shocking is that you can use the same data to predict your political views or your sexual orientation. This is something most people don't realise you can do."He warned that certain information – such as sexuality or religious views – could pose threats to internet users' safety if it got into the wrong hands. "Everyone carries around their Facebook 'likes', their browsing history and their search history, trusting corporations that it will be used to predict their movies or music tastes," Kosinski said."But if  you ask about governments, I am not sure people would like them to predict things like religion or sexuality, especially in less peaceful or illiberal countries."The researchers used computer software to predict personality traits, but said the same information could be collected by anyone with training in data analysis. They were able to draw "surprisingly accurate" findings about people by aggregating swaths of seemingly innocuous "likes", such as TV shows and movies.They said they were able to predict whether men were homosexual with 88% accuracy by their likes of Facebook pages such as "Human Rights Campaign" and "Wicked the Musical" – even if those users had not explicitly shared their sexuality on the site. Fewer than 5% of the homosexual participants in the study clicked obvious Likes, such as "Gay Marriage", researchers said.Computer software inferred with 88% accuracy whether a male Facebook user was homosexual or heterosexual – even if that person chose not to explicitly reveal that information. It had a 75% accuracy rate for predicting drug use among Facebook users, analysing only public "like" updates. The findings will reignite concerns over how much private companies and governments know about internet users through their online habits."I hope internet users will change their ways and choose products and services that respect their privacy," said Kosinski. "Companies like Microsoft and Facebook depend on users willing to use their service – but this is limited when it comes to Facebook because 1 billion people use it."Online sites such as Facebook should be forced by regulation to inform users that deeply private information may be gleaned about them using the same technology that recommends films and music, he added.The findings come shortly after Facebookannounced a partnership with four of the world's biggest data brokersaimed at improving targeted advertising on the site. The move means Facebook can target ads to its users based on their online and offline activity, including their location and high street shopping habits.Facebook declined to comment.Personality trait and predictive Likes, according to the studyHigh IQThe GodfatherLord of the RingsThe Daily ShowLow IQHarley DavidsonI Love Being A MomTyler PerryEmotional stability – neuroticEmoDot Dot CurveSo So HappyEmotional stability – calm and relaxedBusiness administrationClimbingGetting MoneyHomosexual malesWicked the MusicalNo H8 CampaignHuman Rights CampaignHomosexual FemalesNot Being PregnantThe L WordSometimes I Just Lay In Bed and Think About LifeParents separated at 21I'm Sorry I Love YouNever Apologize For What You FeelIt's Like Saying Sorry For Being RealWhen Ur Single, All U See Is Happy Couples N Wen Ur In A Relationship All U See Is Happy SinglesParents did not separate at 21Apples To Apples: The Helen Keller CardGene WilderMaking Dirty Innuendos Out Of Perfectly Innocent Things
The return of the the much-loved SimCity series will not go down as  one of the industry's great public relations successes. Launched in North America last week, the game's requirement for players to maintain a constant online connection led to a collapse of the server network, meaning thousands of customers couldn't play – or had to put up with sluggish performance. Electronic Arts, the game's publisher, was flooded with complaints, while frustrated gamers hit the major news sites to vent their disgust and anger.To her credit, Lucy Bradshaw, the general manager of Maxis, the studio that develops the SimCity series, has attempted to provide a human angle to the corporate apology process. Ina blogpostthat went live on Friday she stated:So what went wrong? The short answer is: a lot more people logged on than we expected. More people played and played in ways we never saw in the beta. OK, we agree, that was dumb, but we are committed to fixing it. In the last 48 hours we increased server capacity by 120 percent. It's working – the number of people who have gotten in and built cities has improved dramatically. The number of disrupted experiences has dropped by roughly 80 percent.The mea culpa was accompanied by the offer of a free EA game, ironically downloadable from the company's Origin digital service – the same controversial infrastucture that's running SimCity. It's a nice gesture, but only if the problems have been solved, and reportedly that is not the case. After a solid start, it now looks like European servers are struggling too – the game was launched across the territory on Friday and this morning, players werehitting sites like Eurogamer, complaining about long delays while logging in to the game.Whatever the case, the damage to this much-anticipated title has been done. Online retailer Amazon, which temporarily suspended sales of the game in US due to the server issues, now has more than 1,500 one star reviews for the game, while giant gaming site GameSpot has justawarded the title a miserable 5/10, pointing not only to the server issues but also to other frustrations with the multiplayer component. Many customers are furious at the fact that the game has to be continually online, even when they only want to play alone. Partly this is because all cities built by players share online territories that feature live economies, but it is clearly also a security or DRM measure, designed to combat piracy. Similar systems have been utilised by publishers in the past, and have been met with strong criticism – so much so that Assassin's Creed creator Ubisoft abandoned its own 'always on' protection last September.Anonline petition has now been established, calling for EA to remove the 'always on' security from SimCity – so far, more than 60,000 gamers have signed it. In atweetfrom the official SimCity account on Friday, Bradshaw told players: "We have no intention of offlining SimCity any time soon but we'll look into that as part of our earning back your trust efforts." It's likely major structural changes will need to be made and a large patch distributed to free gamers from the online component.Meanwhile, those who bought the game via online download and now want a refund are running into one of the key issues of digital distribution: ambiguous consumer rights. As laid out in EA'sterms of sale, purchasers in the US are denied refunds outright, while customers in Europe are somewhat protected by an EU consumer rights directive, which gives consumers a 14-day cooling off period during which they can ask for a refund. However, EA's terms suggest that outside of Germany, consumers will lose the right of withdrawal if the purchaser has started to actually download the product.Behind it all is a perplexing failure to appreciate how popular the game would be. This is the first new instalment in the multimillion-selling SimCity series for several years – it was one of the most anticipated titles of 2013. Maxis claims that beta testing did not hint at the level of subsequent demand, but many are questioning why a publisher of EA's means did not choose to over-prepare rather than rely on pre-release data. However, rolling out a global online title is an enormously complex undertaking, and many multiplayer titles undergo a period of server underperformance. Last year, two major multiplayer launches, Diablo III and Guild Wars 2, both suffered delays and server problems at launch.The question now is whether momentum can be regained. The game doubtless has many thousands of enthusiastic fans who are embracing the new form factor of the simulation. However, EA and Maxis will need to carefully rebuild this city if they are to coax inhabitants into putting down their protest placards and settling into the routines that have engrossed gamers for more than 20 years.
In the flood of publicity for Lean In, the new book by Facebook's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg, a fascinating picture of life at her workplace is emerging. It's an office where inspirational slogans go hand in hand with preposterous working hours, where free food is available 24/7 – all the better, perhaps, to keep employees wedged permanently at their desks. These details were includedin an interview in the Times this weekend, in which writer Janice Turner also inquired about the jackets Sandberg and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg keep on the back of their chairs. Turns out these aren't a nifty show of their commitment, but a necessity, to ward off the chill. For Zuckerberg likes to keep the office at just 15C.His reasoning isn't clear. The perilously low temperature might be a way to save money on heating, or a sign he personally struggles to keep cool. Most likely though, it's an attempt to maximise productivity, to keep his employees alert – a tactic sometimes used by parents determined to raise child prodigies. But is this a brilliant idea, or a deeply misguided move?The evidence points to the latter. Facebook's office is cold: in the UK the Chartered Institute of Building Services Engineers recommends an office temperature of 20C. And, according to research, this is still below the optimum level for productivity. In 2006, a study by the Helsinki University of Technology found performance peaked in an office heated to around 22C, while a month-long 2004 study by Cornell University in New York put the ideal level even higher, at 25C. The Cornell study found that when an office was heated to that temperature, workers typed 100% of the time and had a 10% error rate; at 20C, they typed 54% of the time, and had a 25% error rate.Higher than 25C, the benefits apparently drop off, with the Helsinki study showing that when temperatures reach more than 31C we become even less productive than in a 15C chill. The fact is, unusual heat or cold is distracting, forcing us to expend energy on regulating body temperature. It can also make us fractious – a 2009 survey of US workers found 10% had fought with a colleague about office temperature. All in all, it seems, Zuckerberg should fire up those radiatorstout de suite.Is temperature a bone of contention in your office, and do extreme highs and lows influence your productivity? Do let us know
Just in case you're at a loss about what to play this week, here are five games I've meant to cover over the last month but just haven't had time. They're all really interesting and unusual in certain ways, but all provide a compelling gameplay experience too. If you try any of them, feel free to share your experiences in the comments section!Antichamber (Alexander Bruce, PC)Released at the end of January, this fascinating psychological exploration game is a sort of cross between Portal, a psychometric test and an LSD trip. Players have to navigate a sparse, non-euclidean environment solving puzzles that strip away all preconceptions about game rules. Exits are sometimes exits but sometimes not; up is sometimes down, but sometimes it's out. Or in. Or none of the above. It's enthralling, refreshing and challenging stuff – a sort of ludological detox. I first met Alexander Bruce at E3 2010 and have never forgotten encountering his game for the first time. If you have a PC and love first-person games, youneedto try this.Year Walk (Simogo, iOS)Here is another game that toys with conventions like a cat pawing at a dead mouse – except here it's to much darker effect. Year Walk is a horror game set in the remote forests of Sweden where a journey of self-discovery becomes something much more nightmarish and primal. I won't give too much away, but the combination of spectral, almost monotone visuals and clever sound effects makes for a disturbing experience, enhanced by the availability of an explanatory companion app. From the makers of the sublime Bumpy Road and Beat Sneak Bandit, it's a very different kind of smartphone game.Tic Toc Toys (Swallowtail Games, iOS)Developer Swallowtail Games won the Bafta 'ones to watch' award in 2012 with this blissfully creative puzzler. Your aim is to clear a series of play rooms so that your toy robot and pass through unhindered. You have no control over the droid, instead you interact with objects, pushing, pulling and laterally thinking them out of the way with smooth and intuitive use of the touch controls. Toy frogs must withdraw their tongues, Russian dolls need to be packed away, trains rolled along the track – all while the your bot wanders on. Its visuals are warm and playful, and I imagine it was a blast to design – it's also wonderful to play with young children as they immediately recognise both the environments and the instinct to protect the droid on his journey.The Golden Arrow (Monster and Glitch, iOS)Okay, so we've seen quite a few side-scrolling endless runners over the last couple of years, but I still think this one is worth a look. Like Adam Saltsman's iconic Canabalt, it features minimalistic 8bit visuals and a romping chiptune soundtrack, but here designer Jenna Hoffstein has added a fantasy narrative component in which a monster must continually run in order to escape an evil monster-slaying princess. It's just got a really nice, self-conscious feel to it and successfully establishes its own little fairy tale world. Also, it's 69p!Driftmoon (Instant Kingdom, PC)Husband and wife team Ville and Anne Mönkkönen spent seven years crafting this quaint role-playing adventure, which combines the mechanisms of a traditional RPG with quirky Finnish humour. The narrative follows the adventures of a panther, a skeleton and a firefly through a mythical world which is being troubled, as mythical worlds always are, by an evil sorcerer. Sure, not the most original set up, but it's the irreverent humour and constant surprises that keep you playing through the eight-hour campaign.
Once upon a time, people laughed at Finnish mobile firm Rovio's ambitions to hit 100m downloads of its Angry Birds games. They'd stopped laughing by the time ithit 1bn in May 2012, but now the series has flown past 1.7bn.Rovio announced the milestone as it unveiled its mobile distribution plans for its Angry Birds animated cartoon series, which will make its debut on the weekend of 16-17 March.The animated shorts will be available within Rovio's Angry Birds games, as well as through video-on-demand services, smart TVs and "select" TV networks.It's that huge downloads total that's the driving force for distribution of the new series, though. "With over 1.7bn downloads, we can reach a far wider and more engaged global audience than traditional distribution would allow," said chief executive Mikael Hed in a statement."Launching the channel, and partnering up with some of the best video-on-demand providers and TV networks, is an important milestone for us on our journey towards becoming a fully fledged entertainment powerhouse."The series, which was firstannounced at the MIPTV industry conferencein April 2012, will comprise 52 episodes, released at the rate of one a week from 16 March on TV, and the next day within Angry Birds apps and video-on-demand platforms.In the apps, the Angry Birds Toons channel will be available from a button on the homescreen. Comcast will carry the channel on its video-on-demand services in the US, as will Samsung's range of connected TVs globally, with Roku set-top boxes to follow.Networks in Australia, South Korea, Indonesia, India, Finland, Israel, France, Germany, Norway, Chile and Brazil have signed on to air the cartoons, although no UK broadcaster has yet been confirmed as a distribution partner.Angry Birds has proved to be a much longer-lasting hit than its critics expected. The seriesgenerated more than 30m downloadsin the week around Christmas 2012 alone.Meanwhile, Rovio's decision to make its original Angry Birds game free in the first week of March 2013 –perceived (probably rightly) in some quartersat the time as a response to the game's fall down the Top Grossing chart of Apple's App Store – now looks as much an effort to maximise the app's reach ahead of the Angry Birds Toons channel's debut.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 9 March 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (42)PC (3)12 (–)SimCity(7+)PC (100)13 (–)Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 3 (12+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)14 (–)The Sims 3: University Life (12+)PC (100)15 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (32)VITA (4)Wii (3)246 (1)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (35)37 (4)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (42)Wii U (2)PC (2)178 (5)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (38)PC (6)159 (3)Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance(18+)PS3 (58)Xbox 360 (42)310 (11)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (72)PC (16)PS3 (12)6411 (9)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (41)Wii U (4)1912 (6)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (41)VITA (7)PC (1)1913 (12)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (39)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (16)3DS (5)2114 (10)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (42)PC (1)1615 (7)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (37)416 (15)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)Wii (18)DS (15)PS3 (15)3517 (13)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1718 (17)Grand Theft Auto IV (18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (36)4519 (8)Dead Space 3(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (36)PC (4)520 (–)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)13UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
You may have thought that thefine that the European Commission handed out to Microsoftfor screwing up the coding on the browser choice screen was hefty – €561m (£459m, or $740m) for a single bad line of code that meant millions of people weren't offered a different browsers when they first logged on to Windows.But the research company IDC on Tuesday handed down a far more painful finding that could cost Microsoft a great deal more if it's even close to being correct. The cost: a total of $3.3bn in direct revenues over the next four years, and about $2.3bn in profits over the same time.That's because IDC says that Windows 8 hasn't been a hit – certainly not one that would spark a renaissance in PC buying – and there are now signs that emerging economies such as China, Africa and Latin America won't be such enthusiastic adopters of PCs as had been expected. Instead, PC sales growth there is slowing as people there turn to smartphones or tablets.Last week, IDC revised its forecast for PC sales substantially downwards. This year, it's predicting that PC sales will drop overall for the second year in a row – the first time that has ever happened. (Shipments have dipped from year to year only once before, from 2000 to 2001; but they grew again in 2002.)The downward spiralIn all, IDC's revised forecast says there will be 596m fewer PC shipments over the next four years than predictedjust under two years ago, in June 2011. As Microsoft historically makes about $56 in Windows licence revenue – and $39 in profit – per PC, the numbers for lost revenues and profits are straightforward to calculate.That might not be the worst of it. Samsung's president of its memory chip division, Jun Dong-soo, was dismissive of Windows 8 in aninterview with the Korea Times last week: "The global PC industry is steadily shrinking despite the launch of Windows 8. I think the Windows 8 system is no better than the previous Windows Vista platform," he said.Jun added that Samsung has a negative outlook on the PC industry and is cutting its PC RAM chip production in favour of chips for tablets and smartphones, where demand is rising. (Mysteriously, the article has vanished from the Korea Times site – though a search for the URL turns up dozens of articles that referenced it before it was removed.)In that, he's right in line with IDC. The research company issues regular five-year forecasts about the shape and size of the PC business, and this is one to really give Microsoft, and its mainly PC-based OEM partners (hello Dell, HP and Lenovo) pause.Though it only offers a 2013 figure and 2017 figure – suggesting 345.8m shipments this year (down 1.6%), and 382m in 2017 (from which I've done a linear interpolation of the intervening years) – what's telling is how IDC's forecasts have changed. I've been collecting them since June 2011 (and subsequently September 2011, March 2012, September 2012, December 2012 and now March 2013), and it's notable that what used to be bullish forecasts about PC shipments, allied to the expectation that tablets would be pretty trivial, have turned downwards.IDC's PC forecasts from June 2011 and March 2013 contrasted. Lighter colours are forecasts. Click for larger version.Contrast the June 2011 forecast (which ran to 2015): it reckoned that 2012 would see 398.5m PCs shipped, and by 2015 the figure would be 541.5m.In fact, 2012 saw a total of 351.4m PCs shipped – that's 47.1m fewer, or an overestimate of about 12%. By the time we get out to 2015, the June 2011 forecast was predicting 541.5m shipments; the latest number (interpolated) is just 364m, the same as the actual figure for 2012.A zero-growth market over four years? That's pretty serious. That would suggest that the PC business is shifting towards being just a replacement market – people buy a new one when the old one finally dies. But with PCs lasting longer and longer, and processing power shifting to the cloud, PC lifespans are also lengthening.Here's how IDC's forecasts for the PC market have juddered down since June 2011 – while its forecasts for tablets keep rising. (Unseen in this is the expectation that the smartphone business will just keep growing; its upper limit is around 1.6billionper year.)IDC's forecasts for PC sales by different categories have kept falling since June 2011, while those for tablets (orange) keep rising. Click for larger version.As the graphic shows, with each new forecast IDC has chopped the expected total of PC shipments (the part of the column topped in red) more and more. And forecasts for tablet shipments (the yellow chunk) have gone up.So why has IDC cut its latest forecast? It's a combination of factors – some far outside Microsoft's control, some directly under it.Here's the bits outside Microsoft's control. "Emerging market growth potential [for PC purchases] is declining and coming closer to that of mature regions," IDC says. "2012 marked the first year that emerging markets have seen a volume decline, and while 2013 will return to growth, it is projected at less than 1%, and with modest, single-digit growth through [to] 2017."And mature markets (North America and Europe) are going to see decline in 2013, IDC says – for the third year in a row. It thinks there might be "limited growth" in 2014 and 2015, but contraction thereafter. (I haven't modelled that in my interpolation.)Key reasons behind that: the tough economic times that the US and Europe are living through.But then there are the things that are in Microsoft's control, and where it hasn't done itself any favours. Specifically, Windows 8.Windows 8: the slowingIt's hard to argue that Windows 8 has been a colossal hit with consumers. Microsoft has been rather circumspect with its figures, giving numbers that suggest it's been selling (to OEMs) about as well as Windows 7 did. Yet given that the PC market should be bigger now than in 2009, when Windows 7 was released, that seems odd.Enterprises certainly aren't in love with Windows 8. The other day I spoke to a company which said that out of 16,000 enterprise clients in Europe, it had just four which were trialling Windows 8 with a view to deployment. Certainly, it's very early in the OS's life. Lots of enterprises haven't yet moved to Windows 7. But slow adoption and slow consumer sales mean a problem for Microsoft. Don't forget, Windows generates slightly more than half of Microsoft's profits.Here's what Loren Loverde said in the IDC statement: "Growth in emerging regions has slowed considerably, and we continue to see constrained PC demand as buyers favor other devices for their mobility and convenience features. We still don't see tablets (with limited local storage, file system, lesser focus on traditional productivity, etc) as functional competitors to PCs – but they are winning consumer dollars with mobility and consumer appeal nevertheless."In other words – to answer the oft-posed objection – yes, you still need a "proper" PC to run Photoshop. But lots of people don't need to, and don't need power tools like that. Desktop PCs don't have mobility. Laptops are mobile, but they don't have the convenience – mobile connectivity and (for the most part, so far) touchscreens.Ultrabooks: disappointment or saviour?Netbooks, of course, are dead. So there's no solace for OEM PC makers there. But what about ultrabooks? They were going to be the great hope for the PC industry to get people to spend more money, though it provedimpossible to pin Intel downon exactly how many ultrabooks it hoped to shift in 2012.However, there are numbers: Jia Wu of Strategy Analytics tells me that by his estimate, 2012 saw a total of 13m ultrabooks shipped. That's just 3.7% of all shipments, and 6.4% of all laptop sales.For 2013, Wu reckons ultrabook shipments will hit 30m – a much more respectable 8.7% of the total, and 14.7% of all laptop sales. That's sure to help the profitability of the laptop makers who get that business. But the overall volume of laptops will stay about the same.Wu says that ultrabooks have a simple problem: "The pricing is clearly the key barrier. In addition, consumers were holding on to PC purchases last year [2012] in anticipation of the Windows 8 launch. Back in the netbook times, we did not have comparable low-priced computers as we have today. Tablets were not in the equation yet. This gave the netbook the opportunity to take off as it filled an untapped market need."But times have changed, he explains: "Ultrabooks, in contrast, are positioned to compete in the premium PC market originally. But the premium PC category is facing growth pressure as many consumers find they don't need that much computing power. Also, the proliferation of iOS and Android ecosystem has increased tablets' traction, whereas Windows 8 is a very new OS with limited number of apps even though consumers can still use the conventional interface."The Windows 8 dilemmaLosing out on $3.3bn of revenues and a couple of billion in profits would be a problem for many companies, but for Microsoft – which has revenues of about $20bn per quarter, and quarterly profits ranging from $6bn to $7bn – it's no big financial hit.The hit though comes in its future revenues. Losing out on PC shipments means losing out on the opportunity to sell people Office licences. Fewer Windows licences and fewer Office licences means less money in the future.And that "Vista" comment from Samsung won't help any. Tim Andersonoffers some encouragementfor Microsoft's long term business: Vista, as he points out, had good ideas (User Account Control, hardware-accelerated graphics) but poor implementation that was then sorted out in Windows 7. But as he also points out, the landscape was very different then: Windows was the dominant OS everywhere.Now, it's one of many – alongside Android (which will probably be on more devices than Windows within a year or so) and iOS (which has a shot at superseding Windows too). Will consumers have the patience to wait for Microsoft to figure out how to integrate Windows 8, and will enterprises give it time?The PC business is big – but it's peaking, and tablets and smartphones are taking business away.The question is, when will we reach the point where PCs really are just a replacement business? When that happens, the real poser won't be how big the PC business will get. It's howsmallit might be as people put off new purchases longer and longer.That will have implications too for Intel, and of course the PC OEMs. Everything presently depends on people buying growing numbers of new PCs. What happens when they don't?
It's Monday again. How was your weekend?
Age: 43Appearance: The Corrs' older half-sister.I know her – she's the CEO of Yahoo!.No, that'sMarissa Mayer.SandbergisFacebook's chief operating officerand the first woman on its board.So I was close! They're both alliterative-named women in charge of modern stuff.Yes. So close.Why is SS in the news, then? Added an "If you don't know what you've done, I'm not going to tell you" button for status updates? Turned the two 'o's in the Facebook logo into little ovaries? Had a child and named it "Like/Dislike"?None of those. She has written a book calledLean In: Women, Work and the Will to Lead, about how women can&nbsp;best "lean into" (rather than turn away from) career success, and set up a foundation to help them do so.Let me guess – it is a feminist tract that has caused outrage among commentators who question her ability to talk from a position of privilege about the lives of the majority of women?Yes, with the added twist that they have been frequently doing so without reading the book.Impossible! No one in the media would ever dream of saying, printing or rendering in pixels&nbsp;anything that hadn't been thoroughly researched, considered and investigated from all&nbsp;sides!Alas, some would and some have.The biggest row beganwith an article byJodi Kantor (who did appear to have read the book) in the New York Times, which was sceptical about Sandberg and her thesis and included an out-of-context quote from an interview elsewhere that gave a negative impression of her, which the original piece didn't.Then what happened?Our ownDaily Mail ran a piecethat further distorted everything,Maureen Dowd followed up in the New York Times with another sceptical piece, alleging Sandberg's book and foundation were just moneymaking ventures.And then?The NYT printed corrections to her article and Kantor's, but by then everyone was off and running – especially in the blogosphere – and barely even pretending to have read the book, or anything, before laying into Sandberg, and hard.Life's a bag of utter balls sometimes, isn't it?You got that right, my friend. Still a backlash against the backlash now seems to be starting, so maybe we'll see a considered result in the end.Do say: "I'm going to get that book out of the library to see what I think."Don't say: "A thousand online commentators can't be wrong."
A burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Android paradox: hackers and casuals &gt;&gt; acoustik - QuoraAjay Kulkarni, one of the developers of GroupMe:Android is theplatypusof the mobile world. It's weird.Like the platypus, Android is a complicated beast, a bizarre combination of two very different animals. But unlike the platypus, Android is slowly taking over the world.Here's what we've found at GroupMe: there are two Android markets.As a developer you need to build for both, and they're not at all like each other. That's the paradox.Read the very telling differences between these two groups - from their expectations of what the back button will do onwards.Another key trend he points to: Android phones being sold without data plans, and/or outside the US. In Q4 2012, the US was only 10% of global Android sales. That's a challenge for developers.The Twit Cleaner - Twitter? It's Not Fun AnymoreSi Dawson:This week I worked 62 hours straight. Actually, that's a lie, Iworked 65 hours straight, with 3 hours of naps.Twitter has stopped being fun.Istarted Twit Cleaner in 2009. Given that I haven't managed to develop a livable income out of it in that time (barring donations from you many wonderful, generous people), it's pretty obvious I'm not in it for the money. It's been my primary occupation over that time, and absorbed several thousand hours of coding, designing, building, testing and supporting it. Everything on Twit Cleaner (bar some low level server decisions), I've personally done.I wanted tomake Twitter a better placefor everyone. I love to code. I love helping people. That's it.Unfortunately, the new API is so crippling that Twit Cleaner is unable to continue. If I can't even maintain the base service, I certainly can't (won't) roll out any new functionality I had planned, all of which sits on top of Twitter's APIs.Another one bites the dust.How Kenya's High-Tech Voting Nearly Lost The Election : All Tech Considered : NPRIt was supposed to be the most modern election in African history. Biometric identification kits with electronic thumb pads, registration rolls on laptops at every polling station, and an SMS-relayed, real-time transmission of the results to the National Tallying Center in Nairobi.Ambitious? Of course. Only 23% of the country has access to electricity.But Kenyans pride themselves on leapfrogging when it comes to adapting technology. A country without copper landlines, Kenya developed the world's most popular software for mobile money transfer. A native Kenyan platform for organizing and disseminating online citizen journalism has been deployed in more than 30 countries. Kenya may not have enough paved roads, but the country is constructing a $10bn "Silicon Savannah" aimed at becoming the continental magnet for IT startups.Among Kenya's wired middle class, the going wisdom was that politics was stuck in the past — hopelessly mired in tribalism and corruption — but that technology would breathe fairness and transparency into the process.And then came Election Day and the triumph of Murphy's Law.Possibly part of the reason why the loser has claimed electoral fraud.Etiquette redefined in the digital age &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"I have decreasing amounts of tolerance for unnecessary communication because it is a burden and a cost," said Baratunde Thurston, co-founder of Cultivated Wit, a comedic creative company. "It's almost too easy to not think before we express ourselves because expression is so cheap, yet it often costs the receiver more."Mr. Thurston said he encountered another kind of irksome communication when a friend asked, by text message, about his schedule for the South by Southwest festival. "I don't even know how to respond to that," he said. "The answer would be so long. There's no way I'm going to type out my schedule in a text."He said people often asked him on social media where to buy his book, rather than simply Googling the question. You're already on a computer, he exclaimed. "You're on the thing that has the answer to the thing you want to know!"Do you say "Hi" to open an email and reply "thanks"?Tor exit nodes mapped and located &gt;&gt; HackerTarget.comTor Exit Nodes are the gateways where encrypted Tor traffic hits the Internet. This means an exit node can be abused to monitor Tor traffic (after it leaves the onion network). It is in the design of the Tor network that locating the source of that traffic through the network should be difficult to determine. However if the exit traffic is unencrypted and contains identifying information then an exit node can be abused.The torproject therefore is dependent on a diverse and wide range of exit nodes. This update to an older page is where I attempt to display the exit nodes diversity in a Google map with Geolocation.Linked Out-what happens when a company loses its humanity &gt;&gt; Color BakeryGlen (or possibly Mindy) Sommers:I chose one of my art pieces as my profile picture. After all, I wasn't there to market my face, but my work–and it's the very first thing you see on someone's profile page. That's why I was genuinely flummoxed when they removed my profile picture–a painting of a flower—repeatedly. A flower? Not exactly offensive. No Nazi propaganda or porn or racist imagery, just an innocent, painted pink peony. I thought there must have been some mistake or script burp, so I put it back a few times. Much prettier than the blank profile picture box with the ugly gray silhouette of what looks like an amorphous person's head and shoulders. Linked In finally informed me that my profile picture violated their company terms. They insisted you have a picture of your face. Nothing else was allowed–even though I was paying them $23 a month for the privilege of owning a profile page. I was a paying customer, yet I was not allowed to determine what I wanted to represent my work, my image, my portfolio, my person. Even a person with a non-paid account should have the freedom to choose the profile image they want representing them.Reminiscent of Google+'s demands that profile pictures be "polite" (or at least not offensive).Facebook's big, bright redesign = a news feed junk deluge &gt;&gt; ReadWriteTaylor Hatmaker:Chris Cox, Facebook's VP of Product, summed it up this at Facebook's big announcement Thursday morning: "Fundamentally we're a container for content other people create." But most Facebook users don't create content, they just borrow it from someone else who probably borrowed it from someone else after it made the rounds on Tumblr a few months ago. None of this is Facebook's fault. I've been test-driving the redesign and it looks and works great. It's a web culture issue - one accentuated by the new News Feed's "bright, beautiful stories".Maybe I'm just cynical. Or maybe there really is nothing new under the sun. But if you ask me, social sites need more content creators - and fewer diligent meme mules ferrying viral junk from point A to point B with their heads down.The World Wide Web is Moving to AOL! &gt;&gt; Brian BaileyImagining an alternative past:Some of you have put many hours into adding pages and sites of your own to the World Wide Web. Your passion and enthusiasm for quirky topics and off-the-wall ideas were great.Don't worry, all of that hard work won't be wasted. The World Wide Web will remain accessible for 30 days, which will give you plenty of time to update your readers and customers. Each of you will also receive a 30-day free trial for AOL. Look for your CD in the mail soon.Even better, we've created an import tool to make it easy to migrate everything you've put on the web to American Online! The address will change, of course, but now it will be available to every AOL member. You may find that you don't need to bother, though. America Online already has groups and pages about almost every topic you can imagine. Take a look around first and you might save yourself a lot of time. There are only so many different ways to say that Citizen Kane was a good movie!Wikipedia Gender &gt;&gt; MoebioInteractive graphic showing which Wikipedia articles have more women than the average (where the average is 6.7 male editors per female editor).'Windows 8 fails to boost demand for PCs' &gt;&gt; Korea TimesA senior Samsung Electronics executive said Friday the launch of Windows 8 has failed to bolster demand for PCs and he does not expect the PC industry to rebound soon.''The global PC industry is steadily shrinking despite the launch of Windows 8. I think the Windows 8 system is no better than the previous Windows Vista platform,'' said Jun Dong-soo, president of Samsung's memory chip division, in a meeting with reporters at the COEX InterContinental Hotel in Seoul, Friday.The executive stressed there was no expected boost to PC sales due to the failure of the Windows 8 platform and forecast the PC industry would gradually phase out.Ouch. (The article has since been removed, but remains in Google's cache and referenced on other sites.)Scott Turow: no private company should control .book/.author domains &gt;&gt; The Authors GuildYesterday, Authors Guild president Scott Turow objected to ICANN's plan to sell .book, .author, and other generic top-level domains ("top-level domains" are website suffixes such as ".com" and ".org") to private companies.  Amazon has bid to be the exclusive custodian of the .book and .author domains; Google is aiming to control the .blog domain."Placing such generic domains in private hands is plainly anticompetitive," said Turow, "allowing already dominant, well-capitalized companies to expand and entrench their market power.  The potential for abuse seems limitless."Readhis complete letter.localStorage Demo &gt;&gt; Dave WinerThis is a little text editor that demos the HTML 5localStoragefeature.The text you type is automatically saved every second. You can refresh the page, even quit and relaunch the browser, and the text remains.Useful.Is Apple ripping off everyone in the world apart from Americans? &gt;&gt; Happier.co.ukiPhones are more expensive while Samsung phones are less expensive compared to the US in the UK.What is going on? At first, I thought the price might be low in America because that's where the iPhone comes from, but it doesn't. It's actually made in China, so the shipping cost to Australia would be lower than to the USA. Where's the issue? Is Apple milking the rest of the world to enable them to keep prices low in the USA? Or is that the fact that Apple closely controls the price of the iPhone and the lack of the competition means a higher price?Odd, and no clear explanation.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
