&bull;Facebook's acquisition of FriendFeedmight seem a little over-hyped (frankly, any acquisition made during these Harsh Economic Times probably ends up getting more press than it deserves), but at the very least it's a signal of how the world's biggest social network is feeling flush. TheWall Street Journalreports that the deal wasworth almost $50m- including $15m in cash.Kara Swisherwonders whether this makes aGoogle buyout of Twitter more likely.&bull; Talking of Google, the company is now letting people take a gander at an"improved" version of its search engine, reportsMashable. The architectural changes are,says the company"the first step in a process that will let us push the envelope on size, indexing speed, accuracy, comprehensiveness and other dimensions".Give it a test and see what differences you spot.&bull; Interesting tidbit in theSan Jose Mercury Newsabout a new companythat's making printed semi-conductors. Just in case you miss the name of the outfit (I struggled to find it, but it's buried in there somewhere) it's called Kovio, and it reckons it can mass produce RFID tags by printing them like you would a document. Backers include Silicon Valley legend Vinod Khosla.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The internet is sort-of-40 this year. Not in the sense of aHollywood actor who is in reality much olderbut prefers to act vague, however. In the sense that if you set the October 1969 networking of US research universities throughArpanetas the start point then it is a significant birthday.To mark this, we want to tell the internet's story. This is not the first time this has been done and will not be the last, but we want to tell the story of the internet using the internet – that is, the people who use it.Below there is a list of 30 events from the past 40 years – encompassing the technological development of the internet and some of the impact it has had on culture, business, politics and society. Some of that makes for entertaining reading –reaction to the first piece of spam(a US army major gets involved) or the1982 conversationthat led to the first use of the :-) emoticon.But these 30 events are not the only ones that mattered. There is no YouTube on here, nothing of Barack Obama's use of the web for fundraising – and that is intentional. We'd like to know what you think is significant.At the bottom of this page is aformwhere we would like you to nominate events memorable to you, be they ones we may already know about or something more personal such as the first websites you used or emails you sent. Our list is, for example, light on social media moments or internet dating. Or the thrill of a firstGeocitiessite.Maybe you did some of this pioneering work in the early days of the internet and want to talk about it.Whatever your experiences, we'd like to hear from you.Where will it end? Well, this is a work in progress. But we will publish updates to the list and this autumn hope to produce an impressive told-by-the people version of the internet storyAnd here is the list of 30 ...You may notice the launch of Twitter is the final item on this list. That is not to suggest that it is thefinal perfection of the internet(just to be clear).
Facebook has acquired fellow Silicon Valley startup FriendFeed, in the clearest sign yet that it plans to extend its lead over rivals such as MySpace and Twitter.The world's largest social networking company said it was acquiring its Californian neighbour for an undisclosed sum – believed to be in the tens of  millions of dollars – in an attempt to hire "the best engineers"."Since I first tried FriendFeed, I've admired their team for creating such a simple and elegant service for people to share information," said Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder and chief executive of Facebook. "As this shows, our culture continues to make Facebook a place where the best engineers come to build things quickly that lots of people will use."FriendFeed, which was founded in by a quartet of former Google employees in 2007 but still has just 12 employees, has gained a devout following of more than a million users with its all-in-one approach to social networking.It allows members to interact with a variety of different websites from a single place, plugging into popular sites like Blogger, Facebook, Digg and YouTube as well as a host of others. While the site's fast pace and overwhelming approach has proved baffling to some, others have claimed its focus on short, conversational messages could also prove a possible rival to Twitter.In recent months, Facebook has made a significant number of changes that aped FriendFeed's approach, including changing user homepages to it what it has called its"real-time stream".The acquisition will bring the company's team of engineers to Facebook – and while for the moment FriendFeed will remain a standalone product, it is expected that many of its systems will be integrated more fully with Facebook in time."As my mom explained to me, when two companies love each other very much, they form a structured investment vehicle," said the FriendFeed chief executive, Bret Taylor,in a blog post on the company website."We've always been great admirers of Facebook, and our companies share a common vision. Now we have the opportunity to bring many of the innovations we've developed at FriendFeed to Facebook's 250 million users around the world."The company's co-founders include Taylor, Jim Norris, Sanjeev Singh and Paul Buchheit – who all found success as engineers in Google, and led products including Google Maps and Gmail. They initially funded the company themselves, before raising $5m funding last year from Benchmark Capital, a Californian venture firm with offices in London and Israel.What they're saying around the web:In an interview with Silicon Valley news blogTechCrunch, Bret Taylor said that it was"an 11th hour deal"and that "The basic idea is that Facebook doesn't want to disrupt the product".BloggerRobert Scoble, one of FriendFeed's most evangelical users, said that he was "excited" by the acquisition. "Facebook is aiming its big guns at Google NOT Twitter,"he said.DeveloperDave Winer– a vocal proponent of open systems such as those promoted by FriendFeed – said that the acquisition was"bad news"for the site's users.Talking toKara Swisher, Facebook's director of product Chris Cox said that it wasimportant to compete against Twitter, which has stolen a march on both its bigger rival and smaller competition (as well as turning down a reported $500m buyout from Facebook) in the area of real-time information. "I think all this stuff is evolving very quickly and and at the speed of light and there are not many that understand it at a deep level," he said.
Last week, Sony was forced toremove an in-game advertfrom its futuristic shooter, WipeOut HD. Gamers vociferously complained that the first PS3 title to contain advertising material took much longer to load up when the offending ad was installed. Not a successful first step into this controversial new domain.Over in the world of mobile phones, however, the 'mobile advertising platform'AdMobhas just served its one hundred billionth ad.Admob is a sort of advertising middle-man, arranging with publishers and developers to put ad spaces onto web sites and applications (including games, of course), then selling those spaces to advertisers. Founded in January 2006 the company has been funded bySequoia Capital, the venture capital firm that put money into Apple back in 1978 and Google in 1999. It's not the only player in this market –VideoeggandGreystripeoffer comparable services – but it's the largest by far, and it is helping to shape how advertising works in mobile gaming applications.Vitally, this sector may provide important lessons to console publishers and manufacturers looking to fine tune their implementation of adverts. The concept of ad-supported gaming is still relatively unproven on current machines – but it has become the standard model in the PC casual gaming and mobile markets. The form factor is different – AdMob advises developers to place mobile ads at the beginning or end of a game, rather than sticking billboards within the virtual environment, which is what we've seen on Xbox 360. But the important elements are seamless implementation and user acceptance. Could we see a future in which almost all PS3, Xbox and Wii games carry advertisements? It doesn't sound appealing, but then if it means we get the games at a lower price, or even for free, would the idea be more acceptable?To find out more about mobile games advertising and how it is evolving, I got some questions to Russell Buckley, AdMob's VP of global alliances. Here's what he had to say...One of the big debates about in-game adverts in the console sector is the suitability of the products being promoted. Are there kinds of ads - or advertised products - that work best in mobile games?Most advertisers can create successful campaigns, but the important thing is to think through the customer experience and the fact that it's taking place on a phone. As an example, just using your standard landing page (where the ad takes you to) from your PC site rarely works. Many PC websites use Flash, which is completely unsupported by most mobile phones. Also, people will complete forms on a mobile, but they need to be shorter than on a PC and it's better to have pages that load quickly.If I had to pick a couple of sectors that do really well, I'd say that car and entertainment companies. But then we've run successful campaigns for everyone from shampoo to hotels chains.In what way has the technology for mobile advertising changed over the last year or so?The big step change in the last year has definitely been the iPhone. It's obviously a great product to surf the web and since it's also sold with a fixed data plan, owners are much more experimental and keen to interact with advertisers.We saw from very early on that these two factors made iPhone owners much more likely to be heavy users of the mobile web and the same is true for Apps. This allowed us to develop ad formats that were unique to the iPhone platform, such as touching a banner to then watch a video or listen to a music track before downloading it from iTunes. iPhone has also allowed us to start to experiment with location, which we see as a huge growth area.How do you integrate with the whole social networking phenomenon?Some of the new ad formats are specific to social networking. For example, you can touch a banner and go to a specific page on Facebook or to the profile page of a Twitter user so you can follow them. As brands increasingly have a presence in social networking, we see much more demand for this type of activity. In terms of iPhone applications, a whole host of apps enabling easy mobile usage of social networking sites such as Twitter is emerging, which provides yet another opportunity for advertisers to reach those users where they are most engaged.How receptive are gamers to mobile ads?Mobile users are generally very receptive to ads – we get click-through rates about ten times higher than the PC environment. Gamers aren't any more or less receptive to ads than mobile users as a whole; however they are often eager to learn about new games, which presents a further opportunity for advertisers.Is there a science to understanding how invasive ads can be in applications?It's actually more of an art. These days advertising is more about trying to engage with the consumer, so interruptive techniques generally don't work too well. Most application developers, who install the code that serves the ad, know that the game must deliver first and foremost as a playable game. If the advertising compromises this, the app probably won't succeed and therefore they won't make any money from the ads anyway. It has to be thought of holistically or it's not going to work.How is mobile advertising being affected by the recession? Has advertising behaviour changed at all?We haven't noticed any slowdown due to the recession and indeed, we're showing very healthy growth right now. In times of recession marketers tend to want increased accountability and the knowledge that they can prove that their spend is working. Like digital advertising generally, mobile delivers measurable results, so advertisers are very happy to keep spending and indeed, increase their spending.What have been some of the most interesting uses of mobile advertising that you've seen, especially in relation to games?The most interesting trend with game developers right now is that app developers are using advertising to cross-promote their catalogue of apps. This is often used to convert users from the free version of their apps (free will inherently have higher download rates) to the paid version of their apps.Another common usage is cross-promoting a newly released app or updated version available – it's an effective means of driving downloads and improving their ranking in the Apple App Store.What do you think are going to be some of the key technological changes over the next five years that will effect mobile advertising?I think location will play an increasingly important part for some advertisers, though there are still many issues for companies to think through. We'll also see video ads starting to become more widespread.The other phenomenon that we're really starting to see is brands creating their own apps and games. Just last week we saw news along these lines from companies as diverse as Pepsi, Barclaycard and Capital Radio, as well as great apps like Reebok's, which allow you to design a personalised pair of trainers and then order them.Finally, our continually optimised ad targeting technology helps us ensure that consumers see the ads that are most likely to appeal to them. This is better for the consumer and better for the advertiser.Is Minority report-style personalisation the Holy Grail for in-game ads?As I said, targeting is hopefully going to improve the user experience. However, we must be mindful that it's easy to cross the line and a very personalised experience might make many people uncomfortable, so we need to get the balance right. It's better to err on the side of caution, even if the technology is available currently to offer behavioural targeting, which it largely isn't anyway.Thanks Russell.I think targeting is the key thing here for in-game ads on the consoles. I don't mean basic geo-targeting, I mean the assessment of every gamer's individual preferences. Companies likeAudienceSciencecan already cache the behaviours of web users and share that info with advertisers, and a couple of years ago, Google began looking into the possibility ofprofiling online gamersand using the info to better target in-game ads.Throw in location awareness and we're soon going to have ads that know where we are, what we like playing and what we look for on the web, and all that info will be used to place ads designed to appeal directly to us. With the rather disastrous WipeOut HD experiment and only comparatively limited used of in-game advertising on Xbox 360, it seems a long way off, but the mobile sector – and especially iPhone – is showing the way ahead…
The URL shortening service tr.im is shutting down after discovering that nobody wants to buy it. The latter fact may not be surprising to many readers. But it did to the tr.im people, whose web pageannouncesthattr.im is now in the process of discontinuing service, effective immediately.Statistics can no longer be considered reliable, or reliably available going forward. However, all tr.im links will continue to redirect, and will do so until at least December 31, 2009. Your tweets with tr.im URLs in them will not be affected.No business we approached wanted to purchase tr.im for even a minor amount.There is no way for us to monetize URL shortening -- users won't pay for it -- and we just can't justify further development since Twitter has all but annointed bit.ly the market winner.There is simply no point for us to continue operating tr.im, and pay for its upkeep.Quite how much it costs to keep tr.im going isn't revealed, but that point that "there is no way for us to monetise URL shortening" is obvious enough - unless you put ads in between every click (which would be monumentally unpopular) it should be obvious that you can't. And it's hardly as if there's a premium on being able to take a URL, generate a hash from it and store that in a database, and rig a web server so that you generate a 302 redirect to the original URL when someone queries the hash page. It's so simple it could be a homework exercise for first-year computer science undergraduates.You can feel the resentment in that phrase "Twitter has all but annointed bit.ly the market winner" - as though that should somehow not be allowed. But bit.ly has gone to some expense to relocate its servers closer to Twitter's (after Twitterstopped using tinyurlas its default shortening service in May), and has suggested that it might belooking to launch a "real time news service"- based on the fact that it is shortening something like a billion (yes, billion) URLs per month.Tr.immanaged"tens of thousands" per day from thousands of users. Once again, the internet is brutal to those who don't achieve scale.However the losing team doesn't fancy bit.ly's chances:the data that tr.im generates — the hottest links that people are sharing right now — is all well and good, but everyone has this data. tr.im gets hit by countless bots every day farming this data to create and operate websites such as tweetmeme.com. So, *everyone* has this data, meaning it is basically worthless *by itself* to base a business on (as bit.ly and others are attempting to do) at least in our humble opinions.No, URL shortening isn't a business in itself; the fact that the oldest, masl.to (since purchased by tinyurl, which might be the second-oldest), still keeps going is testament more to its owner's determination than to the inherent value of such hosting.The problem though is that wherever those tr.im links still exist on the web, they'll stop redirecting from the beginning of the new year. Or, if we know the habits of spammers, they'll redirect somewhere you'd really rather they didn't. Bit.ly has said that it will step in to save tr.im's service: let's see how much tr.im charges for its database of hashes.We did feature anumber of the URL shorteners just over a year ago:Another problem about increasing traffic, however, is: how does a free service scale? Andrew Chapman, one of the four people behind UK-based qurl.com, is not convinced it's possible to turn that traffic into money."This kind of service, people expect to be free," he says. Qurl shortens links to a five-character string and also allows users to pick meaningful words. He says: "I thought originally I would monetise that as a premium service, but I never got around to it."However, there is some worth to be had from URL shortening - if it's not your principal business, but done as a valued adjunct. Hence for its Twitter feed Techcrunch uses its own tcrn.ch shortener,developed for it by a third party. That means it knows precisely who's clicking what, when.So is the message that URL shorteners are a commercial disaster zone? For bit.ly, no: it's doing well by being hitched to Twitter. If Twitter goes away, it's likely some other short messaging service will rise up in its place - in which case bit.ly will be there, able to take advantage.[Updated to finish sentence about how bit.ly will step in to take over tr.im.]
The original Summer Athletics, released last year, featured a paltry seven sports and failed to appeal to either sports fans or mainstream gamers suffering from the traditional summer software slump.This effort boasts a new developer, publisher, an improved quota of events and the now obligatory Balance Board compatibility. So was it worth the wait?At first glance, the answer is yes. Summer Athletics 09 may not feature any more sports but, with 28 events in total, there's still plenty to get your teeth into. There's also a new Berlin World Cup mode, neatly timed to coincide with the World Athletics Championships, where you can compete for your chosen national team in 15 track and field events, albeit without the star names like Usain Bolt who have done so much to revitalise interest in the sport.The seven disciplines covered are running, jumping, throwing, archery, swimming, diving and skeet shooting – a bizarre selection but still making for a reasonable variety of techniques to please all types. And there are several events in each category – so for Running you get distances from 100-1500 metres, plus hurdles and a 4x100 relay event for multiplayers. If you're using standard Wiimotes, sprinting events tend to involve bashing them down as fast as possible while throws, jumps and swims require a combination of button presses and circular motions in time with onscreen icons.Silliest combo of all involves the relay, where you have to follow a random combo of direction key presses as you approach changeovers, although it's probably the only system that might get Team GB a relay medal this time next week. There's also plenty of cups to try for including a Decathlon, Short and Long competitions, one for four players competing in running, cycling or swimming and a Balance Board Cup that focuses on archery, triple jump, hammer, diving and high jump. Here it's a matter of wiggling your hips for the hammer and maintaining even balance before leaning to compensate for wind direction in archery. Whatever the event, however, I still managed to top the Berlin leaderboard despite failing to qualify for nearly half the events on the second hardest setting.With its cartoon style, annoying monkey mascot, hit and miss controls and unrealistic scoring, no one could call Summer Athletics 2009 a serious sports sim. However, if you can live with the limitations, it looks great and there's both variety and exercise to be had – which is more than the prequel had.
There's nothing more depressing than a game that is thoroughly misconceived and, sadly, that sums up GI Joe. With an accompanying film and a tie-up with the toy maker Hasbro, one imagines its existence was determined by marketing meetings; and although it is not badly made, it was clearly doomed long before the coding process began.For starters, it's a sanitised third-person shoot-em-up designed to be played by kids – but (unaccountably) it has a 16+ age-rating. Gameplay-wise, it has little to offer beyond big explosions – each mission is playable co-operatively by two GI Joes (and you unlock new soldiers with different abilities as you progress), but an auto-targeting system (you can switch targets by flicking the right stick) and unlimited ammo for your primary weapon mean that you rarely have to take your finger of the fire button.Despite a variety of Cobra troops (including ninjas and slow but heavily armed and armoured androids) and some hopelessly cursory puzzles, it swiftly becomes utterly tedious. And a fixed camera means that, particularly when indoors, you often can't see what you're shooting at, which is unforgivable. Stilted banter with your supporting colleagues (which halts the action) just makes things worse.There are boss-battles – after a fashion – which generally involve long periods of pumping tanks or aerial assault vehicles full of lead for long periods, occasionally ducking behind cover to regenerate your health, and waiting forlornly to be given more ammo for your special weapon. Occasionally, you can jump into a vehicle, but although heavily armed, they are all annoyingly fiddly to drive, so you never feel inclined to stay in them for very long.Everything about GI Joe's dumbed-down mechanics suggests it was designed for an (exclusively male) audience of eight- to 11-year-olds, yet it has been saddled with that 16+ rating (it contains no swearing or the like, and all the explosions are distinctly cartoonish, so it's difficult to see why under-16s should be excluded). No self-respecting 16-year-old, surely, would perceive GI Joe as anything but babyish? Even the most slavish devotees of either the film or the action figures would find this game disappointing, to say the least.
Competing against opponents on Xbox Live usually requires skill, reflexes and ideally a caffeinated drink or three. Games such as Gears of War, Halo and Modern Warfare are simply not suitable for cackhanded beginners or thin-skinned novices. 1 vs 100, though, is a far more cerebral, if not necessarily relaxing, way to compete on Xbox Live.The game – obviously created to help the 360 attract more Wii-style casual gamers – is based on the trivia quiz show of the same name. Players compete to be either the One who can win the prizes – or one of the 100-strong Mob who work against them. The rest of the players become part of the crowd. The exciting part is the numbers involved, with thousands of players competing online at once. Cleverly, members of the crowd are given the scores of three opponents on screen, which both inspires you to compete and also keeps you motivated if you are not in the Mob.The games are scheduled each day but the most interesting are the two weekly games, both compered by a live host. Currently the connection for this is up and down, with the live host – BBC's James McCourt for the UK version – appearing and disappearing with alarming regularity. But when it works and the host is in full swing, geeing up the crowd and answering emails, it gives a glimpse into the more mainstream future of online gaming. Microsoft will be hoping so anyway. The main issues at the moment – bar flaky connections – centre around the leaderboards with committed players scoring so quickly and accurately that they eradicate all hope of less committed players ever getting to be in the Mob, let alone the One.The questions too occasionally repeat in some of the non-live games. Also there seems to be a lack of middle ground between the standard questions (fairly easy and only one obvious answer) and the superhard (essentially guesswork). A middle ground would be welcome. Though it is still officially in beta mode, 1 vs 100 is already offering a welcome change of pace. The live host is a first and the quiz-based action is accessible enough for all to play. Whether it will broaden the market for the 360 remains to be seen, but 1 vs 100 could end up being the most important Xbox 360 game so far.
The saga ofSpinvoxcontinues – this time with the company launching an investigation to uncover the truth behind what it calls a smear campaign against it.Just days after the British startup tried to allay concerns about its speech-to-text voicemail technology by inviting journalists (including our own Kevin Anderson) towatch it in action, it seems things have become a little trickier.If theconcernsraised by that demo weren't enough, apparently a dossier of the company's alleged misdeeds has been circulated to shareholders, including Dragon's Den panellist Julie Meyer. The claims – which have been documented across a number of websites – include bad leadership, poor management and irresponsible financial behaviour, though it is far from clear what the truth is. In the past, company boss Christina Domecq has accused disgruntled former employees of asustained attack.With all that in play, the FT is now reporting that the company hasput accountants and solicitors onto the case, as it attempts to plug the hole and buff up its image.Will it be enough? Last week Spinvoxconfirmed a new round of fundraising- much of which will be eaten up by the company's debts. Executives apparently continue their brashly optimistic approach, however, just weeks after trying toget staff to take their pay in stock to save on costs.While there's little that's transparent about the goings-on at Spinvox right now, it will be worth watching how far they take their smear claims: Phorm, the last company to try hitting back at its detractors, saw its ownstroppy campaignbackfire.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Microsoft is offloading interactive advertising agency, Razorfish, in a move that could pave the way for the software giant to dispense with other units.The company announced on Sunday that it was selling its 14-year-old agency to the French advertising conglomerate Publicis Groupe, in a cash-and-shares deal worth $530m (£317m). The news came just months after the two companiesagreed to cooperate to create new hi-tech TV advertising systems.Publicis, which owns agencies including Saatchi &amp; Saatchi and Leo Burnett, will add the company to its roster and inherit a list of high-profile clients including Ford and McDonald's."The acquisition of Razorfish is another step forward in realizing our strategic vision of building a world leader in digital communications, a critically important space for our clients," said Maurice Levy, the chairman and chief executive of Publicis.Speculation had been rife about the future of the agency, which became part of Microsoft in 2007, when the American software giantbought its parent company, aQuantive for $6bn.But the deal will also stoke speculation that Microsoft could be preparing to divest itself of other parts of its business that it no longer considers core. Among the prime candidates is Massive, the in-game advertising company it bought for around $200m in 2006.After a difficult year in which Microsoft laid off thousands of staff members and saw a decline in growth -the first in its history- the Seattle company appears keen to sell off some of the assets it has acquired in recent years.Such deals will also help ease a little of the concern from investors over therecent deal to take over some of Yahoo's search business, with clear indications that the company is attempting to focus its activities more on businesses like search and software.Under terms of the agreement with Publicis, Razorfish will continue to be a preferred provider to Microsoft for digital strategy, creative and marketing services and Microsoft has committed to spend a minimum amount for those services each year.Razorfish will continue to operate under its brand name and be part of VivaKi, the new Publicis Groupe entity created in June 2008 to reflect independent operations of Digitas, Starcom MediaVest Group, Denuo and ZenithOptimedia. Razorfish's management team, led by chief executive Officer Bob Lord, will remain unchanged.
Yes, the much vaunted "barbeque weather" hit most of the UK this weekend, but did it affect your gaming? It certainly did me, although I still spent a pleasant couple of hours on the officialAshesgame.  The game itself is good enough in its own right without the incentive of putting right theHeadingly wrongs. Let's hope The Ashes finds a solid and reliable online community as I think this is the finest cricket game ever made. And yes, I appreciate there hasn't exactly been much competition over the last decade or so. But still, The Ashes strikes a great balance between accessibility and depth, even if the tutorial – with Warne and Botham – is essential.There was still time for an hour on one more game though.Galaxy on Firewas released months ago on the iPhone and I finally got to spend some more time with it.The space combat sim reminds me ofElite,Freelancerand the rest and is a another reminder that the iPhone/Touch are serious gaming devices. The controls are an issue mind, with neither the tilt or virtual joystick perfect for following marauding space pirates. But there is plenty to get stuck into here and it makes you wonder why this genre hasn't migrated onto other platforms (bar the PC). A Galaxy on Fire/Elite style game would be perfect for DS/PSP and postively exciting for Xbox Live/PSN. Why haven't we seen it then? Are gamers not bothered about space combat and trading any more? Wouldn't you buy Elite HD? Or is it only me? And what else have you been playing this weekend?
&bull; Pity the poor 419 scammers; the recession is so wide reaching that it is even taking its toll on the internet's fraudsters - usually in a position to benefit when gullible people get desperate for cash. TheWashington Postexamines the current state of the 419 industry in Nigeriaand includes the opinion of one fraudster - called Banjo - who explains the current difficulties by saying that Americans "don't have money... and the money they don't have, we want".&bull; TheFinancial Times, meanwhile, has a nice story detailing theJapanese government's attempts to prod the robotics industry. Focusing on a company with the ironic-or-is-it name of Cyberdyne, the FT explains how&bull; This weekend's tech blog bitchfest came as a result of a linkbaiting piece by grandstanding entrepreneurJason Calacanis. In a strangely-argued musing on Apple, he suggests that"of all the companies in the United States that could possibly be considered for anti-trust action, Apple is the lead candidate". There are plenty of reasons to hit out at Apple, but it strikes me that he misses the target wildly. Unable to resist temptation, however, plenty of people have waded in to respond, including venture capitalistBijan Sabet, TechCrunch'sMG Sieglerand developerMarco Ament. Some thoughtful response, some not so much. But worth a read.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Dell Retires the Mini 12: "It really boils down to this: for a lot of customers, 10-inch displays are the sweet spot for netbooks." says Dell.Publicis Groupe to Acquire Razorfish From Microsoft Corporation- Press releaseNo More Perks: Coffee Shops Pull the Plug on Laptop Users, says The Wall Street JournalAre the Glory Days Long Gone for IT?asks Randall Stross at The New York TimesWhat Works: The Web Way vs. The Wave Way, by Anil DashEC criticized for conduct during Intel investigation, reports Ars TechnicaOracle Faces Scrutiny Over Sun Deal, reports The Wall Street Journal: "Europe's antitrust regulator has identified three possible problem areas with the deal."Malaysia denies Internet filter will curb dissent, reports Reuters: "it would be used only to block pornography"The Case Against Apple–in Five Parts, by Jason Calacanis: "Steve Jobs' peculiar, rigidly closed, and severe worldview have started to cramp my style."
Since Danger Mouse dared to mix the Beatles and Jay-Z together, the internet has been awash with mash-ups and bizarre audio cocktails - such as the recent YouTube hit that conjoined Rick Astley's Never Gonna Give You Up to Nirvana's Smells Like Teen Spirit. Apart from passing amusement, few survive a couple of listens. That's not the case with remixer extraordinaire Doctor Rosen Rosen who, via the wonders of technology and a sensible approach to the copyright law, has completely transformed the whole of Lily Allen's album It's Not Me. Distorting her vocals and coming up with completely new arrangements, Allen now sounds dark, majestic and a bit creepy. You can download the whole thing for free. Elsewhere, similar trickery is deployed to Eminem, Britney and the Lost soundtrack.
Before the iPhone, mobile games tended to be ambitious retreads of console titles that had no prayer of working on a mobile's keypad; creaky 1980s arcade games or ludicrously amateurish software. Those days are partly over, although you still have to be careful trawling the vastness of Apple's App Store.1. Ragdoll Blaster (&pound;1.19)Sublime portable entertainment in which you have to hit a target by firing a floppy figure from a cannon. Within this beguilingly simple framework appear myriad physics-based mechanisms and diversions that interpose themselves between cannon and target demanding increasing dexterity and ingenuity.2. Drawrace (59P)Using a finger to sketch in the racing line for your car, drawing fast on straights or slowly to round corners without slipping. With location-based online leader boards that continually goad you into one more go, this is a simple classic in the making.3. Minigore (59P)Without any tactile feedback, joypads drawn on the iPhone's touchscreen are usually a disastrous attempt to recreate conventional control schemes. MiniGore just about gets away with it, using one side to move, while the other directs a stream of fire at the invading horde.4. Zen Bound (&pound;2.99)Part game, part relaxation tool, Zen Bound gives you a series of small wooden models to wrap in string by gently turning them with your finger. No time limit and mellow music mean an atmosphere of calm prevails, providing a pleasing break.5. Beatmaker (&pound;11.99)A sequencer and drum machine that can be used to assemble quick tunes if you find yourself out of range of a recording studio. Surprisingly flexible and easy to use.6. Worms (&pound;2.99)The console classic arrives untouched, with your warrior worms using a range of comedy cartoon weaponry to eviscerate each other. Frustratingly let down by imprecision in its interface.7. Triazzle (&pound;1.79)This version of Triazzle retains its jigsaw-style board game forebear's pattern-matching antics, adding hundreds of puzzles and a bit of gentle animation when you get a match. Solving each level requires an engrossing mixture of observation and trial and error.8. Harbour Master (59P)Like Flight Control before it, this has you drawing routes through a series of busy harbours to guide boats safely to a dock, then off into the open sea. Reminiscent of early Game &amp; Watch titles in the way pressure steadily piles on, it's a masterful use of the touch screen.9. Sentinel 2 (&pound;1.79)Tower defence games go to Mars as streams of extra-terrestrials head for your base, requiring increasingly powerful weaponry to take them out. This sequel brings new turrets and a slightly less brutal difficulty level than its forebear.10. Go Go Rescue Squad (59P)A simple action puzzle involving cartoon firemen putting out blazes and rescuing civilians by tossing them to safety. Clearly made on a shoestring, its rough and ready graphics just about do the job, but movement and targeting throws can be a chore.
The link between videogames and violence is debated ad nauseam, but what about the other less dangerous side-effects a gaming addiction has on real life? Here (tinyurl.com/gamehabs), a tendency to always check out the location of security cameras is blamed on GoldenEye, an overwhelming urge to blow up gas tanks on Half-Life 2 and a habit of checking the surroundings for snipers is the fault of too many hours spent playing Grand Theft Auto. If that sounds like you (or the other you), then you'll be comfortable here with a daily drip feed of news, reviews, polls and a handy section devoted to discovering the location of online game bargains. Also excellent are their podcasts. Steer clear of the "shoutbox" though, it's full of crazy killers.
You've got to love the Freedom of Information act. Especially its ability to show, in stark terms, quite how badly local government can screw up.Yes, Birmingham City Council, I'm afraid I'm looking at you.Heather Brooke, who kicked off the whole MP's expenses thing, made anFOI request to Birmingham CC about a website it was building.And what do you know? Theprice of the site went from a budgeted £580,000 in summer 2005 to, um, £2.8m by the latest estimate.It was also late. That may have been prompted by worries inside the council that itmight be the subject of ridicule; this not being helped by the fact that just when it was due to go live in March, someone spotted that it couldn't handle pound or euro signs, nor apostrophes or quotation marks. (When the 10,000 pages were migrated from the old system to the new one,those characters - and the one immediately following - got deleted.)It is an ambitious project, essentially trying toknit 35 sites operating under the council's umbrella into a single one. But its costs ballooned madly.You may not know whether to laugh or cry at this, though I suspect the council tax payers of Birmingham have something else in mind involving pitchforks and flaming torches. Although the plan was for the site to go live this week, ithasn't.It would be nice to think that the failure to write a specification where non-alphanumeric characters aren't recognised is a complete one-off in government. Unfortunately, it's not: as I discovered for myself a couple of years back when using the Department of Work and Pensions site, the testing there had never considered (a) that someone might access it using any other machine than one running Windows (b) that they might hit the "return" key to create new paragraphs.Thus filling in a form with roughly 60 pages, quite a few of which required multi-paragraph answers, led to a perplexing failure to work, not once but twice. It took a lot of very long and frustrating phone calls until the DWP folk managed to recreate the problem. The staff couldn't have been more willing to help, but their hands were tied by the fact that they hadn't written the specification, and so had to play detective to figure out what was wrong.However, the Birmingham case does look egregrious. And who's the partner building the site? It turns out to be a joint venture between Birmingham CC and Capita - which has a long history of making good money from central and local government contracts. Capita runs the TV Licensing scheme, it runs the congestion charge system on behalf of Transport for London, and it also runs the training for a number of local councils using the "Voice Risk Analysis" system - described by one scientist as being "at the astrology end of the validity spectrum", which hasn't stopped the government spending more than £2m on it. Specifically, theDWP has funded the system - at councils including Birmingham. A remarkable coincidence, you'll agree.The trouble is that the website never stood a chance. Nobody seems to have stood up in a meeting and said: "You know, there's lots of very good open source content management systems (CMS) out there - there's one called Wordpress which is free and eminently customisable." This is peculiar, as Wordpress was available (and as solid as any CMS) in 2005, runs on MySQL and PHP (which are both free products used by some of the largest companies in the world, such as airlines and Yahoo). And there are pots of programmers around with MySQL and PHP skills.Even when the projectran into difficulty, in December 2007(scroll down the timeline there) they still could have changed. Wordpress was being adopted more and more widely in central government: a growing number of government departments use it for their blogs, including Downing Street.Why wasn't it good enough for Birmingham? It seems that there's a prevailing mindset in some parts of local and central government that thinks that if you (actually, taxpayers) aren't paying through the nose, then you're not getting value for money.Not true, of course; ask Twitter, or Facebook, or Google, or any of those other big sites that rely on free software. (Ionce asked Chris DiBona of Googlehow much it would cost to run the company on Windows rather than Linux. Thousands and thousands of stripped-down PCs... put the cost at "hundreds of millions" of dollars.)That's not to say that it's a bad idea to have council websites; it's a very good idea, asLincolnshire CC points out:If we turned off our web services… 177,000 visitors per month (May 2009 figures) to our web site would find no web site.If only 10% of these visitors were to contact us by phone - say 17,000 – then we would incur an extra cost of approx £51,000 per month (based on Socitm's costs of phone contact).That's why there's now a group aimed at local and central government -ukgovoss- started byPublic Sector Forums, an independent organisation, which is trying to educate the people inside councils - particularly those in charge of the IT departments and those just above - about the potential benefits of open source.It's also produced areport looking at attitudes among local authority IT managers and staff to open source products in government. It's encouraging, though also scary: software licensing can be 30%-40% of a council's budget; cost is the reason for going with OSS for 75%; and 64% think their council will increase its use of OSS.There's no mention of whether Birmingham was trying to use OSS in its project - though I think that the fact that the FOI responses were in Microsoft .doc format may be telling.In the next few years, we should be seeing more adoption of open source by local government; there's a huge open goal as Windows 7 comes along for the introduction of OpenOffice for most tasks rather than Microsoft Office, with potentially large cost savings (the Guardian has been using OpenOffice throughout the newspaper since December last year).Whether it will be enough to recoup Birmingham's extra costs isn't clear. Perhaps the next FOI request should be to get the minutes from the meeting to find out which software was considered for the CMS. Anyone fancy a go?
If you want to know what the most viewed stories on the Technology site are for the past 24 hours and the past 7 days, there's always theMost Viewedpage.And if you want to know what people are clicking on from Twitter at the moment, there's this list. Interested? Do tell. Want to know how it's done? See the end.1:Twitter and Facebook attacks: why your computer might have been involved2:Georgian blogger Cyxymu speaks EXCLUSIVELY to the Guardian and blames Russia for cyber attack:3:Who is right about paying for online news: Rupert Murdoch or Jeff Jarvis? | Poll4:Twitter site disabled after hackers launch malicious online attack5:Silly season for Windows 7 upgrade charts6:Expert views on Rupert Murdoch's online pay-to-view strategy7:You decide: should you get your friend's products from a filesharing site?8:Making it pay: FAQs on charging for online content9:Letters: Plug for ClintonOK, and how is it done? Simple enough.• Take the RSS feed of theGuardian Technology Twitterfeed.• create an Applescript in NetNewsWire that analyses the clicks from bit.ly for each item in the feed. This requires generating a feed from a list, but RSS is easy enough to generate.• every time you run the script, sort the list from that feed. Unfortunately Applescript doesn't have its own built-in sort routine. I briefly considered writing my ownbubblesort routine(have a look at the page - the animation is fantastic), but decided that was a short path to madness. But it turns out thatSatimage's scripting additionsinclude a sorting algorithm, and (equal) best of all, they're free.• output a new RSS feed of those links, including the number of clicks.• re-parse that feed to generate a blog post, with the number of clicks taken out :-) - left as an exercise for the reader.• post to blog. Hey, that's us here!(Yes, I know I should have written it in Python, which has a built-in sort function. Perhaps next week.)
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I wasn't sure about my iPhone until I got a little lost one day and used the maps function. Oh. My. God. Now I have managed to replace all my map-reading skills and orientation training with the ability to touch a screen and follow a blue dot. Sad, but brilliant.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Last night, just before I went on stage, I played Paper Toss on my iPhone for about 20 minutes. That's right, I sat next to an actual bin with an actual pad of paper in front of me, and played a virtual game of tossing virtual paper into a virtual bin. I like to think I was helping the environment.What additional features would you add if you could?I would add a "Life" button, that would enable you to experience actual life every once in a while. You hit the button, and the phone switches itself off for half an hour, thus allowing you to look around and have a life. But only for half an hour – you don't want to get addicted to it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Either humans will develop the ability to communicate telepathically, thus rendering all mobile phones obsolete, or we will completely lose the ability to interact with the real world unless it is filtered through a phone/computer/television, thus rendering reality obsolete. In my mind, right now it could go either way.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I realise the idea of technology is to constantly be improved, but can't we just have one piece of technology that doesn't need to be updated within six months of purchasing it? My grandfather just bought a new fridge after 30 years. He had to throw the old one off a balcony because it was too big to manouevre down the stairs. When it hit the ground, it took a divot out of the lawn but remained unharmed. They just don't make 'em like that any more. (Having said all that, I just used my iPhone to check how to spell "manouevre". D'oh!)Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Like many people I like the idea of texting, but abhor what it does to the English language. I try to use correct grammar, and avoid abbreviations at all costs. Sadly though, little bits of text speak are creeping in. I am yet to write "lol", but I do admit to using the occasional emoticon. Sometimes though, the appropriate emoticon doesn't seem to exist, so I have found myself writing the phrase "wry smile" in order to convey my feelings. (Smug face)If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't worry too much about making mistakes. Whenever I show a new piece of technology to my parents, especially my dad, I have to remind him not to panic. If you hit the wrong button, you're not gonna bring down a plane. Just relax, have a play with it all, and keep the instruction book handy.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Oh I am most definitely a luddite, while also being a hypocrite. I pine for the days of researching from an encyclopedia, or trotting down to the local library to find whatever piece of information you need. I like the idea of not knowing something, and taking a few days to find it out. At the same time however, I was quite chuffed when a friend of mine used her iPhone to find out instantly what other TV shows the guy that plays Liz Lemon's boyfriend in 30 Rock had been in.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I own an Audi A3 that has useful, and at the same time useless, bits of technology. It has a heater in the wing mirrors so they don't fog up on a cold morning. It has a business card holder. It has a tiny fold-down visor above the rear vision mirror in case the sun is peeping through the gap between the mirror and the top of the windscreen. On the other hand, it can get up to 800km on one tank of petrol. Can you imagine how many business cards you can collect in 800km?Mac or PC, and why?I was only recently converted to a Mac, and while I do love it, I try to avoid banging on about it. The main reason I stalled in buying a Mac was that Mac users are so freakin' evangelical about it, I was actually turned off. Seriously, I've seen Scientologists look at Mac users and say: "Dude, you're a bit over the top."Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I love buying DVDs and CDs. I love owning stuff. I love having a library of my favourite movies and music. A library I can flick though and choose from. A library I can look at across the room and think, "I own that". Recently I have started downloading, but it feels kinda empty. I like having a CD cover to look at. I like record covers more – you know, the ones with a picture in the fold-out.What was your last purchase?I downloaded an album by an Australian artist called Sarah Blasko. I was in Amsterdam when the album was released, and couldn't wait to get back to Australia to buy a CD, so I downloaded it. I will probably buy the CD when I get home anyway. I have all her albums, and it would seem weird not to have this one on the shelf as well. Is that obsessive/compulsive? I recently burnt the CD of Elbow Live At Abbey Road from a friend and feel so guilty about it I am going to rush out and buy the album as soon as I can. As a performer, I am a big believer in paying for people's performances.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Great idea. Brilliant idea. Especially if you can choose from a variety of famous voices for the butler to use. Personally, I would have three butlers, each of them with the voice of a different Marx brother. They would chase each other around the house, start food fights, constantly crack wise, and every now and again one of them would play the harp. I'd even start with four but later whittle it down to three just to maintain the accuracy.What piece of technology would you most like to own?We've been saying it for years, and I am fully aware that it is a cliche, but two words, people – Jet. Packs. Where the hell are our goddamn jet packs?•Adam Hillsis performing his show Inflatable at theAssembly Roomsas part of this year's Edinburgh festival fringe
An internet attack that knocked micro-blogging service Twitter offline and disrupted Facebook, LiveJournal, Xbox Live and some Google services seemed random at first, but security experts say it was a coordinated strike targeting a single Georgian blogger.Max Kelly, Facebook's chief security officer,told CNet newsthat the strike was an attempt to silence Cyxymu – an outspoken critic of last year's conflict betweenGeorgiaandRussiain South Ossetia – as theanniversary  of the war approaches.With a monicker styled after the Cyrillic name for the disputed Black Sea city of Sukhumi, Cyxymu runs a blog written in Georgianised Russian and subtitled "of Sukhumi, the war and Bolivia".The attack was a distributed denial of service (DDOS) attack. DDOS attacks flood a website with traffic, overwhelming them and preventing them from responding to legitimate requests.Average internet users play an unwitting role in such attacks. Your computer might have been be one of the thousands directing traffic at these social networks.Exploiting common computer vulnerabilities, malicious hackers can surreptitiously install software on your computer. Your computer continues to function normally until the hacker launches the hidden program. This is why such compromised computers are referred to as"zombies".Hackers and organised crime syndicates operate"botnets", networks of millions of these zombie computers. A botnet with1.9m computers was discovered earlier this year. The US and UK were two of 77 government networks that had been compromised. Attackers can rent zombie computers for as little as five US cents apiece.This is far from the first politically motivated cyber-attack. Hackers supporting both sides of theIsraeli-Palestinian conflict have launched attacks scribbling political sloganson&nbsp; vulnerable websites.Indian and Pakistani hackers routinely do battle, and recently,US and South Korean computers were attacked, with some pointing the finger at North Korea.With Twitter back up, Cyxymuhas blamed Russian hackers. "This hackers was from Russian KGB."However, it is difficult to prove for certain that this is state-sponsored activity from the Russian intelligence services. More often than not, the attacks come from a group of loosely organised patriotic hackers launching DDOS attacks as the 21st century virtual version of a sit-in.
You're out for a drink with a friend who works in an independent TV production company. She isn't happy: unless the TV series that they've just pushed out to DVD sells well, the company is going to have to make cutbacks. Which might include her.You realise that that's the TV series that you've been downloading via a file-sharing site for the past couple of days.What do you say to her, and what do you do about the downloads and/or DVD when you get home?
As anyone who follows the ups and downs of Apple knows, it's not every day that you get one of the company's highest ranking executives to talk about a controversial issue. So it was with great interest I noticed that the writer John Gruber - author of a terrific Apple-focused blog calledDaring Fireballthat we've linked to many times before - hadpublished an email from Apple senior VP Phil Schiller- responding to one of the latest iPhone application controversies.Phil Schiller! He's the guy who stands in at keynote speeches for Steve Jobs, for goodness' sake, one of Apple's inner circle.The email from Schiller opens up a few very interesting questions about Apple's strategy right now - but first we need to quickly run through the controversy in question: a dictionary application for the iPhone called Ninjawords, which the developers claim was rejected from the app store for objectionable content - largely, it seems, pretty basic swear words you would expect to find in any dictionary.The situation is more than a little reminiscent of theEucalyptus book reader debaclein May, but the real issue remains the slightly inscrutable, arbitrary policy enforcement by the team of people who approve iPhone applications.After Gruberposted about Ninjawords, Schiller emailed him directly to explain the situation. In his email, Schiller never actually addresses that issue (Gruber confirmed to me by email that he didn't talk about the bigger issues at all). He is narrowly focused on the Ninjawords controversy, focusing on the twists and turns of a single bureaucratic decision in order to point out that it was ultimately a mix-up between the creators of Ninjawords and Apple staff (though I think it is disingenuous when Schiller suggests Apple never wanted to censor content: it did).The content - or non-content - of Schiller's message is interesting, but what perhaps means more isthe fact that he sent it at all. Applenevertalks to anybody about controversial things - save for a few hand-picked national US news outlets, they rarely brook questions of any sort. And while Gruber is a great analyst of Apple's business, and largely sympathetic to the company, it's still incredibly unusual for someone as senior as Schiller (or anyone at all) to make a public statement of this sort.This tells me something important: that even if Apple isn't directly addressing the problems developers have with the app store approval process, they are really starting to take notice. Schiller's email is Apple sending a message to worried developers: we care about you.The fact that he doesn't really address the wider problem doesn't matter in that sense - it's as symbolic as much as it is practical (like diplomatic talks with an enemy nation, what is said is less important than the appearance of saying it). In one sense, Schiller's narrow response tells us little about Cupertino's opinion of developers - but in another, from a company as restrained and uncommunicative as Apple, having the conversation publicly at all is tantamount to an olive branch.I'm not sure if this is the start of a process of reform, but it would certainly not surprise me if we saw some rapid shifts in app store policy soon. Most probably they would not be made public, and the company would prefer not to shout about improving the confusing mess that it's currently created. After all, they won't even admit that there is a problem.But maybe, just maybe, the tide may have turned.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Widespread internet attacks that hit services at Google, Facebook and Twitter on Thursday could have been the result of an online assault against a single blogger.According to senior industry figures, thestrikes that affected hundreds of millions of web users around the globe on Thursdaywere part of an attempt to damage just one individual - a controversial Georgian known only as Cyxymu.Max Kelly, Facebook's chief security officer,told CNet newsthat the strike was an attempt to silence Cyxymu - an outspoken critic of last year's conflict between Georgia and Russia in South Ossetia - as theanniversary  of the war approaches."It was a simultaneous attack across a number of properties targeting him to keep his voice from being heard," Kelly said. "We're actively investigating the source of the attacks and we hope to be able to find out the individuals involved in the back end and to take action against them if we can."The strikes appeared to be one of the most widespread and coordinated attacks ever seen online, shutting down Twitter for significant portions of Thursday, as well as causing serious problems for Facebook and blogging service LiveJournal. Google, too, was subjected to attacks but said it had been able to prevent any damage - although some users reported some unexpected problems with the internet giant's services.It is not clear precisely how the attacks started or who was behind it, but a vast number of spam messages were also sent out simultaneously mentioning the victim.With a monicker styled after the cyrillic name for the disputed Black Sea city of Sukhumi, Cyxymu runs a blog written in georgianised Russian and subtitled "of Sukhumi, the war and Bolivia".In the past, it was a home for controversial opinions on the way the conflict was handled by both the Russian and Georgian governments - last year resulting in a similar attack by opponents which had crashed LiveJournal.com.Like many internet users, Cyxymu has accounts across a number of social networking services, and yesterday appeared to recognise that he or she may have been a target."It became clear that it is a special attack on me or on Georgians," Cyxymu said in one message. "In my mailbox are hundreds of spam emails.""Spam was being sent on my behalf with an invitation to go to my blog... I apologise to everyone."Security expertshad already suggested to the Guardianthat the widespread and apparently random nature of the attacks could be evidence of a grudge or personal vendetta rather than an organised criminal act aimed at blackmailing major websites.The war in South Ossetia officially started on 7 August last year, after several weeks of growing arguments over the future of the territory. Following support from Russia, Georgian troops began shelling the town of Tskhinvali. An estimated 25,000 residents of the region were forced to leave their homes as fighting took place, and although the two countries  signed a ceasefire agreement a week later, tensions are still high.At the time, the conflict resulted in an outbreak of hostilities over the internet, withRussian sympathisers attacking Georgian government websites- the same type of attack which appeared to take place on Thursday.
&bull; The fallout from the widespread denial of service attacks that hit a number of major websites continues. After it emerged thatGoogle had also been targetedalong withFacebook and Twitter, speculation began to swirl . Facebook security chief Max Kelly toldCNetthat it was a striketargeted at a single user, pro-Georgian blogger Cyxymu, while Bill Woodcock of Packet Clearing House toldthe Registerthat it wasa spam-based attack. More details to follow, surely.&bull; Good news! Nasa says the Kepler space telescope - which is supposed to find new planets in distant space - works. Well, that's not to say it's actually found any planets, butDiscovermagazine has a very good explanation ofexactly how they've determined that it's going to succeed.&bull; Thank Darwin it's Friday. As a tribute toteen comedy writer/director John Hughes- a man who had a remarkable affect on many people of my generation (I watched Pretty in Pink just last weekend) -  I'm going point you to a couple of online tributes:Pitchforkhas collected a lot ofclassic music moments; while this slightly odd video celebrating hisproducer of the year award in 1991features plenty of famous faces.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Microsoft created problems for itself by giving Walt Mossberg of the Wall Street Journal a ludicrously complicated chart showing Windows 7 upgrades, and it has prompted the usual paroxysms across the web. These things do.The truth is, as usual, much simpler, asEd Bott demonstrated by producing a simpler version. Whether anyone actually needs a chart is another matter.Joe Wilcox did a blog postwhere the reality was summed up as follows:Michael Gartenberg, vice president of strategy and analysis for market-research firm Interpret, acknowledged that "there are a few too many SKUs of Windows 7" but the upgrade "matrix to install isn't really as complicated as folks are making it out to be. It can easily be summed up as like version of Vista to like version of Win 7. Ultimate can install over any version of Vista, and XP requires clean install. That's all there is to it really and, in fact, that's how Windows updgrades have worked in the past as well."Basically, you can always upgrade from Vista to Windows 7 if it's the same version (eg Home to Home), and you can always upgrade to Ultimate. Windows XP upgrades, 32-bit to 64-bit upgrades, and Vista downgrades (eg Business or Ultimate to Home) need a custom install.I'm not quite sure what Michael Gartenberg means by "a few too many SKUs" [stock-keeping units] because there are precisely three: Windows 7 Home, Pro and Ultimate. Given that Ultimate carries a silly price, most people will have a choice of two: Home or Pro.In other words, for practical purposes, Windows 7 offers exactly the same choice as Windows XP did. They even have the same names.Of course, I'm willing to offer my commiserations to anyone who claims to be so stupid that choosing between Home and Pro is too hard for them. I'm generous like that.
A malicious attack caused by thousands of remote-controlled virus-infected PCs disabled Twitter for two hours today.Other large sites, including Facebook and the blogging site LiveJournal, also seemed to have problems at the same time — around 3pm.Twitter's service was restored, but the company said it was "continuing to defend against and recover from this attack".The site was not forced completely offline: its search pages still worked. However, people could not send or receive new tweets, or access the site directly.The disruption will have been felt most keenly in London, which Twitter's co-founder and chief executive Evan Williams revealed this week has more Twitter users than any other city in the world.The company's status blog said: "We are defending against a denial-of-service attack." Once the service was resumed, co-founder Biz Stone commented wryly that "we had a lot of things we'd rather be doing this morning. Defending against a DoS wasn't one of them".Facebook said it was "looking into" possible problems with its site, which also appeared to be intermittently down.Denial-of-service attacks occur when the controllers of "botnets" consisting of many thousands of virus-compromised Windows PCs target a site. In the past, banking, gambling, news sites and Google have been the target of such attacks.The attacks use the electronic equivalent of ringing the site's doorbell and running away: the targeted site's server wastes its resources answering the call. In a typical attack, there may be millions of such fake approaches.The aim is often to blackmail the site: sometimes the owners are told that unless they make a payment, the attacks will continue. Gambling sites have often suffered attacks before major sports events, and been warned that more will follow unless they pay protection money.It is not clear whether that was the aim of the attack on Twitter.Tracking down the source of such an attack can be extremely difficult because the individual computers in the botnet used to generate the attack are controlled remotely.Twitter has become one of the fastest-growing social networking sites in the world. The UK is believed to have about 2.4m Twitter users, according to an  Ofcom report, although its explosive growth may mean the figure is out of date.Denial-of-service attacks have become relatively commonplace online, but this is believed to be the first time that Twitter has been targeted. As companies get larger and more geographically distributed, they can handle such attacks because their servers are remote from each other. Twitter is still comparatively small, with most of its resources in the US.
A concerted attempt to crash a string of major websites appears to be underway, with malicious online attacks affecting services including Facebook, Twitter and Google.The source of the strikes is not yet known, but they have already affected hundreds of millions of web users around the world.Initial reports earlier todayconfirmed that Twitter had been affected by a denial of service attack, where vast numbers of computers are simultaneously pointed at a victim's website in order to overwhelm its servers.But after reports that Facebook was suffering from unexpected problems, it has emerged that several major companies were also victims of a simultaneous attack, including some Google sites and the blogging service LiveJournal.A Google spokesman said that the company's systems helped protect it from damage, and that neither Google.com nor Gmail suffered any impact: "We are in contact with some affected companies to help investigate this attack."A spokeswoman for Facebook confirmed that a denial of service incident had taken place, adding that no permanent damage had occurred: "Earlier this morning, Facebook encountered network issues related to an apparent distributed denial of service attack, that resulted in degraded service for some users. No user data was at risk and we have restored full access to the site for most users."The full extent of the attacks is still unclear, but Twitter's website was unavailable for at least two hours earlier today and still appears to be suffering from problems. With few definite details on the precise nature of the strikes or their source, executives from the companies affected are believed to be sharing information in order to try and pinpoint their attacker.At the moment it is not even certain that the attacks have come from the same source, although experts suggest that the fact that so many events occurred so closely together would probably rule out chance."This seems like far too much to be a coincidence,"said Graham Cluley, a senior consultant at IT security firm Sophos. "The fact that the attacks have hit Facebook and LiveJournal as well as Twitter means that hundreds of millions more people could have been impacted by the website outages."In the past, professional criminals have used denial of service attacks to attack rival businesses or blackmail organisations in the virtual equivalent of protection rackets. It is not unknown for companies to pay ransoms in such situations.However, one computer security expert said that even an attack of this size did not necessarily have to be the work of a large or powerful group."Generally with any denial of service attack, we see them come from a botnet comprised of tens, hundreds, thousands or even a hundred thousand computers," said John Harrison of Symantec, one of the world's leading computer security companies. "However, the value of the computers on the botnet can depend on where they are - inside a large enterprise or university, with a big pipeline, they can send a lot of traffic with just one computer."Without knowing who is behind the activity, Harrison said that the targets – large, popular services rather than high-value ones - were not typical for a blackmailer."We're very surprised to see these types of attacks coming. Usually the people behind it want to use it for financial gain, not simply to take services away."He suggested that the motivation behind the strikes could be as basic as revenge."It can be as simple as retribution against other hackers," he said. "It seems trivial and backwards, but it could be something as simple as that."
The treasury minister, Stephen Timms, has been confirmed as the man charged with seeing through the government's Digital Britain plans after the departure of communications minister Lord Carter last month.Timms, a former e-commerce minister, will retain his role as financial secretary, but gain extra ministerial responsibilities at Lord Mandelson's Department for Business, Innovation and Skills as the government looks to put new legislation in place when parliament reconvenes in the autumn."Building a 21st century knowledge economy is at the heart of government's vision. It's vital for jobs and growth that Britain is able to maximise the benefits of the digital revolution," Timms said. "I look forward to driving this&nbsp;project forward in my joint role working in the Treasury and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.""At the top of my in-tray will be plans to ensure faster broadband access for homes and businesses and combating digital piracy – as we move towards publication of the Digital Economy Bill."His role will be supported by the creative industries minister, Sion Simon, who will take the lead on aspects of Carter's plan, published in June, relating to the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. That will include thrashing out a deal with the BBC over taking the so-called digital switchover surplus and re-routing it to pay for the provision of broadband for all by 2012.Simon has his own experience of the power of the internet and the way it can quickly create a firestorm, having drawn criticism three years ago for mocking David Cameron's WebCameron videos in a rather ill-conceivedYouTube video of his own.Carter also proposed taking the licence fee cash allocated for helping people to switch to digital TV after 2012 and using it for regional news programming on ITV and possibly children's programmes on commercial public service broadcasters. That plan has beenblasted by the chairman of the BBC Trust, Sir Michael Lyons, who said the licence fee "must not become a slush fund".Timms, whose appointment wasrevealed by the Guardianearlier this week, will also have to deal with Carter's controversial plans to raise billions of pounds to pay for the next generation of super-fast broadband networks by levying £6 a year on all existing phone lines.Ministerial enthusiasm for this plan appears to have waned in recent weeks as MPs have privately voiced concerns about a public backlash against a new tax being introduced so close to a general election.However, the music and film industries will welcome Timms's appointment as they have been waiting for some direction from government following the publication of the final report, which committed the government to reducing online piracy by at least 70%.The Digital Britain report proposed a new system of warning letters which would be sent by internet service providers (ISPs) to persistent illegal filesharers, backed up by legislation. If that proves unsuccessful – andrecent research has suggested that few internet users consider letters to be a deterrent– communications regulator Ofcom will step in and introduce so-called "technical measures" that would slow down the broadband connections of online pirates.This scheme relies upon the media companies and ISPs thrashing out a code of conduct, which will include the wording of the letters and under what circumstances they should be sent. But to date no meetings have taken place to try and compile that code and until now there has appeared to be no one leading the process."It's a bit like having been on a first date," said one media executive. "You don't know whether they are supposed to call you or you are supposed to call them. No one wants to look too needy."
The Western European PC market declined in this year's second quarter, but only by 3.3%, according tothe latest provisional numbers from Gartner. Acer increased its unit sales by 24.3% to 3.2m units to take top spot from Hewlett-Packard, which grew sales by only 1.4% to 3.0m units. This was mainly the result of Acer shifting almost half the netbooks sold in Europe.Basically, the professional PC market plunged by 21%, hitting companies that sell a lot of business machines such as HP, Dell, Lenovo and Fujitsu. The consumer PC market grew by 21%, benefiting companies such as Acer, Apple, HP and Samsung -- those with more consumer-oriented products, and netbooks in particular.Ranjit Atwal, principal analyst at Gartner, says: "Without mini-notebooks, the market would have declined more than 15%, but given the new routes to market and price points of these PCs, they have managed to prevent a more severe decline."Asus's shipments tumbled by 15%, but Atwal says the company's sales in Western Europe are dependent on the distribution deals it manages to sign at any particular time.Though it doesn't appear in any of the tables, Samsung also did well, growing its second quarter shipments by 250% in Western Europe. "It has connections with telcos through its mobile phones, and it's using netbooks as a vehicle to get into the PC market," he said.In the UK, Dell held on to the top spot with 606,000 shipments, down by 6%. It was followed by Acer (536,000, up 32.6%), HP (431,000, down 25.1%), Toshiba (208,000, down 14.7%) and Apple (136,000, up 14.7%). Overall, the market declined by 6.5%, in units.Atwal says Apple benefited from the declines suffered by business PC suppliers but did well to increase sales without playing in the netbook market. He credited this to the "level of awareness" and brand benefits of the success of the iPhone, iPod, and iTunes.Apple was in 6th place in France and Italy, and 8th in Germany, but coverage varies by country and "they don't really have a presence in Eastern Europe," he said.In France, PC shipments fell by 1.2% to 2.6m units: the market did better than expected thanks mainly to strong sales of netbooks. Acer was the top supplier, shippping 706,000 PCs for a market share of 31.3%. It was followed by HP (24.7%, with shipments up by 16.1%), Dell (10.2%, down 27.8%), Asus (5.4%, down 17.8%) and Toshiba (5.3%, down 6.5%).In Germany, PC shipments fell by 2.7% to 2.3m units. Acer increased sales by 38.6% to hold on to its top spot, with 413,000 shipments and a 17.8% market share. It was followed by HP (13.2%, with shipments up by 10.3%), Dell (9%, down 23.7%), Fujitsu (8.3%, down 31.1%) and Asus (7.8%, up 20.1%).It's noticeable that Lenovo -- the Chinese company that bought IBM's PC business -- no longer appears in any of the major tables. Like HP/Compaq it must have suffered from large corporations cutting back on PC purchases, but unlike HP/Compaq, it hasn't managed a corresponding lift from consumer sales of laptops and netbooks. The PC market used to be driven by IBM and Apple, and now it's HP and Acer. Nobody predicted that.Dell, HP, Toshiba, Lenovo, Fujitsu and others will no doubt be looking forward to the days when corporations return to the professional PC market -- they can't put off buying new PCs forever. But despite the appearance of Windows 7, which is now shipping electronically, Atwal doesn't expect much to happen until next year.
Twitter's site crashed on Thursday at about 3pm BST due to a "denial of service" attack – thousands of remote-controlled virus-infected PCs trying to contact the site.Though the site came back up after an hour, the company said it was "continuing to defend against and recover from this attack".As a result lunch plans, breaking news, links to obscure web pages, news about your cat, the thoughts of celebrities, and wondering on Twitter why your tweets aren't appearing – all had to be put on hold. The loss will have been felt most keenly in London, which Twitter's co-founder and chief executive Evan Williams revealed on Wednesday has more Twitter users than any other city in the world.The company'sstatus blogsays that: "We are defending against a denial-of-service attack, and will update status again shortly."Denial-of-service attacks – also known as DDOS attacks, for distributed DOS – happen when the controllers of "botnets" consisting of many thousands of virus-compromised Windows PCs decide to target a site. In the past banking, gambling and news sites – and even Google – have been the target of DDOS attacks.The attacks use the electronic equivalent of ringing the site's doorbell and running away: the targeted site's server wastes its resources answering the call. In a typical DDOS attack, there may be millions of such fake approaches.The aim is often to blackmail the site: sometimes the owners are told that unless they make a payment, the attacks will continue. Gambling sites have often suffered DDOS sites ahead of major sports events, and been warned that the same will follow when the event happens – their key time for bets – unless they pay protection money.Whether that is the aim of this attack on Twitter is not known: the status blog, updated at 3.40pm BST, gives no other details.Twitter has become one of the fastest-growing social networking sites in the world. In aninterview on the BBC's Newsnight program on Wednesday night, Evan Williams said that the UK had the second-largest user base after the US, and that London has more users than any other city in the world – even ahead of San Francisco, Twitter's home town.The UK is reckoned to have about 2.4 million Twitter usersaccording to a recent Ofcom report, though its explosive growth may mean that even that figure is out of date.DDOS attacks have become relatively commonplace online, but this is believed to be the first time that Twitter has been targeted. As companies get larger and more geographically distributed, they can handle such attacks because their servers are remote from each other. Twitter however is still comparatively small, with most of its resources in the US.
You may have already seenthis quite astonishing video of high speed robotics in action.If you haven't, you're in for a treat that is both remarkable and a little disturbing (if, like me, you often have nightmares about hordes of ninja robots sent to destroy the world. I realise there is a chance you may well not have such worries, however).These things arefast: asBotJunkiesuggests, "it's clearly way beyond what we're capable of in both speed and precision".I suspect we may hear more from theIshikawa Komuro Labat the University of Tokyo.
Oh, Kirsty. And all of you Twitter users who submitted questions to be answered by Evan Williams, co-founder and chief executive of Twitter, on Newsnight last night. It was billed as his first British TV interview. Hopes were high. And then quickly dashed.After an introductory piece that talks interestingly about what the service needs to do (make money) there's thechat between Newsnight presenter Kirsty Wark and Williams. We've transcribed it so you don't have to watch it.You'll note that missing from the interview are (a) any questions about how Twitter could make money (b) any questions about when Twitter will make money (c) how many users it does have (d) how it's going to cope with this growth (e) just about anything apart from these questions.If any of them were questions you put forward, you should be very ashamed.Update:thanks to@cyberdoyle(on, of course, Twitter) we've found theuser-suggested questions. It has to be said that they're frequently better than the ones that were asked. ("What will Twitter do in 10 years that it cannot do now?" "How will twitter make money once the VC cash dries up?" "Explain what the use is of Twitter in no more than 140 characters" ) though quite a few are worse - as any professional question-asker will tell you, it's not as easy as it might look.So without further ado, here you go:--KW:Is there some special alchemy that makes Twitter special, or is it just building on other messaging services?EW:Well everything on the internet and in technology builds on other stuff, and we stood on the shoulders of giants in many ways, but Twitter adds a nuance and new sense of connectivity that is fairly unique.KW:Have you done any work to find out why it is so successful in the UK?EW:No, but we've definitely noticed the UK has exploded for us recently. London is our top Twitter-using city as of today [Wednesday 5 August] and the UK is second only to the US in terms of number of Twitter users.KW:But doesn't it create a false sense of self, and a false sense of what is community?EW:Um, I don't think it's false necessarily, people use technologies to communicate, it's not any less real than using the telephone to communicate. I don't think people consider that a false sense of community.KW:Except if you're using the telephone you generally know who you're speaking to. This is a kind of amorphous mass that isn't speaking to each other. Isn't this just really a service for reading what famous people are doing?EW:Actually that's not what our data shows. Famous people are certainly popular on Twitter, but there's a lot of framed communication that goes on with Twitter that's mixed in with news, celebrity, business, you name it.KW:But do you feel comfortable about the fact that when you go on Twitter, and you look for Demi Moore, there's several Demi Moores, you can't verify who the real Demi Moore is - does that not worry you?EW:Well if you look at Demi Moore's real account, her real name is mrskutcher ... you'll find a verified account badge, we find known entities and we go do some manual work to verify them for users so there's less chance of impersonation.KW:How do you verify that?EW:In Demi's case, I've actually talked to her personally.KW:And what is it that Demi Moore loves about Twitter, do you think?EW:Well I can't speak for her, but Demi and Ashton and a lot of Hollywood folks have taken to Twitter as just a way to connect to fans, and a way to have their own voice that's not mediated through the normal outlets that has been their only representation for years. They can actually speak to people directly and interact with them, and I think a lot of people find that very powerful.KW:Another way that Twitter has come into its own is when there's a big world event. Do you regard Twitter as a form of journalism?EW:It's not necessarily journalism, certainly not in the classic case, but it does enable people to report news and events as they're happening, and often from the ground, as we just saw in Iran, people on the streets reporting what was going on, it was newsworthy content that people were tweeting, there's obviously a lot of commentary about what's going on, but it doesn't take the place of journalists or news because you still need analysis, you still need verification of this information. But it adds another layer to the information ecosystem.KW:During the Iranian uprising it's said that you delayed technical work to keep the site going so the protesters could continue to send messages, is that right?EW:We did delay some technical work, that's something we did in working with our network provider. We had scheduled maintenance that would have been during the middle of the night, the off-peak hours for us, but it happened to be during a very key time in Iran, and we ended up putting that off a day so it was more in the middle of the night there.KW:Was that of your own volition, or were you asked to do that by the US government?EW:There were many people asked us to do that, including someone from the state department, but that's not why we did it. We did it because we thought it was the best thing for supporting the information flow there at a crucial time, and that's kind of what we're about, supporting the open exchange of information, so it seemed like the right thing to do.KW:But are you aware that the archbishop Vincent Nichols is very concerned that Twitter dehumanises a very important part of our social life?EW:I wasn't aware of that, I think it's kind of silly, I would say that anyone who says that isn't really familiar with the service, because it's about humans connecting with each other, and often in ways that they couldn't otherwise. It's the opposite of dehumanising as far as I'm concerned.KW:Might Twitter just be a fad?EW:The only reason Twitter itself would be a fad is if someone comes along and does it better.--On the same basis, might Newsnight just be a fad? Isn't the television dehumanising, telling an amorphous mass of people something without any interest in what they're really thinking? Just a way to listen to famous people?We're hoping that his second British TV interview is better. Though the bar has hardly been set high by this one.
Earlier this year satnav makerTomTomcaused much excitement when it announced that it would be creating adownloadable application for the iPhonewith new maps and all the gubbins. While some convergence strikes me asodd(note to self: my attempt at humour yesterday went down like a lead balloon) I can say from my own experience of trying to use the iPhone's built-in Google Map system for driving directions, that proper satnav could prove very useful indeed.But the big question went unanswered: how much would it cost?TomTom continues to remain silent on the issue, butthis reportfromDaniWebpoints out that there's now a listing for "TomTom for iPhone inc Mount"on the Handtec website. And it has the price: £99 + VAT (that's £113.85).That includes extras like a GPS-enhacing cradle with all the added extras (charging, amplification and so on) but it still means thatmarginally cheaper than buying a bottom of the range TomTom unit. And, of course, you've already spent a wodge of cash on your handset and the monthly contract.On the one hand, keeping the price high is unsurprising - after all, TomTom's unlikely to want to hugely undercut its own flagship products. But shouldn't it cost less, since the company doesn't have to bother making and selling the biggest bit of hardware? Is this price going to tempt you, or will it stay a niche product for those existing iPhone users who don't want a separate GPS?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Were you really expecting to play Starcraft II this year? Activision Blizzardannounced last nightthat the long awaited RTS game would be arriving in 2010.  It looks set to be joined by Diablo III even if the hugely anticipated fantasy adventure wasn't mentioned by name. Company boss Bobby Kotick was giving nothing away.It would be correct to conclude that you could expect two releases of Blizzard next year, but I would not make any conclusion on what those titles are going to be.Blizzard's online gaming service Battle.net is due an upgrade as well, with Xbox Live mentioned as a benchmark. As Kotick explained.Battle.net will become the foundation for connecting the tens of millions of members of the Blizzard community in a social gaming network across all Blizzard's future games. To put Battle.net into context, it will be a service similar to Xbox Live, and it will leverage the technologies, infrastructure and expertise that Blizzard has developed over the last decade in myltiplayer play and social networking. This will begin with World of Warcraft and StarCraft II.But it's not just Blizzard. Kotick also announced that Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare had shifted nearly 14 million copies worldwide. Impressive figures for sure but will gamers be so keen on the more expensive sequel? Judging by pre-order figures - Kotick announced that Modern Warfare 2 has had more pre-orders than any game in their history - and anecdotal mentions from friends I'm guessing so.Elsewhere a new Spider-Man and Bond game were announced – given the quality of the last few Bond titles are you really that excited? – while the skateboard peripheral based Tony Hawk Ride was confirmed for 2009 release in the US, UK and Germany only.What do you think then? Is it a good lineup from Activision Blizzard? And did anyone really think Starcraft II would launch ths year?
&bull;Googlemade waves by announcing the$106m deal to buy video technology company On2(owners of codecs such as V6) - although it kept another piece of news down the agenda. Interesting analysis fromGigaOm("pay special attention to what Google does with On2 on Android") and Dan Rayburn ofThe Business of Video(whodebunks a number of bits of speculation about the deal). That news helped the companysquash the rather less positive announcementthat it was finally offloading its radio business - which was heralded as the future back in 2006 after a deal potentially worth $1.2bn (although almost certainly significantly less than that, given Google Radio's failure to live up to its targets).&bull;Rupert Murdochput the cat among the pigeons too, by announcing thatall of the news websites in his vast empire would start charging for access soon. Reaction? Predictably astonished: our ownJeff Jarvissays it merelyopens the doors for free competitors.&bull; Thursday heralds another edition of the print version of Technology Guardian, in which we explore. On the cover, weinterview Andrew Stott, the man behind those much-discussedTwitter rules for Whitehall. Elsewhere, we hear aboutMicrosoft's plans for mobile,  look at thefuture for online mapping, and pull back the curtain on whattook place at the Guardian's hack day. There's more besides - just 90p from your newsagent, or onlinehere.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I can get DAB, digital terrestrial, Sky, the iPlayer and FM. Which one of these gives the best quality sound from, say, a Radio 3 concert?Malcolm PageThe BBC's online iPlayer gives the best quality with Radio 3 for two reasons. First, it uses a higher-quality codec than the other digital systems. Second, it and does not have any dynamic range compression (DRC), which means the loud parts are louder while the quiet parts are quieter.Radio 3 is currently broadcast at 192kbps on Freeview, Sky, and DAB using the MP2 codec, which should have been pensioned off by now. Radio 3 on the iPlayer is 192kbps using the much more advanced AAC codec, and has better stereo. Not many listeners will be able to distinguish this from a CD. (Note: bit-rates may vary.)On FM, Radio 3 uses DRC to reduce the dynamic range. AM and FM radio stations do this to make the quiet parts of the music sound louder, otherwise you would not be able to hear them over the background noise of your car tyres and engine. If you turned the sound up to compensate, of course, you'd be deafened by the loud parts. FM also has some low-level hiss and may suffer from interference.People vary in their sensitivity to the digital artefacts produced by compression, and to the effects of DRC, so I'm sympathetic to those who prefer FM to iPlayer, or vinyl to CD, or vice versa. However, an iPlayer signal should sound better if reproduced via the same hi-fi system. One day, I'll try it.Backchat: Adrian Lucas adds: "Another alternative is to use an external USB sound card which has a line level output (usually two phono sockets) to connect to the audio system. Technically this should give better results than using a headphone output but you may not be able to hear the difference." In the comments, paddydog takes the same line, using aLindy USB 2.0 Audio Adaptor.
I run ZoneAlarm Security Suite Version 8 on my PC and use the Firefox browser. I have received an email from ZoneAlarm to say a Microsoft ActiveX vulnerability lets hackers control a victim's PC and steal data. ZoneAlarm suggests an upgrade to Extreme Security for "only" £20.95. Surely its paid-for product should protect me adequately?Alan WilliamsAll Windows XP users had to do in this case was go to the Microsoft Knowledge Base page at 972890, find "Enable workaround" on the left hand side (50287) and click the button that says "Fix It". There's also a "Let me fix it myself" section. I posted the links in anAsk Jack blog poston 7 July, soon after the vulnerability was revealed.ZoneAlarm's bloglinked to the same page on 10 July. As far as I can tell, the fix had no adverse effects.There are two issues: vulnerability and exploitation. When an ActiveX file has a vulnerability, Microsoft should fix it. ZoneAlarm's upgrade won't do that. When websites exploit that vulnerability to try to download a Trojan to your PC, your anti-virus product should be able to block or remove it. Not every product will identify every bit of malware but you should expect firms to add recognition quickly.ZoneAlarm's sales pitch was based on the fact ZoneAlarm Extreme Security includes ForceField "browser virtualization" to insulate the browser from the OS. You can do this yourself using a different product such asSandboxie,SafeSpace Personal Edition,Shadow Defender, or the more comprehensiveGentleSecurityWall. Another option, GreenBorder, is no longer available because Google bought the company.Incidentally, for those who have IE6 or IE7, upgrading to IE8 provides an increase in security, including some protection against cross-site scripting, often used in browser attacks. It's worth upgrading even if you use Firefox, because the IE code may still be accessible, on your hard drive.
I have a Sony Vaio P series: perfect but frighteningly slow using Windows Vista. Should I downgrade to XP or wait for Windows 7's speed?Dr William BloomThe Vaio P is in most respects a delight, but in myTechnophile review of a prototype, I said: "Unfortunately, it has a 1.3GHz Intel Atom Z530 processor, which is horribly slow". It rates 2.1 on the Windows Experience Index, and it's not really fast enough.If you downgrade to XP, the P should run faster. However, when correctly installed, Vista SP1 runs at much the same speed as XP SP3, so you may not get a dramatic improvement.I suspect that Sony could do a better job of installing Vista, and after I was rude about the prototype, I hoped it would. You could try using the built-in Recovery Centre to do a reinstallation back to factory condition, but this isn't guaranteed to be better. If you have an external DVD writer, you can also create recovery discs and try doing a clean installation that way, but it's all work.On my experience so far, Windows 7 is faster than Vista, uses less memory, and uses the same drivers as Vista. Those factors could make the Windows 7 upgrade a better bet, though you will need an external DVD to make it convenient to install either.Mobile Tech Review has aYouTube video of Windows 7 on a Vaio P, which should give a better idea of performance.
Spinvox has responded to publicity about its transcription service by giving a few demos, as Kevin Anderson reports in tomorrow's Technology section (and it'salready on the web).As you know, Spinvox converts voice messages into texts by using a clever computer system or by using human agents or both. The former is, in principle, cheap, while the latter could be relatively expensive, even using overseas call centres. And as Kevin says: "without clear numbers about the percentage of calls needing human transcription, it is almost impossible to gauge whether the company can scale to meet its aggressive targets."Well, we still don't have a definitive answer, but we now know a bit more from a visit paid by Milo Yiannopoulos from TechCrunch plus "the Register's Andrew Orlowski and Ben Smith and Dan Lane from The Really Mobile Project". After a demo,Yiannopoulos writes:It was then my turn to try. I left a message, at a brisk speed, that included my full name, the word "TechCrunch" and an invitation for the "recipient" to call me back. I believe that the message was a reasonable and realistic approximation of a real-world message, albeit with a few strange words in it. The SpinVox system failed to convert the whole message -- ok, so most humans can't spell Yiannopoulos -- and passed it to a human "agent" (who was sitting in the room with us).Here's where it got ugly. From observing the "tenzing" process in action, it was clear to us that the system had failed to pick up a single word in the message correctly. The agent in the room had to listen to and manually type the entire message, from beginning to end. SpinVox has previously claimed that agents do not get to hear entire voicemail messages; only enough to give context and enable transcription. That's not what I saw this morning.Andrew Orlowskidoesn't provide that level of detail at the Register, but he writes:It may be fair to say that we saw the difficulty of machine translation: all but one of the messages - a simple one placed by the SpinVox chief technology officer in a silent room - tripped through to the Tenzing console for manual interpretation. Pretty much in their entirety. So much for call center staff, sorry, agents, only seeing occasional word fragments.This is pretty much what I'd expect. As I've said before -- most recently inMan or Machine at Spinvox?-- researchers at Dragon, IBM, Philips and various universities have been grappling with the problem of multi-user untrained, unconstrained voice recognition for decades, and it has not been solved. I don't believe that Spinvox can do it because nobody else can do it either.As I pointed out last time, even real people can't do it -- look at the results from Spinvox's call centre staff -- and we're a lot better at it than any computer to date.Yes, it's possible that we will be able to do it one day, but believing that Spinvox's computers can do it with a high level of accuracy is like believing in the tooth fairy.It is, of course, possible that Spinvox has made a breakthrough, but if this is the case, the people who run Spinvox must be extremely stupid. There are thousands of Stenographers, Palentypists, Velotypists, Dictaphone operators, court reporters and people who write subtitles and so on, and they're just the most visible parts of the huge industry based on converting speech into text.Anybody who can do what Spinvox does but using only computers should be able to make a fortune supplying the speech-to-text market.Spinvox, by contrast, has had something like $200m in funding but has been losing pots of money. A Financial Mail report on 2 August,Creditors pressing SpinVox, said that suppliers had been resorting to county court and high court cases to get paid. "Another supplier was not paid for six months and began filing a petition to wind up the company before the bill of nearly £20,000 was finally paid. Another is still owed £20,000," said the story. (Spinvox has had more cash since then.)In reality, of course, I don't think Spinvox believes it either. Indeed, researcher and inventor Lyndsay Williams ofGirton Laboratoriespoints to aSpinvox patent applicationthat explains the problems very clearly and states that one step in its new process is as follows:the operator intelligently transcribing the original voice message into the computer to generate a transcribed text message;Spinvox's own patent application specifically rejects the idea of letting the computer do the job. It says:The task of constructing voice recognition software that can reliably and accurately recognise natural speech relating to any subject, from anyone and spoken at normal speed, remains a daunting one. Nevertheless, it remains the over-riding goal in the area of voice to text systems.The present invention challenges this orthodoxy.My emphasis.I quite like the idea of a service where you leave a voice message and someone types it out. But haven't people being doing that for a few decades now?So what's all the fuss about? Either I'm missing something, or the world is even crazier than I thought….
Yes. To resurrect an old industry joke about Unix: "Next year will be the year of the tablet PC, and always will be."That has been true of tablets since 1989, when GRiD Systems launched its pen-operated GridPad running Microsoft's MS-DOS operating system. The question now is whether Apple can make a success of this hoary old form factor, and take it from its industrial and commercial heartland into the world's living rooms.The rumour mill has been grinding out Apple tablet stories for months, based on the tiniest bits of grist. But things have been hotting up recently. On Monday, Barron's, the financial news service, even reported: "One veteran analyst who has seen first-hand a prototype slate-style computer from Apple says the devicecould be announced in September for release in November."It sounds plausible that a tablet with a 10in screen exploiting multi-touch features in the forthcoming Snow Leopard version of Mac OS X might arrive in time for Christmas. Indeed, Microsoft has been touting the multi-touch features in Windows 7 for a couple of years, and with the new OS scheduled for its public appearance on 22 October, Apple has the perfect opportunity to rain on Microsoft's parade. Plausibility is not, of course, the same as reality.However, beyond the playground stuff, there are serious challenges. First, Apple has to create a tablet PC platform that people will want to use. Second, it has to sell it at a price people will pay.The first challenge doesn't sound too hard, in the sense that it's easy to imagine the Apple tablet as just a larger version of the iPod Touch. But the past two decades are littered with the corpses of failed tablet designs, some of which had multi-vendor backing, such as the WebPad. Microsoft has had at least three goes: with "PC companions" running Windows CE (aka Windows Mobile) in the 1990s, slates and convertibles running Windows XP Tablet Edition and, most recently, Origami tablets such as the Samsung Q1. Apple has also tried with the Newton and eMate.The second challenge could be bigger, given Apple's tendency to focus on the top end of markets, where the biggest profits are found. It seems obvious that a tablet would fit between the iPod Touch and MacBook laptops in size and price, but where? Something around £399 might be attractive as a bigger Touch, but £699 might be more likely if it's a slate-like MacBook.So, the hypothetical question is whether you fancy paying, say, £549 for a tablet that doesn't really replace an iPhone or a MacBook, when the obvious alternative is a £249 netbook. Whether that will ever turn into a real question remains to be seen.
Among smartphone users, Windows Phone – the handset operating system formerly known as Windows Mobile – tends to not to provoke excitement. This is a space dominated by flashy handsets such as the iPhone, now in its third incarnation – with its OS X operating system also at 3.0 after just two years – and by buzz about new operating systems such as Google's Android and the Palm Pre's WebOS.Worse, Microsoft has had to play catchup to Apple, Google, Palm and even RIM, introducing an "app store" for Windows Phone after its rivals had done so – and after insisting that nobody was making much money from Apple's iPhone App Store. In January 2007, its chief executive, Steve Ballmer,dismissed the iPhoneas "the most expensive phone in the world, and it doesn't appeal to business customers because it doesn't have a keyboard, which makes it not a very good email machine". In fiscal 2008/9, the iPhone sold 20.4m units – compared with an estimated 18m Windows Phone licences. (Microsoft has not given numbers for the year, but has not said they were any higher than 2007-08.)Call for more styleIn short, Windows Phone has an image problem – which has not been altered byrebranding it.Besides the endless name changes (from PocketPC to Windows Mobile to Phone), the Windows phone platform has been regarded as a dull tool for corporations instead of a strong player in the consumer market, and its user interface has never been much to write home about. Third-party vendors have gone so far as to build their own front ends to hide its perceived ugliness, though offerings such as HTC's Touch-Flo haven't always been an entirely good thing, placing a further burden on the phone's CPU.Yet Windows Phone is the determined tortoise of the smartphone world, having been around since 1996. Microsoft hopes that its next version – snappily named 6.5 – will end its reputation as a plodding also-ran and spur it to catch up with flashier hares such as the iPhone and HTC Hero.But is it enough? Roberta Cozza, principal analyst with Gartner, says no. "It's too little, too late. WinMo has been struggling in the consumer market. 6.5 is a small improvement in the look and feel, but it's not comparable with efforts from other vendors."The irony is that what had seemed like a sure thing – aiming a mobile form of Windows squarely at the business users who had it on their desktops – has turned out to be a mistake.At its core, the OS offers enterprise solutions such as Office apps and support for Exchange, Microsoft's email and collaboration application. This has made it popular with corporate IT departments; consumers, however, have been less impressed. And the BlackBerry was already there to grab market share.All this is changing, says James McCarthy, Microsoft's business manager for mobile communications. The next release, probably in September, "pays real attention to the consumer". Certainly, the new look places it much more firmly in the arena with the iPhone and LG Viewty.The whole interface has had a makeover, aimed at making it much more intuitive and finger-friendly. Until now, using Windows Mobile has tended to require a stylus – fiddly, easy to break and to lose – because the screens on the devices have been small and packed with information.A lot of care has been taken with the home screen. There's no need to drill down to an application: if it tells you you have an email, you can launch it right away.Microsoft will also launch a series of related products, from an app store toMyPhone, an online backup service that already works well in beta.Perhaps the most important thing for any smartphone is the ecosystem that grows up around it. Apple's App Store for the iPhone registered 1.5bn downloads in its first year, and rivals quickly followed: RIM, which makes the BlackBerry, has its App World, Nokia its oddly named Ovi World, and there's the Android Market for handsets running Google's Android. "It's a battle of the ecosystems," says Cozza. "Microsoft needs to come up with a strategy around an application marketplace."Microsoft had left the apps business to partners such as Handango, but now would argue that it's doing precisely that. With its app store Windows Marketplace for Mobile (it's rubbish at names), it understands that it must offer at least some apps when it launches 6.5. There will be 20,000 available, and McCarthy says "We're busy making sure that they work with the handsets – there's a ton of work going into that."Consumer challengeThe key question is whether Microsoft can be a big player in the consumer space. The figures suggest it has some catching up to do. According to Gartner, Windows Mobile has a steady 10% or so of the OS market – competing against proprietary Sony Ericsson and Samsung systems, as well as Symbian, which runs on Nokia and some other phones, and the offerings on the BlackBerry, the iPhone, Android and Palm. Its share of the smartphone market has fallen as the iPhone has wormed its way into corporations, by licensing Microsoft Exchange so that it can handle ActiveSync push notifications and calendaring.However, says US-based analyst Michael Gartenberg, "of course it's not late to the party". He reckons that the new version of Windows Mobile will "have a lot of appeal to consumers" and that it "builds on a solid foundation". Gartenberg, vice-president of strategy and analysis at Interpret, argues that other smartphone manufacturers still cannot match Windows Mobile as a business offering.With a Windows Mobile phone, he says, you can not only take pictures and keep up with Facebook and Twitter, you can also edit a Microsoft Word document or an Excel spreadsheet and then email it to your colleagues – which you can't (yet) do with an iPhone. Business people who need that are also consumers who want to keep up with their social networks, he notes, adding that Windows Mobile offers the best of both worlds.Cozza concedes that Windows Mobile is "a strong platform for enterprise", but adds that for a smartphone to succeed, it needs to blur the dividing line between business and consumer users. RIM, with the BlackBerry, has done that smartly, she says.But, counters Gartenberg, Windows Mobile already does that. What Microsoft needs to do now is to tell the story of its latest version of the system. "There's a lot of negative perception about WinMo," he says, adding that there's everything to play for."Six platforms can't survive," he says. "The battle is hardly over yet. "Cozza is more cautious: "We will have to wait and see," she says.
Google's adventures in the media world took a fresh twist today, after the Silicon Valley company announced it was selling off its radio assets while simultaneously spending more than $100m buying leading online video company On2.After three years of struggling to make an impact in the radio advertising business, the search giant said it was dispensing with its Google Radio arm in an undisclosed deal with Californian online ad firm WideOrbit.Although the terms of the agreement are not clear, it is believed that it marks a significant loss on more than $100m pumped into the venture by Google over recent years. WideOrbit, meanwhile, said it said it would inherit around 3,600 customers and a number of employees - believed to total around 40 jobs - as a result of the purchase."We are pleased that WideOrbit will be able to take advantage of Google's radio automation technology as they continue to develop their business," said Jim Woods, Google's director of product management,in a statement.The radio system allowed stations and advertisers to automate the process of buying and selling airtime, using a scheme similar to Google's hugely profitable online AdWords system. Butdespite early trialsand other efforts, the operation was widely regarded as a disappointment.The news marks an end to Google's three-year attempt to to broaden its business into the world of buying and selling advertising space on the airwaves. That effort began with the acquisition of another company, dMarc broadcasting,early in 2006. While the deal was worth $102m in up-front cash, it also offered up to $1bn in extra payments to dMarc's owners if certain performance targets were met - objectives which are not believed to have been achieved.However, Google attempted to soften the blow of its retreat from radio by announcing that it was spending $106m (£62m) buying up On2 Technologies, an American business that owns crucial systems used by many online video operators.The company - based in Clifton Park, New York - owns a number of advanced video compression tools, used to make video files usable across billions of PCs, mobile phones, and other gadgets. Its customers include software maker Adobe, internet telephony company Skype and electronics manufacturers such as Nokia and Sony.For Google, the deal will give it ownership of technologies that could be used to significantly improve web-based video - of particular interest since it owns YouTube, the world's largest video website.Although the company refused to be drawn on its plans, it did hint that On2's systems would be used to improve YouTube's image quality and delivery speed - something of critical importance to Google executive as they press forward with plans to offer full TV episodes and movies through the popular site."Although we're not in a position to discuss specific product plans until after the deal closes, we are committed to innovation in video quality on the web," the company said in a statement. "We believe that On2 Technologies' team and technology will help us further that goal."It could also use On2 to improve the video in its other products, such as mobile phone system Android - with systems that are built specifically to allow users to receive higher-quality video streams over the air and direct to their handsets.
Gutenberg's development of movable type in the 15th century was probably the most influential European invention of the second millennium. It paved the way for mass production, and the revolution is continuing in the digital age. Movable type has got more movable as it migrates into computers, mobile phones and e-reader devices. Having begun as an illuminated manuscript read by an elite few, the book may one day not exist in physical form yet be read by billions on mobile devices.We are so used to digital miracles we have become blasé. It passed almost without notice that, at least in the US and Canada, up to a million Google-scanned books can now be read on Sony's ebook device, the Reader. Amazing. This is thanks to Google's ambition to scan as many books in the world as the lawyers will allow it to. You don't have to read them on a mobile device as you can buy them if in print – or, if you are masochistic, read them on a computer screen or print them through a print-on-demand website. However, the more I read on mobiles, as long as they have a big screen, the more I like it. You don't get the unique pleasure of reading a real book but you can take it with you, read in unusual places and write notes with one hand while holding the phone in another.The reaction of publishing companies to the digital revolution was almost as antediluvian as the music industry's. Their failure to think about building a system to deliver books to readers enabled Amazon to do it for them. Publishers' response to Google digitising books was, like the music industry's, to reach for their lawyers. With honourable exceptions, most of the new ways of reading – especially the dedicated ebook readers such as those from Sony, Amazon's Kindle, and a slew of iPhone and Google apps – have been created by outsiders.This has resulted in near-monopolies for Google and Amazon, which now owns bothAudible.com(the site that has over 90% of the audio book market) andAbeBooks.com, the biggest online seller of secondhand books. Such concentration of power is one reason that book buyers have yet to benefit from the really low prices that ought to follow from the near-zero costs of digital delivery. What's more, with digital delivery, you are not buying a book you can lend to others but the right to read it on a device – with the risk, as happened with Amazon over Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four, that it might be withdrawn without your knowledge because it breached outdated copyright laws. What's that doing in the new age of continuous creation and remixing?If book ownership is in danger of waning, book reading could increase thanks to a plethora of new devices. Amazon has a bigger Kindle e-reader, while Sony is about to launch two improved products. At the level of the phone there are lots of new readers for the iPhone, Android and other app shops to give the likes of Stanza, Book Search (which gives access to up to a million Google-scanned books from the web), Classics and eReader a run for their money.The publisher Canongate is about to release an iPhone version of the rock star Nick Cave's new novel, The Death of Bunny Munro, created with Enhanced Editions to incorporate audio and video of the author. This is part a new genre of multimedia books from the likes ofvook.com(still in testing mode) that brings video and books together on the web. Kate Pullinger's latest novel about 1860s Egypt is being accompanied by a virtual book tour during which readers question her online. Apple's rumoured iPhone tablet with a 10-inch screen should make reading more pleasurable than the much smaller iPhone. Its back-lit LCD will put it at a disadvantage compared with e-paper readers that can be used in bright sunlight. On the other hand, it will be in colour. Perfect for reading one of those medieval illuminated manuscripts. But this is where we came in.victorkeegan.com
For five years, people have been contributing to OpenStreetMap – the Wikipedia-like attempt to create a free, user-generated map of the world.Thanks to the project, millions of people now use free maps online or on their phones, and OpenStreetMap covers large swathes of major cities around the globe. In fact, it's got so much information that some users in Germany are now plotting incredible amounts of detail – such as the location of individual trees.Is that mission accomplished? Not at all, says Steve Coast, the project's founder."We've convinced a lot of people, but not a lot in TeleAtlas or NavTeq [the world's two biggest digital geo-data providers]. To do that, the next step – the ultimate thing – is that we have to take business away from them."He is confident that open schemes will eventually push their way into the spotlight, but there are still hitches."It's a little bit chicken and egg, because the project needs good map data to encourage people to use map data," he says. "We need to take it beyond the primary audience of early adopters and more into the mainstream."From GPS to pen and paperGetting more people to contribute is crucial for any community-driven scheme, but particularly for maps – often associated with anorak-clad hikers waving GPS units. That's why a number of people are trying to come up with new ways to track information and get it into the system.One such is the cartographic geek Michal Migurski, a partner at the Californian design and technology consultancy Stamen. He createdOakland Crimespotting, one of the earliest online heat maps of crime data, and his company has done a lot of pioneering work with online maps: now he is trying to broaden the ways in which people can contribute to OSM.One of the schemes he is experimenting with, calledWalking Papers, aims to let users add to OSM's data by printing out maps, drawing on them, and then scanning them back in."In the past you had to use a GPS unit," says Migurski. "Now you have a much lighter-weight piece of technology – a paper and pencil in your pocket."Walking Papers is certainly lo-fi compared with the oodles of expensive kit that many contributors tote, but it is filling a need. Ed Parsons, Google UK's geospatial technologist, says that it is becoming increasingly important to find ways to keep people interested in adding more data to these schemes."It's easy to be motivated to get the information when your town is just a white space on the map," he says. "But once it's there, will you be as motivated to keep it updated as things change?"The evidence so far is positive, given the breadth of information that OSM and others have collected – and continue to collect. Perhaps most interestingly, it is only after these vast repositories have been collected that new possibilities begin to emerge. Once you've got maps of the world, what else can you do? What other layers can you bring? How can you improve geodata beyond simply creating free versions of what already exists?Migurski suggests that this is where the involvement of big organisations can start to make a real difference."When we first produced Oakland Crimespotting it was a really a guerrilla scraping," he says. "We considered what we were doing was liberating that data. Now we're seeing cities take the initiative and publish stuff with an eye to seeing projects like Crimespotting come out of it – the data itself is the public good."Parsons goes further. He thinks the future of geographic data relies on breaking out of the mapping mindset and thinking more broadly (which is perhaps no surprise, given Google's interest in advertising)."The future is probably not about maps – or it's about having the information, but not giving it back to people in the form of a map," he says."For example, if I'm looking for food at 1am on a Friday night then I am probably looking for something very different than if I am looking for food on a Sunday afternoon. If my phone knows about me and a little bit of my history, it can give me different information based on the context: a nearby kebab shop on one hand, or somewhere I can take my parents for lunch on the other."Further destinationsSo is that the best we can hope for? Helping us distinguish between a greasy doner and a leg of lamb?Those ideas of geographically savvy services have been around for a long time, but tools are now starting to appear that use your geographic context as a piece of background information, not as the end goal. (Parsons points to the iPhone application that tells you your next train home – no maps involved.)Perhaps, though, the future for geodata is something far bigger: showing that the principles already embodied by Wikipedia, OpenStreetMap and others can be applied elsewhere to other subjects. Coast thinks it's a distinct possibility – and adds that perhaps the lessons already learned by OSM can make future projects come together much more quickly."There are various shortcuts to making some of this stuff happen – not least of which are the various chunks of source code out there that didn't exist when OpenStreetMap started," he says. "There are some fairly serious chunks that aren't particularly reliant on geodata, so that you could take them and apply them to other types of wiki. It's definitely possible."Parsons agrees that user-generated maps are succeeding, and that it won't be long before other groups begin applying the same principles elsewhere."There is always a community closer to information than a top-down provider can manage, so there are possibilities to create data on things like weather forecasting or climate change, for example," he says. "Maps are perhaps one of the first areas that this change is happening, but I'm sure there are many more to come."•Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog
Let me see if I can explain my opinion of Samsung's i8910 touchscreen mobile – available through Orange – using words even a cat could understand: NO SAMSUNG AND ORANJ UR DOING IT RONG. There. I think that just about covers it.Well, perhaps a little exposition might help. It begins with the absence of any indication as to which is the power button (it's the "end call" key). Get the phone turned on, leave it alone, and the screen auto-locks, but helpfully says: "Press and Hold the lock key to unlock." But there are no keys, only buttons, and none with a lock icon. Are you starting to get it yet? The i8910 has a gorgeous screen, with fabulous HD-quality graphics. If you were using it to play back video, and if it were priced accordingly, you'd be happy. Its video is killer. Wonderful. But the user interface (UI) is awful. Its phone functionality is fine, but the thinking behind its more powerful functions has come from someone used to throwing the kitchen sink in first and asking usability questions afterwards.Central to this is the i8910's peculiar idea of what a menu or screen is. Consider the BlackBerry, really the first usable smartphone: it offers a menu of apps on a screen, from which you choose one by scrolling. Or the iPhone: it has multiple screens that you can swipe between, showing apps you can then choose.Clearly, Samsung saw both but didn't like to choose between them. So the i8910 lets you swipe between screens of applications … or applications. There's the main "your life in a screen" screen you get with Windows Mobile (plus Orange's annoying and unremovable Orange World logo, to push you towards its overpriced walled garden). Then there's another screen with the applications – Contacts, Media Album, Messaging, Orange World (again?) Orange Photo, Camera, Music Store (Orange again …), Office, Tools and Settings. But inside Office is a stack of other apps. QuickOffice looks promising – create a document, presentation or spreadsheet – but you need to buy a licence. Gah! Then, Applications is another folder of, well, applications – radio, video player and games and so on. Press the central key and you switch between the "life on a screen" screen, and the "many, but not all, applications on a screen" screen. Madness.How can it make sense to have things spread up and down the different layers on the menu? Can you not see the sense in the "all at one level" approach of the iPhone and BlackBerry? Evidently not, although you thought the iPhone's gestural interface worth copying to switch between open applications. I've got news for you, though: there's a reason why it's done like that. You haven't grasped it. You're a lovely video player, you take nice photos, and you might even have a decent browser. But as a smartphone, you're only for the dumb.Pros:excellent screen; high-quality video and photosCons:poor UI; unremovable Orange links; lack of appsorange.co.uk
