Vinay Gupta is a Scottish-Indian engineer who designs low-cost homes for poor parts of the world or disaster zones, and then makes them freely available on the internet so others can do the building. His flagship is theHexayurtshelter system, which costs around $200 (&pound;142). It uses common building materials, including insulation boards - which, he claims, are a third of the cost of a tent. The business plan is to cut the price of essential goods and services to the point where the poor can afford them. Gupta is just one example of a global movement that offers an alternative to the scandalous tales of banking avarice that have saturated the world's media.We are often told that the best things in life are free, but few have ever tried to build it into a business model. Yet it is curious that while financial capitalism is in global meltdown, a completely different kind of entrepreneurial activity - call it commune-ism - is rising, from an admittedly low base. This is the act of doing things for the common good, for nothing - either from altruistic motives or because you expect to get compensated by using the product of someone else's free endeavours. Until recently, this kind of activity - known generically as "open source" - has been confined to software through such brilliant communal projects as Wikipedia, the Firefox browser (which now has 21.5% of the global market) or the Linux operating system. Interestingly, such products don't appear in the figures for gross domestic product (GDP) - at least, not until they are used in something that can be bought, such as a low-cost Linux computer. It is unrecorded wealth and if the movement grows we will have to look afresh at how we measure the wealth of nations.Open source was given a boost last week when the UK government dropped its hitherto shameful neglect to give an endorsement for public services to use open source rather than proprietary software where it delivers best value for money. Whether this is just an empty gesture to take the wind out of the sails of the Conservatives - who have made capital out of claims that &pound;600m could be saved by using open source in public projects - remains to be seen, but it is a step in the right direction. Open source is on a roll and the interesting thing is that it is now expanding into hardware. The global recession, coinciding with an unprecedented expansion of social networks ought to give it a big boost and turn the new model into a global force. If you fancy an open source mobile phone tryOpenmoko.com. Want to be part of an open source project building a different kind of car? Look at theoscarproject.org. Other interesting initiatives include openfarmtech.org where they are developing open source ecology including building eco-villages or akvo.org, specialising in sanitation.Wired magazinerecently reported on the progress of Arduino, the Italian firm that makes a successful open source circuit board. There was a plan for an open source house via theFlickr photo sitebut there hasn't been much activity recently.Open source hardware doesn't have the same power as software if only because the final product, as opposed to the designs, can't be replicated for no extra cost as software can. It has a different kind of potential as it can use networks to liberate the creative energies of frustrated employees or jobless people all over the world in order to build products people actually want that reflect local realities, including availability of materials. It is a paradigm that fits a networked age in which the actual manufacture of goods is outsourced. If governments of the world are worried about where new products and jobs will come from when the recession eventually ends, then they could do a lot worse than to encourage the building of products by the people for the people.victorkeegan.com
EA has announced an interesting competition to proceed the release of its literary third-person action romp, Dante's Inferno, based on the epic poem of the same name. Budding movie makers are invited to create their own 34-second trailer for the release, which can then be uploaded to theofficial site. Apparently, the flick can be live action or animated. Or how about claymation?Entries are to be judged by the likes of Marc Caro (co-director of Delicatessen and City Of Lost Children) and graphic artist Wayne Barlowe (Hellboy). The finalists will have their works shown at theSci-Fi Londonfilm festival at the end of April. The winning director is then flown out to San Fran to meet the development team at EA Redwood Shores, previously responsible for Dead Space. And of course, the trailer will form part of EA's  marketing push.I really feel there ought to be an official Gamesblog entry. There must be plenty of budding auteurs among our readership? Or maybe just someone with a Flip camcorder and a copy of Final Cut?Anyway, the prospect of this tie-in with a piece of fourteenth century literature has got me wondering; which classic medieval text wouldyoulike to see on a games console and why?Surely Le Morte d'Arthur has got to be up there. A bit of Arthurian hyper-violence would go down well on Xbox 360 or PS3, with lots of glinting armour and lopped off limbs. Or perhaps Germanic dragon-slaying epic, Nibelungenlied? Or the crazed blood feuds of Njáls saga? Is this pretentious enough yet?
In a press conference (live-blogged by Venture Beat) and ablog post by founder Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook has announced a more Twitter-like information stream, plus new public profile pages suitable for use by "public figures and organizations". He says:Thenew home pagewill let you see everything that's shared by your friends and connections as it happens. It will also provide you more control by letting you choose exactly who you see among the people and things you are connected to. You can decide you no longer want to get updates from your old friend from high school who you rarely talk to, or you can filter the stream to only see updates about your family members. And now, if you want, you can read what President Obama is saying on the same page as your best friend.Public profile pages are an obvious idea, but very welcome. They'll let someone like Stephen Fry connect to 250,000 fans while keeping the friends part of his profile separate. Of course, that doesn't mean Fry will bother, because he's already reaching the same fans via Twitter. However, most of the digerati are already on Facebook, and they are not on Twitter.Meanwhile what started as Facebook's news feed will become much more Twitter-like, because you'll be able to pick up feeds from people you want to follow -- and this can extend onto the web via Facebook Connect. Obviously you will be able to follow people without friending them -- which is how Twitter works.Although Twitter has been the most obvious comparison and must have helped motivate these Facebook developments -- it did, after all, try to buy Twitter -- it's also a reflection of the way social networking is developing. Facebook is doing what Microsoft has just done with Live Wave 3, which has "Facebook like" features, and it could also be considered a response to FriendFeed.I don't think Facebook is going to wipe out Twitter any more than Facebook adding photo albums wiped out Flickr. Different people and different groups always have different needs.It will be interesting to see how Facebook develops. I assume there will be the usual outcry that you get when any comfortable and familiar old thing changes, even if the change is for the better. Many people hate having to learn anything new. But web-based companies have more useful measures than feedback, because they can track how many users come, how many pages they view, and how long they spend on the site.
Much-vaunted online music serviceSpotifyhas been dealt a blow, after revealing that thousands of users' personal details may have been stolen by hackers.According to an announcement by the service – which now has more than a million users worldwide – a group of computer criminals found a loophole in the program that gave them access to some users' passwords.Although the passwords are encrypted, Spotify confirmed that they were still potentially vulnerable to a so-called "brute force" attack to try and guess them."Along with passwords, registration information such as your email address, birth date, gender, postal code and billing receipt details were potentially exposed," thecompany said. "Credit card numbers are not stored by us and were not at risk."It said that the bug in the system was spotted and fixed shortly before Christmas, meaning that only users who signed up before December 19 could be affected. It is not clear how many people were using the service at that time, since Spotify was still an invitation-only service and has grown more rapidly in the subsequent months.It is a troubling moment for Spotify, which is based in Sweden and London, and has been hailed by some as the future of online music.The service has grown rapidly in recent weeks after itopened its doorsto allow anyone from Britain to sign up. As a result, the company now boasts more than a million users across Europe, with an estimated 250,000 in the UK alone.The service allows registered users instant access to a huge catalogue of music, picking any track they choose to stream directly over the internet to their computer.Unlike rival services like Apple's iTunes, Spotify does not require music to be purchased and downloaded. The system's users can either sign up and listen to music for free with advertising – just like commercial radio – or pay up to £10 a month for ad-free access.Although the program currently only runs on personal computers, the company plans to expand its offering to include applications that could run on mobile phones or even the iPod, allowing subscribers to access low-cost music over the internet from anywhere.The company did not return a call for comment.
PC sales and growth since 1986. Click for larger image.So here's an interesting point that grows out of theanalysis by Gartner suggesting that PC sales will fall this year: if history is any guide, it means that Windows 7 is coming this year too.That's because the past three major releases of Windows have all seen falls, or at least slower sales growth, in the years in which they're released.That's because businesses, which are the prime buyers of PCs (about 3:2 over consumers), hold back when they know there's a new version of Windows in the offing.The graph is up there (click for a bigger version) and it's pretty unequivocal. In 1994, PC sales growth (data sourced from a number of internet and analyst sources; includes sales of Apple and other non-Windows PCs) was almost 100% - yet the year after, when Microsoft released its blow-the-doors-off product, Windows 95 (which I think we can all agree was miles better than Windows 3.1), sales growth dived to 25%. It recovered speedily the next year as businesses started taking up Windows 95, though you'll notice the falloff too in 1997 - sales were pretty much flat. (Any suggestions? Economic factors?)Then in 2001, as the US economy was tanking, Microsoft launched Windows XP. Growth was in negative territory that year as businesses held back from purchasing (and things weren't helped by the economy or the 9/11 attacks). Things stuttered back to growth and motored along.Here comes 2007: and here's Vista. And credit-fuelled buying, which had looked rather healthy in the previous two years, dipped again in 2006 and stayed flat. (That's growth - sales of course increased, as you can see.)But now, Gartner is forecasting that sales growth will once more be in the negatives - fewer machines being sold. Which by our logic suggests that it's springtime - well, perhaps summer - OK, then autumn - for a Windows 7 release. Hell, when things are bad, you might as well build on them. And of course Apple is going to have Snow Leopard to show off later this year. Myforecast remains for May.So can you see any subtle reasons from the numbers why Windows 7 will or won't happen this year - and can we figure out what happened in 1997?
Struggling mobile manufacturer Palm laid out the full extent of its financial woes yesterday, after announcing that its third-quarter revenues fell by 73% compared to the previous year - and that it burned through around $100m of its cash reserves in those three months, leaving it with around $220m of cash.That means that Palm will have to stake any recovery on its Pre handset, a touchscreen smartphone - like Apple's iPhone - which is due to hit the market later this year. Although the Pre has garnered positive publicity, the financial news puts even more pressure on it to dig Palm out of its financial hole.In preliminary results for its third quarter, the California-based technology company said its income for the period would range between $85m and $90m – far below the same period in 2008, when the company brought in more than $312m in revenues. Even pessimistic Wall Street forecasts had predicted that quarterly income would be as high as $158m.Ed Colligan, Palm's president and chief executive, warned that the slump would probably continue into the next quarter – but said he was confident that it would not affect the launch of the Pre."The much-anticipated launch of the Palm Pre remains on track for the first half of calendar year 2009, but as expected we've got a difficult period to transition through," Colligan said in a statement. The company is understood to be considering options to try to raise more money.The Pre, which was unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January, is seen by many as Palm's last chance to recover from the blows dealt to it by the rise of competitors including the BlackBerry and iPhone.Display models excited pundits, with user-friendly developments including a multi-touch screen, wireless charging dock and innovative internet-based operating system called webOS.Despite strong showings from rivals – who have almost succeeded in pushing Palm out of the lucrative smartphone business altogether - Colligan said he had been heartened by early responses to the Pre."Despite the challenging market environment, the extraordinary response to the Palm Pre and the new Palm webOS reaffirms our confidence in our long-term prospects."But the amount of cash spent during the quarter is around the same amount that Palm raised when venture capital firmElevation Partners extended its 25% stake to 39%in the company late last year. At that time Palm was spending about $50m per quarter. Its debt, of $396m, has been downgraded to junk status.
Internet companies in Britain are being asked to sign up to a new code of conduct for behavioural advertising, in an attempt to quell invasion of privacy concerns over the controversial marketing technology.The UK's Internet Advertising Bureau, a trade organisation representing more than 450 companies, has announced a set of guidelines for the systems, which have stirred up passionate reaction among civil liberties and privacy campaigners.Ten companies have already signed up to the guidelines, including Google, Yahoo and Phorm, the controversial UK behavioural ad company, and the IAB said it was important to come up with standards to codify this area of business.Behavioural systems employ data collected by internet companies to push targeted advertising at computer users, based on information such as the websites and subjects in which they are interested.The IAB guidelines include a number of stipulations such as telling users clearly what behavioural tracking involves and gaining their consent for its use.While web firms such as Google already use forms of behavioural targeting to decide which adverts to display, the adoption of the technology has been slower across the wider media industry.Some organisations – including the Guardian – have looked at using more intelligent and complicated systems, but the greatest controversy has been around the use of behavioural tracking by internet service providers.In particular, UK company Phorm has come under fire for a system called Webwise, which is being trialled by Britain's largest internet service provider, BT. Webwise can be installed by ISPs to monitor every action a user makes online – allowing it to send its own targeted adverts down everyone's broadband line and make extra money.Some campaigners have called that prospect illegal, while others were outraged when it emerged that Phorm's systems were secretly trialled on thousands of BT customers without their consent.BT and Phorm have repeatedly denied that the system presents a threat to users, and an investigation into the project by City of London police was dropped last year after officials said it would be a waste of money."Behavioural advertising makes up about 20% of the online display advertising market, and if this is going to grow we need to have consumer trust," IAB spokesman Nick Stringer told Reuters.The IAB code of conduct may go some way to allay public concerns, but signing up to the agreement is voluntary and does not prevent any company from continuing with behavioural ads. Nor does it address the question of whether telecommunications companies should be able to use any information they collect on web users, given their privileged relationship with users.Writing on guardian.co.uk last month Becky Hogge, the chair of digital campaign organisation the Open Rights Group, said rules were important for consumers to protect them not only from the worst excesses of internet companies - but also governments who could overstep boundaries.ISPs, she added, "should be prevented from abusing that power, and shielded from the power of those who would seek to force them to break their confidence with us".•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Will the release ofGod of War IIIreally turn round the fortunes of the PS3? Analyst Nick Williamscertainly thinks so, although price will still be a factor.The launch of God of War III in late 2009/early 2010 will mark a pivotal moment for Sony. But in order to ensure that this game is a hardware sales driver, the cost of the base-level PS3 will need to be in the same ballpark as the Xbox 360 and Wii.  According to our latest consumer tracking study, only two in three people who plan to purchase God of War III currently own a PS3Like most who played them I enjoyed the two previous God of War games but would I be waiting around for the third game before I bought a PS3? Maybe, I guess, but chances are most God of War fans will have either got a PS3 or moved over to 360. That's if they can afford one of course. Williams, like most analysts, states the obvious, although price is clearly still a huge factor in the PS3's slow start.The price point for the PS3 remains a real problem for Sony. Sony execs now find themselves in the precarious position of trying to balance consumer price expectations with the high costs of producing each PS3. That said, the PS2's continued success more than eight years after launch suggests that Sony is thinking long term with the PS3. If Sony can continue to bring down hardware manufacturing costs, it seems likely that it will offer a price cut by the end of Summer 2009.So what do you think? Will God of War III cause a rush on PS3 consoles? Or is a price cut still the only way Sony are going to shift more?
Some Germans, a few Brits and the odd Brazilian - all mixed with a bucket of hydrogen peroxide, a dash of laundry accelerant and a healthy dose of sunshine.At least, that's the recipe a gang of hackers discovered when they tried to find a way to add some sparkle to their old computers – andended up creating somethingthey call "Retr0bright".The saga started when a group of vintage computer enthusiasts – or more precisely, fans of the Commodore Amiga - were looking for a way to bring the life back into their old beige boxes.You still see them hanging around today, but those plastic cases were absolutely everywhere during the 1980s; the VIC-20s, Acorns, Commodores, Amstrads and others that plenty of us still have stuffed away in attics or garages, getting more useless by the day.Those old bodies were made from a plastic called acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) and treated with a bromine-based chemical that protected against fires – but had a side effect: turning the plastic yellow as they got older.This yellowing has proved a problem for vintage PC enthusiasts, but one group of German Amiga fans discovered that dipping in hydrogen peroxide could undo some of the aging process.That's the point where David Stevenson – a safety manager from Manchester known on internet forums as "Merlin" – got involved."Being a former industrial chemist helped me tremendously in understanding what was going on at the molecular level and to develop a treatment process to reverse the affect," he said.After extensive discussions with other like-minded souls, Watts and his cohort finally perfected a process to make acleaning gelwhich, when applied and placed under ultraviolet light or bright sunshine, could return old machines to their former glory.So what next?Since it's a fairly basic recipe there's nothing they can patent, so retr0bright's creators have decided to do what hackers do best – and shared it with the public."This was a fascinating project to work on,"wrote Watts. "Science isn't always seen as a sexy subject, but this project actually had a goal that the retro forums could relate to."Just make sure you take notice of the big red safety warning before you get started.Update:I originally referred to Merlin as the alter-ego of David Watts. In fact, David Watts is another member of the UK Amiga Community; Merlin's real name is David Stevenson (I've now corrected the story to reflect that).
A young British entrepreneur has died while snowboarding in the Swiss Alps despite a mountain rescue operation played out live on thesocial networkingsiteTwitter.Rob Williams, 29, co-founder of a music company with a multimillion-pound turnover, became separated from a group of fellow entrepreneurs while skiing in blizzard conditions in the resort of Verbier and fell 20 metres down a cliff on to rocks.Other members of the group put outa request on Twitterasking for the mobile phone number of Williams and his childhood friend and business partner, Jason Tavaria, who had also become separated from the group, in the hope of tracking them down. Rescue helicopters were unable to land in the area because of atrocious weather and search teams set out on foot to find the pair.Tavaria and Williams were on holiday in a group that included Michelle Dewberry, winner of the second series of TV show The Apprentice. Dewberry launched the online rescue on Twitter on Monday afternoon when she wrote: "2 of our ski party been missing since 4pm. Conditions terrible. 1 guy found but trapped. 20 man team searching for other."Another member of the group, Alex Hoye, sent out aTwitter message appealing for Williams's phone number. "Urgent: if anyone has or knows Rob Williams of Dolphin Music's mobile, please send. Mtn rescue in progress."An hour later his tweet reported that someone had provided Williams's number: "Rob's number rec'd via Twitter. Jason now found using GPS/Google maps and phone; still working on finding Rob." Another entrepreneur, Joshua March, recorded how he used Google maps to determine Tavaria and Williams's locations. It appears the pair veered off piste accidently, unable to see in the white-out that descended on the mountain.Tavaria, 29, had sent his friends and rescue teams a GPS signal from his iPhone to give his exact location. He was rescued six hours later. The search teams found Williams seven hours after he went missing, by which time he had died.The discovery of Williams's body was reported on the Twitter site, which was flooded with tributes to the entrepreneur. Much of the unfolding drama was reported on a technology websiteTechCrunch UK. The site's editor, Mike Butcher, posted a series of messages. He wrote: "I just got off the phone to one member of the trip. They said, 'Everyone literally said they'd just had the best time on the trip. And then it went straight to the opposite. We are all in shock.'"Williams and Tavaria became friends at school in St Albans, Hertfordshire, and set up Dolphin Music, a musical instrument internet outlet, in 1999 while they were still students at Liverpool University. Dolphin Music had sales in excess of £9.2m in 2007, when it was ranked Britain's 11th fastest-growing company.In a separate incident last week, two British tourists fell to their deaths in the French Alps. Richard Ryan, 27, of York, and Christopher Lockwood, 28, of Leeds, died in the resort of Les Deux Alpes.A tragedy in tweets: the messagesMichelle Dewberry was on holiday in Verbier when her first messages led, over a few hours, to a mountain tragedy being played out on Twitter. Here are some of the messages.Michelle Dewberry2 of our ski party been missing since 4pm. Conditions terrible. 1 guy found but trapped. 20 man team searching for other.Alex HoyeUrgent: If anyone has or knows Rob Williams of Dolphin Music's mobile, please send. Mtn rescue in progress.Alex HoyeRob's number rec'd via Twitter; Jason now found using GPS/Google maps &amp; phone (joshmarch org'd); still working on finding Rob.Joshua MarchPhew. just got GPS co-ordinates from the Dolphin guys iphones (thank you Google maps!), passed on to ski patrol.Alex Hoye20 rescuers and dogs searching for Rob - though some confusions as Jason was stuck, had Rob phone.WhatThey used Twitter to find someone's cell phone? So what? They could have used anything to find the guys cell number.Mike ButcherRob Williams of Dolphin Music dies in Alps skiing accident.Michael HannahRIP Rob Williams, prays are with family. Moment of silence (no tweets for the next hour).• This article was amended on Wednesday 4 March 2009. Alex Hoye, not Hoyle, and Joshua March, not Marsh, were involved in the search for Rob Williams and Jason Tavaria. This has been corrected.
Today was the last scheduled in the Pirate Bay trial, and the four defence lawyers made their closing statements. They all presented much the same points, the main ones being that the Pirate Bay site didn't hold any copyright films or music -- it merely acted as a search engine -- and that no copyrighted content passed through it anyway. The prosecution had failed to produce any uploaders or downloaders, and had not shown their actions were illegal where they happened to live.Fredrik Neij's lawyer, Jonas Nilsson, said that the prosecution had not established that most of the links on the Pirate Bay were to copyright material, but linking to copyright material wasn't specific to Pirate Bay, it was an internet-wide problem.Then there were the financial issues. The prosecution appears to have an exaggerated view of how much money the site made (millions!), and an even more generous view of how much had been lost in the cases presented in evidence (more millions).Gottfrid Svartholm's lawyer, Ola Salomonsson, said there were only four adverts on Pirate Bay, not the 64 the prosecution claimed, so the revenue was closer to 725,000 kronor (£55,846, €62,510, $78,655). That was less than the site's running costs of 800,000 kronor.As for damages of 117 million kronor (£9m, €10.1m, $12.7m), witness Roger Wallis had testified that the content industries benefited from file-sharing. Peter Sunde's lawyer, Peter Althin, said the personal attacks on Wallis were "pathetic". As for Sunde, he was just a spokesman for the site and hadn't done anything illegal.Carl Lundström's lawyer, Per E Samuelson, said (to quote TorrentFreak's summary) thatwhen new technology appears it can be difficult to "see the wood for the trees". He said that just because something may have been used by people for illicit purposes, should that mean that there should be an attack on the infrastructure as a result? It's like taking legal action against car manufacturers for the problems experienced on the roads, he said.As for Lundström, he "didn't own the site, nor was he involved in maintaining or coding it." He was just a "businessman who is only vaguely connected to TPB [via]  one of his customers (PRQ),"TorrentFreak reported.The prosecution didn't enhance its reputation during the case, but asWired pointed out in an editorial, perhaps the defendants didn't, either. Their previous "swagger evaporated like salt water on a beached schooner once The Pirate Bay landed on the witness stand." Wired said:In the courtroom, the defendants quickly abandoned their revolutionary, free-culture ideals in favor of the simpler philosophy embraced by criminal defendants since time immemorial: I'm Not Responsible.Outside the courtroom, "Peter Sunde expressed confidence that The Pirate Bay would win the case," reportsArs Technica. "A guilty verdict would 'be a huge mistake for the future of the Internet,' he said. 'It's quite obvious which side is the good side'."It's equally obvious to the record industry, of course, which sees sites like Pirate Bay destroying the commercial music business. In its report,Billboardquotes Kjell-Åke Hamrén, chairman of SMFF, the Swedish Music Publishers Association:"Without compensation the creators' livelihood is unsustainable. It is therefore of utmost importance that licensing schemes and new legal services can emerge in the digital environment, while at the same time legislation says firmly no to grand scale businesses that are built on copyright infringement."The verdict is due on April 17
Haven't covered anything from the indie scene in a while, so here's a quick pointer toBlush, a 3D browser game fromFlashbang studios. You're a carnivorous sea creature, using your tentacles to smash squid, crabs and other sub-aqua baddies in order to collect their eggs. The more eggs you get, the more powerful your attacks become.The control interface is interesting - you use the mouse to spin your tentacles in an aggressive style - and the graphics are gorgeous. There are obvious comparisons with flOw, though the four-minute time limit brings in a tension that is absent from the PS3 cult classic.You'll need to download theUnity 3D engineto play, but it's worth it for the visual style alone.
Those of you not addicted toTwitterwill enjoy watching Jon Stewart and tech corr Samantha Bee in The Daily Show's "Old Man Stewart Shakes His Fist At" spot. It's funny.Update: The video was removed but is now available onThe Daily Showsite. Many thanks to EMComments for providing a link in the comments below.Twitter is also featuring in theDoonesbury comic stripat the moment.
Today, Apple "refreshed" its computer range, which means it mostly updated existing machines without doing anything strikingly novel such as, for example, a netbook. It was also a low-key launch that mainly consisted of updating a web site, without a speech from Steve Jobs or anyone else from Apple's management.The Mac Mini got the biggest update, partly because it was the most out of date. As rumoured, the new Mini has an Intel Core 2 Duo running at 2.0 or 2.26GHz, an nVidia 9400M integrated graphics chip, and a slow 120GB, 250GB, or 320GB hard drive. It also has have five USB ports and, for reasons unknown, both Mini-DisplayPort and Mini-DVI ports. (But still no Blu-ray drive, and no HDMI port.)The iMac refresh brings faster Core 2 Duo processors (2.66GHz, 2.93GHz, or  3.06GHz), integrated nVidia graphics, and fast hard drives from 320GB to 1TB. All the iMacs have glossy displays, so if you want matt, you're out of luck.The nVidia graphics chips use shared memory, which is a very good approach for economically priced notebooks. However, you have to go to the 2.93GHz (£1.499) and 3.06GHz (£1,799) 24-inch iMacs to get a real nVidia GeForce or ATI Radeon graphics card.The Mac Pro gets an upgrade to Intel's newNehalem-based quad-core Xeon processors with up to 8GB of memory, and eight-core systems with up to 32GB. All have four FW800 FireWire ports. As my colleague Charles Arthur noted, one with everything maxes out at around £14,000.Apple reckons its new machines are more affordable than before, and in the US, that seems to be true. Whether they will prove to be "more affordable" enough is another matter. The fact is, most buyers won't pay Apple's prices, or Sony's prices, or the high price of Dell's all-in-ones, so it's pointless to argue that they're equivalent or cheaper.In the UK, things are a little worse, and the BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones talked ofApple's "brave" price rise. He says:From now on, Apple's entry-level computer, the Mac Mini, which comes without a screen or a keyboard, starts at £499 - as compared to £391 before today. The 20in iMac now costs £949 - the old price was £782. Right at the top of the range, the brand new 8-core Mac Pro costs £2499, but the quad-core costs £1899, up from £1712.On Twitter, Ian Betteridge, former editor of MacUser, posted some comparisons, saying: "The closest specced equivalent Dell I can find to the £649 Mac mini costs... £379. That's with a 2.8GHz Core 2 Duo, rather than a 2GHz one.Of course, if you go for the pretty Dell Studio Hybrid, the price is closer - £598 vs £649. But at least you have the choice not to."The problem, says Apple UK, is that the pound has declined against the dollar -- though it might have been more pertinent to know how the Taiwanese and Chinese currencies were doing, since Apple uses Taiwanese suppliers who may assemble machines in China.In the PC market you can easily pick up a notebook or desktop PC for £250-£350, or a quad-core tower for £500. Netbooks are available for £150 to £300. They're assembled in Taiwan or China as well.People who have jobs will still be able to afford Macs, and there are plenty of Mac enthusiasts who aren't overmuch bothered about the price, but just want the latest systems. But people who want to conserve their cash could either reduce their ambitions or put off purchases until later.
Join Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and Vic Keegan as they look at the issues affecting British start-ups, from the Big Idea to worldwide expansion. Jemima Kiss grills legal expert Chris Grew from technology legal advisors Orrick, who answers the questions you've posed over the past week on the PDA blog.Jemima also welcomes Million Dollar Webpage creator Alex Tew to the Elevator Pitch lift, to hear about his latest (ad)venture, Popjam, a comedy aggregator that he hopes will makes him his second million. Charles and Vic do their best to burst his bubble, while debating the benefits and detriments of crowdsourcing apps.The debate continues in the news, where Facebook's new Bill of Rights comes under criticism, and Yahoo!'s and Sony's top tier shake-ups are analysed.Tune in every Tuesday for Tech Weekly, only on The Guardian.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
It has already suffered heavily at the hands of the economic downturn – but the computer industry must be ready for the toughest year in its history, according to one industry analyst.Technology specialist Gartner is predicting that 2009 will see demand decline by almost 12%, nearly four times the previous worst year on record, when the market shrunk by 3.2% in 2001.That will be a shuddering reverse compared to the past three years when sales have grown by at least 10%.A study from the company suggests that computer makers can no longer rely on replacement sales to bolster profits, or look to new markets in Asia and Africa for help.Gartner is forecasting that PC sales for 2009 will only reach 257 million units worldwide. Industry consensus says that about 300m units were sold in 2008.The prediction means that the worldwide market would fall back to the same size as in 2007, when IDC, another industry analyst, says 257m units were sold worldwide, with 100m going to consumers and 157m to businesses.The Gartner research indicates that developed markets such as Europe and the United States can expect falls of around 13%, while even emerging markets are likely to register declines of more than 10%, the first time ever they have seen falls in sales."The PC industry is facing extraordinary conditions as the global economy continues to weaken, users stretch PC lifetimes and PC suppliers grow increasingly cautious," said George Shiffler, Gartner's research director.The numbers make difficult reading for an industry that has enjoyed almost unalloyed growth since its birth in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Over the past three decades the computer has become a central tool for many people, with hundreds of millions of new machines being sold every year.The only ray of light in the forecast is that shipments of "mobile PCs" – including the new class of small, light, low-cost machines also known as "netbooks" – will grow by 9% to 155.6m units. Netbook sales are expected to grow from 11.7m in 2008 to 21m in 2009, an 80% growth.But with the recession now taking grip worldwide and consumers unwilling or unable to buy new computers, hi-tech corporations are struggling to come to terms with the prospect of falling demand.In particular, Shiffler said that many in developed markets most custom came from existing PC owners – who would simply refuse to upgrade their current machines to newer models – rather than coming from customers who did not previously own a PC before."The impact of reduced replacements will be especially acute in mature markets, where replacements are estimated to account for around 80% of shipments," he said.The news will be unsettling for PC manufacturers, but they have at least been making their own gloomy predictions over recent months.Dire financial results from some of the world's largest computer makers have underscored the depth of the recession series of dire results and predicted little in the way of sunlight for the industry.The world's largest PC manufacturer, Hewlett-Packard, registered profits of $1.9bn for the first quarter of 2009 – down 13% from the same time last year, with substantial falls in Asia and Europe. It is instituting a number of cutbacks, including pay reductions for some staff.Meanwhile Texas-based Dell, the second placed computer maker worldwide, saw its fourth-quarter net income drop 48% from the same period last year to $351m, while its revenues fell by 16% to $13.43bn."We can't predict how long this slowdown will last," said Dell's chief financial officer, Brian Gladden, last week. "We expect it to be protracted."
The only good news is that Blood on the Sand is a better than the first 50 Cent game. But bettering one of the worst games of all time is hardly an achievement, and fans needn't get excited.This Gears of War style shooter is derivative, mildly offensive and tedious to play. The "plot" sees the rapper head to the ­Middle East to recover stolen money. Cue action that involves gunning down wave after wave of well-armed, but clueless, enemies. The action does get marginally more entertinaing when played with a friend via co-op. Fiddy fans will probably persevere – especially as you can unlock extra music tracks – but even they will tire of the derivative action (Sega's The Club did arcade shooting much better).Leave your brain, critical faculties and any sense of gaming self-worth at the door and you can grab half an hour or so of entertainment here. But when gaming can be so enriching, beautiful and uplifting, why bother?
In the days when the arcades held sway, many a misspent youth revolved around Street Fighter II, which remains the most revered of all the beat-em-ups.Street Fighter IV aims to revive the spirit of SFII, and it succeeds spectacularly well. Despite the 3D graphics, you're still confined to moving in two dimensions, which keeps the gameplay as pure as that of its predecessor and lets you focus on timing and strategy. All the treasured characters are present and correct, and it's slightly easier to nail special moves and counterattacks with the Focus Attack mode. And you won't find anything more satisfying in gaming than pulling off an Ultra-Combo.The single-player mode is commendably simple – even the Challenges dispense with extraneous devices. But Street Fighter IV really comes into its own when played online, with a stunning absence of lag. If you're a beat-em-up fan, Street Fighter IV is essential. And if you're going to play it online, a good arcade stick would be a wise purchase, too.
If you want to sum up Empire in a single word, it's epic – from the vast armies (up to 2,000 strong) to the long-awaited inclusion of naval battles. Graphically, the new engine covers both the realtime battles and an improved turn-based map, making it a voyage of discovery for old and new players.There are two massive single-player campaigns – Road to Independence or Grand Campaign. The first eases you into all the new features, while the second lets you loose on the entire 18th century as gunpowder slowly turns the tide against old-school military strategy. There's a meaty multiplayer element, too. With gorgeous battles and reduced micro-management, Empire continues the Total War trad­ition of raising the bar so high other war games will be limbo-dancing under it for years.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Ofcom today announced plans to encourage the development of ultra high-speed internet access across Britain, saying it was "clearing the way" for future investment.The media regulator unveiled a series of measures aimed at opening up competition and development of broadband that runs at speeds in excess of 40 megabits per second – more than 10 times faster than the current average.It also said it would consider extending BT's duties, so that the telecoms giant, which currently acts as a wholesaler of traditional copper-line broadband connections, would also have to share fibre-optic lines with other providers in the future."We want to support rapid and widespread investment in super-fast broadband and the continued, critical role of competition in meeting consumers' needs," the regulator said in a statement."This is important because competition in super-fast broadband services and infrastructure will mean more investment, innovation, differentiation and choice, as well as competitive prices for consumers."Ofcom's 91-page reportputs forward a number of other proposals, including supporting industry developments, conducting reviews of the market, and working to encourage private investment wherever possible.Some companies have already pushed forward with plans to introduce faster broadband networks – including cable providerVirgin Media, which recently said it planned to launch a 50Mbps servicerunning over fibre optics.Such speeds would allow consumers to download movies online in just a few minutes – or let companies expand their services online in innovative new ways.BT, meanwhile, has said it plans to roll out next-generation services next year, delivering speeds of up to 40Mbps to 40% of British homes.The report says Ofcom is prepared to support such programmes, as well as encourage further development of wireless technologies, traditional cable, mobile and satellite broadband. But it also says it received a strong message that this may not be enough."It was clear from consultation responses that few stakeholders believe individual private sector investments alone will deliver to the whole of the UK," it said. "How far private sector investment will meet the UK's needs remains uncertain."Ofcom's ambitions appear to be more expansive than those of the communications minister, Lord Carter, whose recent interim Digital Britain report announced a target of providing universal broadband of up to 2Mbps by 2012.That figure was attacked by critics, who said most British homes could already theoretically access faster speeds.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Kumo is a Japanese word that can mean both "cloud" and "spider" – but Microsoft is hoping it can translate it into something far more tangible: success in the search engine market.Rumours that the world's most powerful software was planning to refresh its search engine by dubbing it Kumo have been doing therounds for months, but a report from CNet hasfinally confirmedthat the company is now starting to test the new system internally.Certainly, a name change wouldn't phase Microsoft staff, since the company's search system has already undergone a number of costume changes in recent years as it tries to get some traction to take on Google. It started out as MSN Search, and then became Windows Live Search before its current monicker was adopted in 2006.While Kumo is just a codename for now (visitors toKumo.comare greeted with an "access denied" message), the changes it represents could eventually replaceLive Search, the company's current search engine.Catching up with its competitors is a tough job, however. In the US search market,Microsoft comes thirdwith 8.5% of all searches; way behind Google on 63% and seriously trailing Yahoo's 21%.Worldwide, Google is even stronger – and in some large markets there are local competitors to worry about too, such as Baidu in China. And after failing to take over Yahoo to gain an instant leg-up, Microsoft's options are slowly getting whittled down.To that end, Microsoft executives are promising that Kumo will represent some alterations and fresh ideas - with possible extras thought to include a new'best match' feature, some new categories - and perhaps even integration with natural language search enginePowerset, which Microsoft bought last summer for $100m.But ultimately, Kumo looks more like a rebrand of the existing service than a re-engineering of the system – and even then the name might not survive the rough and tumble of development, says experts."I really doubt that will be the final name,"wrote SearchEngineLand's Danny Sullivan, "If only for the lukewarm reaction it gained when that rumour first came out."
The speed and scale of the world's love affair with mobile phones was revealed yesterday in a UN report that showed more than half the global population now pay to use one.The survey, by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), an agency of the UN, also found that nearly a quarter of the world's 6.7 billion people use the internet.But it is the breathtaking growth of cellular technology that is doing more to change society, particularly in developing countries where a lack of effective communications infrastructure has traditionally been one of the biggest obstacles to economic growth.By the end of last year there were an estimated 4.1bn mobile subscriptions, up from 1bn in 2002. That represents six in 10 of the world's population, although it is hard to make a precise calculation about how many people actually use mobile phones.Africa is the continent with the fastest growth, where penetration has soared from just one in 50 people at the turn of the century to 28%.Much of the take-up is thought to have been driven by money transfer services that allow people without bank accounts to send money speedily and safely by text messages, which the recipient - typically a family member - can cash in at the other end. Vodafone's M-Pesa money transfer service was launched in Kenya in 2007 and now has 5 million users.The ITU report points to the Gambia, where mobile subscriptions have rocketed amid stiff competition among mobile operators. Out of almost a million telephone subscribers, there are more than 800,000 mobile subscriptions but only about 50,000 fixed telephone lines in service.Developing countries now account for about two-thirds of the mobile phones in use, compared with less than half of subscriptions in 2002.The adoption of mobile technology has outstripped the growth of fixed-line connections, which rose from 1bn to 1.3bn over the same period, with market penetration stuck just below 20% for some years.The figures demonstrate that many people in the developing world are bypassing the older technology altogether.In the developed world, many people use more than one mobile device, with subscriptions exceeding population by 11% in Europe.On the other hand, a single mobile phone may have several users in poorer countries, where handsets are sometimes shared or rented out by their owners."There has been a clear shift to mobile cellular telephony," the ITU said. "In contrast to the growth in the mobile sector, fixed telephony has experienced nearly no growth in the last decade."The agency painted a positive picture of a world being opened up and given fresh opportunities by improved communications: "The spread of mobile cellular services and technologies has made great strides towards connecting the previously unconnected."The report also recorded a marked increase in internet use, which more than doubled from 11% of people using the net in 2002 to 23% last year.Here the report identified a clear gap between the rich and poor world: fewer than one in 20 Africans went online in 2007, for instance, and less than 15% in Asia, whereas Europe and the Americas recorded penetration of 43% and 44% respectively.Across the world just 5% of people have broadband internet at home, although this rises to 20% in the developed world.In Africa, fixed broadband penetration stood at a mere 0.2% in 2007. But the report highlighted the potential of mobile broadband to expand the availability of high-speed internet access.By the end of 2008, there were close to 335 million mobile broadband subscribers across the world, although not all of these would be users, the report conceded.At the moment the developed world is far ahead, with 14% penetration in mobile broadband, compared with less than 1% in the developing world. The report found that there was a persistent "digital divide" between rich and poor countries in the use of communications technology.Sweden was the world's most advanced country in the use of information and communications technology, in an index of 154 countries that took various factors into account such as access to computers and literacy levels.South Korea and Denmark were placed second and third in the list, while the UK was ranked 10th."Despite significant improvements in the developing world, the gap between the ICT [information and communication technology] haves and have-nots remains," the report said.One problem it identified was that the cost of mobile and internet services in developing countries was relatively high  as a proportion of average income. The global economic downturn could also affect the development of communications technology if cash-strapped consumers cut their spending, the report said.But its prognosis was relatively sanguine: "Despite the economic downturn, current global ICT developments are unlikely to change drastically, given the pervasive nature of information and communication technologies."Calling EverestThen you hear your mobile. Being 29,198ft above sea level is no longer an excuse for not answering. In 2007 China Telecom installed a mast near the Everest base camp.With 100,000 phone masts erected each year, the number of places with "no signal" is dwindling fast. "More than 90% of the global population now has access," said Gabriel Solomon of mobile trade body GSMA. EvenNorth Koreahas lifted a ban, though access to handsets and international lines are heavily restricted.Remote spots likeBhutanorTibetare increasingly in reach. Networks are also covering Africa, with a $50bn investment in the sub-Sahara region alone. Only unpopulated areas like Antarctica or Chile's Atacama desert will remain off the hook. Closer to home, a few areas remain silent, but Solomon says that after the 2012 digital switchover UK coverage will be "ubiquitous".Zoe Wood
"When I went for my army selection day, they took my phone away and I just felt lost," said David Morris, 17, from Staffordshire, who got his first one at age 10. "My fingers were jittering about. It's like the phone is a part of you."He admitted: "I don't really talk on my phone, I just text, because it's easier than having a conversation."Text is the cornerstone of teen dating rituals, with the wannabe soldier's inbox inundated with messages signed LOL - Laughs Out Lound. "I'm not blowing my own trumpet but it's mostly girls that text me," he said. "When a girl was texting me recently I sent 115 messages in one day; and she was just a friend."According to Carphone Warehouse, British youngsters see their mobile phone as their "best friend", with one in four using it to download music and photos.The industry gets them young, and David said there was pressure to have the "right" phone."My first one was a Sony Ericsson. It wasn't very good, and my friends kept saying you've got to get a better phone. And in the end I did, so there is peer pressure." David's best friend is now an LG Viewty with a touch screen that's "awesome" and 5 Meg camera. But he doesn't use the 3G function - his sister has turned it off after his brother ran up a big bill.
More than half the global population now pay to use a mobile phone, according to a new UN report. With this breathtaking surge in users has come a huge expansion in the mobile services available, from instant money transfers to public health advice to internet access. The fastest growth has been in Africa where people like Deograsias Mukeba, from the Democratic Republic of Congo, now find their phones indispensable.For much of his life, Mukeba didn't have an address. His corrugated iron house had no number and his volcanic ash street in the heart of Goma had no name. There was no postal service and the phone system had long since disintegrated. So when his mother died in 1995 on the other side of the Democratic Republic of Congo, her church sent a note marked only "Deograsias Mukeba, Goma". Remarkably it got to him - but three weeks after the funeral.That was before. Now Mukeba's address goes with him everywhere. It has transformed the 33-year-old's life. It is an old Nokia mobile phone. "It was very hard discovering my mother had died and been buried and I didn't know anything about it for weeks," said Mukeba. "But that's how life was. If you lived in Goma, Kinshasa was another planet."I didn't really have any work. When the cell phones came I found the money and bought one because it was cool to have. It cost me $25 (&pound;18). It's a lot."My brother lives in Kinshasa where he is a trader. He called me and asked me to start finding some things for him that you couldn't get in Kinshasa but you could find in Rwanda and Uganda, like some electrics and car parts. Now I speak to him every day. I send a lot of stuff. Now we are making money."Mobile phones have changed Congo irrevocably, especially Goma. The country has only about 20,000 land lines after the system collapsed under Mobutu Sese Seko's ruinous dictatorship.Now traders shipping imports to distant towns, farmers sending produce to the main cities, and those involved in the thriving gold and diamond smuggling trade use their phones to check prices, text quotes and arrange deliveries. Women who once sold roasted corn by the roadside now make a living dealing in mobile top-up cards and recharging flat phone batteries in a town where much of the population doesn't have electricity."Everyone but the very poor has a cell phone," said Mukeba. "Even the guy who only makes a few dollars a day picking up passengers on his bike. Even the woman selling things by the roadside. Almost everyone finds the money."Cell phones have helped transform Goma in other ways. The town's economic boom of recent years has been fuelled by war and plunder, particularly of the rich mines in eastern Congo. Among them are diamonds and gold but also coltan, a rare but crucial element in mobile phones.The small fortunes to be made by mining it sent tens of thousands digging for black mud and attracted criminal syndicates and foreign armies. "It all came at once," said Mukeba. "War, cell phones, dollars. Some people are getting very, very rich and everyone is making a little bit of money."
When Alan Roberto Lima was growing up in Vila Alian&ccedil;a, a notoriously violent favela on the western outskirts of Rio de Janeiro, only the community's elite could afford mobile phones."The bandits and the big businessmen," said Lima, 33, whose family has lived in the community since 1962, when the government evicted thousands of slum dwellers, including his mother, from the city centre and packed them off to housing estates such as Vila Alian&ccedil;a. Today things have changed. Just as the heavily armed drug traffickers have seized control of the slums since the 1980s, so too have mobiles."Cell phones are just like cellulite - any old bum has it," said Lima, who pays R$140 (&pound;40) a month for his Nextel radio phone with 400 free minutes and which helps him run his beachwear business, which produces over 1,000 pairs of Bermuda shorts each month for the chic boutiques of Ipanema and Copacabana.Brazil is at the forefront of the mobile phone revolution. According to figures released last month by Brazil's telecommunications regulator, Anatel, 1.3 million new mobile phone users were registered in January 2009 alone, taking the total number of users in Brazil to 151.9 million out of a total population of 190 million. On the frontline of the mobile phone's charge in South America are the red brick shanty towns of cities such as Rio and S&atilde;o Paulo. Mobile phone companies are increasingly targeting the slums in search of new customers."Without my mobile, my business would become unviable," said Lima, whose family business helps dress Rio's fashionable beachgoers.
Boniface Kamau's bank is fast, efficient, and only shuts when it is out of power. It instantly sends money to his mother across town, pays his electricity bill, and transfers cash into a savings club pool. Did he mention that his Nokia handset also makes voice calls, sends text messages and takes pictures?"Sometimes I ask myself how people lived before we had these things," said the 37-year-old taxi driver who works from Nairobi's international airport.Mobile phones are now ubiquitous in urban Africa. No longer a status symbol, they are an essential part of life, affordable even to the very poor. And in Kenya the recent transformation of a phone into a "moving bank", in Kamau's words, means that financial services has joined communication in being transformed from being a privilege to a basic right.Kenya has had mobiles for a decade but recent fierce competition among service providers has drastically reduced costs and continued the rapid growth in phone ownership. In 2001 Kamau scraped together nearly £100 to buy a basic phone and free himself from the weekly 30-minute wait to use a public call box.Today the equivalent handset sells for little more than £10. A simcard costs less than £1; customers can top up with 18p worth of credit. Many people own multiple phones to take advantage of the best call prices.Having never owned a landline, Kamau's initial joy at owning a mobile came from talking to his relatives in other towns whenever he felt like it. It was useful too. When his wife Pauline bought a phone she could call if there was a problem with the children, or if she needed groceries.As a work tool, the phone soon paid itself off. His customers who went on trips abroad could now text him before boarding a return flight in Europe or Asia so he could pick them up. First-time clients could contact him for subsequent trips around town."Business became so much easier," said Kamau. "I never turned my phone off because there was always money to be made."With 3G data speeds now available in Nairobi, it is normal to see people surfing the web using their handsets. But for Kamau, and the 5 million other Kenyans to have used the money transfer service, it is M-Pesa product that has made the mobile phone truly indispensable.Every week Kamau hands his savings to his local Safaricom agent, who credits the deposit into his virtual account. He then transfers about £25 via text message to his mother's phone, who withdraws it at her nearest agent by entering a secret code."She sometimes has the money in her hand in five minutes," said Kamau. "Technology is good."
The rapid growth of the mobile phone industry has created billionaires by the bucketload, particularly in developing countries where well-connected business families have been able to gain control of the telecommunications market.Carlos Slim, a Mexican entrepreneur, was ranked as the world's second richest man last year - behind Warren Buffett and ahead of Bill Gates with an estimated fortune of $68bn.As well as Telmex in Mexico, he controls companies across Latin America. He recently came to the rescue of the New York Times with a $250m investment that cemented his position as one of the world's most powerful businessmen.The next wave of challengers come from Africa and Asia. Sunil Mittal (no relation to steel tycoon Lakshmi Mittal), built the Bharti group into India's biggest mobile phone operator in 10 years.The son of a politician, he was one of the first to see the potential of the wireless telephone market opening up in the mid-1990s. In 2005, Vodafone paid $1.5bn for a 10% stake and Mittal is estimated to have a personal fortune worth $3.3bn.In China, the world's largest mobile market is still dominated by government-controlled companies, but the Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka Shing has made much of his fortune by investing in overseas markets.Li was behind the rise of Orange in the UK, before selling it to France Telecom at the top of the dotcom bubble. He has since reinvested money in the rather less successful 3 network.Another beneficiary of the UK's early lead in mobile telephony is Charles Dunstone, founder and chief executive of Carphone Warehouse.His partner David Ross recently suffered heavy losses in property investments though, dragging down the value of their stakes in Carphone as Ross pledged his shares as loan collateral.Increasingly, this first generation of European entrepreneurs are being eclipsed by businessmen able to exploit faster growth in developing countries.Naguib Sawiris, for example, runs Orascom, Egypt's first multi-national company.Founded by his father, the group invested heavily in mobile communications and now has interests across the Middle East, Africa, Bangladesh and Pakistan. Sawiris is estimated to be worth nearly $13bn.In South Africa, the rise of the mobile phone industry has been epitomised by Phuthuma Nhleko, who led a management buy-in of MTN in 2002 as part of the black economic empowerment initiative.He has since led MTN to become Africa's largest mobile operator with more than 80 million subscribers in 21 countries.
Lord Stephen Carter, if he's gotten over the pasting that hisinterim Digital Britain reportreceived - is a 2-megabit line the best we can all hope for? - might take some succour from theFake Digital Britain Report.In fact, being smart, as well as politically well-connected, perhaps he'll take up some of the points that are made in it.Taking in everything from next-generation access networks, mobile networks, digital content, universal connectivity, and especially "equipping everyone to benefit from Digital Britain" (and note its inclusion of "online safeguards" in that), the FDBR is an audacious piece of work. And of course it's crowdsourced. But not yet complete.Let's take a quick spin, shall we?The bottom line here is that to remain competitive in the global economy Britain needs to embrace the network and the possibilities (both known and unknown) it can offer in a massive way. We propose that a huge infrastructure programme is unleashed guaranteeing ultra-high-speed access to literally every home and business in the country.So that's fibre to the home for everyone. No quibbles, no "but it's too expensives", no messing around assessing demand from end-users. Just do it.Well, this isn't like your average government report. And interestingly,we suggest that the first areas to receive guaranteed ulta-high-speed networks to the home should be those that have "lost out" on the introduction of ADSL and associated technologies.Unfortunately some of the sections are still blank - I think that's where you (and we) come in - and so need to be worked up. Rather than taking the original and tweaking it, this is a brave re-imagining it better.So what do you think Lord Carter should realise? Tell us here, then go and add it to the wiki - and to itsdiscussions page. Among the points you might like to tackle: do we really need another quango (the "Rights Agency")?
The newspaper chaps have tried their best to sabotage Chatterbox this week; a string of problems with the print edition's CMS have had repercussions, knocking out blog comments and confusing us all.But there was nothing they could do about last week's Chatterbox - or, admittedly, the week before's. OfficePest has ploughed through the many, many pages of raw chat, selecting the choice cuts and discarding the weird fatty globules.Here then, is everything from the Monday after Valentine's to the arrival of Street Fighter IV. But the question on everyone's lips will be, which is stranger and more made up - Dwarf Fortress or Noby Noby Boy?Confused? Man, you've come to the wrong place...Part one: MondayWith Valentine's Day at the weekend, love was in the air for many bloggers. Here's what they got up to:Umboros23got the ball of romance rolling: "Bit of a write off as we hadn't booked a restaurant. Ended up in Walkabout. Kangaroo steak is alright. Not great, but alright."Cmidrftigot lucky: "Had an enjoyable Saturday night. Went in for the M&amp;S dine in for two offer. All of the food surprisingly good and a combination of dishes that limited the amount of time on the kitchen. Job well done. As a Valentines gift I received the CE of Wrath of the Lich King. Ironic, as the Mrs has only just now started to refer to the game as World of Crapfest."AndyJ23was all about spreading the love around: "Received 12 heart shaped doughnuts, very nice sharing them this morning in office."SuperSmashInshowed us all how it should be done: "Lashings of beerage watching Rugby on Saturday followed by a drunken attempt to cook the M&amp;S grub mentioned above by Cmidrfti - what did you go for? Had the Camembert (did not go down well - couldn't seem to cook/melt the barsteward) followed by the steak (tremendous) and the souffle (top drawer). All in all, well worth the £20."Makar27was practical: "Indoor picnic - simple but effective when the weather is sh*te."OfficePestwas clearly a kitchen maestro (ahem): "I spent the weekend getting very drunk and eating fine food. On Valentine's Day, me and the missus cooked ourselves a fan-friggin-tastic meal. Bruschetta for starter: Tomatoes, Roasted peppers, Shallots, Basil, Garlic, olive oil, lemon.Chop all that lot up and mix it together – let it sit for a couple of hours for the flavours to infuse. Toast some French stick with olive oil and run with garlic, whack the mix on the top and a slice of mozzarella and grill until it goes all melty. Goddamn lush!We then had a poussin each – basil and butter under the skin and wrapped in bacon. Took them out of the tray when cooked, drained the fat, added some red wine and some stock and reduced the hell out of it. Served that with roasted garlic mash – halve a bulb and stick some olive oil over it, put it in tin foil and put it in the oven on a low heat for about 30 minutes. Squeeze out the cloves into your mash, add butter and cream. Sex on a plate."CommodoreSchmidlapphad a great night by the sound of it: "My girlf went out for lunch on Saturday and came back with the new House of the Dead game for the Wii and two of the lightgun pistol thingies for it. That coupled with Zombie Strippers, awesome food and a couple of episodes of Battlestar made for an excellent evening."[Keef says "House of the Dead, then Battlestar? Marry her!"]Smellavision, meanwhile, seemed to enjoy a bit of a girl's night in. We all hope he's joking: "Watched Sex and the City with the Mrs on Saturday night - I've never cried so much - didn't much believe in the contrivance that Steve had had sex with someone else - so out of character."Part two: Tuesday or 'Eek!  A mouse!'Goody84 had a dilemma and wisely sought advice from the life coaching experts on Chatterbox:"Something interesting did happen to me last night though (debatable). I went to switch on a plug and saw a blur behind me, ala Alien. Heart pounding, it turned out to be a mouse as I lifted up a chair (I didn't expect an alien). It's now hiding in a crevice and can't get out because I've trapped it.I have mousetraps but does anyone have any humane way of catching them? A mate at uni cut a sock at the toe and used that as a collapsible tunnel through a hole in a box which contained bait. Although, he did end up setting one on fire though, which isn't that humane. So any help would be appreciated."Killerbeewas more than happy to help: "Get a cat.  My cat has brought mice into the house before and they're invariably absolute buggers to catch and far too stupid just to run out of any door you might happen to be trying to usher them towards."I should have learned my lesson by now, but I always go through the charade of trying to "rescue" the little blighters, but after 20 minutes of futile effort, I usually just let the cat back in to sort them out.  It's the only way to be sure."BeardOfBeesjoined in: "Mice. Our cat went through a phase of bringing them into the house, he's now got two bells on his collar and makes a hell of a racket whenever he moves; this seems to have hindered his hunting ability sufficiently. All the other cats laugh at him, but it's a small price to pay to not have to come down the stairs in the morning and find a mouse head lying on the kitchen floor. Makes you wonder where the rest of the mouse ended up... probably stashed in the cornflakes packet or something ready for a little surprise next time I fancy some cereal."SuperSmashInthought laterally: "Mice - Don't think there is a humane way to catch them. There are humane traps you can buy from any decent pet store or DIY place but still means the mouse will be trapped. Maybe put a nice bit of cheese or a thimble of Pinot to help the mouse relax until you can free it."This conversation went on for some time and included talk about 'glue traps' and trapping several mice together for periods of time to create a super mouse-cannibal to eat any other mice in the immediate area.  We're an odd lot.Intermission: ahh, pretty Flower!Something to do with games at last!!!  There seems to be a lot of love on the blog (and some indifference) for the new downloadable PSN game, Flower.Umboros23:"Flower? I don't understand what people here are getting their knickers in a twist about. It's a 6/10. Maybe a 7/10 if I were to start smoking ganja again. I would have liked to see the game set in a city or at least have more variety - the countryside all looks the same. There was one nice moment in it last night where I was blown down through a long corridor of countryside after setting all the Wind Farms off, but gameplay is very basic and it needs some more variety."Killerbee:"I only managed about 30 mins gaming last night, so spent it running through a couple of levels of Flower again - this time on a trophy and hidden flower hunt. Still beautiful and pleasingly also very playable for kleptomaniacs who really want to collect every single hidden flower and trophy. I have four trophies left to get: Dream, Nature, Pure and Welcome Back. I think this could be my first 100% trophy game!"Umboros23replies to Killerbee asking if he's finished the game: "No, I've not been able to play more than 1 or 2 levels at a time - it improves then? That was the third level I finished last night, and couldn't bring myself to play any more in one sitting. So far I prefer Flow - both very similar in feel but I like to see my creature evolve in flow, gave a sense of a goal which is missing for me in flower."Killerbee:"There's a lot more variety than the first 3 levels would have you believe. I won't spoil it, but when you do get to the final proper level you'll see why I asked that question! :)Each level has a theme. The first is about Discovery; exploring and finding flowers to bloom. The second is about Colour; painting the environment.  The third is about Motion. Wind is key to this (hence the windmills) and the canyon bit is awesome. The fourth is about Light and Dark. Relighting the environment; turning dark into light. The fifth is about Pollution and Man's threat to nature. In exploring, you understand the dangers man poses to the natural world. The sixth is Awakening Nature - returning the natural world and colour to the grey city.  If you look at the trophy list, it broadly follows those same themes:1. Discovery / Beginning2. Palette3. Wind / flOw4. Illumination5. Pure6. UrbanIt appears superficial, but it's a very deep game when you get into it."Pomme:"have to agree with Umboros and Manic on this one. Yep its a nice diversion away from traditional games but it isn't quite as good as some people would like to make it out to be. I suppose it is very much like a piece of art work in a gallery. Some people will think it's the best thing since sliced bread, others will think its awful."Chubster2010:"Re. Flower. I 'finished' it one sitting - and I think that this is the best way to experience it (i.e. to get the full impact of what it is trying to do)."Still hunting all the hidden flowers, and I can see myself sticking it on just to marvel at the graphics! (especially of the first level. Beautiful). It got me thinking - how good would a Mario game with those visuals be? Imagine the Mushroom rendered with the swaying grass..."Cameroon95:"This is a beautiful experience but i still think it could have been 3 pounds or something! The end of the wind turbine level is beautiful, the dark levels were a bit annoying to be honest."Intermission: Trophies/Achievements – good or bad?The blog got talking about whether 360 achievements and PS3 trophies are worth it:HDStanton:"Obviously Trophies are a poor man's achievement points (I think it's the inferior noise they make) but now I own both consoles I've stopped caring about either. It's a great feeling when you get a trophy/point though. My mate is obsessed with achievement points he's unlocked 900+ on a few games. Best I've done is 500+ on Halo 3. Does anyone here get obsessed by them?"TonyHayersputs it simply: "Virtual Achievements/Trophies? No."Umboros23:"I do enjoy having a better gamer score than my mates, but I don't think I've ever played a game just to squeeze out the achievement points on it. I don't have 1000 on anything - Halo is the closest but then it has new achievement points (which will be very to easy to get once the Mythic maps come out). I really don't understand people who play games like Lost or King Kong to get the 1000. If you enjoy a game I don't see why you wouldn't want to go for every achievement (like Fox getting all Wipeout medals) but things like getting a mongoose mowdown in Halo is going to cost me rank points, so I'm not doing it."Killerbee:"I was utterly skeptical when the 360 first arrived with them, but now I've played a few PS3 games with trophies, I'm much more sold on the idea."For me, it's not really about the virtual w1lly-waving competition of who has the biggest score - I really like the way trophies are designed to encourage you to play games in a certain way; to really try out gameplay features or search for secrets that you might otherwise overlook. It also adds something to the replay value of certain titles."I know I'm on a bit of a Flower love-in at the moment, but if - when - I do get that 100% trophy collection for this game, I'll know I've enjoyed it to the full."Davesm:"Becoming worryingly addicted to them. I like it though as they make you play more of a game that you might have before and it's also a nice way of seeing how people are doing on various games, I'm sure they will lead to me completing games I wouldn't have before as I often drop off after a while..."Silverfox073:"I like achievements/trophies - think they make the game more playable and encourage you to do things that you might not normally do. For instance I liked the fly under the radar achievement on GTA where you had to fly under all the bridges in the game. Plus in Wipeout ones like Beat Zico are very challenging but make you feel rewarded once done."Part three: Wednesday or 'A Beautiful Mind'…John Nash…uh, I mean BeardOfBees got us slightly worried on Wednesday morning with this post about something he calls Dwarf Fortress.BeardOfBees:"Morning all. Another two hours lost to Dwarf Fortress last night. Still going well with a mishap or two."One of my dwarves suffered a horrible accident. My kitchens and waste disposal area are located on the top level of my fortress, which is built into a low hillside and then descends several levels. These top areas generate a lot of noxious fumes from rotting meats and refuse and dwarves hate to have this knocking around. They're enclosed areas but dwarves still get unhappy thoughts when they have to take anything into the refuse, or work in the kitchen."I thought I'd fix this with some creative engineering. I sent a dwarf out of the fortress and up onto the hill above the dump and the kitchen, and dug away the ceiling. Exposing these areas to the outside helps get rid of the waste fumes. But since I didn't want invaders getting in, I then set him about the task of grating off the holes. This involves laying a grate and then walking onto it to lay the next one... alas they weren't all that strong singularly and one collapsed whilst the poor little guy was working on it. He plummeted down a story straight into the stinking refuse pile and knocked himself out. When he recovered after laying in the rubbish for a bit he was not amused and took himself off to his bedroom to sulk for a few days. He seems ok now but his thoughts screen is pretty dark reading..."Also, after a year of having just 7 dwarves in the fortress, I was beginning to wonder whether any immigrants would ever arrive as the game suggests. Oh yes. About 30 arrived in one go, all needing beds and food and most of them have spectacularly useless skills like "soap making". Most are currently fetching and carrying but every now and then a bored dwarf decides to announce a party in the (cramped) meeting hall, so the whole fortress turns up to crush itself into a tiny little space and get wasted. I've drafted 10 of them into the military to teach them a lesson. The soap maker sounded like an officious little runt so I gave him the task of counting every single piece of stock in the fortress over and over to ensure 100% accurate records. He's got a little office and spends all day every day just maintaining the accounts. He seems to like it the sick b*****d..."[Keef says: it sounds very much like what might have happened if Flann O'Brien had made a game...]Sorbicolis a believer: "That is one of the funniest game related posts I read on here for some time. I think you are selling this Dwarf Fortress to me..."Automaticis concerned: "The enjoyment you seem to be getting from that game is almost reaching a level where it's worrying. Taking glee in making a group of pixels suffer... maybe you need to put Dwarf Fortress down for a little while. Still, very nice thinking with the fumes solution!"akaSilkyis sceptical: "I gotta get Dwarf Fortress. If only to see if this lives purely in your imagination..."Same forSuperSmashIn: "I always read your Dwarf Fortress posts with a smile on my face.  I have an image that there is no such game and it's all in your head. Sounds like the weirdest game imaginable. All this visual detail and yet it's a text based game. You sir, are a natural storyteller.  Much like that Brendan fella off Inkheart but not as sh*te."BeardOfBeeshimself clears it all up for us: "Those that think I'm crazy are 50% correct - in that a lot of the fun in DF you need to provide for yourself. The game sets up the situations but it requires an imaginative investment to get much from the ASCII characters... it's not absorbing in the same way as something like Fallout 3 which does all the work for you."That said, nothing I've written is something that's not in the game. The way they refuse fumes and construction works, the 'thoughts' of your dwarves - these are all in-game elements. Each individual dwarf has data tracked down to how pleased he was with breakfast, what he thinks of the cabinet he owns, to an injury on his left thumb. Crazy detail."Part four: ThursdayA bit on quotable content for some reason, despite us filling up several pages of chat. We mostly talked about:- Obscure swear words that you could use in front of your boss without getting in trouble- Duffy's awful, awful voice- Chuck Norris quotes- Whether Street Fighter IV will be any good and whether you should use a d-pad, analogue stick or arcade pad[Keef says: arcade stick!]That's… that's about it.Part five: FridayThe bloggers made up for the quietness of Thursday with10 pagesof jabber! It was 'Street Fighter IV day' for the lucky few who got it early! Otherwise there was some crazy, crazy talk…BeardOfBeesneglected his dwarves for some SFIV goodness: "Morning all. Dwarfy update time: nothin'. Absolutely squat. Dwarfs didn't even get a look in, the poor neglected buggers. This is because Streetfighter IV was on my doorstep when I arrived home."It's very different to STHD which was my first streetfighter experience since the SNES. Apparently it's closer to 3rd Strike in feel. The jumping is really different - you are a little more ponderous in the air, like you go up quicker, hang for a second, then fall quicker, also you don't cover nearly the same horizontal distance when you jump. That said the mechanics are clearly the same, i.e. with the right timing you can 'cross-up' the opponent and so on."It's a little more complex than ST as well - you've still got supers but also EX moves, which are like slightly more special special moves. Finally Ultra moves, which are crazy super attacks."The controls are smooth and very forgiving on a normal 360 stick, just the same as STHD really i.e. clearly not the best option but it works tolerably. The online is smooth and lag-free although the lobby options and the way ranked matches work is a little lacking from STHD. There may be a patch to improve this in the works I hear."Verdict: love it. It looks lovely, it plays like a dream when you get used to it. It's totally crazy and got a sense of humour too - some of the expressions your characters pull when getting duffed up are brilliant. The final boss does a very, very stupid attack which sends you splatting into the camera with your tongue stuck out. But at heart it seems like a really solid fighting game and I can see myself losing a lot of time to this..."Chubster2010is lovin' it! "SFIV: Amazing. It's great to play a game that has so much energy about it; every screen, every character, every animation fizzes and snaps.... Stunning.  Had some great games with OfficePest... very tense stuff!!!!  Itching to get home and play it now."[In his words to me – "my hands were shaking" – now that's adrenalin gaming!]Umboros23has a criticism…just the one: "The theme tune is absolutely terrible. Other than that, see BoB's posts. Bit slower than most SF fans will be used to, but it feels more solid because of it."Jihadis feeling brave: "Picked up SF4 this morn from Gamestation with few other nerds who were waiting outside until it was open. Got home and played a few rounds with Master Jihad who quite quickly kicked my arse even though i remembered a few moves from a long time ago.  Looks lovely and can feel some real love for this game. OP and Chubs you better man up 'cus there's going to be a new king in town!"Epilogue: Noby Noby BoysThis game is simply mental – see the following for details.Manictried to offer some tips: "First off, for people who don't know what the hell I'm talking about, no – I'm not, stoned/ drunk/ tripping. How do you report your length to Girl? You need to fly to the sun and talk to the space squirrel."Chubster2010:"Has anyone had one end of their Noby fall off? It happened to me last night - so was walking around with a load of Noby behind me that I couldn't control."Manic: "I managed to blow my own Noby end clean off when trying to eject a cow! I then had the weird pleasure of eating myself to return to one section of noby."Smellavision:"Eat it! I had a bit of an accidental splittage myself, and just gobbled up my own arse - worked a charm!"BeardOfBees'paranoia started getting out of hand: "I reckon that a bunch of you, thinking that I had imagined Dwarf Fortress, have decided to make this up in revenge. Unfortunately you're taking it too far. No game is that ridiculous and your wind-up attempts are transparent to me now."GhostDaz:"I flicked myself into the air and managed to stretch to over a 1000 meters. I think the Girl will like that. They reckon it will take three weeks to get to the moon. I have a feeling Mars will take much much longer."[They?!]Quote of the week:Shrewrogdoes something very strange…"Bad news is I jammed my little finger in my right ear last night, then pulled it out real quick and my ear kind of exploded. Its agony, and its making all of these weird noises, popping and so on, and when it's very quiet it sounds like there is a roaring sea in there. Very unsettling."Do the words 'perforated ear drum' mean anything to you, Shrewrog?LinksPoultrygeist!Eurogamer Street Fighter IV Review (10/10!)Also talked about:Formatting PS3 hard drivesKillzone 2 clan names (clan: Barry)The BritsFootballMasterchefGames:Flower, Fallout 3, Flower, Street Fighter IV, Killzone 2, WoW, Dwarf Fortress, Dead Space, Noby Noby Boy.Films:Watchmen, 300, Dawn of the Dead, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.
The very good, but not *quite* as good as I thought when I first played it,Killzone 2has hit the top of the UK games charts. The PS3 exclusive saw off the challenge ofHalo Warsto clinch the top spot. But while Killzone 2 will linger around the top ten for at least a couple of weeks you'd expect Halo Wars to plummet fairly sharpish. Halo branded it may be but real-time strategy, no matter how good, just isn't going to worry the likes of Mario Kart and Wii Fit in the long term.Talking of Nintendo the success of Professor Layton and the Curious Village is easily as big a mystery to me as any of the conundrums in the game itself. Did I miss the big advertising push – maybe I did? – but clearly this game has connected with DS owners in a way that only the Brain Training games have.The other main point of note is the relative success of the Sega Mega Drive Ultimate Collection, which charts at No6. The compilation is the perfect retro filler for gaming granddads – anyone over 30 – and also works out cheaper than downloading the likes of Sonic the Hedgehog separately on Xbox Live.The full list:1. Killzone 2 (Sony)2. Halo Wars (Microsoft)3. Street Fighter IV (Capcom)4. Wii Fit (Nintendo)5. Professor Layton and the Curious Village (Nintendo)6. Sega Mega Drive Ultimate Collection (Sega)7. FIFA 09 (EA)8. Call of Duty: World at War (Activision Blizzard)9. Ben 10: Alien Force (D3P)10. Mario Kart Wii (Nintendo)
Facebook must revise its policy on letting programs that have not been previously vetted for malicious intent be unleashed on the site, a web security expert has warned.But the founder of the five-year-old social networking site, Mark Zuckerberg, insists that he will not put such safeguards in place – arguing that "an open system anyone can participate in is generally better."Rik Ferguson, senior security advisor at Trend Micro said that in comparison to vetting procedures at rival social networking site MySpace and Apple's iPhone App Store for the iPhone, Facebook's hands-off policy – whereby anyone can offer a program for use by Facebook's 175 million users – will contribute to a growth in rogue applications, and that users should be wary of any new or fast-spreading ones they encounter.Ferguson says he has monitored four malicious applications in the past week alone, as well as the resurgence of the "Koobface" virus, first seen last July, which sends out intriguing-sounding links to friends of an infected user, who is then tempted to a "video" page which instead infects their computer. Only PCs running Microsoft Windows are at risk."The [Facebook] policy is facilitating the growth of rogue applications, and making it easier," Ferguson said. "If Facebook does nothing, they will continue to increase."This feels like a test run for something more malicious in the future. It may be about stealing identities, or it may be much more."An application called "Error Check System" warns that friends are having problems accessing a user's profile, while two called "Closing Down" try to get users to install an application to prevent their profile being shut down for "violating Facebook's terms of use" – telling the target to visit a page to answer a charge that they broken the site's conditions of use.The applications appear to be trying to gather personal information, but because Facebook hosts all user data and the data related to applications, it is impossible to tell how much information these rogue apps have gathered, said Ferguson.It is possible that the information could contribute to identity theft by scraping contact details, siblings and pets' names and maiden names, some of which can be to trick users into handing over passwords in sophisticated "phishing" scams."The speed with which these applications have spread comes down to the classic combination of fear, uncertainty and doubt," said Ferguson. "It's because these messages appear to come from friends that makes them so powerful."Speaking to the BBC, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg insisted that the site would not start vetting applications before they go live on the site."Our philosophy is that having an open system anyone can participate in is generally better," he said. ""When we were starting this we wanted anyone to be able to develop an application. This has made it so students in their college dorm rooms could build applications for free. That's how I got started with Facebook. We really want to make sure that sort of innovation is possible."A Facebook spokesman said the malicious applications and the more severe Koobface worm had affected only a small percentage of its users, and that it provided detailed advice on itssecurity page.Koobface last struck the site in December, posting comments on profiles which contain links that will download the virus to a user's PC, and also affected rival social networking sites MySpace, Bebo and Friendster.Ferguson, meanwhile, advised users to regard every message on Facebook as "guilty until proven innocent".He said users should set their profiles to private rather than allowing them to be indexed by search engines, and advised that they remove phone numbers, family names and travel plans."And just because a message seems to come from a friend, don't believe it. We give these messages more credibility because they come from someone we know but every message should be treated with caution."
At the end of last year, Martin Lewis says he "was the most searched personality in the UK, unbelievably beating Barack Obama by 11%", according to Hitwise site monitoring. But as he says on hisblog, he has no illusions about his "'good looks and sparkling wit". People are searching for information, and using his name to get to articles on his site:Money Saving Expert.Given the world's financial problems, it could become even more popular, and that's saying something. Money Saving Expert had 7.9 million visitors in January, and more than 3 million people have subscribed to its weekly newsletter.The site also became known for its campaign against UK banks for overcharging customers, and about 5.7 million people downloaded form letters to reclaim charges.Like many popular sites, it's not exactly pretty, but it has tabs along the top for easy access to the main subject areas. These include cards/loans, utilities/phones, banking/saving, travel/transport, mortgages/houses, and insurance.People are usually looking for the best deal, and the site provides links and top picks. Although there are lots of long texts, they're about complicated subjects. If you want a mobile phone deal, for example, Money Saving Expert says there are more than 10 networks, each with up to 30 tariffs, sold at different prices with and without cashbacks. The site's usual answer is to tackle the choice via a series of bullet-point questions, with the answers provided on separate pages.It's worth reading the articles carefully because they explain how things work, and provide tips along the way. Problems are also discussed at length in the forums.The savings can be bigger than you think. For example, if you spend £100 a week on groceries, how much could you save by "downshifting" one level to a cheaper brand? The answer, from a quiz on the site, is £1,700 a year. "I suspect such huge numbers just aren't that easy to believe," writes Lewis, "yet we've done a lot of number crunching work on this and it's remarkably consistent."It's also worth reading the page onHow this site is financed. It's free to use, and doesn't carry advertising, but it does make money from paid links. How do you know if a link pays? "There's only one way, by the fact it has a * by it."The site says it always recommends the best deal whether there's an affiliate payback or not. And when there is an affiliate link (*), the site aims to provide a non-paying link so you can see you're getting exactly the same deal.Lewis accepts that he makes less money per user than rival money sites, but believes Money Saving Expert attracts more users "due to this pro-consumer ethical policy". And while he makes a good living, he says he gives nearly £100,000 a year to charity via the MoneySavingExpert.com fund.Although the site is about paying less, one way to do that is by consuming less. Saving money can also help to save the planet.
When a thief opens your laptop, he could get a shock when it starts to shout "Help, I've been stolen!" or, perhaps, something ruder. But that's one of the options provided byFront Door Software's $30 Retrieverprogram for Windows XP and Vista.The software displays your contact details and lets you make the finder or thief an offer, such as "$50 for my safe return". However, if you log on to a web site to say your PC is missing or stolen, that message will appear in a red and yellow on the laptop's screen. It reappears every 30 seconds, to be really annoying. You also get the option to switch on a second password prompt.In the background, Retriever tries to connect via Wi-Fi to report its loss.And now it has the option to sing out a pre-recorded message: "Help, this laptop is reported lost or stolen. If you are not my owner, please report me now." If you want something stronger, you can record it yourself.There's nothing new about start-up messages, of course: many people substituted their own wav file, perhaps taken from a movie, for the Windows start-up sound. For a while, my PC said, in a robot voice: "Thankyou for turning me on."Other laptop protection software allows users to erase data remotely, lock the machine, or use the built-in webcam, if there is one. For example,Absolute's LoJack(for Mac and Windows) lets you erase the hard drive, whileGadgetTrak's MacTrak(for Mac) provides the same Wi-Fi positioning as Apple's iPhone. MacTrack can also send images from the stolen laptop by email, or upload them to a Flickr account. The same company offersGadgetTrak for Windows Search &amp; Destroy.Orbicule Undercovercan transmit a picture of the thief every 6 minutes. It can also use the Mac's text-to-speech feature to cry out that it has been stolen, or use any other message you type in, if it finds itself in a Wi-Fi hotspot with a known address, such as an Apple Store.One problem with this type of software is that a thief with IT skills can try to get around it. This is why some companies use CompuTrace, the corporate version of LoJack. The CompuTrace agent isbuilt into the BIOS chip of many Windows notebooksfrom companies such as Asus, Dell, Fujitsu, HP, Lenovo and Toshiba. This means it can still work if the thief changes the operating system or even replaces the hard drive.High-value laptops are relatively easy to lose, or to steal, so this is one type of software we can expect to grow. And as more gadgets become internet-connected, we'll see tracking software added to a growing number of digital cameras, camcorders, smart phones, MP3 players and similar devices.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox - now with added comments!
That depends on who you talk to.A recent sequence of stories about the iPhone's level of success in Japan – anotoriously tough market for Western companies to crack- has turned into an avalanche of inaccuracies, accusations and mudslinging.The furore was started by the news that Japanese phone network Softbank was going to start subsidising iPhones, and offering them free with a contract. This was reported by some outlets as a tacit admission of failure - includingCrunchGear, which said it clearly indicated that "sales need a boost" (despite admitting there were "no official statistics" on iPhone sales in Japan).The assumption that giving away phones for free is intended to stimulate demand makes sense, but to claim it represents failure ignores out the fact that free phones – subsidised by a long contract - are the norm in many countries outside of America, even for high-end smartphones and expensive new handsets.However, the presumption that the move to free was the result of terrible sales continued to spread until, finally, Wired.com's Brian X Chentipped things over the edge. His story, entitled "Why the Japanese hate the iPhone", suggested that "Apple's iPhone has wowed most of the globe – but not Japan, where the handset is selling so poorly it's being offered for free".Like any negative comment about Apple, that drew vociferous reaction from the company's legion of fans – including as anabsurd 3,000 word rebuff/rant by Apple Insider– but, intriguingly, also from one of the subjects interviewed for the article, Noboyuki Hayashi. He responded by publishinghis actual view of the iPhone in Japan, including the full text of the email he sent Chen (none of which was used in the article).This all proved mildly entertaining for observers - but while it served to reiterate a couple of well-known facts (journalists get things wrong sometimes; Apple has a vast army of dedicated defenders) it did little to shed light on whether or not Japanese consumers actually like the iPhone.The best answer for that question comes from sales figures, and there aren't any official numbers available at the moment. However, Softbank said last year that the iPhone wasboosting subscriber numbersand one industry estimate suggested that Japanese consumers had bought 200,000 iPhones in the three months after it launched last summer (Hayashi revised that figure to suggest it was in excess of 300,000).With concrete numbers telling story, that figure was contrasted with unsourced claims that Softbank and Apple had wanted to achieve 1 million units sold by the end of 2008. However, given that O2 hasadmitted it took 16 months to sell 1 million iPhones in Britain, reaching a similar number in less than six would be a stretch - even in Japan's mobile-crazy environment.All that's clear is that while the iPhone might not be a strong player in Japan's mobile culture – and with no built-in TV, no multimedia messaging it's not a surprise - it seems that plenty of Japanese people like it well enough.Not as exciting, but probably a bit more realistic.Update:An earlier version of this article said that the Japanese iPhone had no support for emoticons. That was incorrect.
Following objections from theAuthors Guildin the US, Amazon has caved on the text-to-speech features of the new Kindle 2 ebook reader. It will now enable publishers and authors to disable the text-to-speech (TTS) function if they want.There shouldn't be anything controversial about TTS: it's been available on personal computers since the 1970s. It's important to people who have impaired or no vision, but little used by anyone else. However, the Authors Guild argues that the audio rights for a book are different from the reading rights, even if the audio is provided by a software robot.InThe Kindle Swindle?in The New York Times, Roy Blount Jr, president of the Authors Guild, argues that "Kindle 2 is not paying anyone for audio rights." He says:True, you can already get software that will read aloud whatever is on your computer. But Kindle 2 is being sold specifically as a new, improved, multimedia version of books — every title is an e-book and an audio book rolled into one. And whereas e-books have yet to win mainstream enthusiasm, audio books are a billion-dollar market, and growing. Audio rights are not generally packaged with e-book rights. They are more valuable than e-book rights. Income from audio books helps not inconsiderably to keep authors, and publishers, afloat.You may be thinking that no automated read-aloud function can compete with the dulcet resonance of Jim Dale reading "Harry Potter" or of authors, ahem, reading themselves. But the voices of Kindle 2 are quite listenable.But "quite listenable" is not the same as a real audiobook, as author Neil Gaiman -- "someone who loves audiobooks, records his own audiobooks, makes a not-insignificant portion of his income from audiobooks and has even won awards for bloody audiobooks" -- has pointed out.He says:An audio book, read by someone who's good at it, is an audio book, an experience that's different to, sometimes complementary to, the words on the page. A computer reading to you is a computer reading to you. And at the point where they can read books to us as well as we can read them aloud to each other, we will have other things to worry about.In a post headedCaving in to bullies (aka, here we go again), Lawrence Lessig, lawyer and founding board member of Creative Commons, points out that "We had this battle before. In 2001, Adobe released e-book technology that gave rights holders (including publishers of public domain books) the ability to control whether the Adobe e-book reader read the book aloud."It's bad news for readers, Lessig says:But the bigger trend here is much more troubling: Innovative technology company (Amazon (Kindle 2), Google (Google Books)) releases new innovative way to access or use content; so-called "representatives" of rights owners, Corleone-like, baselessly insist on a cut; innovative technology company settles with baseless demanders, and we're all arguably worse off.We're worse off with the Kindle because if the right get set by the industry that publishers get to control a right which Congress hasn't given them -- the right to control whether I can read my book to my kid, or my Kindle can read a book to me -- users and innovators have less freedom. And we may be worse off with Google Books, because (in ways not clear when the settlement was first reported) the consequence of the class action mechanism may well disable users and innovators from doing what fair use plainly entitled Google to do.On Friday,the Guardian's Books Blogpointed out that:Clearly the Authors Guild wants to take a firm position early about the emerging technology, but this campaign seems misguided. If it weren't, one might expect the first people to side with the Authors Guild to be Amazon, since, as well as manufacturing the Kindle, the company owns Audible, a download site which accounts for 95% of the online audiobook market.Well, it seems that if it hasn't quite sided with the Authors Guild, Amazon has gone a long way towards it.
You don't need money to get what you want. Here are the best websites for swapping and bartering goods and services. You'd be surprised what you can get.www.swapz.co.ukSwap site offering many goods and services. Current offers include a DJ who will work for you if you service his van and a woman who will dogsit in return for DVDs.www.swapcycle.co.ukandwww.swapitshop.comGoods for exchange, ranging from cars to banjos.www.whatsmineisyours.comandwww.big wardrobe.comClothes and accessories.www.swishing.orgShows you how to organise a clothes swap party with friends.www.gardenswapshop.co.uk/For gardeners who have seeds to swap.www.readitswapit.co.ukBook-swapping site.www.u-exchange.comHouses all over the world available for holiday exchanges.www.letslinkuk.netCommunity networks which link people who want to swap their skills and goods.www.staffshare.co.ukLets businesses swap staff members' time with specialists in other firms.
Here's an ugly word that has infiltrated itself into everyday discourse: "outage". Its etymology is a bit opaque, but it's clearly modelled on "shortage". Until last year it meant "a temporary suspension of operation, especially of electrical power supply". Now it means a temporary suspension of "cloud computing" services - ie services, such as email, web-hosting and file storage, provided remotely via the internet.Until last week, most Europeans were probably blissfully unaware of the term. But then Gmail - Google's webmail service - went down on Tuesday. For about three hours many of its 113 million users couldn't access their email or get at documents that they store online as "Google Docs". Since most users pay nothing for the service - it is subsidised by advertising - they weren't really in a position to complain. But Google also offers a "premium" service for an annual fee of $50 (&pound;35) per user, and many organisations - companies, schools and charities in particular - have signed up for this, attracted by the savings it offers on IT support, maintenance etc, and Google's guarantee of 99.9% uptime. And they were not amused.One systems administrator posted an irate message on the Google Apps discussion forum, describing how his company's CEO was "steaming" about being locked out of his email account."Support keeps telling me it is affecting a small number of users," he said. "This is not a temporary problem if it lasts this long. It is frustrating to not be able to expedite these issues. This is considered a mission-critical issue here. We may have to make other arrangements."Apparently, Google mail is not very reliable. I think I would have pushed for something else before we switched if I had known the level of unreliability."This attracted some unsympathetic responses from other forum users. "Why are you not running your own mail server if email is that critical?" asked one. "Even my 16-year-old brother has his own."But the general tenor of the online discussion of the outage suggested that the scales have fallen from many people's eyes. Cloud computing may be a great idea in principle. But it might not be wise to bet the ranch on it.Since my internet connection is often flaky, my initial assumption was that the explanation for Gmail's unresponsiveness lay at my end. But a quick glance at Twitter confirmed that the problem lay with Google's servers. And this in turn highlighted the irony of the situation, because Twitter, which is growing like crazy at the moment, runs on Amazon's cloud-computing infrastructure - which has also had its problems with outages.In many ways, interruptions in Amazon's service are more disturbing because many companies besides Twitter now use it to run critical software as well as a storage facility. So if it goes down, these organisations are unable to function at all. The shock of the major outage that Amazon suffered this time last year prompted a root-and-branch review by the company and the creation of a useful online "dashboard" (cloudstatus.com), which gives an up-to-date picture of the status of each cloud service run by the company. Google has now followed suit with a Google Apps dashboard (www.google.com/appsstatus#).Reading the angry exchanges on discussion forums last week, I was reminded of something Andy Grove, then the CEO of Intel, said in 1999. "In five years," he declared, "companies that are not internet companies won't be companies at all." He was widely ridiculed at the time. But in fact he was very perceptive. What he meant was that we were entering a period when internet access would become like electricity supply: very few companies generate electricity, but all companies use - and rely on - it.As the technology commentator Nicholas Carr pointed out last year in his book The Big Switch, we're moving inexorably towards a world in which computing becomes a utility - like electricity. That makes a lot of sense in terms of maximising the use of scarce and expensive resources. Companies don't want to run their own IT any more than they want to generate their own electricity. But dependence has its downsides. If the shock of the Google and Amazon outages has prompted companies to review their strategies on the use of cloud computing services, then the inconvenience will have been worth it.Oh, and if email really is critical to your organisation, then run your own server and use Gmail as a backup.
Toyota iQ&pound;9,495Miles per gallo:65.7CO2 per km:99 gramsGood for:eco headsBad for:long legsThe words thrift and motoring rarely appear in the same sentence; they are as estranged from each other as Jeremy Clarkson is to the art of diplomacy. And, other than owning a football club or being a poker player with amnesia, there are few easier ways to throw your money away than owning a car. From the moment you leave the showroom, there is only one way you can travel in financial terms and that is down. As the RAC estimates that the average overall cost of owning a car for a year is &pound;6,133, cars are one of life's great luxuries. So, if you don't want to do without, which one will lose you the least money?The rate at which a car depreciates is known as its residual value, and the economic downturn has meant that the big winners these days are small city runarounds. Parker's car guide has just published its figures for last year. At the bottom are the luxury saloons. If you bought a Maybach 62 at the beginning of 2008, it will have lost a staggering &pound;128,899 during the year. At the top of the table, however, is the humble Toyota Aygo. It is Britain's slowest-depreciating car. If you bought one this time last year it will have lost just &pound;1,515 - the equivalent of &pound;4 per day. Cheap to run, fun to drive, taxed for just &pound;35... it's no wonder the Aygo has taken the top spot for the past three years running.This year, however, it has a serious challenger - Toyota's uniquely cool iQ. It's &pound;2,000 more expensive than the Aygo but its irresistible charms, quirky good looks and revolutionary technology will give it the sort of buyer appeal and audience endurance that only Tom Jones can boast of.Despite the fact that it's only a foot longer than a Smart car, the iQ is a four-seater. Well, a three-and-a-half seater, really - the person behind the driver will ideally have double-jointed knees. I drove three full-sized adults across London with, it's true, much giggling from the back, but no complaints. The space has been bought at the expense of the boot, which has been designed to carry, say, a folded newspaper with ease.The iQ story began five years ago when a team of Toyota's engineers set out to radically reshape the compact, environmentally efficient car. The result? A compact, environmentally efficient car, of course. What did you expect? But there's much to admire about the iQ: it's simple, fresh and fun, and it's packed with ground-breaking technology (it tells you which gear to drive in for optimum eco-efficiency) and clever touches (the glove compartment, a slim briefcase, is detachable). But this micro- mini's great selling point is that it can cruise comfortably on the motorway. Most dinky cars bob around on the open road like a cork that's been flushed down the loo. So (and I promise Toyota aren't paying me to say this) if you want to be smart about motoring, use your iQmartin.love@observer.co.ukFive cars to buy at discount pricesBulk buyers such as Motorpoint, Britain's largest car supermarket, are currently offering huge discounts. Here are their five top deals of the week:1BMW 525i SE 4dr Auto2Renault Grand Scenic 1.9dCi 5dr Manual3Peugeot 407 2.0 SE 4dr Manual4VW Jetta 1.6 SE 4dr Manual5Fiat Grande Punto 1.4 Dynamic 5dr Auto
TweetminsterAccording to this aggregator of electronic parliamentary missives, 65% of Labour MPs are hooked on Twitter.Secret TweetFrom biting toenails and cheating on wives, Twitter users anonymously reveal their dark secrets.Curse BirdCommunication in its basest form. A real-time feed of people swearing on Twitter.Whose Tweet?A fast-paced game for hopeless addicts - from 20 of your friends messages guess who sent what.TwitterholicKeeping tabs on the Top 1,000 most-followed Twitterers - Obama is at No 1 with over 300,000 followers.TwistenStreaming any song mentioned in a message.Everything TwitterCollection of the latest apps, news and tips.
Sony chief executive Sir Howard Stringer has won a significant battle in his quest to rebuild Sony as a global consumer electronics superpower, announcing yesterday that he will take over from Ryoji Chubachi as president.The move, which leaves Stringer firmly in control as Sony braces for a first operating loss in 14 years, mirrors executive shakeups at other corporations hit by a slump in demand. The 67-year-old Welshman, who is also chairman, said the reorganisation "is designed to transform Sony into a more innovative, integrated and agile global company with its next generation of leadership firmly in place".Chubachi will become vice-chairman from 1 April. Sony claimed the changes would "fundamentally reorganise the company's games and electronics business to improve profitability and strengthen competitiveness in the midst of the continued global economic crisis".Stringer announced the creation of two business groups, headed by younger executives, to break down the "silos" that have prevented full integration of the company's hardware and software, and to devise "cool new products" that will appeal to digital-savvy young people."[The changes] will now make it possible for all of Sony's parts to work together to assume a position of worldwide leadership and, together, achieve great things," he said. Analysts said the personnel changes were another sign of Stringer's growing impatience with the slow pace of change at Sony, where, he complained recently, "there is still a lot of the old and not enough of the new". Although he oversaw dramatic improvement in the electronics business in 2007, Chubachi is believed to represent a traditionalist faction at Sony that has hampered Stringer's radical cost-cutting efforts since he became its first foreign head, in 2005.The changes follow rumours of discord between Stringer and other executives over Sony's direction amid plunging earnings and thousands of lay-offs. The maker of PlayStation game consoles, Bravia flat-screen TVs and Cyber-shot digital cameras has shed 8,000 of 185,000 regular jobs, laid off 8,000 temporary workers and closed about 10% of its 57 factories.Sony said last month it expected an operating loss - its first for 14 years - of &yen;260bn (&pound;1.9bn) for the financial year ending in March.
Unless you're willing to call the government "nu liebour", suspect the council is spying on you via your wheelie bin or harbour an irrational fear of the Guardian women's pages, the BBC's Have Your Say pages are a perilous place for any reasonably minded person to dally. As we've previously pointed out (guidebranes) but worth mentioning again, spEak You're bRanes helps navigate this honeypot of insanity, to find that the proposed giant Kent horse has "an Arab-looking head", or that our "once great nation has been brought to its knees by PC mania". Once you tire of the comments, press the Twat-O-Tron for a depressingly realistic computer-generated one.
I have a friend who buys every Apple product that comes on the market, regardless of its function. And how he moans when he has to wait for something that's on sale in the US but won't make it to the UK for a few months.At last I can sympathise. Honda is doing the same thing with its hydrogen fuel cell car, the FCX Clarity. It recently went on limited release in California - but in Europe, Honda is merely allowing us to purchase its latest hybrid saloon, the Insight.It will be the cheapest hybrid on the market, its technology is greatly refined and it's much more practical than the original Insight - launched in 1999 - but is still based on the same, now familiar pairing of a battery pack with a small petrol engine, the former charged on braking. It even looks familiar, with the hunchbacked profile of the Toyota Prius.Ah, yes, the Prius. It must have been deeply aggravating for Honda, that most innovative, brave and progressive of Japanese car companies, to watch its main rival conquer the global hybrid market. The first Insight, though flawed (it had only two seats) and quirky (it looked as if it should have had solar panels on the roof), was the first hybrid to go on sale in Europe and a brilliant piece of technology. Ultimately, though, Prius, not Insight, became synonymous with "hybrid", in much the same way Hoover has been with "vacuum cleaner".While the new Insight's emissions and fuel consumption figures are impressive, they only marginally improve on those achieved by the latest diesels (Ford Econotec-engined Fiestas and VW's Bluemotion Polos, for example; although, admittedly, diesels do pump out a few other nasties). And hybrids are clearly made with the best of intentions, so I wouldn't usually complain about their heavy handling, sluggishness at higher revs, cheapo plastics and dorky aesthetics.But why can't we have a Clarity? Honda itself is banking on the hydrogen fuel cell in the long-term; and most people agree that hybrids are a short-term approach to the impending energy and climate crises, so why bother? Yes, the Insight is now the best hybrid on the market (although a new Toyota Prius is imminent). But is it a radical step forward, a great car in its own right? And is it the solution? I'm afraid that'll be a no.Honda InsightPriceTo be announcedTop speed113 mphAcceleration0-60 in 12.3 secondsAverage consumption64 mpgCO2 emissions101g/kmEco rating9.5/10At the wheelZac GoldsmithBound forThe futureIn a wordEco-tease
Halo WarsXbox 360Set 20 years before the events in the first three games, Halo Wars is a prequel set in an entirely different genre. Here, instead of shooting the Covenant, you direct squads of marines, vehicles and aircraft to do it for you in a real-time strategy game dressed in the familiar trappings of Halo's world and equipment. With the very gentlest of learning curves and a desire to free players from the tedious mineral mining and resource management that constitute a large proportion of most games of this sort, Halo Wars instead focuses on combat. The result is a more action-packed, faster-paced game interspersed with incredibly lush cut scenes featuring the series' usual po-faced delivery of a plot about ancient alien super-weapons. With about 12 hours of single-player campaign and a multiplayer mode that never quite gets going, Halo Wars is a pleasingly lightweight take on real-time strategy.• Microsoft, &pound;49.99Korg KaossilatorPocket synthesiserThe deeply alluring prospect of a pocket synthesiser is brought to life by Korg in the small but rugged Kaossilator. Put in four AA batteries, plug in a set of headphones and make music by tapping or dragging your fingers across its touch screen. Sounding indescribably chunky and analogue, the Kaossilator's selection of wave forms mimics everything from organ chords to crackly drum loops in its inimitably gritty-sounding style. The downside, if there is one, is that it's the musical equivalent of an Etch-A-Sketch in that it has no Midi throughput and you can only record two bars' worth of music, which is erased when you turn it off. That apart, its output is exceptionally listenable and experimenting with its range of melodic and percussive sounds, altered by where on the screen you tap, supplies hours of potential ear damage.• Korg, &pound;149.95The House of The Dead: OverkillDecked out like a 1970s grindhouse movie - with a glam rock soundtrack and wilfully lo-fi, grainy introductions to each of the game's B-movie inspired levels - The House Of The Dead: Overkill feels like a reaction to the Wii's overpopulation of kitten simulators and diet assistants. Living up to its name while revelling in every facet of its 18 certificate, this takes Sega's on-rails (the game controls where you go), lightgun-shooting, zombie kill-fest and pumps it up with absurd levels of swearing and gore until its protagonists spout a near-continuous volley of profanity and hot lead, the latter being upgradeable between engagements at the game's gun shop. With a mini-game called Money Shot and leading lady Varla Guns introduced through a low-resolution wardrobe malfunction, you really know where you are with Overkill, which is on an unstoppable rollercoaster of explosive ordnance and rotting flesh. A game that is hilariously rude, more than slightly surreal and certainly unlike anything else currently available on Wii.• Sega, &pound;39.99
Bolivians lovea bit of roasted guinea pigFrom yuppiesto hard hats, everybody's on cocaineWhere tobuy an ornamental teapot once owned by Michael JacksonThe bestname for a supermarket everPsycho featuredthe first flushed toilet in film historyMathew Williamsonis very fussy about his teaNo Americanstate exists where they do not fry chickenA high fiveduring the morning commute makes the day brighterWhy yousimply must stop your dad joining Facebook
I have only been on Twitter for a couple of months, so I'm still finding things that are new to me, even if they're old to others. One is the existence of Twitter songs, of which the example above is about the best I've found. Finding who is on Twitter is another story.Twitter has had a lot of press coverage this year, most recently in the Financial Times, partly because of number of celebrities involved. Or rather, mainly because of Stephen Fry and Jonathan Ross, in the UK, plus people such as Barack Obama, Shaq O'Neal and Lance Armstrong in the US. I included all of these in a blog post in January:Celebrities on Twitter -- plus a few MPs and porn starsSince then, I'd guess around half a million people have joined (the site does not publish numbers), and the celebs now include Jane Fonda, Demi Moore, Robin Williams, Mariel Hemingway, Taylor Swift, Katy Perry, Lily Allen, VV Brown and many more.We've now reached the stage where it no longer makes much sense to talk about "Twitter celebs" but about smaller subgroups such as female pop stars,science fiction writers, British radio presenters, or whatever.While sites such asValebrityhave been tracking celebrities in general, we're now seeing the growth of industry lists. James Cridland's list ofBritish radio station staff, for example, has well over 200 names. At Search Engine Land, Danny Sullivan has just postedThe Big List Of Search Engines &amp; Their Employees On Twitter.Tweetminsteris tracking the growing number of MPs on Twitter. There's also a list of UK PR users being compiled, and I know of at least a hundred of those.I'm sure you see the problem: we need a list of lists, because there is almost no way to find them. And even if you compile such a list, they are all in different places, in different styles. There are no standards for presentation, validation, or any sort of metadata.DidEv Williamsand his colleagues really start a service that will soon cater for at least 10 million users, and eventually for more than 100 million, with no thought of having a directory or hinting at some directory standards? (A microsoftmat such as hCard would be nice.) So far, it looks that way!Yes, there is aFind on Twittersearch box, but it's pretty simplistic. And it looks like a missed opportunity.A well thought out, comprehensive, searchable directory would give Twitter tremendous appeal. It could make it one of the most powerful utilities on the web.
Since launching in 2001, Apple's iPod has helped change the landscape of the music business and the mobile phone industry. Now one company hopes it could have the same affect on the car trade – by creating a vehicle that is controlled by using an iPhone.The idea might sound like science fiction, but Swiss design firm Rinspeed hopes that it can bring that fantasy one step closer to reality with a new concept design to be put on display at next week'sGeneva Motor Show.The entire vehicle, known as the iChange, is built around Apple's popular mobile handset, which hooks into the dashboard and acts as the car's key – locking and unlocking it, as well as turning on the engine and performing other vital functions.The electric-powered model also boasts a shape-changing design that allows it to seat one, two or three passengers. On first glance, the iChange is a teardrop-shaped single seater sports car – but at the push of a button the rear opens up to offer another two seats. The concept, which has been supported by the Swiss government, might seem far-fetched, but the team behind it say it is intended to stimulate the struggling car industry into innovative thinking.Rinspeed founder Frank Rinderknecht said that the vehicle is the sort of required to push the modern car into the 21st century."The iChange is a symbol for the fundamental changes the auto industry undergoes worldwide," said Rinderknecht. "It is clear that only those companies will survive that have innovative answers for the demands of a new automotive era."The Geneva Motor Show, which begins next Thursday, comes at a difficult time for the car industry. The big three US manufacturers have asked for nearly $40bn in bailouts from the American government, while across.Across Europe, which has the largest car industry in the world, sales were down by 27% in January. Britain has offered £2bn to boost manufacturers, while France, Germany and Italy are among the other countries to have offered state aid to car makers.However, the manufacturers at Geneva hope they can stimulate demand with new models on show. Among those set for display are designs from Peugeot, Rolls Royce and Chevrolet – as well as a Bentley which runs on biofuels.The iChange is not the first time that has taken a cue from Apple's success in the technology industry.In 2007 it was reported that Apple chief executive Steve Jobs had met with Volkswagen chairman Martin Winterkorn – leading to speculation that the two companies were working together on a joint project.
For nearly 18 years, Rick Rashid has been the man with a unique window into Microsoft's future.As the company's senior vice president of research, he is responsible for an important part of the software corporation's mammoth research and development operation.Microsoft spends more on R&amp;D than any other company in the technology business; last year the spend ran to more than $8bn – four times that of Google and around 10 times greater than Apple's equivalent budget.While most of that vast sum is spent on developing products and supporting thousands of independent developers and partners, Microsoft Research also supports some 850 individuals investigating new systems and technologies – the labs under Rashid's control.This week those researchers had the chance to show their wares at TechFest, an annual event which aims to highlight some of their work."The way we work is that we hire the best people we can, we give them a lot of freedom and an environment where they can be really productive," Rashid told the Guardian. "Really, they're experts in their own field – and every field of research has its frontier, and there are often soft spots where you think you can make progress if you push really hard."Microsoft's senior executives certainly hope that Rashid's latest crop of researchers come up with the goods.It is a tough time for the software giant: shares are at their lowest point since the mid 1990s, and last month it decided to cut thousands of workers for the first in its history after financial results started to slide.That background put a distinctly different spin on this year's TechFest, marked by a day of public demonstrations that will be followed by several days of internal meetings where researchers try to transfer their projects on to more commercially-minded teams within the company.Some of the ideas on show were impressive – among them asystem that can stitch together multiple camera anglesto create real-time panoramic videos; or the science fiction-styleSecondLight, a technique that can project extra layers of information onto an image when you want them.But not everything captures the attention so easily. A significant proportion of Microsoft Research work never makes it into the public's hands, while other work takes much longer to reach fruition than expected."There are technologies which seem to take a really long time," he said. "When I first got to Microsoft, one of the first projects I worked on was interactive TV systems. It was very sophisticated, everything was great. We built it, we deployed it, people seemed to like it – but it never went anywhere. It wasn't the right time.""I really felt that was going to take off 10 or 13 years ago, and it's taken a long time – but it's finally having the kind of impact I thought it would."But even when research does break into the mainstream, one criticism often levelled at Microsoft is that much of its work appears closely related to of rivals – so-called "me-too" work that mimics somebody else's work.Whether or not it is intentional, it did appear true on at least a few occasions at TechFest.One project which seemed impressive was a scheme to improve email by applying social networking theories to your inbox activity. It is a neat concept, but one that appeared to take more than a few cues fromXobni, a well-regarded startup whichMicrosoft reportedly tried, and failed, to buy last year.In a similar vein wasGeoLife, a location-based social networking application that uses the GPS in your mobile phone. The system, developed by Beijing-based researcher Yu Zheng, is smart – but the concepts seem very similar to projects already well underway atGoogle,Yahooand elsewhere.It is difficult for when other companies seem to turn their research into highly effective products, like Apple, or have an uncanny ability to catch the public's attention, like Google.Ultimately, says Rashid, such crossovers are inevitable in a world where some trends are more obvious than others – and will be judged on their merits since Microsoft's researchers publish their work in the same way as traditional academics."People who make consistently good choices we reward, and people who make consistently bad choices we get rid of," he said. "I'm talking about people who aren't doing the things that make people successful in research – people who are just not able to produce at that level.""It's not difficult to tell when someone's being successful or if they're not – especially when they have to run the gauntlet of peer review."Those may sound like stern words – but despite the tough times ahead, Microsoft shows no sign of backing away from research spending.Indeed, Rashid's underlings received a timely message of support from chief executive Steve Ballmer yesterday, who said the company had no intention of reining in its research and development spending during the downturn.In fact, Ballmer said, it was quite the opposite:  Microsoft has been looking at which businesses coped with the Depression of the 1930s, and is modelling itself on RCA - which continued investing during the worst years and emerged strongly as the American economy began to recover.It is true that you rarely hear anyone in technology say otherwise – the mantra of "investing in the future" is heard across the entire industry – but Microsoft remains more bullish than most.Rashid's boss Craig Mundie, took a moment to point out that he wasn't looking at getting short term results - but trying to understand how people would be using PCs, mobile phones and other devices in five years."The thing we'll work the hardest to preserve is our research and development spending," he said. "While it may go flat, I doubt it will go down – or at least not in any material way."
