UK Playstation boss Ray Maguire hasadmitted what we already knew, namely that the PS3's slow start was due to the high RRP."The gamble that Ken Kutaragi took with the PlayStation 3 was to put in a high level of technology, so it has been a bit slow to market in some respects, but we're now seeing how people are starting to understand how the technology works. Historically, the installed base of any hardware platform has been proportional to its great gameplay, but also very attached to the RRP. That was the second part of Kutaragi-san's gamble, as that hardware made the machine more expensive. But now we're in the second part of the PS3's cycle, and since the price came down, there has clearly been an uplift."Clearly there has been a sales uplift but are people really "starting to understand how the technology works"? And more importantly do they actually care? Does your average Wii owner feel they are missing out not having Blu-ray? I doubt it.You can't knock the PS3 as a piece of a kit - it still works fine for me while I'm on my fourth 360 now - but you have to wonder if features likeRemote Play- fiddly to setup, geekily impressive when it works - are symptomatic of a console that almost tries to do too much. In light of the relatively low-tech Wii's huge success has Kutaragi's gamble on high tech failed? Or is it just too early to tell?
Eddie Davidson, a convictedrepeat spammerwho walked out of a minimum-security prison where he was in the second month of a 21-month sentence for tax evasion and falsifying information in emails offering stocks, has been found dead. He had apparently killed his wife and three-year-old daughter before shooting himself, after forcing his wife to drive there from Denver. A seven-month-old boy, possibly his wife's child (reports aren't clear), survived.The bodies were found near the town of Bennett, Colorado - where Davidson had run his last spam business, "Power Promoters", and lived last year under another name.Speakingto the Denver Post, the US attorney Troy Eid said:"What a nightmare, and such a coward," Eid said. "Davidson imposed the 'death penalty' on family members for his own crime."What's odd is that Davidson had been cooperating with the FBI, working as a "consultant" to help it investigate other spammers.But that's done now. It's all a loss. If you ever needed a reason not to indulge spammers, it's there.
When I posted something about Knol on Wednesday (Google opens up Knol, its Wikipedia-for-cash project), I pointed out that some Knol pages with no visible backlinks already ranked highly in Google's search results. This makes a mockery of the idea that Google results are based on some sort of meritocratic ideal where the great unwashed "vote" for quality sites by linking to them.Search Engine Land's Danny Sullivan has done much more research on this issue, andThe Day After: Looking At How Well Knol Pages Rank On Googlehas results for 30 Knol pages. The findings are mixed. He says:OK, so 10 of the 30 -- 33% of what I looked at -- hit the top ten or first page of results. You can spin that both ways. It's proof that being in Knol is NOT an automatic ride to the top of the search results. But then again, knowing that 33% of your stuff will rank within a day is a pretty good track record.Danny also produced a "test knol" --Firefox Plugins For SEO &amp; SEM-- and didn't link to it. It did well. He says:I can see only three links pointing at it, and only one of those links uses anchor text relevant to what the page is ranking for. And it's in the top 30 results?Look, I know that being ranked 28 is pretty much near invisible in terms of traffic you'll get from search engines. But then again, to go from nowhere to the 28th top page in Google out of 755,000 matches? I'm sorry -- don't tell me that being in Knol doesn't give your page some authority.A company that proclaims "don't be evil" shouldn't look as though it has got its thumb on the scales.
I've beenrecommendingXdriveonline storage for several years because it worked, you could sign up with an AOL account, it had been around a long time, and it was backed by one of the web's biggest and richest companies. But none of that turned out to be enough. AOL'sKevin Conroyhas sent staff a re-org memo (published byTechCrunch) that announces the "sunsetting" of XDrive, AOL Pictures, MyMobile and Bluestring. The memo says:There was a time at AOL when the strengths of our aggregate portfolio of products more than compensated for the weakness of an underperforming product. The realities of the industry and market shifts in online advertising no longer make that possible.To be specific:Personal Media: Bluestring, Xdrive and AOL Pictures will be sunset. These consumer storage products haven't gained sufficient traction in the marketplace or the monetization levels necessary to offset the high cost of their operation.Translation: AOL used to dominate the web advertising market but now Google has taken all the money we can no longer afford to provide the old level of services.It's possible that AOL will provide a migration path to other services. However, if you have stuff on these services, you may well need to download it and reupload it somewhere else.Among the things that the cloud-computing hype-merchants don't tell you is that cloud-computing companies can have catastrophic technical failures, can go bust, or can simply decide that the service you're banking on no longer fits their strategic and/or financial goals. And those are just a few of the ways you can get screwed.Consider yourself warned....
InThursday's gamesblog column, I wrote about the data that companies and academics are collecting on us as we frag, chat and slay. The extent to the collection is pretty awesome, and believe me, so is the analysis; I've spent the better part of the last two years trying to make sense of an immense Second Life dataset. But enough about myPhD, here's someone who's actually got some results.EconomistEdward Castronova, he who famously calculated theGDP of EverQuestback in 2002, and his team of merry men and women have completed their MacArthur Foundation-fundedArden Projectin which theybuilt a virtual world, split it into two and played around with the economic principles in each to assess the economic validity of virtual environments. From his announcement:Summary: In a fantasy game setting, we made two equivalent worlds and set the price of potions to be higher in one than in the other. We found that people bought fewer potions when they were more expensive.Discussion: The result suggests that people in fantasy games act in an economically normal way. Perhaps these game worlds can be used to study real economic behavior.Read moreherein 'A Test of the Law of Demand in a Virtual World: Exploring the Petri Dish Approach to Social Science'.I have a gut sense that collecting data from virtual world and other online game environments about the players will soon become much more difficult in the same way as putting people throughtruly fascinating but psychologically dangerous experimentscame to an end when ethics boards became the norm. There are questions of digital privacy, digital identity and data ownership which arestill being hacked outby the commercial and the public sectors. For the time being, thevirtual world petri dishis still accessible for social scientists like myself, and Castronova et al's research provides yet another reason why they are worthy of study.
The Mercury Prize nominations were announced earlier this week, prompting the usual heated discussions about the artist selections, the controversial omissions and the broader purpose of the entire enterprise itself.According to the official website, the remit is merely to champion UK music, with no specific agenda concerning eligible styles and genres. However, there's clearly a bias toward the more sonorous, stately end of the mainstream indie spectrum (so, no to Wombats and Pigeon detectives, yes to Elbow and Radiohead), and a determination to represent the sitar-pluckers, drum troublers and folk warblers languishing under the problematic world/roots heading. Agenda or no agenda The Mercury Prize is clearly not The Brits. Or the MTV Awards.So, my question is, if there were such a prize in the videogame sector - a ceremony that celebrates offbeat, original games, available through mainstream channels - what would you chose from the last 12 months?You don't have to stick to UK games, and you can opt for XBLA, WiiWare, PSN and Flash titles as well as major retail releases. Just keep in mind, it's got to be a bit offbeat. And no sequels...My suggestions...1. The World Ends With You 2. Boom Blox 3. Echochrome 4. Warhawk 5. Mass Effect 6. Spore Creature Maker
The head of a leading cancer research institute has reignited the controversy over the health risks of using mobile phones by sending a warning to staff that they should limit the use of the devices because of the risk of cancer.Dr Ronald Herberman's alert to 3,000 staff at the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute is believed to be the first of its kind from the director of a leading research centre. His call for action stands in contrast to the existing advice from many health authorities, which have pointed out that evidence of the dangers of mobile phone use is inconclusive.In a memo posted to staff, Herberman admits that the evidence is still controversial and no hard conclusions can be reached, but he says he has become convinced that there is sufficient information "to warrant issuing an advisory to share some precautionary advice on cellphone use". He has had his memo peer-reviewed by an international panel of more than 20 experts from countries including the US, Canada and France.He is likely to arouse considerable interest in his warning by adding that he bases it partly on "early unpublished data" from ongoing research projects. It is thought that may refer to new findings from a monitoring project across 13 countries, known as Interphone.Herberman advises a 10-point programme to reduce the risks of using the devices, which he calls "precautionary".Top of his list of advised precautions is that children should use mobiles only for emergencies in recognition of the fact that their growing brain tissue is likely to be more sensitive to the electromagnetic radiation emitted by them. That is in tune with advice already given by several European countries and Canada.The list goes further than most existing advice by advocating steps that include:&#183;Avoid using mobile phones in public places such as buses as you might passively expose your neighbours to radiation;&#183;Do not keep phones near your body at night, such as under the pillow;&#183;Restrict calls to just a few minutes to avoid accumulation of exposure;&#183;Try not to use a phone where the signal is weak or when moving at speed, say in a car or train, as this raises the power of the device as it seeks to find a connection;&#183;Use hands-free devices and if forced to hold a phone to the head switch sides while talking to avoid concentration on one part of the brain.Herberman's decision to go beyond current medical orthodoxy prompted a sceptical reaction from some colleagues. Professor Will Stewart of Southampton University, an expert on optoelectronics, said: "One cannot refute the 'early findings from unpublished data' since we have not seen them. But there is enough published data to make the advice sound alarmist."The Wireless Association, representing the mobile phone industry in the US, said research "published in scientific journals around the globe show that wireless phones do not pose a health risk".The largest study published so far tracked 420,000 phone users in Denmark, thousands of whom had used the devices for more than 10 years. It found no increased risk of cancer.
The head of Microsoft's Windows and web operations is leaving the Seattle-based software empire in a shake-up widely viewed as the fallout from the company's failed bid for internet portal Yahoo.Kevin Johnson, a senior lieutenant to Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, is to become head of Juniper Networks, a manufacturer of telecoms equipment.His departure came as Microsoft told an analysts' briefing that it intended to make steep investments in online activities to try to keep pace with Google. Among Microsoft's initiatives is likely to be an expanded relationship with Facebook, in which it has a 1.6% stake.Johnson, who has been at Microsoft for 16 years, was instrumental in the company's recent $47.5bn (&pound;24bn) takeover offer for Yahoo which floundered on disagreements over the valuation. He was one of a small group of Microsoft executives who worked to try to clinch the deal.Known within Microsoft as KJ, he presided over a department of 14,000 people responsible for the company's Windows operating system and for internet operations such as Hotmail and MSN search.Microsoft said the division would be split, with both the Windows and web operations reporting directly to Ballmer."This new structure will give us more agility and focus in two very competitive areas," said Ballmer.Microsoft has faced criticism from analysts over its internet strategy. It has struggled to match the rapid rate of innovation and growth shown by Google.The precise reason for Johnson's departure was unclear. Matt Rosoff, an analyst at the independent consultancy Directions on Microsoft, said: "Whether it was his decision to leave, or whether it was based on recent events probably related to Yahoo and the online segment's last-quarter performance, I don't know."Johnson's exit comes amid big changes  at Microsoft, where founder Bill Gates stepped down from day-to-day involvement last month to concentrate on philanthropy.In a company-wide email leaked yesterday to the technology blog All Things Digital, Ballmer told employees that the failure of the Yahoo deal was not a significant setback. "I want to emphasise the point I've been making all along - Yahoo was a tactic, not a strategy," wrote Ballmer, who said a takeover would have increased Microsoft's share of online search queries and created a bigger pool of advertisers. "Yahoo would have helped us get there faster. But we will get there with or without Yahoo."
The head of a leading cancer research institute based in Pittsburgh has reignited the controversy over the health risks of using mobile phones by sending a warning to the institute's staff that they should limit the use of the devices because of the risk of cancer.Dr Ronald Herberman's alert to 3,000 faculty and staff of the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute is believed to be the first of its kind from the director of a major research centre. His call for action stands in contrast to the existing advice from many health authorities that have pointed out that evidence of the dangers of mobile phone use is inconclusive.In a memo posted to the staff, Herberman admits that the evidence was still controversial and no hard conclusions can be reached, but he goes on to say that he has become convinced that there was sufficient information "to warrant issuing an advisory to share some precautionary advice on cell phone use." He has also had his memo peer reviewed by an international panel of more than 20 experts drawn from America, Canada, France, Italy and elsewhere.He is likely to arouse considerable interest in his warning by adding that he bases it partly on "early unpublished data" from on-going research projects. It is thought that may refer to new findings from a massive on-going monitoring project across 13 countries known as Interphone.Herberman advises a 10-point programme to reduce the risks of using the devices, which he calls "precautionary".Top of his list of advised precautions is that children should only use mobiles for emergencies in recognition of the fact that the growing brain tissue of children is likely to be more sensitive to the electromagnetic radiation emitted by them. That is in tune with advice already given by several European countries and Canada.The list goes much further than most existing advice by advocating steps that include:• Avoid using cell phones in public places such as buses as you might passively expose your neighbours to radiation;• Do not keep phones near your body at night, such as under the pillow;• Restrict calls to just a few minutes to avoid accumulation of exposure;• Try not to use it where the signal is weak or when moving at speed say in a car or train, as this raises the power of the device as it seeks to find a connection;∑ Use hands-free devices and if forced to hold phones to the head switch sides while talking to avoid concentration on one part of the brain.Herberman's decision to go beyond current medical orthodoxy and advocate immediate measures to reduce risk prompted a sceptical reaction from some colleagues. A British expert on optoelectronics, Professor Will Stewart of Southampton University, said: "One cannot refute the 'early findings from unpublished data' since we have not seen them. But there is enough published data to make the advice sound alarmist."The Wireless Association, representing the cell phone industry in the US, said "published in scientific journals around the globe show that wireless phones do not pose a health risk".The largest study published so far tracked 420,000 phone users in Denmark, thousands of whom had used the devices for more than 10 years. It found no increased risk of cancer.Herberman insists that he is not motivated by any animus towards mobile phones, praising them as a remarkable invention that is here to stay. But he said that conclusive results may not emerge for a very long time until individuals had been continually using the gadgets for 15 or 35 years, as was the case with smoking and lung cancer.He also pointed to the example of asbestos mines where had more precautions been taken on the early tentative advice of scientists, lives could have been saved.
Games industry veteran Trip Hawkins (founder of EA, 3DO and Digital Chocolate) has just given a keynote entitled "The Supercasual Social Revolution" at the Casual Connect conference in Seattle. The gist - a new generation of gamers, brought up with the internet, mobile phones, iTunes and social networking is seeking a new kind of game - social, viral, accessible and playable in short sessions on any hardware at hand.He also talked of disruptive games, which break out of the tech-aware ghetto and attract complete non-gamers - Wii Play and Fit spring to mind, though social virtual networks came predictably into reckoning.So are you an Omni Media Gamer? Do you know any?It's early days yet. Sure, there are plenty of browser games technically playable on both PCs and smartphones; plus, several mobile titles (Hands-On's World Poker Texas Hold 'Em 2 for example) are designed specifically for competitive online play between phone and PC users. But the big dream of, say, Xbox vs PC vs mobile gamers is yet to materialise, hampered by infrastructure, interface and other hardware issues.But as Hawkins attests, times are changing. On mobile you have 3G iPhone with its freely available SDKs, plus OpenSource Symbian and soon, Google Android. On console there are XBLA, PSN and WiiWare, all encouraging small-scale innovative development. It'll just take one very good, very simple, very connected game, perhaps delivered as a viral Facebook or iPhone app, something that'll keep pushing content at busy users, that'll use new elements like GPS... Then, well, Hawkins may just be on to something huge... certainly more EA than 3DO.[ViaGamesutra]
Sophos has just published its latestSophos Security Threat Report, covering the first six months of cybercrime in 2008. This points out that the web is now "the preferred vector of attack for financially-motivated cybercriminals. On average, Sophos detects 16,173 malicious webpages every day -- or one every five seconds. This is three times faster than the rate seen during 2007."The problem is compounded by the use of SQL injection and IFrame attacks (seebelow). Sophos says:Over 90% of the webpages that are spreading Trojan horses and spyware are legitimate websites (some belonging to household brands and Fortune 500 companies) that have been hacked through SQL injection.On his new blog, Sophos's oft-quotedGraham Cluleysays: "A lot of the media coverage for the report has focused on a tiny part of it: our statistic showing that 2% of the malware is hosted on Blogspot.com."Using Blogger is a no-brainer because it's free and it guarantees you'll get crawled by Google.OnlyyesterdayI was complaining about Blogger being used for spam, and predicting that Knol would also get more than its share of scammers.Come on, Google, surely it'sevilnot to clean up the mess in your own front yard!
This is no time to reboot!It was 39 years ago that Apollo 11 touched down - using a computer that ran at a princely 0.043MHz, lost a minute's guidance due to the radar, and finished with 30 seconds' fuel. Phew! (For more on Apollo 11's computer system, see thisvery interesting writeup.)You'll believe a man can walkThough it couldn't have helped Christopher Reeve, who was quadriplegic, this "exoskeleton" looks promising for paraplegics, giving back mobility and access and exercising muscles once more.Can youaffordfor it to blend?The obligatory ritual in which a new gizmo - here, an iPhone (3G? Or not 3G?) - is blended. Smoothly. Totally.Got a technology or games video you love? Tell us in the comments!
'A rather unusual book' ... Sony e-reader standing open in a grey caseThe most authoritative history of the book that we haveopens, laconically: "About the year 1450, some rather unusual 'manuscripts' made their appearance in the northern regions of Western Europe." Thus began the print revolution.In the year 2008, a rather unusual "book" made its appearance in Britain's walk-in and click-in bookstores. The e-reader.The retail chains, and Amazon, have decided to blitz the consumer with Sony, Kindle, and iLiad. Many users will, however, like me, first come across these nifty gadgets in institutional sites: through their educational establishments, or offices. It's significant, for example, that CNN has - for about a year now - been pushing an array of e-readers onRichard Quest's "Business Traveller" slot. As Richard informs us (with that somewhat irritating bubbliness), they're easily packed, and they're packed not just with airport reading but invaluable factual information. If you're travelling to Tokyo for the first time, wouldn't you find a shelf-full of professional guidebooks helpful?To this extent, Waterstone's high street sales push is misconceived. The most influential early adopters will, probably, be institutional (did you buy the first desktop you used?) The manufacturers should donate 20 sets to every public library and plc in the country - then let the public demand build up, like water behind a dam.E-readers have been around for a while. But till now they suffered from the same liability that reading books on the laptop did. The clunk factor. You can get 120,000 works of literature,free of charge. But reading them on screen is razor blades for the eyes. And a lot of neckache.The e-reader masquerades as a codex (ie cut page, not scroll) book. It's a faux book, of course, but, most importantly, it gives its user some of the same physical gratification that the codex has always offered. You can "handle" it. As with texting, you can use your thumbs (although the index finger gets itchy with little to do). You can't, it's true, "cut in" with your thumb and forefinger to, say, page 80, 200, or back to 7 (which incapacitates index retrieval). You can't scrawl in the margin. It doesn't feel, to the finger-tips, like a book. It doesn't smell like a book. (Do you secretly sniff your books? I do.) But the e-reader is as wonderfully portable as the codex book (legend has it that they were invented by early Christians, who needed to hide their Bibles under their togas).If the need arises, Richard Q can walk into the business class toilet with an e-reader and bone up on what the Japanese is for "can we close the deal now?" sitting on the can.Despite thetalk of impending revolutionin the publishing industry, my feeling is that the current batch of e-readers are still two electronic generations premature. We await the Model T. But the seed is sown, and we won't have to wait long - the market is too big not to be filled. Will it kill the traditional book? No more than TV killed the movies, or the movies killed the theatre. It will, of course, change the cultural constellation. But, having enjoyed 500 years of dominance, the codex book can't complain about taking a back seat for the next half millennium.What the e-reader means - in the not too distant future - is as much of a cultural explosion as the "rather unusual manuscript" brought with it in the 15th century. It's not a storage device but a portal, a Lewisian wardrobe, opening into new worlds. New possibilities in linkage and illustration will supplement facsimile type. In a few years, you'll be able to hear the author's voice - should you so wish - or switch between script and oral versions, full-text or abbreviated text, or digest. You'll be able to "dialogue" the book, or its maker. Soundtracks will be as possible, and as enriching, as they are with movies. Media mix will create new realms of literary artistry. Perhaps even smells. And, of course, it will be damned useful for the briefcase-carrying Quests of the world. In 20 years, we won't know how we lived without the thing.Marshall McLuhanshould be living at this hour. But curb your impatience just a bit longer. Unless, that is, it's worth 200 quid to be the first person on your street with one.
Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the BPI, held a rapidly-arranged press conference call with journalists this morning. There were technical hassles that meant it ended prematurely, and it wasn't feasible to record it (At least, on my end) but I took a shorthand note which, I hope, will suffice to give you a sufficient picture of what was said.Click through to read on..This is a rough transcript of the press conference call given by the BPI this morning. I can't guarantee the content is absolutely correct, but the notes were contemporaneous. Some questions and answers may have been missed or shortened. [My comments in italics.]Geoff Taylor, chief executive, BPI:Hello. Just to explain what we're talking about today, the objective we want to achieve is a significant reduction in illegal file sharing [he took trouble always to call it illegal file sharing, which I think is to distinguish it from the legal variety] in two to three years.There are five main principles. 1 - a self regulatory code of practice backed by government consultation 2 - rights holders will continue their education effort to explain why music created by artists deserves to be respected 3 - continue to develop innovative new music services, develop new services for customers 4 - getting into the substance of dealing with illegal file sharing; five main ISPs other than Virgin will be sending out a thousand letters per week to customers - the numbers will then escalate after a three-month trial [that's a lot of letters! Royal Mail will be pleased] 5 - media group will be established by Ofcom for methods to deal with repeat infringers who ignore letters.All major isps in the UK now recognise that they have responsibility to deal with illegal file sharing on their networks. Letters to account holders who not know their account is being used illegally.The proof of the pudding will be in the eating... and now, questions?Q:how have you got Charles Dunstone and TalkTalk to come along in this? They told you to go away earlier this year.GT:government has had a useful role to play geting everybody together ... getting isps to understand that this is an issue that has to be dealt with. Think it's very encouraging.. he recognised had to participate because it was going to go ahead [Translation: government waved big legislation stick]Q:When will we see major commercial music services supplied by ISPs?GT:there was the one the other day [Sky/Universal].. [lost rest of the answer]Q:can you clarify: are you going after uploaders or downloaders, or both?GT:both - the memorandum covers both. But sharing files illegally.. whether uploading or downloading they're breaking the law. .. but our focus is on uploaders.Q:what recommendation do you have about persistent offenders?GT:too early to say. We have put forward poroposals which is that the ISPs implement their own terms and conditions [which say 'dont break the law or we'll kick you off']. Should be measures to prevent people using accounts illegally. We don't mind which, but that they [ISPs] act as desired.Q:The Open Rights Group says consumers' voices haven't been heard in this, just industry.GT:we don't have to worry about groups not making their views heard, the consultation is going on, government was alive to the interests of consumers. We as an industry are very focused on finding ways to with this problem. But we can't duck this issue. It's vital to the future.Q:The Department for Business [DBERR] press office says that three-strikes-and-out isn't an option. Nor is a levy. Nor is a blacklist. So what are your options to really hurt people doing this?GT:nothing's ruled in or out. Technical measures will be a big part of this discussion. Have to see what working group produces.Q:can you use filtering to find tracks that are copyrighted? And what about a levy?GT:there are ways of preventing acounts from being used illegally. A levy has never been part of the memorandum of understanding discussions.Q:can you clarify on the levy? The Indie is saying £30 per month.GT:I'm not sure where they got that from. Hasn't been discussed with government. Think that [Indie] article is probably wrong. A widely-applied tax probably isn't the way forward here.Q:wouldn't a levy be a way forward?GT:hasn't ever been tabled. Maybe somebody briefing the Indie who isn't part of that. [Translation: Indie got wrong end of stick, grasped "most radical" rather than "correct" end]Q:Will there be some priority in the action, going after the big downloaders/uploaders more than someone doing a couple of files a month?GT:no. No priorities. If you're using account illegally, you're using your account illegally.Q:surely better to seek the more important offenders first?GT:we aren't going to make any policy pronouncement about who's going to be the subject. Doing this online is not anonymous, it's not secret, it's against the law.Q:you've been talking about the problem the internet's been causing to your business since 2003 at least. Has it really taken this long to get to this stage where you have some traction with government?GT:Hasn't been easy to persuade ISPs where the problem is on the network. But also to see the opportunity for them.At this point the conference call was interrupted by a speeded-up BBC interview in which someone - John Humphrys? - was saying "But yes, what is the Irish question?" And then at the proper speed. And then again and again. With the gremlins firmly ensconced, the call was abandoned.
Microsoft and Google are among the companies that have already demonstrated that you're a mug if you buy media protected with DRM (digital rights management) code in the expectation of long-term support. Now Yahoo is taking the same route, only faster: it is shutting up shop on September 30. In anemailpublished by the LA Times, Yahoo says:After the Store closes, Yahoo! will no longer be able to support the retrieval of license keys for music purchased from Yahoo! Music Unlimited, and Yahoo! will no longer be able to authorize song playback on additional computers. After September 30, 2008, you will not be able to transfer songs to unauthorized computers or re-license these songs after changing operating systems. Please note that your purchased tracks will generally continue to play on your existing authorized computers unless there is a change to the computer's operating system.The LAT'sBit Payer blogcomments:Consumer backlash prompted Microsoft to extend support for tracks bought from the defunct MSN Music store by at least three years. And Sony, which closed its Connect music store in March, will continue to support those tracks until the end of the year. Perhaps Yahoo will feel a similar blast of heat and maintain its DRM servers for a while longer. Or maybe it sold so few tracks that no one will care.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Kevin Johnson ran a large chunk of Microsoft -- the Platforms &amp; Services Division, which includes Windows -- and was also "lead man" in Microsoft's attempt to take over Yahoo, so it's a bit of a shock to find he's off. After 16 years at Microsoft, Johnson is moving south to California to run Juniper Networks, which has revenues of only $3 billion.In theannouncement, Microsoft says PSD "will be split into two groups: Windows/Windows Live and Online Services, with both groups reporting directly to CEO Steve Ballmer." In effect, Johnson is not being replaced, and Microsoft is looking for someone to run the Online Services Business, which includes search and MSN.The fact that Microsoft doesn't already have someone lined up suggests this is an unexpected move.Financially, OSB is a tiny part of Microsoft (barely much bigger than Juniper), and doing badly. In the last fiscal year (08), it increased revenues by 32% to $3.21 billion, but operating losses almost doubled to $1.23 billion. It's an area where Microsoft is investing heavily, but Google is making a very large fortune.Todd Bishop's Microsoft Blog at the Seattle PI newspaper has publishedthe text of Ballmer's memo to Microsoft staff, which also lays down Microsoft's strategy for the future. There's no surprise about what's top of the list: Windows. He writes:The success of Windows is our number one job. With SP1 and the work we've done with PC manufacturers and our software ecosystem, we've addressed device and application compatibility issues in Windows Vista. Now it's time to tell our story. In the weeks ahead, we'll launch a campaign to address any lingering doubts our customers may have about Windows Vista. And later this year, you'll see a more comprehensive effort to redefine the meaning and value of Windows for our customers.There's a small hint as to what this might mean in the paragraph about competing with Apple. Ballmer says:Today, we're changing the way we work with hardware vendors to ensure that we can provide complete experiences with absolutely no compromises. We'll do the same with phones -- providing choice as we work to create great end-to-end experiences.The US Justice Department sued Microsoft into the ground to give PC manufacturers the right to screw up the "Windows experience", but even on a clean machine, Windows has a long-winded set-up sequence. It's not clear how much Microsoft can do about that, given the need to support localisation in virtually every country in the world. I suppose we should take the view that "every little helps".The Guardian has run theReutersstory about Johnson's departure..Update: And today we have a report from our man in New York:Internet: Veteran leaves in Microsoft shake-up
A businessman today won £17,000 in damages against a former schoolfriend accused of putting a fake profile of him on the social networking website Facebook.The high court heard that the profile falsely suggested Matthew Firsht was looking for same-sex relationships and was signed up with groups including Gay in the Wood…Borehamwood and Gay Jews in London.Deputy judge Richard Parkes QC ruled that Grant Raphael's defence - that the entry was created by party gate-crashers at his flat - was "built on lies".The judge awarded Firsht £15,000 for libel and £2,000 for breach of privacy.Firsht is managing director of Applause Store Productions, which finds audiences for television and radio shows. The firm was awarded £5,000 for libel.Lorna Skinner, Firsht's lawyer, told a hearing last month that the information included his whereabouts, activities, birthday and relationship status and falsely indicated his political views.Firsht said his personal details were "laid bare" by Raphael, a freelance cameraman.Raphael created a false Firsht personal profile and group profile, called Has Matthew Firsht lied to you?, from a computer at his flat in Hampstead, north London, in June last year, the court heard.The profiles were on the site for 16 days until Firsht's brother spotted them and they were taken down by Facebook.Raphael, who denied liability, said "strangers" who attended an impromptu party at the address that day sneaked off to a spare bedroom and created the profiles on his PC.The profile said Firsht was "Looking for: whatever I can get" in terms of relationships.Skinner told the court that Raphael, a "self-confessed Facebook enthusiast", set up the profile because he wanted to cause Firsht anxiety and embarrassment."The claimant says that the defendant has borne a grudge since they fell out in 2000," she told the court."Mr Firsht values his privacy highly and it was the gross invasion of his privacy, namely having his personal details, including false details concerning his sexuality, laid bare for all to see on Facebook, that caused him the most distress."The high court heard that he was defamed by claims that he owed substantial sums of money which he had repeatedly avoided paying by lying, and that he and his company were untrustworthy in their financial conduct and represented a serious credit risk.
Amy Winehouse: sending her round to borrow your hairspray still might be the BPI's best nuclear optionThe BPI's conference call on its announcement this morning about a deal with the six biggest ISPs has just ended. Before it dissolved into technical chaos - surely not the BPI's fault - there was time for Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the BPI (which represents the largest UK record labels - not to be confused with musicpublishers, nor indeed independent record labels) to outline what the deal involves, and doesn't involve.-it is the "hands off" model mentioned previously, where the BPI will identify IP addresses sharing files illegally (Taylor is scrupulous to talk of illegal file sharing, which acknowledges that there is such a thing as legal file sharing) and pass the details on to the ISP, which will identify the person and send a warning letter; -it's not only about people uploading files; people who download will also be targeted;-there'sabsolutely no questionof trying to impose a monthly levy on ISPs and users (even ifThe Independent suggests there is). "I'm not sure where they got that from," said Taylor. "It hasn't been discussed with government. I think that article is probably wrong. A widely applied tax probably isn't the way forward here. It hasn't ever been tabled. Maybe somebody has been briefing the Independent who isn't part [of the discussions]."-consumers can give their input to government; Becky Hogge of the Open Rights Group complained on the Today program that consumers' views haven't been heard in all this negotiating, but Taylor says government has been careful to do that;-there's still no clear idea what sanctions there will be against repeat offenders. The government proposals don't include three-strikes-and-out, or blacklists, or a levy. So what's left? "Nothing is ruled in or out," said Taylor. "Technical measures will be a big part of [future action]. We will have to see what the working group [of government, ISPs and BPI] produces."In the aftermath, ISPs have been jockeying like mad to position themselves as being on the consumer's side. TalkTalk, whichsent the BPI away with a flea in its ear in April, dropped an email by saying it "defends customer rights as part of illegal download initiative":"It is not our job to tell customers what they should or shouldn't be doing but we believe it is in their interests to warn them that they are being accused of wrongdoing," says Charles Dunstone, CEO, The Carphone Warehouse Group. "We will not divulge a customer's details or disconnect them on the say so of the content industry, but we will work with rights holders to develop a sensible and legal approach founded on protecting consumer rights and privacy."And what's more, TalkTalk saysIf a rights holder thinks a copyright infringement has occurred, they can use legal means to attempt to prosecute the individual concerned. TalkTalk will continue to act in the best interests of its customers and will fight any action which prejudices their privacy or freedom to use the Internet as they choosIt's not quite status quo ante, but it still feels like the wheels are grinding exceedingly slow. Even so, they're grinding, and one has to feel that illegal file-sharing is going to get ground up in them eventually.
Gadzooks, there's so much going on at the minute, I can barely keep up (egads! theChristian Game Developer's Conferenceis starting today,Virtual Policy08ended yesterday...). Thankfully I have ourall-new Google Calendarto keep me right, and a quickie glance tells me that next week is theDevelop conferencein sunny Brighton.While the meat of the ticket prices comes fromthe plethora sessions, we all know that the important business comesafter the conference rooms close and cups overfloweth.The gamesblog's ownHave I Got Games News For YouPub Quiz is happening on Monday evening, but sadly, with the addition of the Relentless team, the Microsoft-Pixel-Lab team and the Idle Thumbs posse, anyone who's not already signed up onthe Upcoming pageor joined a team there is out of luck. Still, I think there are a few teams short of a whole deck, sohead thereif you're interested in joining one. Also, there's still a chance to participate -don't forget to submit your general knowledge questions to gamesblog +at+ gmail +dot+com for your chance to win prizes! The deadline for submission is tomorrow.David fromPixel-Lab's reminded me that Wednesday night is the latest edition of their panel showNever Mind the Polygons, with a stellar cast of characters taking the stage and delivering dry wit. From the release:Never Mind the Polygons is a lively panel and game show discussion of today's game development issues, generally fuelled by alcohol and a large dose of bile. Topical, informative, intelligent, arrogant, knowledgeable but most importantly great fun. ... The panel for Never Mind the Polygons in Brighton will be:Nate Wells (Art Director, 2K Boston)Jonathan Smith (Head of Production, TT Games)Mark Rein (President, Epic Games)Margaret Robertson (Consultant, Channel 4, BBC Writer, former Editor of EDGE)Iain Simons (Director, GameCity Festival)Toby Barnes (Pixel-Lab), as hostIf you're around that evening, do drop in and say hello.Greg will be on hand on Tuesday to give you the skinny on the things happening during the conference that day, so stay tuned to the gamesblog for the latest in the UK development scene. Let us know what you'd like him to report on from the schedulehere.
The BPI - which represents the largest labels in the UK music industry - is preparing a conference call which it calls "a major development in its campaign to improve partnerships between the music business &amp; ISPs".Six will be signing up with its letter-writing initiative. That's right, the one where they send you a letter telling you that your connection seems to be being used for file-sharing copyrighted music.Among those joining will be Carphone Warehouse (in the guise of Talk Talk), which had previously sent the BPI away with a flea in its ear over the idea of policing its customers.But is this really the victory that the BPI seems ready to announce? It doesn't sound much different from what we'veheardbefore - and some ISPs, especially Virgin, havebeen at painsto point out that they're not going to cut anyone off for (alleged) file-sharing.And what can the music industry hold out as encouragement for toeing its line? Its product - music. Such as the all-you-can-eat offering that Sky and Universalsignedthe other day.So ahead of the official press conference (which is 9am Thursday), we'll wait for the fine detail on this one.Over at the BBC, Rory Cellan-Jones isunconvincedtoo:The BPI has a carrot-and-stick approach in its dealings with the ISPs - you crack down on pirates, and you can have a stake in what is still a pretty lucrative business. So far, the ISPs seem to be grabbing the carrot - while avoiding the stick.
I have tunes bought from the Apple site, but I also use Windows Media Player and have music that isn't iTunes compatible. I would like to get an MP3 player that will let me play all my songs. I also want it to have a radio.Meriel WhaleI don't know of any player that can handle music protected by Apple's digital rights management (DRM) and also Microsoft's. Apple has avoided supporting WMA (Windows Media Audio) and hasn't licensed Microsoft's DRM. Apple also hasn't openly licensed its own FairPlay DRM so that companies such as Sony and Archos can use it. You must therefore go for one DRM or the other, depending on which is most important to you. You can rescue the incompatible tunes by burning them to disc in audio CD format then re-ripping them to WMA, AAC or MP3. However, this will lead to some loss in quality.Choosing an MP3 player is partly a matter of taste, and it's worth trying them in a shop to see which you like. Look at the 8GB iPod nano, even though it doesn't play WMA files or have a built-in radio. Other 8GB models to look at include the Sony NWZA818, the Creative Zen (model 70PF216000115), and the SanDisk Sansa e280. All three can play WMA, protected WMA and MP3 files, and the Sony and Creative Zen models also play unprotected AAC files. The Sony has the best sound quality, beating iPods etc in a H-Fi World review. However, it does not have a radio, and the other two do. Since these players generally cost around £70 each at Amazon.co.uk, you could also get an iPod Shuffle and cover all bases for roughly the cost of an 8GB iPod nano.For the future, I'd suggest never buying any music files that include DRM.Play.com,Tesco Digital, iTunes+ and other sites already offer DRM-free music in the UK, with Amazon expected shortly.Backchat: Peter Killick adds: "You need to make people aware of the big quality differences between what you get from different suppliers for more or less the same cost." An MP3 from Play.com might have a bit rate of 320kbps and one from Tesco Digital only 128kbps, he says.
My service provider told me that I would shorten the life of my router (Netgear DG824M Wireless) if I were to continue my practice of switching it off as a way of reducing our energy consumption. I had been in touch with their support staff over occasional brief interruptions in my broadband connection.Graham RoothI don't know of any reason why turning a router off should shorten its life. On the other hand, I had two routers die in about three years: I turned them off and they never came back on. I now leave mine on all the time, and stand it on Blu-Tack legs to get some air underneath. Routers consume relatively little power -- probably around 8-15 Watts -- but you could measure yours with an energy monitoring plug.
I am using a broadband router which has a firewall built in. Is it still necessary to run a software firewall?Steve GorwitsYes. The firewall in the router should stop most probes, but if your PC gets a virus or Trojan from a USB drive, a program you have downloaded or some other source, the router will not stop it from calling out. And after it calls out, your router firewall will not block the response. You need a software firewall to control the programs running on your PC: not only malware but also legitimate programs that access the net without telling you.
Could you tell me why I keep getting "Internet Explorer cannot display the web page"? Also, is it safe to use Microsoft Updates, as I read that these were causing problems.M AldersonThere are a lot of reasons why IE might not display a web page, and Microsoft has a trouble-shooter athttp://support.microsoft.com/kb/926431. One reason not covered is that you might have a virus or browser hijacker, which can result from failing to install critical Windows Updates. These can sometimes cause some problems, but not as many as can be caused by not installing them.
Hotmail now makes me enter my password twice. After the first time, the page refreshes and says my username or password is incorrect. If I retype my password, it lets me in.Harry AnnisonThis seems to be a recent Hotmail bug and it affects Mac and Linux owners with various browsers, not just Windows users. The trick is to bookmark the second page when it appears, and go straight to that page in future. The address will look something likethis, and this may work for you.
When Steve Jobs announced the iPhone 3G, a lot of people - journalists and analysts, and plain observers - thought he looked thin. The questions didn't quite go away, but Apple insisted that there was no question of a reoccurence of the rare form of pancreatic cancer that he'd been diagnosed with - and, as best we know, cured of - four years ago.(It was a rare form -islet cell cancer- which is treatable: normally, pancreatic cancer is a very short death sentence, with a six-month timescale.)Then when he didn't appear in the latest financial results,people got talking again- although Jobs hardly ever turns up in those, either; he leaves it to people like Tim Cook, the chief operating officer and Peter Oppenheimer, the chief financial officer. If he's there it usually means it's bad news. So his non-appearance was a good thing all round.Apple said he was fine. And we thought that was it. Except that now John Markoff in the New York Times has anintriguing storywhich says thatPeople who are close to Mr. Jobs say that he had a surgical procedure this year to address a problem that was contributing to a loss of weight. These people declined to be identified because Mr. Jobs had not authorized them to speak about his health.The reason why seems to be, putting the clues together, that Jobs had theWhipple procedure(follow the link for explanatory photos) to remove the cancer - which involves considerable rearrangement of your internal organs. As theFortune blog notes,The Whipple procedure, named for Allen Oldfather Whipple, the American doctor who perfected it in the 1930s, is a complex, Rube Goldberg-type operation in which surgeons remove the right-most section, or "head," of the pancreas - as well as the gallbladder, part of the stomach, the lower half of the bile duct, and part of the small intestine - and then reassemble the whole thing in a new configuration. The severed surfaces of the stomach, bile duct, and remaining pancreas are stitched to the small intestine so that what's left of the pancreas can continue to supply insulin and digestive enzymes.You can imagine that that would have some effect on how well you're able to digest your food. Add to that the fact that Jobs is famously aveganpescatarian [eats fish and vegetables], and you have a recipe for weight loss. But weight loss you don't really want.Perhaps we need to put out a fact sheet on the Whipple procedure to Wall Street:"Every client call today I've had has brought up the health issue," said Charles Wolf, a securities analyst at Needham &amp; Company.... "These are material questions given that his footprint is all over the company," said A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "The fact is, if you're a C.E.O. of a public company you're a public figure."So we're clearer now: Jobs is healthy, inasmuch as you can be after a Whipple procedure. But you can bet that if there's one person who can afford really good health care, it's a billionaire.
Imagine a quiz show getting upgraded from a local TV network onto prime-time digital TV - that's the step up Quiz TV has made from its predecessors. It's got everything we loved from the earlier editions, but high-def graphics give the game a shine like never before and a wider range of character animations creates a more stylish look. Buzz! has gone from a "show" to a "network" allowing you to pick which quiz genres you'd like to play - from  music, movies and TV, to sports and science. New rounds are enjoyable to play and with more than 5,000 questions it's the best-stocked Buzz! so far, but the killer offering is its online capabilities. The ability to play online, or create and upload your own quizzes for PS3 gamers to play globally really adds to its appeal, giving it that next-gen edge.
Just when it looked as though Guitar Hero was about to drown in an unedifying pit of franchise-milking, Activision has come up with a truly original version of the game on the DS. It takes the form of a plastic faux-section of a guitar-neck, studded with the four familiar colour-coded keys, and equipped with a strap through which (if you're right-handed) you place your left hand. Hold the DS like a book, and you can play the game by strumming the touchscreen with a plectrum-shaped stylus; blow into the microphone and Star Power is activated. Astonishingly, this gives you the full, uncompromised Guitar Hero experience on a tiny handheld. It does, however, make your left hand ache something chronic if you play more than a couple of tracks off the reel - regular breaks are in order. But it has a stonking selection of music, mixing hoary old rock from the likes of Jet and Santana with more modern music from bands like Blink 182 and Maroon Five. And it's every bit as addictive (and fearsomely tricky in hard mode) as its console predecessor.
Bill and Melinda Gates announced yesterday that they were joining Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, in a $500m campaign against smoking in the developing world.As smoking has become less acceptable and profitable in the rich world, tobacco companies have expanded in countries where there are few restrictions and little in the way of public health warnings. Each year 5 million people around the world die of smoking; by 2030, more than 80% of them will live in low- and middle-income countries. According to the Gates Foundation, the poorest households in Bangladesh spend almost 10 times as much on tobacco as they do on education.The initiative, which will include campaigns to persuade people of the inadvisability of smoking, and efforts to induce governments to impose bans - is a departure for Gates. His foundation has been primarily committed to finding solutions to health problems, such as vaccines for killer diseases.But he is joining forces with Bloomberg, who made New York smoke-free in 2002 and gone on to found an anti-tobacco initiative working to get worldwide bans. "Tobacco-caused diseases have emerged as one of the greatest health challenges facing developing countries," said Gates. "The good news is, we know what it takes to save millions of lives; and where efforts exist, they are working."Gates will put in $125m over five years. Bloomberg yesterday announced his own new commitment of $250m, bringing his total over four years to $375m.Bloomberg's initiative supports projects that increase tobacco tax, change the image of tobacco, protect non-smokers from exposure to smoke, and help people quit. Together with the World Health Organisation, he launched the Mpower package of evidence-based interventions this year: monitor tobacco use and the policies to prevent it; protect people from tobacco smoke; offer smokers help to quit; warn of the dangers of tobacco; enforce bans on advertising, promotion and sponsorship; and raise taxes on tobacco.The Gates money will be used specifically to extend campaigning into China and India, and to try to stop the tobacco epidemic taking off in Africa.In Beijing smoking in public places has been banned before the Olympics, but China has 350 million smokers, a third of the world's total, and a million Chinese a year die from tobacco. India has 700,000 deaths a year, expected to rise to 930,000 by 2010. At present, 77% of the market is in bidis - small, hand-rolled cigarettes that are five to six times more likely to cause lung cancer than ordinary cigarettes.More than 120 countries have ratified a WHO convention aimed at restricting marketing of cigarettes, but there is wide concern at the tobacco multinationals' efforts at promotion even in some signatory countries. Cigarettes are promoted as a glamorous accessory in ads and in films, and firms are accused of targeting young people in a way they could not in the UK.Bloomberg and Gates point out that there are success stories all around the world, however. Uruguay, the UK, France, New Zealand, Italy and Ireland are all smoke-free - but so are Mexico City and Abuja in Nigeria. Egypt has recently raised its tobacco tax, Brazil has graphic pictorial warnings on packets and the Philippines bans all forms of tobacco advertising.
If you live in Guildford, Harlow or Leicester, commiserations. Your local authority is among those to admit openly that it has no plans to make data it collects available for use by citizens or businesses. Such reluctance is not unusual. A new survey of 426 county, district and metropolitan borough councils in England and Wales suggests that well over half have not taken the first basic step to freeing their data.While local data laggards are acting within the letter of the rules, their stance is at odds with central government's policy. Under present law, there is not much Whitehall can do about it, however.Dodging obligationsLocal councils are responsible for maintaining potentially valuable databases about their environment, population and economic activity. Keith Dugmore, a demographics data expert, says that much of this data is potentially valuable. "It would be great to have a central portal, and also aggregate statistics." Many of the most interesting entries in the Power of Information taskforce's competition, atShowusabetterway.com, involve information held by local councils, ranging from parking offences to rubbish collections.The snag is that unlike central government agencies, local authorities own the copyright in the data they collect, and can choose whom they make it available to and on what terms. For the past three years, central government's Office of Public Sector Information has tried to promote openness by encouraging them to adopt 2005 regulations supposed to ensure fair trade in data, and the "Click-Use" licensing scheme for making it available. In its annualreportpublished on Tuesday it says spreading awareness in local government is "a key challenge".However, a comprehensive survey by John Gray, a specialist consultant and a member of the government's Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information (APPSI), suggests this voluntary approach has failed. For the past three years, he has asked every local authority in England and Wales what steps they have taken to comply with the regulations. Of the 319 who responded to the latest survey, 260 said they had not yet prepared a register of information assets. Only 20% had adopted "Click-Use" licenses.Several authorities have made a formal policy declaration not to comply and some simply say they do not make data available for re-use. Middlesbrough's freedom of information officer said it had not compiled an asset register because "we do not allow re-use". Guildford, Harlow and Leicester took similar decisions.One problem is a loophole in the law. The 2005 regulations enforcing fair trade in information apply only to public bodies that allow re-use. A public body can dodge these obligations by simply refusing to make data available.Gray has some sympathy for the councils, which have received no funding to make data available, but says that such a policy is short-sighted.Not future-proofPolitical pressure is mounting for a change in policy. Earlier this year, David Cameron, the Conservative leader,saida future Tory government would require local authorities to publish information about the services they provide, council meetings and how councillors vote online in a standardised format: "That way, it can be collected and used by the public and third party groups." He proposed funding the move by easing the rules that force councils to publish statutory notices in local newspapers.The government is making similar noises. The "Communities in control"white paperpublished last week describes access to information as "a prerequisite to community empowerment". It commends authorities such as Devon county council for its "very liberal position" on allowing data to be reproduced free of charge. "We want information on services to be truly local," the white paper says - but offers neither carrots nor sticks to make it work.Both the government and APPSI are calling for tougher European-wide laws requiring public bodies to make data available freely, but such changes would take years to filter through. In the meantime, the Free Our Data campaign recommends moving to Devon.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog
Customers of mobile network O2 are receiving cold calls offering insurance to cover unauthorised calls that the network claims could be made by "Bluetooth hackers" - despite there being no evidence that this can be done.The calls, which target new subscribers and originate from a withheld number, start with a polite welcome to the O2 network. The customer is greeted by name and asked how their experience with O2 has been so far. Then, the adviser remarks with apparent surprise that the customer does not have insurance. The O2 subscriber is warned that "bluejackers" are taking over phones and making unauthorised calls. The customer is told they will be responsible for the cost of any such calls - but that the offered insurance will cover incurred losses.For the uninitiated, "bluejacking" is a term used to describe a technical trick whereby one Bluetooth device sends an unsolicited message to another. However, it would not be possible to use one Bluetooth device to make calls via another phone without the phone owner expressly accepting an incoming connection.Guardian Technology asked O2's customer services if the stated threat from "Bluetooth hackers" was genuine. The adviser we spoke to said that bluejacking to make unauthorised calls "is happening". We were then talked through O2's various insurance offerings.A spokesperson for O2 told the Guardian that while the company does routinely conduct "welcome calls" - which "may include a discussion about insurance" - it does not believe the current spate of calls originate from O2 employees. The company representative insisted that calls were "heavily scripted" and included security procedures, and said its advisers would not make mention of bluejacking.O2 supplied Guardian Technology with evidence of earlier instances where the company's customers had been targeted by insurance cold calls that were not the work of O2 advisers. The O2 spokesperson said companies involved in such practices used "very sophisticated techniques" to convince customers they were genuine.However, O2 was unable to explain how the salespeople might know the O2 customer's name and start date. It said that anyone receiving suspect calls should report them to O2's Nuisance Call Bureau, either by emailing ncb@o2.com or using O2's standard customer services number (0870 241 0202, or 202 from an O2 phone).Julian Prokaza, editor of Mobile Computer magazine, believes phone owners have no need to worry about unauthorised calls over Bluetooth: "I'm not aware of any way to take over a phone wirelessly without the owner's knowledge," he said.
Sunglasses? SpyglassesChinese "micro surveillance" company Ajoka has launchedSunglasses DVRwith a built in spy camera and video recorder.Feelix keeps growingThe European Commission is bankrolling theFeelix Growing project,which is developing sociable robots.Phish me!Intrepidus has launched a"phishing" systemthat enables companies to find out how gullible their staff are.Dip into disabilityLeonard Cheshire Disability has opened aportalwhere peopleinterested in disability can share information.DNA matchmakerZurich-based Gene Partner says it willhelppeople find agenetically-compatible partner for only $199.
They're watching you frag. Every excessive potshot you take at an ill-programmed sentry, every curb you mount during a badly-timed turn, every dragon you slay in a fantasy world, they're documenting your actions, crunching them to make way for a new society. It may sound batty, but mark my words: the future will be determined by what you do on your home console or via your PC.Now, before you call the nice men in white coats to Guardian Towers 'cause it seems Aleks has taken those Philip K Dick novels a little too seriously, let me assure you this is all happening. At the moment, most of the watching is happening in ivory towers or within the walled gardens of game publishing companies. People like me, social science researchers whose academic passions are tracking, collecting and crunching huge swathes of digital activity in online worlds to test behavioural theory, find capturing game data much easier - and often more realistic - than sitting in a laundromat surreptitiously taking notes about who talks with whom about which soap powder. Using the server logs, we can document how people are connected. We can track innovations and epidemics. We can learn so much about ourselves from how we play.Clearly there's a commercial motivation for many professional computer game trackers. Where would marketing teams be without customer segmentations - those vastly important pigeonholes previously based on surveys and interviews, and now on the activities customers actually pursue.But to date, most of the technologies making real-time game data capture possible outside of corporations or universities are in the proposal stages. Google has been working on a patent since 2005 to deliver targeted advertising to gamers based on the cars they choose in racing games, the conversations they have in RPGs and the digital brands they favour in virtual worlds.The US government is courting a report that outlines data mining initiatives that could identify potential terrorist activities in online games.The UK government is also watching this space. Virtual Policy 08, held in conjunction with the Department for Business, Enterprise &amp; Regulatory Reform, dissected the public policy implications of people running around Tolkien-inspired landscapes dressed as trolls.It seems what happens in computer games no longer stays in computer games. These digital Edens may well inform the new world order.
This is no time to reboot!It was 39 years ago that Apollo 11touched down- using a computer that ran at a princely 0.043MHz, lost a minute's guidance due to the radar and finished with 30 seconds' fuel. Phew!You'll believe a man can walkThough it couldn't have helped Christopher Reeve, who was quadriplegic,this"exoskeleton" looks promising for paraplegics, giving back mobility and access and exercising muscles once more.Can you afford for it to blend?The obligatory ritual in which a new gizmo -here, an iPhone (3G? Or not 3G?) - is blended. Smoothly. Totally.&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
It's the near future and the planet is in crisis. Unheeded warnings of an impending oil shortage have become reality. This was the premise of World Without Oil, an alternate reality game (ARG), which asked players to react to a plausible vision of the future and find ways in which to solve it. The aim, says the game's California-based creator Ken Eklund, was to help people get ready, "if not for this crisis, then for something similar. We wanted to launch a cooperative discourse on the web, focused on a serious social issue," he says.ARGs have frequently been used to promote TV programmes, games, films and other products, or else have had their costs absorbed by the sale of supporting merchandise. When World Without Oil launched in April 2007, it broke new ground by using the genre to simulate a real-world problem rather than spreading marketing buzz. Funded by America's Corporation for Public Broadcasting and presented by Independent Television Service (ITVS), it highlighted the genre's potential for use as an educational or change-making tool."It was like purposefully putting yourself in panic mode," says World Without Oil player Chantalle Draycott, 22, an executive assistant from Toronto, Canada. "It's one thing to play a game and pretend that it's real, but quite another to actually see it staring you in the face."Playing to your strengthsAn ARG is an interactive narrative in which players work together to solve puzzles and co-ordinate activities in the real world and online, using websites, GPS tracking devices, telephone lines, newspaper adverts and more. All of which sounds like it must require even more effort and resolve than a bank holiday gym session, but ARGs employ media - text messages, blogs, social networking sites, video-sharing - that many people already use on a daily basis."We find the people who play these games range from teenagers right up to people in their 50s," says Hazel Grian of Bristol-based Licorice Film, producer and director of new ARG The Sky Remains, in which players join a fictional detective agency and hunt for hidden messages scattered across the globe. "It's something you can do while you're doing other things, using skills you've already got."Eklund believes this accessibility is what gives ARGs their appeal. "It can be very easy to get started - you just follow a story online," he says. "It's possible for complete newcomers to begin contributing immediately, which is rare and wonderful in games. It will be unfortunate if ARG development follows the path that electronic games have, and makes games only for gamers."Alternate reality gaming kicked off in 2001 with The Beast, a marketing tool for the Steven Spielberg film Artificial Intelligence. And with high-profile commercial endeavours such as I Love Bees, a promotion for Halo 2 that ran in 2004, and TV tie-in The Lost Experience in 2006, ARGs have frequently been associated with big brand payoffs. "All broadcasters are looking into this now," says Grian. "With Torchwood, Lost, 24; they're all doing it. Alternate reality gaming started as a way for broadcasters to engage their audiences."But this is about to change, says Andrea Phillips, an ARG writer and producer who was part of the team at London-based developer Mind Candy, which produced the game Perplex City - an interactive treasure hunt funded by the sale of puzzle cards. "A lot of people in entertainment are seeing the value of using alternate reality gaming to tell stories as their own creative form, not just as a buzzy viral way to get more eyeballs."Phillips says the key appeal of these games lies in the art of crafting a collaborative narrative. "Collaboration in storytelling is an old tradition, even older than print. All our stories are ultimately descended from this sort of back-and-forth oral tradition," she says. "So you could say we're working to reclaim something we lost hundreds of years ago when we first started recording narratives with pen and paper, and later with film."World Without Oil helped to spark interest in the potential for these storytelling devices to be seen as more than marketing vehicles. "In the not-for-profit sector, ARGs can be a great platform for raising awareness in a realistic way," says Siobhan Thomas, a research fellow at the University of East London and ARG design lecturer at London Southbank University.Teach us a story"The fact that the genre is growing up is exciting. The opportunities are limitless. You can easily see how they might be used in a training setting in business, or in a medical environment to teach doctors how to cope with large-scale crises. What will be really exciting is when biometric information can be more easily integrated into gameplay. For instance, a real-world game that delivers challenges based on heart rate or other physical criteria."But, Thomas warns, it's essential that the issues relating to real-world gameplay are given due consideration. "Often in the urgency to create great gameplay, it's easy to overlook privacy issues like protecting personal data. Using your railcard as a game piece is all well and good, as long as you have a good idea what's going to happen to the data recorded. This issue is becoming increasingly serious as more and more sites are sharing data."And these games are not without their commercial problems, says Tanya Krzywinska, convenor of Brunel University's MA in Digital Games Theory and Design. "I expect that the format will be increasingly of interest to performance artists, as well as having a lot of potential for educational purposes," she says.But Massively Multiplayer Online games and digital games are likely to hold on to the lion's share of the market. "They are the larger market and will remain so, because you can play these for any amount of time. An ARG is more of an event - it has to be carefully staged."Eklund, though, is optimistic. "Since World Without Oil, there has been a flood of interest in ARGs as education or activism tools. There's tremendous room to explore new gameplay. More storytellers are going to enter this space."
No, it won't happen. Even the people who are working on ways to make DNA perform calculations cannot see it happening. Take Professor Andrew Ellington at the University of Texas at Austin, who said: "I think my general opinion about DNA computing is not 'no' but 'Hell, no'."So, how come some people believe that the future of computing lies in the molecule that provides the blueprint for how living creatures are made?It started in the 1990s when Leonard Adleman, of the University of Southern California, came up with a way to use DNA to solve one of computing's most difficult and complex tasks: the travelling salesman problem.This tries to find the most efficient way to visit a set of cities so that you pass through each one as few times as possible - ideally, only once. Adleman worked out that the paths between cities could be coded into DNA.If a path between two cities matched, those DNA strands would stick to each other. Eventually, lots of strands would match up to produce a list of cities in DNA, packed into a classic double helix. Just shaking up a test tube full of those different DNA strands did the job. It was the ultimate parallel processor.The idea of the DNA computer got another boost in the last month when Japanese scientists succeeded in making a type of DNA out of molecules not found in nature. People pointed to the fact that you could pack thousands of exabytes into the volume of a drop of water with regular DNA. Artificial DNA could, potentially, store even more.Making all that DNA is another matter, however. In a silicon-based computer, the transistors that do the calculations are re-usable. You just load up another program and feed it to them. With a DNA computer, you have to make a complete new set of DNA strands each time. It's a new computer every time you want to calculate something. And making artificial DNA is not at all cheap.It gets worse. DNA computing only looks fast because things can happen in parallel. But the reactions themselves are very slow, and the process only works if you can tolerate errors, said Ellington. Not only that, it's hard to work out what the answer was: there is no easy way to wire up DNA to the other parts of a regular computer.That does not mean there are no ways to use DNA in calculations. Instead of trying to recreate computers, researchers aim to use DNA in simple biological machines: in principle, they could use DNA logic to administer drugs only to specific cells."DNA computers can manipulate matter: chemistry is their world," said Zack Booth Simpson, a software engineer and molecular biology researcher at the University of Texas. But when it comes to manipulating digits, silicon is likely to keep its edge into the foreseeable future.
As reported a few weeks ago in these pages, the market is being flooded with touchscreen phones - and this time there's no controversy over whether they've succeeded: sales of the iPhone surprised even its most ardent admirers from day one.Meanwhile, the desktop market is showing signs of adopting similar technology. Both Apple's next operating system and the next version of Windows will contain "hooks" for touchscreen technology, if installed on the right hardware.This has led to speculation about the future of the keyboard and mouse. "We already have well-integrated touch technology on consumer electronics, from Apple's multitouch devices (iPhone, MacBook Pro, the new Mac operating system), games consoles (Nintendo DS) and now PCs and notebooks," says a spokesman for HP, which has now released the TouchSmart, a desktop system with a touch interface. And this month, Dell released a module to turn its Latitude XT Tablet computer into a full-blown touch-operated system.All of this adds weight to comments from respected research house Gartner, which last week said the day of the mouse, if not the keyboard, may well be numbered. Speaking to the BBC's news website, the organisation said the mouse would last three to five years tops, to be replaced by gesture-based computing and other technologies, such as gesture recognition, which are emerging in the home entertainment market.It could be that there's more going on than a few product launches, but there will be practical issues. Richard MacKinnon, a business psychologist for the people assessment company Talent Q, has a postgraduate diploma in ergonomics and says touchscreens are unlikely to be suited for use over long periods of time. They also inadvertently promote poor posture, and reduced productivity through reduced typing speeds. "Touchscreens can have a place in entertainment scenarios, but in the office environment? I don't think we're there yet," he says.Dumbing down?Other academics concur. "It all depends on the ease of use of the technology, whether or not it's fit for purpose, and how well it maps to people's mental model of their tasks," says Chris Clegg, professor of organisational psychology and deputy director of the Centre for Organisational Strategy, Learning and Change at Leeds University Business School. Future generations may also adapt better than the current Qwerty-bound people. "I couldn't have imagined taking to texting, and I still don't find it friendly, but a lot of people use it extensively."Non-psychologists also have reservations. Pete Bennett, chief executive of the training provider Learning Resources International, has doubts about the quality of the information available to non-keyboardists. "Nobody wants to sound like a luddite, of course anything can happen and things can change - but I can't see it being anywhere near anything other than basic functions," he says. "Our background is in designing learning materials and if you're only using a finger, there isn't much action involved."Fingers acting as a mouse is one thing, he says, but a mouse doesn't type. "The interaction of typing helps people read the words, retain the words and I don't see how a touchscreen can replace that requirement. It's a bit dumb, in a non-insulting manner." It could be great for some applications, he says - shopping and anything involving lists - but for anything requiring thought and which is challenging there's a need for more interaction.Let's assume some sort of change is on the way. The next question for everyone will be how quickly it's going to happen - and therefore how soon to eBay those old non-touch screens. "As we've seen with Office and Vista, people can be very resistant to changes in their technology that are two steps ahead of the previous version," says Darren Van Laar, principle lecturer in psychology at the University of Portsmouth. "If it's incremental versions then people don't mind - if they have to unlearn too much then it gives them a problem." This is presumably why Microsoft is reportedly considering several mini-releases of Windows next time around rather than a single larger launch.Reactions are bound to be mixed early on. One user of the HP Touchsmart, which is the first mainstream computer to be released based on touchscreens outside the Tablet PC (which is pen- rather than finger-sensitive), enthused at first. "It's a terrific box, loving the integrated DTV and dead easy to get going with," she said. However: "We don't use the touchscreen, though. Partly old habits, but mainly due to the fact that it gets intolerably grubby after use. Should come with a box of wipes, really."Fingering the problemIf this is typical - and it's anecdotal rather than a scientific sample, of course - then the dawn of the touchscreen age may have a slightly bumpy beginning. Add to this the fact that at a pre-launch event another HP spokesperson pointed to the screen's value as a kitchen computer - eliminate all those recipe books, have demonstrations of cooking techniques on tap as well as static pictures, went the patter - and the idea of dirty fingerprints all over it becomes less of a small problem than an epidemic. Particularly when the current models retail for more than &pound;1,000.Nonetheless, the HP spokesman's original point - that we've adopted touch for phones and games consoles happily enough - remains valid. In January 2007 Apple launched the multitouch screen for what would evolve into its iPhone, while in February 2006 a professor from New York University demonstrated a full screen using touch technology (The hands-on revolution, January 18, 2007). Following a year in which the iPhone and iPod Touch enjoyed a near-monopoly, touchscreen products are now arriving on the market en masse. At this stage it looks unlikely that keyboards and mice will actually be displaced in people's affections, but they may find they have a new, touchy-feely running partner in the right niches before long.
Picking an MP3 playerI have tunes bought from the Apple site, but I also use Windows Media Player and have music that isn't iTunes compatible. I would like to get an MP3 player that will let me play all my songs. I also want it to have a radio.Meriel WhaleJS:I don't know of any player that can handle music protected by Apple's digital rights management (DRM) and also Microsoft's. Apple has avoided supporting WMA (Windows Media Audio) and hasn't licensed Microsoft's DRM. Apple also hasn't openly licensed its own FairPlay DRM so that companies such as Sony and Archos can use it. You must therefore go for one DRM or the other, depending on which is most important to you. You can rescue the incompatible tunes by burning them to disc in audio CD format then re-ripping them to WMA, AAC or MP3. However, this will lead to some loss in quality.Choosing an MP3 player is partly a matter of taste, and it's worth trying them in a shop to see which you like. Look at the 8GB iPod nano, even though it doesn't play WMA files or have a built-in radio. Other 8GB models to look at include the Sony NWZA818, the Creative Zen (model 70PF216000115), and the SanDisk Sansa e280. All three can play WMA, protected WMA and MP3 files, and the Sony and Creative Zen models also play unprotected AAC files. The Sony has the best sound quality, beating iPods etc in a H-Fi World review. However, it does not have a radio, and the other two do. Since these players generally cost around &pound;70 each at Amazon.co.uk, you could also get an iPod Shuffle and cover all bases for roughly the cost of an 8GB iPod nano. For the future, I'd suggest never buying any music files that include DRM.Power on, or not?My service provider told me that I would shorten the life of my router (Netgear DG824M Wireless) if I were to continue my practice of switching it off as a way of reducing our energy consumption. I had been in touch with their support staff over occasional brief interruptions in my broadband connection.Graham RoothJS:I don't know of any reason why turning a router off should shorten its life. On the other hand, I had two routers die in about three years: I turned them off and they never came back on. I now leave mine on all the time, and stand it on Blu-Tack legs to get some air underneath. Routers consume relatively little power - probably around 8-15 Watts - but you could measure yours with an energy monitoring plug.Hard and soft firewalls?I am using a broadband router which has a firewall built in. Is it still necessary to run a software firewall?Steve GorwitsJS:Yes. The firewall in the router should stop most probes, but if your PC gets a virus or Trojan from a USB drive, a program you have downloaded or some other source, the router will not stop it from calling out. And after it calls out, your router firewall will not block the response. You need a software firewall to control the programs running on your PC: not only malware but also legitimate programs that access the net without telling you.Windows problemsCould you tell me why I keep getting "Internet Explorer cannot display the web page"? Also, is it safe to use Microsoft Updates, as I read that these were causing problems.M AldersonJS:There are a lot of reasons why IE might not display a web page, and Microsoft has atrouble-shooter. One reason not covered is that you might have a virus or browser hijacker, which can result from failing to install critical Windows Updates. These can sometimes cause some problems, but not as many as can be caused by not installing them.A password password?Hotmail now makes me enter my password twice. After the first time, the page refreshes and says my username or password is incorrect. If I retype my password, it lets me in.Harry AnnisonJS:This seems to be a recent Hotmail bug and it affects Mac and Linux owners with various browsers, not just Windows users. The trick is to bookmark the second page when it appears, and go straight to that page in future. The address will look something like bit.ly/2im8EV, and this may work for you.Backchat&middot;Following our discussion of firewalls, "Bill Blagger" provided a link tofirewall tests. The results are exaggerated because if a firewall fails the first test, it doesn't get to take the others. But Comodo and Online Armor come through as the best free firewalls.Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Bad news, I'm afraid. After doing so well over the past few months, the patient has suffered a complete relapse. Yes, the NHS has signed another massive IT contract, this time an &pound;80m deal to create the biggest, most erudite, cradle-to-grave healthcare website in the world. Ever.The site is called NHS Choices, and it occupies the prestige URLnhs.uk. The site already combines the roles of medical encyclopedia, NHS guidebook and users' forum. Much of what it publishes is very good indeed. In fact, if I had to choose my government websites to take to a desert island, NHS Choices would be up there in the top three.The interactive health guides are as readable as commercial handbooks, and presumably as authoritative. My personal favourite feature is Behind the Headlines, inherited from the old National Electronic Library for Health, which sets out the facts behind those "Two cups of tea a day can cure dementia" headlines you see in the cheaper papers. There's lots of new stuff, too - a pregnancy care planner and a competition to design a poster about antibiotics resistance caught my eye this week.NHS Choices is also gatekeeper and evangelist for the government's policy of encouraging patients (in England) to be picky about their hospitals. As the government rightly stresses, choice must be based on information. Thus the site publishes patients' (moderated) comments about care they receive in individual institutions, as well as official data such as survival rates from some surgical procedures.As such, the whole spirit is very web2.0. When I visited the NHS Choices offices the other week, managers were full of plans to build knowledge on wikis (the entire NHS library is to be loaded up on a wiki site called Medpedia) and to make data available as XML feeds for mashups and other re-use.All thoroughly good news.What, then, is the worry? The answer lies in the scale of the undertaking and what it means for the rest of the e-health economy. In the words of a vision paper published earlier this year, NHS Choices is to become "the digital wing of the NHS". This is in keeping with the government-wide strategy of rationalising the number of official websites down to a handful of "supersites", both to save money and make life easier for users.The trouble with being a supersite is that it tends to make you slow, bureaucratic and a big fat target. Every time an NHS organisation says it can't afford a new drug or procedure, you can guarantee the cry will go up: "But you can afford &pound;80m for a website?" Especially as some of the services - collecting patients' feedback, for example - seem to duplicate those of independent ventures such as Patient Opinion (patientopinion.org.uk) and the newly launched Iwantgreatcare (iwantgreatcare.org).And, busy as it is, the current NHS Choices site is just the start of the project. This autumn, under the new contract, it will integrate with the online element of the NHS Direct health helpline. Next year it will take on information about social care, which is provided mainly by local authorities rather than the NHS. And all of this is just a preliminary for the real challenge - becoming the front end of HealthSpace, the ambitious system of personal electronic health records being created by the NHS National Programme for IT.Any one of these initiatives has the potential to become the government's next IT-enabled public relations disaster. Let's hope the Department of Health and its supersite contractor, Capita, knows what it's doing.&middot; This article was amended on Thursday July 24 2008. We originally gave the url of the NHS website as nhs.co.uk - it is in fact nhs.uk. This has been corrected.
Location, location, location has been the holy grail of the mobile phone industry almost as long as "education, education, education" has been New Labour's mantra. But we may now be entering an era when location delivers the goods. The assumption is that everyone gains from the fact that your phone knows exactly where you are, thanks to new technologies such as satellite tracking. The consumer gains because all the data relevant to where you are - from the nearest cash machine to historic monuments - will be instantly available. Operators can bombard you with local services to make money, and for advertisers it is paradise. You could be walking down a street when a huge (digitised) advertisement for Nike suddenly switches to something relevant to you gleaned from the data extracted from your mobile usage. The same technology will help ambulance services find you. Governments will gain because ... don't even think about it.Knowing where you are will become more relevant as access to the internet migrates to mobile devices. Over-hyped technology has been holding location services back. Working out your position from the three nearest mobile phone base stations was interesting but often wildly inaccurate. GPS - using triangulation techniques from satellite signals - was a great improvement. It was successful when you didn't need it - in open countryside - but less so (though getting better) in towns with high buildings. Now along comes a third technology that makes you wonder whether GPS is so useful. At a packed Mobile Monday meeting in London last week, Skyhook Wireless launched its free Loki.com system in Europe, which locates your phone using signals emitted from Wi-Fi hotspots. It has 200 people driving around Europe mapping Wi-Fi signals. The software, which contains GPS, cell tower triangulation and Wi-Fi hotspots, can be added to phones or computers and is claimed to locate you within 10 to 20 metres in a fraction of a second on a mobile. I failed to get it to download to my PC, Mac, or Symbian phone, but hopefully that is a temporary problem as the demo at Mobile Monday worked.What use is location? It is already employed for discovering restaurants and bars without having to tap in a postcode, for tracking parcels and for working out routes from maps. The spread of social networks will enable you to see where your friends from Facebook or LinkedIn are (if they give permission) and for friends and family to follow you. But the most interesting applications are not yet known. They are likely to emerge when the army of developers now working on applications for the iPhone, Google's mobile operating system Android and the recently formed open source Symbian Foundation start delivering new apps. At Mobile Monday I talked to Sosresponse.com, which has won an award for reducing bike theft by more than 90% in a part of Portsmouth using a motion- sensitive bike lock which triggers a CCTV camera into action when it is moved. The same company is experimenting with a watch containing a wireless chip that can be worn by people with Alzheimer's. When they stray out of the wireless-enabled area, it alerts their carers.New services include Trapster.com, which collates information about speed traps; Locle.com, which will use Loki to show where your friends are on social networks; and Rummble.com, which aims to find the level of trust there should be between different people. If you used a location chip with internet radio station Last.fm, you could produce a map showing where specific songs were playing. The really interesting things will happen when developers exploit the open systems adopted by Google, Symbian and Apple, including backroom programmers who have been hibernating since the demise of the Sinclair Spectrum and BBC B. These could be exciting times.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Hedge-fund billionaire Carl Icahn, who has this week been given three seats on the board of internet company Yahoo, does not, it has been revealed, have a computer. Email, Icahn suggests, is a distraction. Republican presidential candidate John McCain doesn't email or know how to use the net. He told the New York Times recently: "I am learning to get online myself." Instead, the senator currently has the cyberspace equivalent of food tasters, namely aides who direct him to happening sites such as the Drudge Report and his daughter Meghan's blog.Democrats argue this shows that McCain, who turns 72 next month, is out of touch with the modern world. "My five-year-old niece can use the internet," said one gloating Barack Obama strategist. Obama, by contrast, is regularly photographed in-flight hunched over his BlackBerry.But is McCain's admission really damaging? Like the Queen not carrying money, only really powerful people don't do cyberspace. They sit at computer-free desks thinking outside the inbox, while their crack team of microserfs battle with spam or Google their way through virtual forests of information.After Tony Blair left No 10, he had to adjust to a baffling new world of mobile phones (he didn't have one as PM), texting ("Who are you?" was the reply to his first message) and email. The Bill Clinton Archive in Little Rock, Arkansas, has nearly 4m emails from the former president's staff and only two from the president himself. Admittedly, one of the latter was to astrounaut John Glenn, who was aboard the space shuttle at the time, but even then Clinton's staffers had to help him.True, some titans of business reply very quickly to emails, as their inboxes are uncluttered by spam. Three hundred emails a day is the curse of the middle manager. But, as Stanford professor Donald Knuth, one of the world's leading computer scientists, writes, "Email is a wonderful thing for people whose role in life is to be on top of things. But not for me; my role is to be on the bottom of things. What I do takes long hours of studying and uninterruptible concentration."Knuth hasn't checked his emails since 1990. Maybe McCain shouldn't bother to familiarise himself with the web and, if elected, perhaps Obama should check his BlackBerry at the Oval Office door.
Tomorrow I leave for somewhere without any internet. I will have a fortnight on my own with three books, no television and no neighbours. There won't even be any darkness, since I will be just below the Arctic Circle. And I'm wondering why or whether I should take a laptop with me. The question may sound quite absurd: why take an instrument of work on holiday? I certainly don't want it for playing films or anything like that. There is some music on the hard drive, but it's coming with me as a writing implement and as a way of storing and "developing" photographs. All of a sudden, as I thought about weight and bulk in luggage, I wondered whether I might not just buy a paper notebook out there and write in that, by hand.I've always kept a pen and paper to one side of my typing implements since I started to use a manual typewriter 30 years ago. In the beginning, this was because I typed slowly and painfully and could handwrite fleeting illuminations at the speed of thought. Typewriters also taught me to think out a sentence before I wrote a word. Even electric ones were difficult to correct, and manual ones make it more or less impossible to change what has been written tidily; so the bad habit I had acquired of writing half a sentence out in longhand and then scribbling and rescribbling until it came to an end somewhere was painfully eradicated.Of course, with word processors it's easier to dither. The first macro I write for any new program deletes back to the beginning of a sentence that's got lost, so I can start it again. But at least I now try to have the whole of it clear in my mind before I start and I now type more quickly than I can write legibly by hand.So now my use of pencil and paper has changed round. I need it for when I want to write slowly and when there will only ever be at most one reader, me, and sometimes fewer. Nor do I nowadays keep a special notebook for such jottings. I just grab the nearest piece of paper with an empty space on it, which makes it even harder to find and collate notes afterwards. Nonetheless, the very simple if hardly crude technology has real advantages over anything invented since.It may be different for people who learnt to type early in life, but for me there is an extraordinary direct connection, almost bypassing my consciousness, between brain and ballpoint. It's as if I hear my own voice as I watch it emerge on the paper. That's not true at all with a keyboard which is always noisy and always produces regular results. But thought isn't regular, and doesn't come in lines - at least mine doesn't. It comes in gouts, or flurries, falling at different places on the page and different angles. Later, when I go back to these pages, there is all sorts of metadata encoded in the way the patches of writing are arranged. Looking at each one, I remember not just what I wrote, but what I was thinking while I wrote it. There's a richness and complexity in these notes to myself that no other medium can surpass.For public communication, this doesn't work as well. Old-fashioned bureaucrats learned a regular standardised hand. Quirks, trills and elaborations were quite taboo. For that sort of purpose a typewriter - and, later, a computer- really was an advance, though from the executive's point of view there was nothing so satisfying as paying someone else for turning your thoughts into something that could be read and even understood.But I don't think handwriting will ever be replaced as an instrument of thought, any more than writing could displace talking out loud. Even handwriting hasn't entirely replaced talking for me. I still try to say the sentences I write out loud as someone will have to hear them in their head sometime.No new technology can ever entirely improve what it replaces. In the case of handwriting these are probably the most intimate and important thoughts we're ever going to have. Even being hard to copy is an advantage sometimes - you don't have to remember passwords for your privacy, just scribble. This is a technology so far ahead of its time it even has built-in encryption.&middot;Andrew Brown is the author of  Fishing in Utopia (Granta). He blogs atthewormbook.com/hlog
The WP-S1 Skype Phone from 3 (three.co.uk) is not what most people would initially expect a Skype phone to be. As much as I wish it was, it isn't a Wi-Fi based VoIP phone that surfs the net for free and allows you to make extra-cheap calls to any friend's number miles and miles away.It's a 3G handset that allows you to call and text other Skype users who are signed onto their Skype accounts using their computers or other Skype mobiles. Which means that calling landlines or other non-Skype mobiles isn't free.It's pretty cheap as mobile phones go, but the WP-S1 does have a few of the usual bells and whistles including a built-in camera for taking stills and videos, a media player for playing MP3 music files and 3GP (mobile format) movie files, and a voice recorder for being really annoying in public while making personal voice notes. All of these features work well enough for the cost, but navigating the menus is fiddly and time-consuming.The ringtones can be heard clearly and the volume setting on the side is easy to access. The speaker is quite audible and you can easily switch between speaker and ear-to-the-phone mode. The best thing about the handset is that it uses a USB connector to charge, and to connect to a PC or the peripherals provided: a USB cable, a power adapter, and an earbuds and microphone headset.The free Planet 3 web page is readily available from the main screen. So long as you top up by a minimum of &pound;10 per month (irrespective of whether there's already credit on the phone), you can surf the net and even stream TV - if you can find a channel you want to watch from the very meagre streams available, that is. But viewing video on such a small screen is less than ideal. Nor is reading the WP-S1's user guide, which is helpfully written in 6-point extra-thin sans serif type. Web surfing is very menu-driven and takes some getting used to, but one of the four side-buttons allows you to switch between modes - Idle, Skype and Web - swiftly.It's easy to see the WP-S1 being used by people who want to keep in touch with their families. But it is missing some of the key features that a lot of Skype lovers use and value, such as the ability to send files between Skype users - including pictures and movies that can otherwise only be sent via MMS, Bluetooth or email. And the option to use your paid Skype account to dial foreign numbers is not available, so don't expect to be able to use the WP-S1 to make overseas phone calls for free.All in all, the WP-S1 isn't a bad offering for the price. But a poor man's iPhone it's certainly not.Pros:Access to mobile Skype; cheap local callsCons:Minimum monthly top-up to surf web; no free overseas calls
Power for the peopleSometimes the sluggishness of this computer becomes really annoying, particularly when it is doing what is a relatively simple task conceptually but is encumbered by "bloatware" (The piranhas of processing await, July 17). Despite a fast processor and lots of Ram, there are times when it just trundles along. Interesting then to read that programmers are working on unleashing the often underused power of the graphics card. Bristling with processors that lie largely idle (except in the heat of intense gaming) they represent an untapped power that could supercharge a PC's performance.learntechgalway.blogspot.comOpen your headBeing a musician myself, I like to see this kind of variant of the open source model applied in this way (Newly asked questions, July 17). I have also appreciated similar efforts from the band Nine Inch Nails. It has solicited actual musical parts and remixes - such as recorded guitar solos - from its audience on the internet, and then incorporated the best ones in its songs, with credits for the contributors.ostatic.comYet another example of Radiohead pushing the mainstream music industry toward alternative ways to distribute and create music.news.cnet.comMay I remind the world that REM did an open source video for Supernatural Superserious.blackrimglasses.comNo free ride for BTContrary to the impression given in your article (BT to spend &pound;1.5bn installing fibre-optic cable to boost web speeds, July 17), Ofcom is not considering granting a "regulatory holiday" to BT, or to any other company, in respect of fibre investments in the local access network.We recognise that such investments are likely to be subject to greater risk and uncertainty than investments in the traditional copper network - investors will therefore expect to earn returns which compensate for these higher risks. Ofcom will not, and cannot, underwrite these investments, but will take account of the additional risks when setting future price controls relating to these networks.Stuart McIntosh, Partner, OfcomStop playing aroundI knew there had to be a silver lining to all this credit crunch/recession doom'n'gloom, and lo: The videogames that will never see the light of day (July 17). Perhaps all those talented geeks could turn their attention to something more useful like, let me see, building an IT system for the NHS that actually works.Root Cartwright,RadlettWhat are police scared of?If people build tools that help people solve local crime problems (rather than tools to just make people scared of going down a particular street, which seems to be the standard use-case) then crime mapping could really help the police do their job, and they should have nothing to be scared of in releasing the data (Met keeps crime stats under lock and key, July 17).memespring.co.uk[London mayor] Boris Johnson called for the publication of crime maps back in February. If the Policing Green Paper goes through in the autumn, he may finally have the authority to release them. Crime maps are a powerful tool in fighting city-wide disorder when used effectively. If the green paper can deliver them for London, then it will be worthwhile.londonsays.orgFirewalls rule, OK?Most worms still look to open ports on PCs, so the best advice is to have a firewall installed or configured on a new PC before undertaking the rest of the patches needed to have a new machine ready for the internet (The worms are slower, but the net's not safe yet, July 17).thehermesproject.blogspot.com&#183;Read allthis week's letters in fullWrite to:tech@guardian.co.uk
Security researchers are rushing to patch a flaw in the domain name system (DNS) servers that direct internet traffic, after details of how it worked were revealed online where they could be exploited by hackers.The researchers had thought that their own agreement to allow a 29-day "blackout" period during which the software vulnerability - which may allow hackers to misdirect innocent surfers to fake sites, even though the address in their internet browser was correct - could be patched.The discoverer of the flaw, Dan Kaminsky of IOActive, found it several months ago and had asked other researchers to hold off on speculating about how it worked until he could distribute it to companies such as Microsoft, Cisco and the Internet Systems Consortium to let them develop patches.He said he would announce the details on August 6 at the Black Hat security conference. But Thomas Dullien, chief executive of Zynamics.com (who uses the online name Halvar Flake) seems to have reverse-engineered the details of the weakness without being told its specifics, and he then speculated on how it worked in ablog post. This prompted Matasano Security, another company which - unlike Dullien - had been briefed on the flaw to put up a blog post of its own confirming the details.That was quickly withdrawn on realising that Dullien's post was only speculation - but it was time enough for the post to be cached and copied widely.The attack uses a method called "DNS cache poisoning", which relies on the fact that DNS servers do not store the entire map of the internet (converting a domain name such as guardian.co.uk into a numerical "quad" such as 212.187.153.30).When a server does not have the quad conversion, it asks the next one along to do the lookup. By targeting a DNS server, hackers could poison its "store" of lookups and tell it to point users to fake sites. Such changes have been made accidentally in the past: in February, changes by Pakistan to DNS servers it operated made YouTubeinaccessible worldwide. But an attack by hackers could be serious.Kaminsky has provided a "Check my DNS" button on his blog (doxpara.com) that will let people check whether the DNS they are using is vulnerable to the hack.In the latest post on his blog, Kaminsky accepts that the flaw has been revealed - giving it the headline "13&gt;0", implying that having 13 days to fix the flaw is better than having none - and urges the people who will have to do the fixing to "patch. Today" and "stay late" as necessary. Quite how the bug is being fixed will probably remain secret - to defeat hackers.
Based on last year's Flatout 2 engine, this may not be a whole new game but it's still one of the better PC racers. The main addition is a new career mode, taking you through three race classes, completing cup events for cash to buy a limited number of arcade-style upgrades for your car. You'll need them too, thanks to a steep difficulty curve and some frantic racing through debris strewn tracks, best viewed in the stunning destruction derby events. There's also bizarre mini-games to distract you, such as skimming real drivers off pond surfaces, and a couple of new multiplayer modes too. If your graphics card can cope, Ultimate Carnage is well worth a look.
Google announced Knol, its online user-written encyclopedia project, inDecember, and now it'sopen to everyone. The idea is that you can write and own your own page and -- unlike Wikipedia -- no one else can screw it up. Readers can improve it by making suggestions, but it's up to you whether or not you accept them. In that respect it's like, say, Linux, where you can make any improvements you like, but Linus Torvalds can simply ignore them.Knol is different from Wikipedia in several respects, and an important one is that knolling is a competitive sport. I might write a knol about some aspect of photography, but so might 1,175 other people. There will undoubtedly be a massive duplication of effort, and it's theoretically possible that the cream will rise to the top. But I wouldn't bet on it.Another thing that's different from Wikipedia is that Knols can make money, and not just for Google. The announcement says:At the discretion of the author, a knol may include ads from our AdSense program. If an author chooses to include ads, Google will provide the author with a revenue share from the proceeds of those ad placements.Knols could do quite well, because it looks as though they will get favoured status in Google's search results. The knol onCardiac Catheterization, Angioplasty and Stenting, for example, is already thetop hitfor its title, even thoughprecisely zeropages pointed to it until I did. Clearly it is not winning according to itspage rank.There doesn't seem to be any sort of subject index or categorisation, so it might be hard to find a knol if you are looking for one. However, you can use the site: command on Google, likethis. And of course, you can search athttp://knol.google.com/Still, if I happened to have written a text book or something similar, I'd probably be converting the popular bits into half a dozen knols for financial and promotional purposes.I expect the spammers and other chancers are already working away at their knols. Google's Blogger hosts loads of spam blogs, and I don't see anything to stop Knol going the same way.Whether Knol goes too far in terms of furthering Google's plans for world domination is another matter. If it's successful, it could make life unsupportable for alternative sites with similar ideas. But if it's OK for Google to own Blogger and let you create Web pages etc, why not Knols?
Just in case you didn't see this, movie studio Paramount, which earlier this year announced its intention to move into game publishing, has revealed its first three projects - conversions of the teen films, Mean Girls, Pretty in Pink and Clueless. Not that you have to be told this, but the company is aiming for the lucrative female casual gaming market with this trio - the tie-ins will be released at budget prices on PC, both as download and retail titles. Handheld console versions are expected to follow.So, what can we expect? I fear some lightweight take on The Sims, Tamagotchi or Animal Crossing - you know, lots of dressing up and bonding, and getting your character ready for a date with the quarterback. I like all three films and they're darker than that - they're about the pressures and cruelty of social hierarchies, about the ruthless categorisation of peers based on dress and looks, about the pathological compulsion to fit in. And ultimately all three films, to different extents, analyse and rebel against notions of popularity and convention.Instead of survival horror, they could be social horror - a feminine slant on Rockstar's Bully. But they won't be. At worst, expect simple puzzle games, rip-offs of Bejeweled with the movie soundtracks nailed over the top.Next stop for Paramount? Flash Dance: The Rhythm Action Game? Beverly Hills Cop - the gangsta shooter? Titanic would make a pretty good third-person action game, with lots of lovely water physics. And of course, there's always Friday the 13th...
