The annualGlobal Game Jamkicks off on Friday, with thousands of coders around the world gathering in hundreds of different venues to spend the weekend writing games. Launched in 2009 and organised by theInternational Game Developers Association, this is the largest of many annual "game jam" events, aimed at encouraging both new and experienced programmers to complete an entire, working game project in the sort of time it usually takes to instal a new piece of software on your PC.Like many of these events, the Global Game Jam has a single theme that participants have to design their projects around (last year's was "Extinction"). This year, however, entrants are being invitied to consider meeting another requirement: accessibility to gamers with disabilities."It was all kicked off by Tara Voelker, the chair of the IGDA's accessibility group, as part of our ongoing efforts to raise developer awareness," says Ian Hamilton, a veteran designer and accessibility consultant, overseeing the implementation of the Global Game Jam's accessibility strand in the UK. "The reason for doing it via GGJ is that a competition is a good way to reward people for taking an active role, while letting everyone else there learn something about accessibility."With gaming becoming a more popular and pervasive form of entertainment, accessibility issues are starting to be recognised and tackled by the professional game development community. "There are four types of disability – visual, hearing, cognitive and motor," says Hamilton. "By knowing and thinking about these groups upfront, game designers can easily avoid the barriers that may have prevented gamers with disabilities being able to enjoy playing."Even a simple thing, like choosing blue instead of green for a team colour, as Treyarch recently did with their colour-blind friendly mode for Call of Duty: Black Ops, can make your game playable by significant swathes of the population that would otherwise have had great difficulty. The red/green colourblindness that Treyarch addressed affects 8% of males, meaning they were finally able to tell their team-mates from their enemies."Hamilton reckons a big part of the challenge is helping developers to recognise that greater accessibility doesn't necessarily mean masses of extra development time or resources. "Fully functioning and accessible games being produced in the space of 48 hours is a really powerful demonstration that accessibility doesn't have to be expensive or difficult," he says. "Also, the results are often great examples of nice simple design principles that can be applied across the industry."Several organisations are engaged in getting a similar message across. In the UK, the amazing charitySpecialEffect, based in Oxfordshire, has a library of specialised game controllers that it lends out to gamers with disabilities – its staff even hack together their own modified joypads from various bits of consumer hardware. They're also working with the UK development community to get greater accessibility into the games themselves. Last year, major British studio Splash Damageannouncedits support for SpecialEffect and committed to making all of its titles much more accessible. Its critically acclaimed shooter Brink, for example, offers full button remapping on the joypad, allowing gamers with physical disabilities to configure the controller to their exact requirements.In the US, meanwhile, theAble Gamers Foundationprovides a similar function, working with developers while provding reviews of mainstream games, based partly on their accessibility. And technology is moving in this direction anyway: motion-tracking devices such as the Xbox Kinect are bringing about new possibilities, allowing players to engage with games in more subtle and intuitive ways. Microsoft isactively encouraging the academic communityto explore the wider posssibilities of its Kinect technology, making the APIs and development software free and providing libraries for elements such as head- and eye-tracking.For the Global Game Jam, the accessibility strand started up last year, at a single venue in Orlando. "It was a great success," says Hamilton. "Despite being built from scratch in 48 hours, the winning game, Gaya, considered all four disability groups, making it accessible to a huge range of players. It didn't matter if you were deaf, colour-blind or even paralysed, the game played in the same way and was just as fun for everyone."For 2012, the concept is expanding, and all 250 venues are being invited to include the accessibility challenge. In the UK and Ireland, Global Game Jams in Bristol, Birmingham, London, Stafford, Newport, the University of Ulster and Ipswich will all be taking part. Entrants at any of those venues who want to consider the requirements will be given a special pack when they arrive; this contains the marking criteria and some guidance, and participants will also be offered support and advice from accessibility specialists throughout the event. There will be regional winners and an overall global winner too.Importantly though, this is all about raising the issue of accessibility with a new generation of coders and designers. The people who enter game jams are usually students or indie developers just starting out in their careers – if they become aware of accessibility issues at this stage, they'll be aware of them in five years time when they're working on the latest Call of Duty and Fifa football games. "Access to entertainment, culture and socialising is just as important as access to services and buildings," says Hamilton. "Accessible gaming gives us a fantastic opportunity to make a real difference to people's lives."
2012 will be the year that Windows 8 finally hits the market. This version unshackles Microsoft from CISC-based computing, giving OEMs the chance to create Windows-based tablets that are on a par with the iPad in terms of battery life, performance, and usability.CISC, or complex-instruction set computing, is a way of designing processors that's very power hungry. RISC, or reduced-instructions set computing, is an alternative way of building processors that are far more power efficient. The processor in your phone? That's an ARM chip, a specific implementation of a RISC processor design. You've got a RISC-based chip not a CISC-based chip in your phone because with CISC you'd have a battery life of four minutes and it'd burn a hole in your jeans (well, almost).One of the key reasons why iPad wins in the market is because, like the iPhone and like virtually every Android phone, it uses a RISC-style ARM processor. The iPad has a massive screen, boatloads of processing power, and a huge battery that lasts all day.Although Windows-based tablets have had some success in niche industries (medicine being a good example), for general use they're a non-starter because previously Windows would only run on CISC-style x86 chips. These run hot and have a short battery life. The heat issues, battery life and lack of multitouch input makes Windows 7 tablets utterly uninteresting to people who can look in the market and get multi-touch long-lived iPads – even if they don't run Windows programs.(That said, although Intel is pushing its new"Medfield" chip to Android OEMs. Medfield is an x86 design and therefore CISC-based. Whether it gets anywhere will be another story.)Although the main market for Windows 8 will be desktops and laptops, as it was for Windows 7, Windows 8 will see a variant that will run on ARM processors. OEMs will be able to build iPad-class hardware running Windows. Boom – instant competition to iPad. (Mind you, thejury's still outon how fully-featured that variant of Windows will be.)We're going to see Windows 8 go into beta next month, and it's expected to reach its RTM (release to manufacture) stage, when it's available for OEMs to build with, around September (Thanks to Mary-Jo Foley forsetting my expectations on this.)So here's a question. There are a bazillion Windows developers out there watching the iPad march across the landscape kicking up a dust storm of opportunities for developers who target it. Is Windows 8 getting any interest on the ground?I decided to try to measure whether developers are talking about developing for these new Windows 8 on ARM devices. I did this by examining traffic on Twitter, and on the popular developer resource siteStack Overflow. And I invented a new unit of measurement – the Bublé. It's almost as useful as the double-decker bus, the blue whale and Wales itself.TwitterbotsThere's some confusion out there about what we call these sorts of applications. The name that Microsoft seems to be using (at the moment at least) is "Metro-style". For reference, Microsoft currently operates a sub-site on MSDN forMetro-style app development.Although people can and do refer to Windows Phone development as "Metro", in this context – and on the MSDN subsite – we're talking about native applications that are built in Windows 8's new application framework that goes by the name ofWinRT. I'm not going to go into what WinRT is here –here's a fab answer on Stack Overflow, the takeaway is that if we want to find people talking about building native apps for Windows 8 tablets, we need to find people talking about "WinRT".For this article, I wrote a number of bots to monitor and analyse traffic on Twitter. The first was programmed to find people talking about WinRT. I also built a number of other bots that were programmed to find other topics (two technical and one "control") for comparison.The bots at a basic level look for a central keyword ("WinRT" in the first instance) and then score tweets based on discovery of other keywords. It will also inspect linked content (so if a tweet references an article on WinRT it'll score higher) and it will also discover people on Twitter who it thinks are engaged in discussing the topic. It will also exclude tweets that are not in English.At a basic level then, if we look at a week's worth of data we get an average of 30 (qualified) tweets per day on the topic of WinRT. Out of 300m-odd tweets per day. That's pretty minimal. For comparison, I built a "Michael Buble"-bot. This bot discovers around 2,500 tweets per day for the singer. So WinRT gets around 0.01 Bublés of traffic on Twitter in an average day.Two more botsXamarin is a software company that produces two pieces of software that are important in the mobile development space. They are MonoTouch and MonoDroid. MonoTouch allows you to use C# to build apps for iOS, MonoDroid does the same trick on Android. They're interesting for our work here because mobile is an allied space to Windows 8 on ARM tablets and there's an argument that developers waiting for a Windows 8 iPad-clone opportunity would be interested in Xamarin's offering. So, I wrote a bot that looked for Xamarin, MonoTouch and MonoDroid.By way of a control – well, not really a "control" as this isn't particularly scientific – I wrote a bot that looks forErlang. Erlang is a very niche, functional programming language. Frankly I don't know much about, other than it gets a certain kind of geek all steamy. Plus, the bot was easy as Erlang is a made-up word that doesn't mean anything. (I originally tried doing this Github'sJankycontinuous integration server project, which is a word they nicked from the "yoof". That did not go well, with the results being decidedly NSFW.)The result? Over the same time period, Xamarin got 57 tweets per day. Erlang got 145. (For those eager to know, that's 0.023 and 0.058 Bublés each.)You can find all thedatasets with the comparisons on Google Docs.So what we can see here is that people tend to talk about Xamarin about as much as they do WinRT. Xamarin is a (relevant) product produced by a small software company in a commercially interesting space.But WinRT is a "bet the farm" strategy fromthe world's largest software companydesigned to enable it to compete directly with a product that's destroying its business. Something's wrong there. The chatter about WinRT should be deafening, and it's not. In fact, there's almost five times the chatter about Erlang, and that's just some random geek language "toy" that I've picked of the air.Doing workAll we've looked at so far is what people are talking about. When developers aredoingrather thanchatting, they need "instruction".Traditionally, developers have received instruction from books and online content from a combination of non-commercial blogs and commercial content providers. Over the past few years a lot of this has been supplanted byStack Overflow. Stack Overflow is interesting because their data provides an indication of how many people are actually trying to crank out code.People don't go to Stack Overflow to chat in the way that they do on Twitter. For all we know, 100% of the Twitter traffic on WinRT might be variations of "Has anyone tried WinRT yet? I'm thinking about it …" Stack Overflow is a measure of how stuck people are, and you only get stuck when you're hacking around.For this next part, I built a Stack Overflow bot using the site'swonderfully designed API.In terms of data, the API has returned reliable data for most of this year, and so I've taken a range of seven days from 4 January 2012 to 10 January 2012. Admittedly, this is a small set. (When we revisit this data as the Windows 8 goes through its release cycle, we'll get better data as I'll keep this Stack Overflow bot running.)As a benchmark, I had a look at questions tagged on .NET and Java topics. For the sample I captured, .NET gets around 231 questions a day, Java around 330. (This surprised me – I'd assumed these would be the same.)(Although not central to the discussion – at the end of this article you can find the 20 highest rates tags I found during this exercise.)What about WinRT? Not looking great – this year there arefourquestions in our date range.For comparison, Erlang had a total of 17. MonoTouch and MonoDroid got about the same. (I can't give you that in Bublés – nobody seems to be trying to program him.)Here's the data:What we can tell from this is that there isn't much being asked about WinRT on Stack Overflow, and by extension we can say that no one is using it particularly. For comparison, I went back into the data and dug out a few tags that get a similar level of interest – some examples are:• db2• html-parsing (by the way, the parser I used in the bot wasHTML Agility Pack- recommended)• internet-explorer-6• log4net• memcached (surprised by this one)• screen-scraping• visual-studio-2005• windows-ce• windows-installerI've tried to be fair with that – but it's not the most glamourous list of peers to be compared with. Is it really the case that there's a similar number of people asking questions aboutlog4netas there are WinRT? Again, let's hammer that home – in the red corner, probably the most important change in Microsoft's software development platform since the introduction of .NET about eight months away from release. In the blue corner, an admittedly good, open source logging framework.Major PlayersYou may be wondering how the major players stack up on Stack Overflow. Well, I had that data to hand and you can find a chart below. An interesting point to note is that not only is Android consistently getting more volume than iOS, it's volume is around the same as .NET.The long-term life of the WinRT botFor me, actual instructional content whether produced by amateur or professional authors (the distinction here is strictly in the sense as to whether the author gets paid and no other measure) is the most important way of driving developer interest.Stack Overflow is great for when you're stuck. Instructional content is what developers need to get to a point where they're stuck as quickly as possible. Getting stuck is a good thing – if you're stuck, you know you're learning.I wrote the bot mentioned in this article as a separate project calledWinRT People. The idea of this project is to use Twitter to discover great content that WinRT developers can use to build apps for these new iPad-clones that Windows 8 will enable.You can use it one of two ways. You can follow it on Twitter at@winrtppl. The bot will publish articles that it discovers there. Alternatively you can subscribe to the RSS feed athttp://winrt.devppl.cc/to get the same effect. You can also see people to follow on the home page of that site.(The bot and site is very much a work in progress, so expect rough edges.)ConclusionWhat I think we can see there is that very few people talking about or, apparently, working with WinRT. The content that the WinRT People bot has surfaced for me to read on WinRT is generally pretty good stuff. There are people out there talking about it and doing a good job of evangelising WinRT.We're only a month away from a proper beta. This beta should be solid and feature complete, and the API won't be in a state of flux at this point. The lack of develop/test hardware is a problem to develop real software – 500 internets to the first person who can get Windows 8 on ARM running on an iPad – but we need to see the chatter on Twitter and questions on Stack Overflow ramping up.WinRT needs to be seeing significant traffic of both kinds as we get closer to RTM or it's going to start looking like the second half of 2013 before iPad starts getting serious competition.My instinct on this is that as a community we're behind where we were with .NET at about the same "eight months way" period. Microsoft needs to start getting content out there and get people hacking away.TagsThe 20 most used tagged on Stack Overflow for 4th-10th Jan:• android• java• php• javascript• jquery• mysql• asp.net• ios• css• python• .net• iphone• html• objective-c• ruby-on-rails• sql• facebook• ruby• asp.net-mvc-3Spoiler: The world loves Android. And also Michael Bublé. If he ever creates a programming language, we're hosed.
The UK and 21 other European Union member states on Thursday signed an international copyright agreement treaty called Acta (Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement), sparking more demonstrations by internet users who have protested for days both virtually and physically over fear it will lead to online censorship.Following the signing, protesters rallied in the Polish cities of Poznan and Lublin to express their anger over the treaty. Lawmakers for the left-wing Palikot's Movement wore masks in parliament to show their dissatisfaction, while the largest opposition party the right-wing Law and Justice party called for a referendum on the matter.The signing has yet to be ratified by the European Union parliament, and is scheduled to be debated in June. MEPs are already coming under intense pressure from activists on both sides over the forthcoming vote.Poland's ambassador to Japan, Jadwiga Rodowicz-Czechowska, signed the agreement in Tokyo. Speaking on Polish television, she said that Poland was one of several EU countries to sign Acta on Thursday, including Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Romania and Greece.Several other industrialised countries – including the US, Canada and South Korea – signed the agreement last year.Poland's support for Acta has sparked attacks on Polish government websites by the hacking collective Anonymous that left several of them unreachable off and on for days. Street protests of hundreds, and in some cases thousands of people, have broken out across Poland for the past three days.Germany, the Netherlands, Estonia, Cyprus and Slovakia did not sign on Thursday, andone French MEP quit the scrutinising processfor Acta complaining that the European Parliament was participating in a "charade".Acta has been significantly changed from earlier versions, removing an earlier demand that internet users found of repeatedly infringing copyright should be cut off from the web – a suggestion the EU rejected.Although the EU maintains Acta will not require any legislative changes in member countries – and instead will bring other countries up to European standards – controversy has been deepening in Poland over the proposals.While many other industrialised countries have signed it, popular outrage appears to be greater in Poland than anywhere else.Acta is a far-reaching agreement that aims to harmonise international standards on protecting the rights of those who produce music, movies, pharmaceuticals, fashion, and a range of other products that often fall victim to intellectual property theft.Acta also takes aim at the online piracy of movies and music; those opposed to it fear that it will also lead authorities to block content on the internet.A prominent Polish rock act, Zbigniew Holdys, has come out in support of Acta, accusing the internet activists – mostly young people – of profiting from pirated material online and trying to hold onto that practice.Acta shares some similarities with the hotly debated Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) in the US, which was shelved by lawmakers last week afterWikipedia and Google blacked out or partially obscured their websitesfor a day in protest.In reaction to the widespread opposition, Polish leaders have been struggling to allay fears over it.Poland's Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski defended his government's position in a TV interview on Wednesday evening, arguing that Acta is not as threatening as young people fear.But he said the internet should not be allowed to become a space of "legal anarchy"."We believe that theft on a massive scale of intellectual property is not a good thing," Sikorski said.In the Czech Republic, a local group aligning itself with Anonymous attacked the website of a group that supports Acta. The group collects money for music production and distributes it to artists.•The UK's Intellectual Property Officehas a guide to the aims of Acta
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTim Cook responds to claims of factory worker mistreatment: "We care about every worker in our supply chain" &gt;&gt; 9to5MacApple CEO Tim Cook, who has not been shy on the emailing as of late, has sent out a lengthy letter to all of his employees that is a direct response to these recent reports of factory worker mistreatment. Cook's opening: "As a company and as individuals, we are defined by our values. Unfortunately some people are questioning Apple's values today, and I'd like to address this with you directly. We care about every worker in our worldwide supply chain..."Cook seems a lot busier with the emails than Steve Jobs was. Or the emails leak more easily.Setting the record straight about our privacy policy changes &gt;&gt; Google Public Policy BlogGoogle is irked:A lot has been said about our new privacy policy. Some have praised us for making our privacy policy easier to understand. Others have asked questions, including members of Congress, and that's understandable too. We look forward to answering those questions, and clearing up some of the misconceptions about our privacy policies that first appeared in the Washington Post. So, here's the real story:Follow the link for the rest.Windows 8 beta: more personalisation coming &gt;&gt; TechRadarWhen the Windows 8 beta arrives at the end of February, it will have some widely requested features for killing Metro apps without going to the Task Manager, for navigating using a mouse rather than touch and for doing more with gestures. You'll also be able to change that overpowering green background. But Windows 8 director of communications Chris Flores points out to TechRadar that you wouldn't want a photograph as the background of the Metro-style Start screen.With more details.Larry Page to Googlers: if you don't get SPYW, work somewhere else &gt;&gt; PandoDailySarah Lacy at her new Pando Daily site:a source tells us that CEO Larry Page, who seems to be hell-bent on competing with Mark Zuckerberg whether it's the right thing for Google or not, had this to say to employees at a Friday staff event after the Search Plus Your World launch: "This is the path we're headed down - a single unified, 'beautiful' product across everything. If you don't get that, then you should probably work somewhere else." The quasi-ultimatum caught our source by surprise and underscores just how important this new direction is for Page. It also helps explain why Google's PR was so silent since evidence of the Don't Be Evil toolbar came out yesterday. If this is the future of the company and it flies in the face of Google's stated values, what can they say?Google's PR didn't respond when we asked for a comment on the "Don't Be Evil" bookmarklet. It fits.Switch to OpenStreetMap &gt;&gt; OpenStreetMapDo your maps look like everyone else's? Are you paying high fees just to include maps on your website?Wonder who that could be referring to?Switch to OpenStreetMap and discover how you can build beautiful maps from the world's best map data. We give you the data for free; you can make any map you like with it. Or benefit from the expertise of those already using OpenStreetMap. Host it on your hardware, or elsewhere. You have control. switch2osm.org explains how to make the switch - from first principles to technical how-tos.OpenStreetMap does produce lovely maps, and they are updated - when it's needed - really quickly. When will a satnav provider use one?Microsoft Pulls The Plug On Another Annual Event In Vegas &gt;&gt; Business InsiderDoes Microsoft have something against the city of Las Vegas? Late last year, Microsoft announced that 2012 would be its last year keynoting the Consumer Electronics Show, which takes place in Sin City every January. Now, it's also pulling the plug on MIX, an annual conference for developers that Microsoft has held in Vegas for the last six years. The change probably has nothing to do with the location, and more to do with Microsoft's shifting priorities. MIX was originally focused on Microsoft's Web technologies, particularly Silverlight and Internet Explorer.Which may tell you what you need to know about Silverlight's future.Google faces Norwegian public sector ban &gt;&gt; FT.comNorwegian public sector organisations will be banned from using Google Apps after the Norwegian data protection authorities ruled that the service could put citizens' personal data at risk. The data protection authority said Google Apps did not comply with Norwegian privacy laws because there was insufficient information about where data was being kept. The decision came from a test case in Narvik, where the local council had chosen to use Google Apps for their email. The Norwegian ban comes just as things were going so well for Google Apps in Europe, with the company winning its largest ever contract with BBVA, the Spanish bank.Oh. Well, there go the product placements in Forbrydelsen.Eee Pad Transformer Prime with ICS: a preview of Android 4.0 on a tablet &gt;&gt; The VergeGenerally, an improvement in the user interface. But then:What ICS doesn't magically change is the selection and quality of the tablet apps available in the Android Market. I have consistently pointed out the lack of tablet-optimized apps in my Honeycomb tablet reviews, and it looks like it will be a complaint that persists. While there have been some notable additions and there are some decent tablet-optimized apps (News360, Plume, and TapTu come to mind), others like Facebook and Twitter haven't been redesigned to take advantage of the higher resolution screen, making the experience flat-out disappointing.NEC slashes 10,000 jobs - blames Thai floods, smartphone slump &gt;&gt; Channel RegisterDire straits:The firm did not reveal exactly where in the business the jobs would go, and said the overseas cuts would be made "in accordance with the review of manufacturing operation". However, itsfinancial forecast document(PDF) reveals some clues.It shows a Mobile Terminal Business in dire straits, with smartphone shipments revised down for the year from 6.5 million to 5 million units and delays to the expansion of its overseas business. The success of "foreign vendors' increasing market share in Japan" was also noted, no doubt a reference to the huge impact the iPhone has made in the land of the rising sun.That's 5m smartphone shipments for the whole year, forecast.Tablet Display Technology Shoot-Out &gt;&gt; DisplaymateThe site may hurt your eyes a bit. Persist:Most people (and reviewers) seem to believe that the 10.1in screens (measured diagonally) on the Android Tablets are larger than the 9.7in iPad screen - but they are actually 5% smaller than the iPad in terms of the image area of the screen, which is what really counts. This is due to both Aspect Ratio geometry (the screen area decreases as the Aspect Ratio increases) and the Android system bar, which reduces the image area.We had not calculated that before.As a person, publisher, news organization and Twitter user, I think Google's new personalized search results are AWESOME! &gt;&gt; Thmas HawkEarlier this week Twitter put out a statement saying that they thought this new search integration was "bad for people, publishers, news organizations and Twitter users."I disagree. Sure, it may be be bad for *Twitter*, but to say it's bad for people, publishers, news organizations and Twitter users is wrong.He goes on to explain why in detail.iBooks Ideas &gt;&gt; Matt Gemmell18 quick ideas for things you could do with (free or paid-for) iBooks Author products. All rather neat; some paid; all inventive.HTC is holding out for a market hero &gt;&gt; Mobile TodayHTC is going to focus on 'hero' devices, rather than blanketing the market:The company's u-turn follows disappointing global results earlier this month when first quarter net profit fell 26% to $365m, its first quarterly decline in earnings for two years as it faced competition from Apple and Samsung's Galaxy range.HTC UK chief Phil Roberson (pictured) told Mobile the manufacturer will return to a strategy of launching a limited number of high-spec devices this year, with a focus on second quarter releases. He said: 'We have to get back to focusing on what made us great - amazing hardware and a great customer experience. We ended 2011 with far more products than we started out with. We tried to do too much."One suspects Samsung will be a large obstacle to heroic ambition.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Yay, Friday! Tell us your weekend gaming plans at once!
Facebook and the US state of Washington are suing a company they accuse of "clickjacking", alleging it has reaped $1.2m a month by using bogus pages on the social network to whisk people away to other sites.The plaintiffs charge that Delaware-based firm Adscend Media profits from the scam by collecting money from its advertising clients for every Facebook user unwittingly misdirected to a target ad or subscription service.The practice is also known as "likejacking" because victims are tricked into using Facebook's "like" button to perpetuate it.It is believed to mark the first time any state government has gone to court in a crackdown against spam spread by Facebook, according to Paula Selis, senior counsel for the Washington attorney general.Two separate but similar claims filed in federal court by the state and Facebook accuse Adscend of violating federal and state statutes outlawing misleading or deceptive commercial electronic communications and unfair business practices.The lawsuit says Facebook pages designed as "bait" are disseminated to social network users as posts that seemingly originate from friends, enticing visitors an opportunity to view salacious or provocative content.First they must complete a series of steps that will supposedly unlock the content but are actually designed to lure Facebook users to other sites, where they are tricked into giving away personal information or signing up for expensive mobile subscription services.The victims are encouraged to click the "Like" button on the Facebook "bait" page, which then alerts their friends to the page's existence, thus helping propagate it. Then they are told they cannot reach the content without filling out a form for an online survey or advertising offer.In one example cited, the "Like" button is overlayed with a link labelled: "This man took a picture of his face every day for 8 years!" The promised content often does not exist, and the user instead is directed through a series of prompts taking them off Facebook and to a string of ads and subscription offers.In some cases a hidden code embedded in an enticing link on the "bait" page activates the "Like" button without the user even clicking it, sending it to friends' news feeds.Selis said it may seem unlikely that anyone would click on such links, "but unfortunately they do."While the number of Facebook users actually scammed by clickjacking is not known, Selis said investigators had determined that some 280,000 users visited the locked content pages of Adscend during February 2011 alone."So we know there are probably millions of Facebook users" exposed to the deception, she said.Representatives of Adscend and two co-owners also named as defendants could not immediately be reached for comment.Selis said schemes such as clickjacking had grown more pervasive, and that millions of Facebook users had probably been exposed to Adscend's spam."Security is an arms race," said Ted Ullyot, Facebook's general counsel. "It's important to stay a step ahead against spammers and scammers."The Washington state attorney general, Rob McKenna, said the state was taking action because "we've brought other cases like this and, more than any other state, we've developed technological and legal expertise" in the field of cyber fraud.
For all its colossal mainstream success, the Metal Gear franchise has always had the feel of an arthouse film. Metal Gear games have, of course, all the conventional elements of a successful stealth-em-up: a generous choice of ways to kill, evade or subdue your unwitting opponents, all-action against-the-odds boss battles, a rugged, gadget-laden hero and a story-line overflowing with betrayals, revelations and explosions. But what sets them apart from the many imitators spawned in the wake of 1998's Playstation smash hit Metal Gear Solid is the bold, experimental storytelling of an auteur; in this case long-time writer and director Hideo Kojima.Under Kojima's stewardship, Metal Gear games have hammered relentlessly at the fourth wall, blurring the line between player and character. At one point in Metal Gear Solid the television screen would cut out as if the console had died. This, it turned out, was a trick played on the gamer by a telekinetic opponent, who could in turn be outwitted by unplugging the controller and reinserting it in a different port. It was one of many moments in the series when characters addressed hero Solid Snake directly as a gamer – telling him to turn off the console, or drop the controller, or hold it to his arm as it vibrated, for relief after a particularly gruesome in-game ordeal.It's the plots though, and particularly the plot ofMetal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, that push the series deep into weird, postmodern territory. The madness of the sequel is best summed up in this single fact: one of the principal antagonists was the severed right hand of the hero's clone brother. Wait, two facts: one of the others was the US president, who also happened to be a clone of Snake's dad. OK, three: another of the baddies was a vampire.The story wasn't just confusing either, it was deliberately contradictory, leaving the player to choose which characters to believe and which not, while interspersed with the action were lengthy cut-scenes in which characters waxed philosophical on the themes of artificial intelligence, fate, consciousness, identity and nuclear proliferation. Among others.The weird but, at least in its gameplay, wonderful Sons of Liberty is the first of three titles in the series remastered for high-definition as part of theMetal Gear Solid HD Collection (PS3/Xbox 360)– out 3 February. The second isMetal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater– in which you play as the father of the aforementioned severed hand, Naked Snake, decades earlier, sneaking around in a rainforest at the height of the cold war, back when clone-son Solid Snake was just a twinkle in some evil scientist's microscope. Snake Eater compensates for the low-tech setting by introducing camouflage, survival skills and injuries, and returning to the more conventional narrative, almost apologetically, after the confusing Sons of Liberty.The third major title to get the HD treatment is not, strictly, a sequel.Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walkerinitially reached a far smaller audience than past instalments because it was released on the PlayStation Portable. A&nbsp;little less postmodern, but more political than its predecessors, Peace WalkerIt&nbsp;again follows Naked Snake as he crawls around in a jungle, only now he's 10 years older and running his own&nbsp;mercenary company – ironically named Militaires Sans Frontières – among the CIA agents and Sandinistas of South America.Dedicated fans will relish the lo-fi thrill of the game that spawned it all, the 1987 originalMetal Gear, and the follow-upMetal Gear 2: Solid Snake, both first released for the MSX2 home computer system and included here almost as an afterthought. All told, though there's nothing wholly new in this five-title collection: it's a generous dose of gaming history from a franchise that has walked the line between genius and the absurd and fallen, mostly, on the good side.
Dave Fade and Nicky Biscuit became friends on the road. Fade played in a number of bands through his 20s, touring the world with Me My Head and signing a publishing deal for The Moths, while Biscuit played in the Subliminal Girls, the first band to perform in Selfridges, London. "The music industry has taken a bit of a battering over the past few years and changed a hell of a lot," explains Fade. "The band I was with at the time just sort of petered out, and I found myself in a self-imposed doldrums. Nicky was in a similar mental space at the time, as his band had come to an end also, and we found ourselves hanging out a lot more, drinking and playing video games."It was one afternoon while playing X-Men vs Streetfighter on the Sega Saturn that the pair hit on the idea of combining their love of video games with their combined experience in music. "Why isn't there a club night where you can play games in a watching-football-down-the-pub-style with great music in the background? we asked ourselves," says Fade. "So we started to plan the concept of the night and Nicky came up with the name Nintendisco not long after."Knowing that grand schemes birthed in the haze of beery nights playing games can all too often come to nothing, Fade and Biscuit headed the next day to Camden, north London, to speak to some of the promoters and venues they knew and to gauge interest. "We were quite surprised how receptive the venues were," says Biscuit. "They were really keen to embrace something different. In the end, we picked the Lock Tavern on Chalk Farm Road due to its location and vibe. We set upFacebookandTwitterpages, made a few flyers and did some mailouts to our extensive mailing lists we'd picked up through being in bands."As the launch night approached, the pair had misgivings over the sort of crowd the event would attract. "We thought there'd just be a few people we knew [attending because they felt obliged] and a few gamers who wanted to play games on a big screen in a tournament setting," says Fade. "In reality, it was packed. Friends had come but it was mainly people we didn't know, and not just gamers, people from all sorts of scenes – girls, boys, musos and much more. It was great to see, first hand, the cross-section of people that gaming appeals to, it was eye opening. The reception was amazing."For the first night the pair played Super Nintendo music direct through the soundsystem in the venue. "The sound of a buzzing go-kart against a back drop of intense 16-bit Mario music definitely grates after a short while. Plus, the primitive SNES soundchip was not necessarily designed to sound particularly good through a powerful PA system," explains Biscuit. "So we quickly realised that we would need a bigger venue and that playing the old SNES music through the PA doesn't work for very long."Now, we break it up a bit more with lots of different music. At recent events we have started to use a sampler loaded to the brim with 8-bit/16-bit gaming sounds to really brand the night. It's great to see how well some tunes work with some Mario power up and Sonic ring collecting sounds."The club night swelled in popularity, catching the attention of the press and public and forcing a move to a larger venue: 93 Feet East, in east London's Brick Lane. Then the email from Nintendo arrived and, when Fade and Biscuit saw the sender address, they presumed the game was up. "We felt certain they were contacting us to shut us down," says Fade, "but they loved the idea and wanted to work with us." Working with Nintendo resulted in the team being asked to host the UK launch for the 3DS console. From there, the event's popularity exploded, with a UK tour of universities and appearances at the summer festivals, including Reading."After being in bands for so many years, it was amazing to be asked by Nintendo to appear at some of the biggest summer festivals," says Fade. Reading, in particular, a festival that I first attended when I was 16 years old, was something I've always wanted to play at. I never thought I'd get to do that by playing video games."Gaming in general, and especially in recent times, has a very broad appeal: all ages, classes and genders are involved, so mixing gaming into a night on the tiles continues this appeal," says Fade, explaining the event's popularity. "It's also a fairly unique concept outside of a game launch party. We wanted to bring that kind of press event to the masses."While it's true that video games appeal to a broad audience, selecting games that work in a live environment can be tricky. "The games that work best tend to be either the ones you can pick up and play with no experience of the game, or those with a nostalgic value – Super Mario Kart and Street Fighter 2 excel on both those fronts. BomberMan is great as it's a true four-player party game and when we've had Tetris on a standalone screen, that has also worked well. Most people remember themselves being much better at it than they are now, ourselves included."Looking ahead, Fade and Biscuit have more plans for the night. "The long-term goal is to be more involved with the industry, whether that's by expanding our current nights across the country, which we've already started doing, or by getting more involved with organising game launches and the like. We have a really unique demographic that attend our nights: gamers who like to drink and party as well as play games, so we feel that GamerDisco could be a great platform for developers to play-test their wares on the audience. It's a side of things we are really keen to push."• The nextNintendisco is on 26 Januaryat 93 Feet East, London
Filesharing site The Pirate Bay gained notoriety by enabling users to exchange music, movies and software. But now the site is branching out to provide a new category of downloads – the templates for physical objects.A new section of the site lists files that visitors can use to construct items with 3D printers – machines which build three-dimensional objects by overlaying thin layers of fast-drying plastic resin.In a blogpostannouncing the move, Pirate Bay spokesman WinstonQ2038 said:One of the things that we really know is that we as a society will always share. Digital communication has made that a lot easier and will continue to do so. We believe that the next step in copying will be made from digital form into physical form. It will be physical objects. The benefit to society is huge. No more shipping huge amount of products around the world. No more shipping the broken products back. No more child labour.3D printing is an emerging technology, but it has attracted a passionate community of hobbyists who design and build a variety of objects. Some are designed from scratch; others are generated from 3D scans of existing items.The community recently had its first run-in with copyright law when tabletop battle games company Games Workshop issued DMCA takedown notices againstThingiverse, a site where "makers" share designs.Games Workshop spokesman Kyle Workman said: "We are very protective of our intellectual property, and our legal team investigates each issue on a case-by-case basis."Asked whether the company might ever consider selling its own digital 3D designs, he said: "That would be nearly impossible, unless the customer had plastic, metal and resin casting equipment."At the time of writing, one of the offending designs had appeared on The Pirate Bay.But while 3D printing may eventually give manufacturers cause for alarm, for the moment the threat would seem to be negated by simple economics.Games Workshop's Space Marine Dreadnaught model sells for £28.Makerbot 3D printersstart at more than $1,000 (£637).• This article was amended on 1 February 2012. The original said the Pirate Bay site has irked Games Workshop. The company has asked us to point out that they have not formed any view on Pirate Bay.
Nintendo posted a sharp drop in quarterly profit and forecast a bigger-than-expected full-year loss as its dedicated games consoles lost ground to smart devices such as Apple's iPhone.The creator of the Super Mario and Pokemon franchises dominated the videogames industry for years with its DS handheld devices and Wii home consoles, but is now struggling to keep up as sales of more versatile smartphones and tablets boom."To say that [the days of consoles] are over is likely an overstatement, but social-network and internet-delivered games are growing and structurally changing the future of the industry, which is a strong wind against Nintendo," said Shigeo Sugawara, senior investment manager at asset managers Sompo Japan Nipponkoa.Nintendo, whose exports have also been hit by the strong yen, now expects an annual operating loss – its first ever – of ¥45bn (£370m), dwarfing analysts' expectations of a ¥4.2bn loss."Their time of growth [from consoles] is over, and, while I don't think the company will cease to exist, if they don't move into new categories, they will no doubt lose the great scale they've amassed," said Mitsushige Akino, chief fund manager at Ichiyoshi Investment Management in Tokyo.Nintendo cut its forecast for annual sales of its ageing Wii console to 10m devices from 12m, and for the 3DS handheld device to 14m from 16m. Some of the company's own-brand games for the 3DS, such as Super Mario 3D Land, have become million sellers, but games from other publishers did not fare as well, Nintendo reported."We had higher expectations for the year-end season, but failed to meet them," the company's president, Satoru Iwata, said.Poor sales forced Nintendo to slash the price of the much-anticipated 3DS in August, just six months after its launch. The move ended its record of making profits on its hardware as well as its software, a business model that had taken operating profit to a high of ¥555bn in 2008-09. The motion-controlled Wii console now also faces tougher competition in its market from rival motion-sensing systems such as Sony's Move and Microsoft's Kinect, and Iwata said consumers were more eager than ever to seek out bargains in the harsh economic environment.The company plans to launch the Wii's successor, the Wii U, in Japan, the US, Europe and Australia  at the end of the year, Iwata told reporters.But with other threats emerging, Nintendo may have trouble generating excitement about its new product, some analysts say. Google is taking steps into gaming with Google TV, while Apple is thought to be preparing a new iPad and possibly a smart TV that could transform the industry."We think we need to consider the possibility that home consoles could become a thing of the past," Citigroup analyst Soichiro Fukuda wrote in a recent report. "We think the direction taken by marketing trendsetter Apple will be very important and we will be watching the company's announcements at future events with interest."
It seems hard to believe now, but several years ago, shooters weren't just about following computer controlled super soldiers into gigantic cinematic set pieces. Once upon a time, you didn't simply squirm through narrow corridors of linear action and plot exposition; you took command of your own AI teams, and you intricately planned your approach to combat hot zones.This was, of course, the era of the squad-based shooter genre, brought to prominence by the likes of Hidden and Dangerous and Rainbow Six, then carefully honed to console perfection via the excellent Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter titles.Now, Ghost Recon is back. Or at least it's on itswayback. After Ubisoft showed a rollicking trailer at E3 2010, Future Soldier seemed to hit a series of heavily guarded development blockades. Originally pegged for a winter 2010 release – the latest delay has pushed that back to May.It's strange, because Future Soldier hardly represents aradicalnew direction for the series. Once again, it puts the player in command of a small group of highly trained operatives as they skulk about behind enemy lines, causing all sorts of covert carnage. There are international arms smugglers, there are ruthless mercenaries and, at the top of the heap, there are Russian politicos who want to re-establish the Soviet Union as a world power by any means necessary.And like the GR:AW titles, the game's globetrotting plot is – as the title suggests – set a teeny bit into the future. But really, only ateenybit. "It's set tomorrow," says creative director Jean-Marc Geffroy, precisely. "The ghosts use some gear that actually exists today – even the optical camouflage they wear. I mean today, you'd need a big battery, but of course, we've made some modifications for gameplay reasons."Indeed, perhaps the most significant change is a mechanical one: Ubisoft has toned its squad-management system. In the Advanced Warfighter titles it involved selecting one of your three AI wingmen and assigning them a simple task, such as "shoot", "don't shoot", "go over there", or my personal favourite, "come back from over there as quickly as possible, I've made a terrible mistake and you're going to be killed". You could also group your commands so the whole of your unit ran away as one.Well, that's all gone. Having employed the services of four real-life Navy SEALs to ensure the authenticity of Future Soldier, developers Ubisoft Red Storm and Ubisoft Paris have discovered that spec-op teams don't work like that. They actually trust each other to navigate through the landscape by themselves, to check for potential threats and not to shoot if shooting would mean alerting an entire enemy platoon to their presence. Instead, they work together to identify targets – a base, an enemy soldier, etc – then each get there on their own volition.That's really handy, because it means in the game, all those fiddly squad commands have been replaced by a much more fluid and intuitive set-up, which involves just two instructions: the synchronised shot and the focused shot. The former allows you to silently take out up to four enemies at the same time. Simply click on a passing soldier with the right should button to highlight him as a target and one of your team moves into position to get their shot away. Click on two more targets, and your other AI compatriots will track those. Now, you can either hold the right button to get your squad mates to carry out their simultaneous hits, or take on a fourth enemy yourself, prompting your colleagues into action. It's slick, powerful and satisfying, and at no point do you have to set a waypoint.The focused shot works in exactly the same way, but comes into play when you're already in the middle of a huge firefight. This time, it orders your squad to aim at a particular soldier that you've targeted. It's useful for when there is one chap blocking an escape route or manning a horribly powerful machine gun turret.I got to trial this new system via five early single-player missions. In the first, named "Nimble Guardian" (which sounds the title of a Joanna Newsom album) we're tracking down an operative named Gabriel Paez, through the streets and densely crowded market places of a Bolivian city. At first, the array of combat options is a little bewildering. The triggers aim and fire, but then an extra scope option is available by clicking the right analogue stick. Left and right on the D-pad select your current weapon or item, while pressing down provides a "magnetic" view, which turns your surroundings to a darkened monochrome with only enemy soldiers appearing as bright easily targetable shapes.The familiar Ghost Recon drone is back too, selectable via up on the D-pad. This small flying craft can be guided around the environment as it tags enemy troops and checks out other tactical aspects. Move it in too close, however, and it'll be spotted, blowing your surprise attack. There's also now a sort of reconnaissance grenade, which can be lobbed surreptitiously into an area, instantly tagging nearby enemies. It's especially useful in crowded areas, where you want to be able to sort the bad guys, from the people you're not really allowed to shoot.The fun of Future Soldier, then, is in sneaking around the parameter of the hot zone, using your gadgets to probe for the best entry points, while remaining hidden as long as possible. To aid in this, hitting the crouch button automatically powers-up your optical camo outfit which renders your soldiers virtually invisible to enemy troops. This means that, in stark contrast to the incessant, attention-deficit pacing of most first-person shooters, you can edge slowly into the map, peeking out at the bad guys from a variety of vantage points, assessing things at your own speed.This approach to combat has once again been shaped by the consultants. "They have the tools to be smarter," says Geffroy. "That's why in the game, we have the intel systems, the ability to mark targets – the SEALs enter a situation, they assess it andtheydecide when and where to trigger the fight. Our levels are open, because in terms of pure gameplay, we wanted the player to be creative – if you want to observe, to sneak behind the enemy by crawling for five minutes, the game should support that, if you want to trigger the engagement at a specific place for your own tactical reasons, the game should support you. To do that, we need very open environments. And sometimes it'll be the enemies who come from areas you don't expect…"This all works brilliantly in the tense ''Subtle Arrow'' mission, where you're entering a vast refugee camp in Zambia to take down a bunch of mercenaries.  The squalor of the place is perfectly realised with tattered tents and rusty corrugated iron huts clustered along narrow dusty pathways – and amid the crowds of aimless civilians, armed guards can be made out, chatting on rooftops or idly loping about.It's not all sneak-n-peak, though. We also get to try a hectic scenario in which we're chasing a bunch of gunmen through a densely crowded street in Peshawar, ducking behind wrecked cars and avoiding the screaming, running inhabitants. The city atmosphere is densely rendered with convincing shop signs, crumbling buildings and dented vehicles crawling along cracked roads. At one point during a firefight, I spot a panicking civilian giving CPR to a downed friend. It lends a harsh slug of humanity to the action.The AI of the three squad mates also feels solid and reliable – they manage to slip about undetected while I often blunder into the sight lines of hidden foes. Gradually, however, I learned how to use the very good cover mechanic, accessible via the A button. Hit it once and you lock to a nearby object in the traditional way; however, hold it down before moving away and you initiate the cover swap feature, which automatically guides you – via a crouching run – to the next serviceable cover position.It feels a lot like the Gears of War run-and-cover system and makes those desperate, probing jaunts into enemy territory appear slick and super-competent. The character movement is smooth and convincing too – Ubisoft says each model has 2,500 frames of animation to call on, and it's all based on motion-capture footage of those Navy SEAL consultants. Importantly, all four were filmed together so the studio could capture how they move as a unit."They were surprisingly open about what they do," says Geffroy, "They'd often watch a piece of footage from the game and say, well, that might look good, but that wouldn't work on the battlefield. So we'd go, okay, we have to change something. We changed all the breach animations because they said no, we don't do it like that.""We learned a lot about how they work – they're not above the law, but they don't really play by the rules; the Navy SEALs take their orders directly from Washington – if they enter Afghanistan, they're not under the command of any local generals. They also dress how they like, they customise their weapons, and they are subject to special rules – if they enter a US camp, no one there has the right to check their bags. They are apart."The team became so interested in the lives of the SEALs operatives, they began to feed other elements into the game. As Geffroy explains: "With Future Solider, we wanted to show more about the special forces, the guys behind the masks – we wanted to show who they are when they're not on the battlefield – and we have some nice cut-scenes to do that. And what was amazing to me was, when you think about the movie Hurt Locker, these guys are like that, they're so involved in what they do. One of them put it in a beautiful way, 'my life on the battlefield is in technicolour, when I am back at home it's in black and white.' We wanted to define these men. I mean, some of the things they do… when they told me, I said that's amazing but I can't put it in the game, no one will believe it."Generally, the visuals appear solidly competent rather than benchmark-defining. The locations are varied, from intense street scenes to remote rural areas, but while scenes are loaded with detail, there's no sense of the hardware being pushed to its limits by cool special effects. Sound is rather muted too so the assault rifles lack some sense of heft or deadly power – even a helicopter mini-gun, utilised at the close of a mission on the Pakistan border, is muted. Battlefield 3, with its sharp, documentary-style patina and ear-splittingly intense aural environment, has set a high bar for military realism that Future Soldier doesn't look like it'll be challenging.Multiplayer-wise, Ubisoft isn't saying much at the moment. We know there will be four-player co-op for every campaign mission of course – and this is bound to be every bit as tense, entertaining and genuinely collaborative as GR:AW was. On top of that, we can expect four competitive modes based around ten maps, and with three classes of soldier to choose from.  "We wanted to have a competitive mode that is heavily squad-based, like the co-op mode," says Geffroy. "If you have a good squad, you'll be efficient and effective. But we also wanted it to be like the co-op mode in that, if you're not as skilled as your team mates, you can have fun helping your side, using your drone, tagging enemies, doing some hacking … it's part of that freedom we wanted."Before playing the demo, I was worried about Future Soldier. I figured a delayed development arc, shared by two studios thousands of miles apart, could only spell trouble. And there are certainly some areas to iron out. But the missions already seem to have that quiet, gripping appeal, and the prospect of playing with three friends, approaching an enemy blockade from numerous different directions is as appealing as it always was. Ghost Recon may not be the future in an audio-visual sense,  but it has taken all it needs from the past to pique the interest of more strategic shooter fans.Ghost Recon: Future Soldoer is available on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 25 May.
Every year theToy Fairfills London's Olympia with acres of brightly coloured plastic, as manufacturers, distributors and inventors show off their latest must-have play things. And with the worlds of technology, toys and video games moving ever closer together, we thought we'd pop down to find out where the most interesting techno-toy mash-ups are likely to happen in 2012.Plus, we wanted to see all the new Lego.So here are the five most interesting new toy/game crossover treats we discovered on the show floor. You might want to warn your bank manager...Mechatar battling robotsDeveloped byBossa Nova Robotics, the scary-lookingMechatarsare a range of remote control battle robots, with interchangeable USB weapons. The neat part is, they're also the subject of a free online game, in which the homeworlds of the eponymous droids are being attacked by a deadly alien enemy – so they've sent toy versions of themselves to Earth to learn how to fight.Mechatar owners can download special missions from the game, and then enact these in real-life with their R/C bots – these can be battles with other Mechatars or little treasure hunts which test your R/C skills. Once the tasks are completed, the data is sent back to the game from your robot toy via a USB connection with your PC; the owner's onscreen character is then powered up accordingly. The technology has been developed by Carnegie Mellon University's robotics labs and the way in which robots communicate with each other, and the online Pokemon-style fighting game, is really clever. Already launched in the US, they're due in the UK in August – the larger Mechatars robots will be £49.99, with the smaller Exomorphs (pictured) at £19.99.Moshi Monster Bobble BotsIn a genius piece of cross-promotion, robotic toy makerInnovationFirsthas taken the technology behind its hugely successful Hex Bug Nano toys (teeny robotic insect things that scuttle around like mad), and applied it to the hugely popular online gaming phenomenon, Moshi Monsters. The result is the Moshi Monsters Bobble Bot range, which features 24 of the characters from the game, re-designed as cute, shuffling mini-bots. A selection of habitats are also available, inlcuding shops, houses and gardens, all recognisable from the Moshi online world. Players are able to attach the buildings together along plastic roads creating their own little Moshi towns. There are also various wallpaper sheets to choose from allowing children to customise their interiors. The gardens, too, allow users to pick and choose the teeny plants they display.The design, detail and bright colours of the habitats capture the beautiful kawaii aesthetics of the game perfectly, as do the Moshi bots, which sort of trundle around the cafes and shops, bumping into each other. The robots are available at £4.99 each, while starter playsets and buildings range from £12.99 to £29.99.Oh, and there were new additions to theHex Bugsrange at the event too, including a new Larva bot (£12.99, out now), with sensors in its head so that it can roll along avoiding obstacles as it goes – it looks hideously organic, like some nightmarish giant bug from a horror movie. Equally terrifying are the scarabs (available in March, at £14.99), which scuttle at an incredible pace, leaping back on to their feet when they topple over. My sons – who I idiotically brought along to the event so they could wreck the intricately planned displays – also liked the new Hive playset (£24.99), complete with traps and obstacles for the little Nano bugs.Bandai augmented reality packagingNot exactly a toy, more an intriguing packaging concept. Bandai has employed theAurasmaaugmented reality technology to its forthcoming Thundercats, Ben10 and Power rangers figures. Fans who have the Aurasma app on their iPhones, iPads or Android devices will be able to go into a toyshop, point their device camera at the action figure box and watch as a 3D computer generated model of the character appears on screen, wafting its weapon and shouting well-known phrases. Cleverly, the  augmented reality characters are based on the real computer models created by the action figure designers, so they provide a genuine representation of what's in the box.Flip the packaging over, point your camera at the logo, and the software boots up a video advert, showing off other toys in the range. It's a neat use of AR technology and no doubt hints at a future in which toys, marketing and display technology combine. Also, the new Thundercats figures are gorgeous, and the forthcoming Ben 10 range, subtitled Omniverse, is a more mature take on the series, with a hi-tech Plumber base playset taking more inspiration from darker, modern-day superhero movies.Animate It!Aardman Animations in conjunction with Cheatwell Games has come up with this brilliant do-it-yourself stop-go animation kit. The set includes a Morph mould so you can recreate the lengendary clay figure, some simple animation software and an instructional DVD. Users are then able to use their PC and USB camera to create their own Morph animations. It's out in March for £29.99 and you can find more detailshere.Gears of War 3 MeccanoThe veterannuts-and-bolts construction toyis updating its image this year with a range of video game-themed sets. My favourite was the forthcoming Gears of War 3 range, which is still being designed and was only available in prototype form on the show floor – hence, no images yet. The sets will include an Armadillo APC, Centaur Tank and King Raven helicopter. There are also two battle sets: Locust vs Delta Squad and Lambert vs Delta Squad – these are yet to be finalised but will include buildings, vehicles and action figures.Meccano also previewed a Sonic the Hedgehog range complete with a Ramp Green Hill playset, Casino Night Environment playset and Sonic and Knuckles vehicles. There's also a Rabbids collection, featuring various bizarre contraptions from Ubisoft's offbeat family gaming series, including a time travelling washing machine and flushable toilet.All of these are due out in August or September.
Google and other search engines "overwhelmingly" direct music fans to illegal copies of copyrighted tracks online, a coalition of entertainment industry groups has told the government.In aconfidential documentobtained under the Freedom of Information Act, lobbying groups for the major rights holders claimed Google and Microsoft's Bing are making it "much more difficult" for people to find legal music and films online.The private document, obtained by the free speech campaignersOpen Rights Groupand shared with the Guardian, urges the government to introduce a voluntary body that would remove rogue websites from internet search results.The proposals were made to the culture minister Ed Vaizey as part of a series of consultations on internet piracy between rights holders, search giants and the government in November last year. The nine-page document was submitted on behalf of the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), the UK body for the music majors, the Motion Picture Association (MPA), the Premier League, the Publishers Association and the Pact, the film and TV independent producers' trade body.Privately, rights holders said there is a "spirit of optimism" between the entertainment groups and search engines as they attempt to usher in more legal media sites, includingGoogle's own fledgling music service.Google has in the past year stepped up efforts to remove copyright-infringing content, launchinga fast-track removal requests formand filtering terms "associated with infringement". However, the rights holders claim in the document that "as time goes on, the situation is getting worse rather than better"."Consumers rely on search engines to find and access entertainment content and they play a vital role in the UK digital economy," the rights holders state."At present, consumer searching for digital copies of copyright entertainment content are directed overwhelmingly to illegal sites and services."The entertainment groups want Google to "continuously review key search words" and "effectively screen" mobile apps on Android smartphones in an effort to combat illicit sharing.The document claims that 16 of the first 20 Google search results for chart singles link to "known illegal sites", according to  searches by the BPI in September. In an attempt to persuade the government to clamp down on search engines, the groups claim that 41% of Google's first-page results for bestselling books in April last year were "non-legal links" to websites."Much of the illegal activity in the digital economy is facilitated and encouraged by money-making rogue sites," the document claimed."Intermediaries, unwittingly or by wilfully turning a blind eye (or in some cases, by encouraging such activity), play a key role in enabling content theft and often even profit from it. Only a comprehensive approach can address this issue."The entertainment bodies call for search engines to:• Assign lower rankings to sites that "repeatedly" make available copyright-infringing material• Prioritise sites that "obtain certification as a licensed site" for music and film downloading• Stop indexing sites that are subject to court orders• Stop indexing "substantially infringing websites"• Improve "notice and takedown" system• Ensure that users are not directed to illicit filesharing sites through suggested search• Ensure search engines do not advertise around unlawful sites or sell keywords associated with piracy or sell mobile apps "which facilitate infringement"The chief executive of BPI, Geoff Taylor,  said on Thursday: "The vast majority of consumers want search engines to direct them to legal sources of entertainment rather than the online black market."As search engines roll out high-quality content services, like Google Music, we want to build a constructive partnership that supports a legal online economy. We hope that Google and other search engines will respond positively."A spokeswoman for the Motion Picture Association added: "If you look for film or music via a search engine you usually find websites providing access to pirated films or music at the top of the list of results."This is confusing for consumers, damages the legal market and legitimises copyright theft. We are in dialogue with search engines, ISPs [internet service providers], advertising networks and payment processors about a code to deal with the escalating problem of online copyright theft which threatens the growth of the entire creative industries sector. This paper is a result of that dialogue and we appreciate government's continuing efforts to help bring about a more responsible internet".A spokesman for Google said: "Google takes the fight against online piracy very seriously. Last year, we removed over five million infringing items from Google Search. We have made industry-leading efforts in this field, investing over $50m (£32m) in fighting bad advertisements and over $30m on Content ID software, giving rights holders control over their YouTube content."We continue to work in close partnership with rights holders to help them combat piracy and protect their property."Peter Bradwell, campaigner for the Open Rights Group, said the proposal contained "some dangerous ideas". He said: "It's another plan to take on far too much power over what we're allowed to look at and do online."
Android tablets took 39% of the world tablet market in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to new research from Strategy Analytics – though as many as half of those were not running Google-approved versions of the operating system, it said.Apple dominated the rest of the market on its own, taking 58% of the market during the period as it sold 15m iPads, more than double the number of the same period in 2011.That was down from a 68% share a year ago – but the key reason for the fall was the entry of Amazon's Kindle Fire, which uses a "forked" version of Android which does not use the Android market, though it does default to Google search.Strategy Analytics saysthat the total tablet market grew from 10.7m in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 26.8m in the same period of 2011 – equivalent to more than a quarter of the total PC market for the quarter, which hit 92.7m acording to research company IDC.Other companies such as RIM with its PlayBook managed around 500,000 sales, according to the report. Microsoft Windows 7 tablets achieved about 400,000 sales.Peter King, for Strategy Analytics, said that he estimated that Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble, which offers the Nook tablet, had together sold about 4.6m tablets – which would mean that they took 40% of the total Android tablet market, and solely in the US. Total Android sales tripled to 10.5m worldwide, the company said.Yet speaking earlier this week, Apple chief executive Tim Cook insisted that he had not seen any slowdown in iPad sales after the launch of the Kindle Fire in October.The numbers were disputed publicly on Twitter by Benedict Evans, an analysta researcherfor Enders Analysis, who remarked that: "Sometimes the convention that you don't publicly criticise other analysts is a pain."He suggested the figures for Android sales were "batshit insane", and said that it's a challenge to estimate Android tablet sales "when Samsung says nothing and Google is actively misleading".Google does not offer clear breakdowns of how many devices have been activated by type – although any which uses the approved Google software will contact its activation servers and provide device information. Instead, it offers the"Platform versions" pageswhich indicate the proportion of devices using a particular version of Android that have contacted the Android Market over a two-week period.It also collectsscreen size information– but that has fallen out of step with the platform version data, having last been updated on 1 December. Nor is there any indication of how often old or new devices contact the Market.The lack of clarity is frustrating for analysts seeking to advise clients on which platforms to target for future planning. While Apple does not provide data about the software versions running on devices, it does provide quarterly updates on sales of each class of device such as the iPhone and iPad. Samsung, reckoned to be the the biggest seller of Android phones and tablets worldwide, has ceased providing that data."Dozens of Android models distributed across multiple countries by numerous brands such as Amazon, Samsung, Asus and others have been driving volumes," Neil Mawston, executive director at Strategy Analytics, noted. "Android is so far proving relatively popular with tablet manufacturers despite nagging concerns about fragmentation of Android's operating system, user-interface and app store ecosystem."It is unclear how successful Android tablets are with consumers.Google's own platform data, presently updated to 3 January, suggests that 3.3% of devices accessing the official Google Android market in the last two weeks of December were running version 3.x of Android, which is exclusive to tablets.In his quarterly earnings call last week, Google chief executive Larry Page said there had now been 250m Android device activations – which might suggest that there are a total of 8.25m Honeycomb tablets in use, if all devices contact the Market proportionally. But without clearer information from Google that cannot be known.
My life is in chaos. I have personal contact details, diary entries, and reminders spread across a Windows XP laptop, Mac desktop, iPad, and Nokia mobile phone (not to mention an old style paper diary and a separate paper address book). I need to rationalise all this information and, ideally, find a way of keeping my various devices in sync, but am debating how best to do this.As I use a number of Apple devices, one answer is to use the built in Apple apps and keep them in sync via iCloud. This has the attraction of simplicity, but as I am not a dedicated Mac-head, I am reluctant to lock myself into the Apple world.Google provides an obvious alternative, but would not keep my devices in sync. I'm also a little nervous about giving Google even more access to my personal data.Can you, or your readers, suggest any alternatives.Danny GoldingFor more than a decade, this question had a simple answer: you put everything into Microsoft Outlook, and everything else synchronised with that. At the time, some mobile devices came bundled with a free copy of Outlook, so this was a good solution even for people who didn't use Microsoft Office.Today, Outlook is still the standard answer for businesses that use Microsoft Office on Windows PCs, which means most of them. However, the trend is towards more lightweight, consumer-oriented online applications, and Outlook synchronisation is much less common. Most people don't need more than 100 fields for each contact name, including fields for the names of the contact's manager and assistant, which Outlook provides. Nor do they need room for multiple email addresses, fax machines, and websites. Often, they just want the person's name, company name, and room for a couple of phone numbers.If you want to take the lightweight route, then the obvious solutions are Google, Apple's iCloud, and Microsoft Live. All offer some degree of cross-platform support, but Google is the one most likely to support both PCs and Macs equally well. Of course, you don't have to decide immediately, or ever. There's no reason why you can't use two systems to see which you like best. Indeed, the second service will provide a useful backup.Desktop email programs usually support more than one email account, so you could sign up for both Google's Gmail (with access to related programs, including Google Docs) and Microsoft's Hotmail (where the related programs include the online versions of Microsoft Office programs). Microsoft Live Mail does the job well, but the latest Windows Live Essentials 2011 suite, with Live Mail and Live Mesh cross-platform synchronisation software, doesn't run on Windows XP. Mozilla's Thunderbird email program and Lightning calendar provide an open source alternative.If you really want to put everything into a single program – including to-do lists, journal entries, notes and a full calendar – then you need a personal information manager or PIM. This used to be a hot product category, but now I suspect there are only a few realistic options. Outlook is the main example, butTime &amp; Chaos 7,PimeroandEssentialPIMmight be worth a look. There's also the open sourceEvolution, which attempts to provide an Outlook substitute for Linux andWindows.Microsoft Outlook includes an email client (though you don't have to use it) whereas PIMs such as Time &amp; Chaos more often link to your existing email client. However, if you want integrated email, theChaos Intellectversion provides it. Chaos Software also offers theChaos Hostservice for $99 (£63) per year. The company says: "In addition to synchronising with our desktop programs, ChaosHost.com also supports many of the newest smartphones for Over-The-Air synchronisation, including iOS (iPhone), Google Android, Windows Mobile, and Palm Pre!"The more recent Pimero has a free version that appears to offer most of the features you need, but you will have to upgrade to theStandard (£44.87) or Professional (£63.18) editionto get automatic synchronisation and synchronisation with the iPhone and iPad, Google Android, BlackBerry and Windows Mobile.With Outlook, you can also get extra features by paying for a service such as Google Apps for Business or Microsoft's Office 365, and Microsoft Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) capability is a feature to look for.Google Apps Sync for Microsoft Outlookwill sync your email, calendar and contacts in both directions. Unfortunately, it does not sync notes, tasks, journal entries or distribution lists, thought there is now a gadget forOutlook Tasks. There are independent programs that fill other holes at extra cost, such asgSyncit v3.x, which will sync tasks and notes. There are other useful apps in theGoogle Apps Marketplace.Microsoft's Office 365 is a more powerful and better integrated suite than Google Apps. It provides a hosted version of Microsoft Exchange Server so, in theory, setting it up is mainly a matter of adding an Office 365 email account to Outlook 2007 or 2010. Once that's done, the calendar, tasks etc should synchronise as well. However, there are several downloads to install before you"set up your desktop for Office 365". I haven't tried it yet, but I'd be amazed if it didn't include numerous traps for the unwary. Either way, the videos atOffice 365: A tour for userswill help you decide if it's worth signing up for afree 30-day trial.If you are not a business professional, I suspect neither Google Apps for Business nor Office 365 is worth the effort.You could also consider a free option, the Zoho online office suite. Again, it's aimed at business users, but at least it has aContactsapplication. There's also aWikithat you could use as a diary workspace. It looks better than Google Docs, butZoho + Google Appslets you combine the two.By this stage, there ought to be some good online PIMs like Time &amp; Chaos but, apart from Pimero, they seem to be in short supply. I suspect that most people, like me, use a mixture of things including Google and Windows Live and web-based apps such asEvernote,Toodledo,Springpad,Highriseand others too numerous to mention. However, maybe readers can point us both to a better, more integrated solution.Whatever you choose, bear in mind that having a something that's nice to use is ultimately much less important than something that will export your irreplaceable data in a re-usable format. Phones, laptops and websites last only a few years before they are replaced or upgraded, but your personal information needs to survive for decades.
Nokia's battle to rejoin the race with Apple and Google's Android has seen the world's largest phone maker burn through over €1bn (£830m) in a year, with unit sales of smartphones down 31% in the last quarter.The fall in sales of handsets running Nokia's Symbian operating system, which the company is phasing out in favour of Microsoft's Windows Phone software, has come harder and faster than the company originally anticipated.But investors took heart from chief executive Stephen Elop's forecast that the company would reverse a €954m loss in the fourth quarter of 2011 to reach break-even during the first quarter of 2012, and shares rose in morning trading.Sales of Nokia's Windows handsets, launched under the Lumia brand last October, have reached "well over 1 million", the company confirmed. But revenues were down 9% for the full year, to €39m, and 21% year on year for the final three months of 2011. Fourth quarter performance has slumped from an €884m profit in 2010 to a loss of €954m in the same period of 2011.Elop said that Nokia had progressed in the right direction, but added "we are in the heart of our transition".The Lumia phones, which Elop said had established a "beach-head" for Nokia in the smartphone market, are now on sale in Europe, Hong Kong, India, Russia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. They have also just come out in the United States, and a version capable of running on America's 4G superfast broadband networks has now launched."In the war of ecosystems, clearly there are some strong contenders already on the field," said Elop. "And with Lumia, we have demonstrated we belong on the field."Income from phones is falling faster than the volume of handsets sold, and Nokia confirmed that competition, which is coming primarily from cheaper Android handsets, had forced it to slash prices. The average price of a smartphone fell from €154 in the fourth quarter of 2010 to €140 in 2011, and basic phones dropped from €42 to €32.Elop warned his company would sell fewer Symbian devices than previously anticipated, blaming "an acceleration of the anticipated trend towards lower-priced smartphones with specifications that are different from Symbian's traditional strengths".He said Nokia's operating margin in the first quarter of 2012 would be around break-even, give or take 2%, and scrapped annual guidance targets, saying 2012 would be a year of transition, and that the macroeconomic climate made predictions difficult.Revenue from sales of Nokia smart devices fell 27% during 2011 to €10.8bn, although they rose 25% from the third quarter to the fourth quarter. The company sold 19.6m smartphones in the Christmas quarter, up 2.8m on the third quarter. Mobile phone volumes were flat at 93.9m in the Christmas quarter."Overall, Nokia seems to be tiding over its difficult transition period between Symbian and Windows Phone without too much of downside," said analyst Janardan Menon at broker Liberum. "We are optimistic about the longer term success of Nokia's Windows-based Lumia range."Nokia has cash reserves of €5.6bn, down from nearly €7bn last year, but its balance sheet improved during the fourth quarter by €515m, thanks in large part to a $250m support payment from Microsoft intended to help market the Windows phones.
Resident Evil has worked its magic on emerging formats before, so Nintendo must be hoping for another scene-stealing performance as the 3DS approaches its difficult first birthday.And, after some disappointing recent outings, Revelations does mark a welcome return to form – going back to the franchise's survival horror roots by eschewing OTT set pieces for confined spaces, limited ammo and never turning spurning an opportunity to jangle nerves. Graphically, Revelations immediately leaps out as one of the best-looking 3DS games to date, not least because it looks so impressive with the 3D turned full up.Admittedly, you lose some of the sharpness of the 2D detail but you gain a convincing sense of perspective that manages to bring the series bang up to date without sacrificing any of its cherished retro appeal.Set somewhere after RE4 and RE5, Revelations kicks off with Jill Valentine being dropped into an apparently abandoned cruise ship, the Queen Zenobia.Naturally, the place is crawling with the mutations that have largely replaced zombies as the game's key peril (it's OK, they come in many shapes and some still shuffle). As far as atmospheric central locations go, the Zenobia is right up there with the original Racoon City Mansion, constantly surprising you with the natural and unnatural hazards it reveals.Just when you think you've sussed the layout or threat of an episode, perhaps relying on the excellent audio that lets you to pinpoint the proximity or direction of many threats, Capcom hits you with a set piece or boss battle designed purely to test your reactions.In terms of gameplay, RE staples are out in force; some welcome (your trusty flashlight has never worked better) some not – collecting herbs feels as silly as the original typewriter ribbons, particularly now you have technology such as the portable Genesis scanner to detect hidden items and samples and synthesise health vaccines.There are a couple of other niggles too, albeit more about the hardware than the ways Capcom have compensated for it. You can choose from three different controller layouts, and it's also one of the first titles to be fully compatible with the Circle Pad Pro – Nintendo's cumbersome new controller that adds two more shoulder buttons and another pad.Either way, Revelations remains as resolutely rock hard to play as ever, with an emphasis on slow forward motion that makes the 3DS's spongy analogue pad feel all the more frustrating. Although you can perform about-turns, with all doors guaranteed to slam behind you, it's still too easy to back yourself into a corner – particularly when using FPS perspective to aim and fire.However, the most obvious break with RE tradition comes with Revelations' dual-screen layout. Yes, putting action on the top and mini-maps and menus on the bottom works fine as a UI, but for me Survival Horror relies on keeping your eyes glued to just one screen and the more reasons you have to look away, the less immerse the overall experience feels. It may be a purely subjective thing, but it's the one aspect of the game that struck me most during play.This is not to detract from overall experience, including the masterful way Revelations builds atmosphere and sucks you in to an absorbing, episodic storyline. It may be crammed with cheesy acting and unnecessary new characters, but the production values are superb, the twists largely unexpected and the tension unwavering, helped supported by an excellent soundtrack not fully appreciated without headphones.And once you've progressed through a few levels, you unlock Raid mode which allows you and a buddy (either local or online) to roam through a selection of single player levels and even tougher monsters, racking up points, upgrades and bonuses for kills. Although no substitute for a co-op version of the full campaign, it's still a highly addictive blast.So while Revelations may not quite make you salivate for a whole new console, Resident Evil and 3DS fans will be jumping all over it like zombies.With the PlayStation Vita looming, that's got to be welcome news for Nintendo.• Game reviewed on 3DS
Interested in offbeat, exciting game design? Want to find out what it takes to write an indie hit and get it published worldwide? Fancy playing some of the best new games from the UK indie scene? Oh and while you're at it, you'll get hands-on time with the PlayStation Vita and the latest instalment in Capcom's legendary survival horror series, Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City.Yes, onFebruary 11, from 4-7pm, Gamesblog and Bafta are holding our first everIndie Gaming Socialevent at the British Academy's headquarters in Piccadilly. It's free to attend, and you'll get to meet a range of indie developers, as well as play their games and catch a panel session on indie game design, and where gaming is going in 2012. New indepedent games siteIndieCitywill also be there to show off its range of excellent indie titles.And there will be refreshments, kindly provided by Capcom.Here's who'll be there:Mode 7:The creators of the critically acclaimed real-time strategy hitFrozen Synapse.Size Five Games:Founder Dan Marshall has designed hilarious adventures like Ben There Done That and Time Gentlemen Please and last year won a Children's Bafta for his sex education game, Privates.HoneySlug:Creators of PlayStation Vita minigame collection, Frobisher Says, and forthcoming action adventure,Hohokum.Wild Rumpus:An indie event organiser, who'll be bringing along theIGF award-nominated physical gaming sensationJohann Sebastian Joust.Omni Labs:Folkestone-based media production company famed for the gorgeous PlayStation Network puzzler,Eufloria.Spilt-Milk Studios:Indie gadabout Andrew Smith will be here showing off his addictive Snake-style puzzle hit, Hard Lines.Mike Bithell:The veteran designer will be showing his geometric friendship-based platformer,Thomas Was Alone.Stephen Lavelle:Lavelle's highly respected abstract puzzler English Country Tune, is a finalist in the 'Excellence In Design' category at the Independent Games Festival awards.Alistair Aitcheson:Up and coming iOS developer, whose debut titleGreedy Bankers vs The Worldhas earned considerable critical praise.During the afternoon, you'll get hands-on time with all of these titles, as well as chance to chat to the developers. For start-up indie studios and prospective game designers this represents a unique opportunity to meet some of the country's most successful independent developers. And to play Resident Evil.Also, we'll have:CapcomThe publisher will be providing a bank of demo pods, playingResi Evil: Operation Raccoon City, the latest in its long-running survival horror series. Set in 1998, the game returns us to the beginnings of the T-virus outbreak, with players able to select from six Umbrella Security Soldiers who are caught in the crossfire between the naughty corporation and Resident Evil 2 stars Leon S Kennedy and Claire Redfield.SonyWe'll have severalPlayStation Vitasto check out running a selection of the console's launch titles. Launching in the UK on 22 February, Vita is Sony's daring new entry into the handheld gaming market, complete with innovative touch controls, dual analogue sticks and a host of connectivity features. Check out our video previewhere.IndieCityA new site, designed to provide indie developers with an intuitive way to show off and sell their titles. Planned as a sort of indie answer to Amazon, it provides regular purchasers with gaming recommendations, based on previous purchases. The team will be bringing a PC packed with the latest titles on the site.How do I attend?Simply head over toBafta's sign-up pageand enter your details (you can also find out more about Bafta'spublic events and online resources, which cover video games, movies and TV). Entry will be strictly limited so register your details right now to avoid disappointment![Elements of the line-up may change without notice]
A selection of 13 new apps for you today:Baseball Superstars 2012South Korean publisher Gamevil knows its baseball, having notched up more than 30m downloads of its previous Baseball Superstars games. The latest version takes the series freemium, as you manage and play as a team, while earning skill points and special moves. Online multiplayer is also included.iPhone / iPadShakespeare In Bits: Hamlet iPad EditionHamlet is the latest play to get the Shakespeare In Bits treatment from Mindconnex Learning. That means the unabridged text accompanied by an animated version of the play, an audio soundtrack, and a host of study notes and character biographies. A separate iPhone version is also available.iPhone / iPadGeordie Shore Tweet TrackerYouareall watching Geordie Shore, right? MTV's UK reality show is returning with a second series at the end of January, and there's inevitably an app for that. This one provides tweets from the cast members – complete with a high-score table to see who has the most followers – and behind-the-scenes videos.iPhone / iPadNamco ArcadeNamco Bandai is aiming to bring the coin-op arcade mentality to iOS in its new take on freemium gaming. What that means is a collection of old Namco games – Xevious, The Tower of Druaga, Motos and Phozon – in a compilation app that gives one free play a day, then gets players to buy "Play Coins" if they want more action.iPhone / iPadCliqzCliqz is the latest news aggregation app, launching on iOS and Android. It aims to build "a real-time stream of the best news, stories, and videos based on your interests", learning from your preferences over time to become more relevant.Android / iPhone / iPadSupaSupaCrossIndie studio SupaSupaGames has released its first iOS and Android title, a top-down racer offering plenty of retro thrills.Android / iPhone / iPadPGA Tour HDThe PGA Tour has launched an official iPad app, promising live tournament coverage – including video – leaderboards updated in real-time, player stats, course layouts, and social features.iPadNursery RhymesUK studio ustwo has ported its iOS children's book-app Nursery Rhymes to the BlackBerry PlayBook, offering Humpty Dumpty, Twinkle Twinkle, Three Blind Mice and other characters, with sumptuous illustrations and interactivity.BlackBerry PlayBookGLWG: All Out WarAndroid's Great Little War Game franchise has a new episode, offering two new campaigns. The 3D turn-based strategy game promises the chance to "Invade your neighbours, spread mayhem and destruction, drink a little tea..."AndroidSam &amp; Max Beyond Time and Space Ep 1Classic adventure-game characters Sam &amp; Max return to the App Store in Telltale Games' latest game, which sees the violent rabbit'n'dog duo facing "hairy, bloated, pagan God" Santa Claus.iPhone / iPadViggleAnother day, another social TV app. Viggle is US-only for now, and comes armed with a clear pitch: "Watch TV. Get Rewards." Specifically, it wants people to check in to TV shows Foursquare-style and earn reward points to be spent in Best Buy, Burger King, Old Navy and other retailers.iPhonePaper MonstersCrescent Moon Games' Paper Monsters looks a lovely game, blending side-scrolling platform gameplay with lush 3D levels constructed from (virtual) paper and cardboard.iPhone / iPadJustin.tv HDLivestreaming video service Justin.tv has a new iPad app to help people find their way through its 3,000+ live channels. The app includes chat features, and supports Apple's AirPlay technology to stream them to a bigger TV screen.iPad
More than 62m people played games on their mobile phones in September 2011 across the UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain, according to data shared by comScore at the Mobile Games Forum conference in London.That represents more than 25% of all mobile users in those "EU5" countries. Meanwhile, nearly 13m played mobile games almost every day that month. "There's a frequency of repeat usage that's encouraging," said comScore's vice president of mobile Jeremy Copp as he revealed the figures.The most popular gaming platform in these countries? Apple's iPhone. Specifically, more than 3.4m people played games on an iPhone 4 16GB model in September 2011 according to comScore's research – extrapolated from its surveys across the EU5 countries.It was followed in comScore's gaming handset chart by the iPhone 3GS 16GB model (1.5m) and the iPhone 4 32GB (1.3m). RIM's BlackBerry Curve 8520 also had 1.3m mobile gamers in September.Copp added that 36m people were playing games on smartphones in the EU5 markets in September, with 15% having made in-game purchases of virtual items, currency and upgrades.The comScore data set the scene for a day of optimism at the conference about the mobile games market. There was a clear sense that iOS and Android remain the two platforms of choice for most developers at the event – a change from the same conference a year ago, where Android had yet to become a priority."We need to follow the big markets, and at the moment that's iOS and Android," said Oli Christie, chief executive of British publisher Neon Play, which has just celebrated its 30 millionth mobile game download across those two stores.However, Christie said Android is still posing some headaches for developers, citing Neon Play's game Traffic Panic as an example. "We launched Traffic Panic 3D as a paid app on Android, and we got 98% piracy," he said, before labelling it as an essential yet problematic platform."It's going to be absolutely massive, it has to be. We're big into Android, we love it, but we're struggling with it."Processor firm Nvidia's vice president of mobile content Neil Trevett was notably bullish about Android in his presentation at the event."Apple is fabulously successful and I'm sure will continue to be so, but I do think Android will, over time, really dominate the mobile market," he said. "I think it's going to be a repeat of the PC/Mac market, with 80% Android and 20% iOS."Trevett's talk also focused on the potential for developers to create "console-class" games for smartphones and tablets with the latest processors from Nvidia and its rivals. He also suggested that even games like Angry Birds, which do not rely on console-quality graphics for their appeal, will benefit."I've talked to Rovio, and there's going to be versions… I should be careful," said Trevett, seemingly almost letting slip news of new Angry Birds games with beefed-up visuals."Angry Birds can do a lot more," he continued. "Once you give them the power, they can start doing particle effects in the volcanoes… They can use a 3D physics engine… Even the classic 2D title like Angry Birds with the right imagination will be able to take advantage of the processing power."A later panel session focused on tablets specifically, with Electronic Arts' director of worldwide OEM Peter Parmenter pointing out that Android tablets could break new ground for games in countries where console penetration is low or non-existent.Parmenter said that the launch of sub-$50 tablets in India and Africa could see them becoming the primary gaming devices for families in these countries, bypassing consoles and desktop or laptop computers. "The tablet could be the connectivity device that they have," he said.He accepted that this may force a strategic shift in the business models for games launched by companies like EA in these markets, citing sub-Saharan Africa as a prime example."We have a very mobile young sport-crazy audience there who are hungry for entertainment products in general, and you also have huge brands wanting to get in front of these customers, where the only way to do that is through these devices. So we'd encourage a partnership mentality with those big brands."There was surprisingly little nitty-gritty discussion of freemium business models for mobile games during the conference's first day, despite this being one of the key debates within the industry at the moment.However, publisher NaturalMotion's chief executive Torsten Reil finished the day with some lessons learned from his company's switch from paid games to freemium titles on iOS.NaturalMotion has now racked up more than 16m downloads for its games, with 8m of those coming from its first freemium game, My Horse, since its launch in September 2011. He said that adaptability is a key attribute for mobile games firms to prosper at the moment."We needed to do the things that were scalable and would create lots of games with a huge number of users. That's why we switched to free-to-play," he said."To a lot of questions right now, we just don't know though. You have to try it out and if it doesn't work you have to change it very quickly."But Reil returned to the question of how much potential there is for these games on Android. "Our paid games are already on Android, and they monetise at a significantly lower level than they do on iOS," he said, although NaturalMotion is keeping a close eye on Android to gauge when to take My Horse to Google's platform."Android is going to grow, but iOS is a huge opportunity, and if you make that opportunity work other incremental opportunities will appear on top of that."
Google specifically gave permission for Motorola Mobility (MMI) to file a new lawsuit against Apple over its iPhone 4S and iCloud products, according to an analysis of the takeover agreement in which the search giant aims to buy the struggling mobile maker.The move marks a heightening of tensions between Google and Apple, where the Cupertino company is fighting a war by proxy against the use in the Android mobile operating system of a number of user interface elements that it sees as closely copied from the iOS software.In September last yearGoogle sold nine patents to Android handset company HTCwhich could be used to pursue infringement claims against Apple.Now the new MMI lawsuit has ratcheted up the struggle between the companies.The lawsuit, filed in the Southern District of Florida, seeks an injunction for infringement of six US patents held by MMI which include "a receiver having [a] concealed external antenna" and "apparatus for controlling utilisation of software added to a portable communication device".Thelegal agreement signed between Google and Motorola, which sets out the terms under which the search giant is buying the handset maker for $12.5bn (£7.8bn), contains a clause – 5.01(j) – saying MMI cannot instigate new lawsuits over intellectual property without the agreement in writing of "the parent" – that is, Google.The independent patents analyst Florian Müller was first topoint out on his blogthe legal constraints on MMI which would require Google's permission to start the case.A Google spokesman declined to comment, adding that the company and Motorola are still operating separately.Müller notes that:Google must have authorised this action because this complaint formally represents a new lawsuit (since it wastoo late to inject supplemental infringement contentions into the first Florida action) and section 5.01(j) of the Google-Motorola merger agreement does not allow MMI to "assert any intellectual property right in any new action" without Google's consent (either under the agreement or in a separate document, which is what presumably happened in this case).He thinks that the trajectory of the relationship between Apple and Google suggests that "a direct legal clash appears to be inevitable".The smartphone platform wars, which are increasingly being fought out with patents, have been intensifying since early 2010. Google's Android has been the target of a number of patent claims, notably from Apple and Microsoft, with handset makers using Android being targeted by both companies claiming infringement of their intellectual property.Microsoft has extracted licensing agreements from a number of companies, recently claiming that 70% of Android handsets sold in the US are covered by agreements it has sewn up.Apple has taken a different approach, seeking the blocking from sale of handsets and tablets by HTC and Samsung, among others.Google grew so concerned about perceived deficits in the patent portfolio around Android that last summer it bid for a set ofpatents being auctioned off from the bankruptcy of the Canadian communications company Nortel. Afterrejecting an approach from Microsoft to bid jointly, and instead teaming with Intel, it lost to a consortium including Apple, Microsoft and BlackBerry maker RIM.Google thencomplainedthat there was "a hostile, organised campaign against Android by Microsoft, Oracle, Apple and other companies, waged through bogus patents." David Drummond, author of the blogpost, said "We're also looking at other ways to reduce the anti-competitive threats against Android by strengthening our own patent portfolio. Unless we act, consumers could face rising costs for Android devices — and fewer choices for their next phone."Within weeks, it had approached Motorola Mobility and made a bid – subsequently raised by 40% – to acquire the handset company along with its portfolio of patents. The merger is not yet complete, but the agreement is in force.
A quick burst of 5 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFeatured: You shouldn't care that the iPhone was made by 13 year old Chinese kids for $0.70 an hour &gt;&gt; Android HeadlinesNote the URL of the site saying this.Because of their long lines on release days, rabid fan base and huge stacks of cash, Apple has the largest target on it's chest for this type of expose. But Foxconn doesn't exist solely to produce electronics for Apple. All of the largest Android OEM's also contract Foxconn to produce their devices in factories in China, Brazil, Mexico, Poland and the Czech Republic.HTC, Samsung, LG, Motorola, ASUS, Acer, Lenovo and others contract Foxconn to manufacture products for them in the same complex where iPhones are made. Their devices are made by the same over worked, underpaid, underage workers, yet none are mentioned in the Business Insider article. None. Not one. Not even Samsung, the sometimes largest smartphone vendor in the world. Just Apple.We've heard the idea of a "FairTrade for electronics" suggested. It seems like a really good idea.DuckDuckGo sets new traffic record, but stats show how dominant Google and others are &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandComScore says there were 18.2 billion explicit core searches in the U.S. in December. Some quick math indicates, then, that DuckDuckGo's query volume is about 0.00004 of overall search activity -- or about one in every 25,000 searches.So again, props to DuckDuckGo on the new records and for even showing query data to the public at all. (Wouldn't it be great if Google and Bing did the same?) But wow ... still such a long, long way to go.DuckDuckGo is, indeed, a pretty good search engine (which doesn't gather any user data). Oddly, we can't get Chrome to make it our default search engine.27,000 Google Chromebooks headed to U.S. schools | Deep Tech - CNET News"This is the right device for student learning," said Bryan Weinert, technology coordinator for the Leyden Community High School District in Illinois. "We plan to deploy 3,500 to students next year. Every single student will be issued a Chromebook they can use at school and at home."The Chromebooks will replace Netbooks, he said. "We were looking for a device that can be invisible. We want teachers to focus on instruction," not technical support, waiting for laptops to boot, or making sure they're charged, he said.Oh, yeah, Chromebooks. They were going to destroy Microsoft's business once upon a time.HP to Commit webOS to Open Source by Fall 2012HP today began executing its plan to deliver an open webOS by committing to a schedule for making the platform's source code available under an open source license.The company aims to complete this milestone in its entirety by September.Released under the Apache 2.0 licence. It's also open-sourcing Enyo, the developer tool that lets you develop for multiple platforms, straight away. By September, though, the whole landscape will likely look different. Will there be room for webOS then?Focus on the User for Safari &gt;&gt; Florian EckerstorferThis Safari Extension is based on the bookmarklet by focusontheuser.org. It is just a wrapper for their code and the original developers receive all credit.The video by Focus on the User explains pretty much everything. The only difference between the bookmarklet and my Safari extension is that you don't have to activate it.Intriguing to follow the download statistics at Github.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Thursday is here! What are you lot up to today?
Somewhat unexpectedly, the dinky 3DS, best known for the star-chasing sunshine adventures of plumbing enthusiast Mario, turns out to also be a natural home forResident Evil's dank flesh pools and cannibal mutations.Revelationsisn't interested in making concessions to the platform's cheery image either. This is a staunchly traditionalResititle, built on the same foundations of tension, scarcity and hungrily grunting zombies erupting from inventive hiding places that have been the series' mainstays since the beginning. The action centres on a grand luxury cruiser, a haunted house of the seas, recalling the mansion from the firstEvilepisode. More specifically the set-up here is modelled onResident Evils 4and5, with a creeping over-the-shoulder perspective that locks into a stop-and-fire shooting mechanic every time your laser-sighted gun is drawn.In a world of dual-sticked manoeuvrability this is, frankly, an archaic way of navigating a game, making it awkward to aim and move at the same time.Revelationsis compatible with the Circle Pad Pro – a clunky peripheral that clips to the side of the 3DS and offers full turn-and-strafe functionality – but then the tight-cornered hysteria inspired by the likes ofResiandSilent Hillhas always been heightened by the knowledge that they steer like a fat-geared tractor. It's part of the effect, the fumbled panic.And, back to the surprising suitability of the 3DS: the clumsiness is balanced here by the smart use of the second screen and touch controls. Suddenly the nervous need to check the map every two minutes and the desperate mash of buttons to reload or swap weapons is smoothed over with a tap or two, meaning there's more space for reluctant shuffling around corners and less accidentally speed-eating three green herbs while scrambling for your shotgun.It also means that, somewhat unpredictably, giant-tongued zombies now offer a compelling reason to own a 3DS, and that bioterrorism has found a snuggly new home.
Soaring demand for smartphones and tablet computers has increased the number of mobile broadband users worldwide to nearly one billion, helping Ericsson, the largest telecoms equipment supplier, to return to growth aftera two-year slumpwith a 12% rise in annual sales.But the company was fighting to reassure investors today that its recovery was not a flash in the pan. In a stark indication of the depth of corporate fear over an imminent global recession, Ericsson's income suffered a sudden collapse in the last three months of the year.With smartphones accounting for 30% of all handsets sold in 2011, the number of mobile broadband subscriptions leapt from 610m in 2010 to 970m in 2011. Ericsson forecasts there will be 1.4bn internet-connected mobile devices by late 2012.Racing to keep up with the demand for data, mobile operators ploughed money into their networks at the start of 2010, helping Ericsson to its first year of net sales growth since 2008. Excluding exchange rates and on a like-for-like basis, full-year sales were up 19%, to 227bn kronor (£21bn).Nonetheless, Ericsson missed forecasts for both annual and quarterly sales, plus profit margins, sending the share price down more than 13% by mid-afternoon. The damage was inflicted by its networks division, which resells equipment. Revenues here fell 9%in the fourth quarter compared with the same period last year.North America was down 27% quarter on quarter, as investment in 4G tailed off and two of Ericsson's biggest clients, AT&amp;T and T-Mobile, froze spending during their ultimately unsuccessful merger bid.Hans Vestberg, chief executive, said: "We have gone from saying we could not exclude [that] our customers would be more cautious to saying that we expect them to be more cautious. But the underlying factors in the industry remain positive. New mobile subscriptions, more mobile broadband users, more smartphones, that is continuing." Over the year, sales at the networks division rose 17% to Skr132bn as the US introduced 4G super-fast mobile broadband and China and Russia invested heavily in its slower predecessor technology, 3G mobile internet.Ericsson's global services consulting and outsourcing arm helped balance the picture by increasing annual sales by 5%, with a final-quarter growth spurt of 18% year on year as European operators began planning their 4G modernisations and 23 new outsourcing contracts were signed."We have not had that type of growth for many years," said Vestberg, referring to the group's total revenues. "It was the year mobile broadband impacted.".As mobile continues to penetrate emerging markets, with an estimated 6bn subscribers worldwide, up from 5.3bn in 2010, Ericsson has reversed two years of decline, during which revenues dipped from Skr209 in 2008 to Skr203bn in 2010.The eurozone crisis and slower progress on building mobile broadband networks saw western and central Europe region sales, which include the UK and Germany, decline 4%during 2011.Net income rose 12% to Skr12.6bn, including the impact of a Skr3.8bn loss from two joint ventures: the Sony Ericsson handset business and semiconductor group ST-Ericsson.Profits were squeezed by heavy investment in new contracts, which helped Ericsson raise its market share in North America. Gross margin fell from 38% to 35% and fell to 30% in the fourth quarter.With iPhone sales smashing forecasts by reaching 37m in the run-up to Christmas, the demand for faster networks is set to increase this year despite economic uncertainty. Ericsson estimates 7% of subscribers worldwide now own a smartphone, while ownership in the UK has already breached the 50% mark.Janardan Menon, an analyst at the broker Liberum, said: "While there are clearly no near-term catalysts for Ericsson over the next few quarters, we do expect operators to resume spending before the end of this year in a neutral macro-economic environment.""Sales of data hungry devices continue to grow rapidly as seen in Apple's strong sales of iPhones in Q4 '11. While Ericsson is taking quite a bit of short-term margin pain from European modernisation projects, this will eventually enable it to defend its European market share."The news of spending curbs by mobile operators sent shares in Alcatel-Lucent, France's largest telecoms equipment supplier, down more than 8%.* This article was amended on 26 January, to correct a reference to "mobile users" in the first paragraph.
The UK saw the biggest jump in smartphone usage during the first 10 months of 2011 out of any of the "big five" developed countries, rising from 30% to 45% by October, according to new statistics from market researchers Ipsos Mori.It also found that smartphone users are roughly 50% more likely than the average person to own a tablet across the US, UK, France, Germany and Japan.The study, commissioned by Google, found that by last October, smartphone usage was 38% in the US and France, 23% in Germany and 17% in Japan. Those had risen by 7, 11, 5 and 11 percentage points respectively.Thestudy(PDF) found that by October tablet usage among consumers in the US had reached 11%, as netbook usage slipped from 10% to 8%. In the UK, tablet usage grew from 4% to 6%, against 8% for netbooks.E-readers grew in use in the US from 9% in January to 10% in October, and in the UK from 3% to 5%. In France, Germany and Japan they were at 1% or 2% and remained there.Smartphone owners keep on using their laptops or desktop machines daily, with no statistically significant difference in usage. Reflecting general use, more people have laptops than desktops.The notable difference is in takeup of tablets. In the US it is 11% in the general population, but 17% among smartphone owners. In the UK the figures were 6% and 10%; in France 5%  and 8%; in Germany 6% and 8%; and in Japan 6% and 11%.Smartphone users tended to make daily use of their devices for internet access, which was highest in Japan (88%), and then the US (69%), followed by the UK (54%), Germany (49%) and France (36%). The usage is close, in percentage terms, to that of PCs. The survey did not ask about regularity of usage of tablets.The survey was carried out by calling a representative sample of 2,000 users in each country via telephone calls to fixed and mobile numbers.
At the end of a Hollywood blockbuster, when the vanquished villain declares that he should have won and that we haven't seen the last of him, we all know what it means: the sequel is coming.So, Hollywood's top lobbyist, former Senator Chris Dodd, followed a familiar script last week after sweeping online protests derailed the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa) and Protect IP Act (Pipa), a pair of legislative proposals backed by movie and music distributors.Dodd snarled that his opponentshad misled the public and vowed to continue pressing for new laws to combat unauthorized copying of intellectual property. Coming soon to a congressional hearing room near you, it's Sopa II: Revenge of the Content Industries.While the US Senate and House of Representatives deferred immediate action on the bills, few doubt that Congress will debatesome form of legislation aimed at overseas web sites engaged in intellectual property (IP) infringement, probably later this year.Even Dodd's enemies acknowledge that these sites pose a problem, thoughmany question industry estimates about its scope.Those of us who opposed the excesses of Sopa and Pipa need to prepare for the next round.Sponsors have already abandoned the bills' most objectionable feature, which interfered with the domain name addressing system in an attempt to cut off access to "pirate" sites – a measurecritics charged would "break the internet". At a minimum, Congress must address three other problems as well.First and foremost, Sopa II needs to take due process seriously. My students spend their first week of law school learning that subjects of a legal action are entitled to notice of the claims against them and an opportunity to be heard. The law's departures from these principles are rare, brief and strictly regulated. Limitations on speech require even greater care; a near prohibition on "prior restraints" against publication has become a cornerstone of first amendment doctrine.Sopa and Pipa blithely discarded these fundamental doctrines. They would allow a court to penalize supposedly "pirate" web sites without giving affected parties any advance notice, much less an opportunity to present their side of the story.We have already seen how inadequate procedures in existing lawallow sweeping and erroneous enforcement actions in the name of protecting intellectual property.Under one alternative bill, theOnline Protection &amp; Enforcement of Digital Trade Act (or Open Act), the International Trade Commission (ITC) would hold adversarial proceedings before designating a "rogue" site and issuing orders that would cut off its access to US-based advertisement and payment processing. Whether it's the ITC, a court or another institution, somebody needs to consider all arguments carefully rather than rushing to judgment.Second, the standards for judging infringement must be clear and must be consistent with existing intellectual property law. Just compare the muddy language describing the prohibitions in Sopa with the Open Act's requirement that a site's activities are "primarily" and "willfully" infringing intellectual property. Moreover, Sopa II needs to incorporate existing defenses to infringement accusations,such as copyright fair use and trademark doctrinespermitting resale of legitimate branded merchandise.Finally, these bills cannot shift IP owners' duty to safeguard their own rights onto innocent bystanders like Google, eBay or Facebook. Open online forums enable millions of daily communications from ordinary people. Intermediaries cannot examine every post searching for links to pirates. That's whyfederal law exempts them from liabilityfor nearly everything their users post independently – even fraud or defamation. IP already gets special treatment, because intermediaries must remove infringing materialif rightsholders complain.Sopa and Pipa went further, requiring intermediaries to scrutinize all user-generated content lest it even link to a "rogue" site. That's like telling the farmboy he doesn't need to find all the needles in the haystack, only the silver ones. The burden to identify problems must remain on the owners who benefit from their IP rights, not on intermediaries uninvolved in the infringement.With these principles in mind, the sequel to Sopa could have an even happier ending, with the internet rescuedandthe pirates defeated. But I'm betting on some more plot twists.
Mobile operator O2 has admitted that it regularly hands over subscribers' phone numbers to sites that offer age-restricted material and premium-rate billing, whether the users realise it or not.The admission followed the revelation late on Tuesday that the company had since 10 January inadvertently been providing user phone numbers to any sites that its millions of users browse from their phones using the 3G network. That would mean site owners could find the details in their server logs, and potentially use them for marketing or SMS campaigns without the user's consent.O2 is the UK's second-biggest mobile network with about 27.2m subscribers, and another 2.8m using its network through Tesco Mobile, plus an unknown number on the GiffGaff SIM-only network. With smartphone penetration at around 50% that could mean that up to 15m people have been affected by the data leakage.The Information Commissioner's Office said it is considering whether to investigate further; a spokesman said it was not immediately obvious whether there had been a privacy breach. [See footnote]. A mobile phone number on its own is not classed as "personally identifying information" (PII), because it does not identify an individual on its own; but the spokesman said the office would consider whether other personal data was being processed at the same time.An ICO spokesperson said: "Keeping people's personal information secure is a fundamental principle that sits at the heart of the Data Protection Act and the privacy and electronic communications regulations. When people visit a website via their mobile phone they would not expect their number to be made available to that website. We will now speak to O2 to remind them of their data breach notification obligations, and to better understand what has happened, before we decide how to proceed."O2admitted in a blogpostthat the widespread leaking of phone numbers had been going on since a maintenance update on 10 January, and was only fixed after a London-based programmer on the network pointed it out. The security hole was fixed by 2pm on Wednesday, the company said.The privacy breach could open phone users up to reverse-charge SMS spams which could cost them huge amounts in bills when their number is used for scams.But O2 has also revealed that it regularly reveals users' phone numbers to a number of sites offering age-restricted material and premium content billing – an admission that has puzzled observers."It looks like I don't get to make the decision about whether to share my phone number with those sites," said Graham Cluley, security consultant with the online security firm Sophos. "I don't see why. If I'm on a site and they need to know my phone number before I can proceed, why can't I decide whether I let them see my number? If I don't agree, they can stop me proceeding."O2 did not respond to requests for clarification on its policy. The Guardian could not find any clauses in itsweb and WAP policyor itsgeneral terms and conditionsthat suggest it shares subscribers' mobile numbers.A spokesman for the Information Commissioner's Office said it was not immediately obvious whether there had been a privacy breach. [See footnote] A mobile phone number on its own is not classed as "personally identifying information" (PII), because it does not identify an individual on its own; but the office would consider whether other personal data was being processed at the same time.Cluley warned: "there will be a lot of sites out there which will now realise that their logs for the past two weeks contain all sorts of juicy details. Some unscrupulous marketing people might scour them for mobile phone numbers that they can use for campaigns." He said that he has a phone himself on a different network which he only uses for surfing – and that he has received text spam on it despite not entering the phone number anywhere. "That's got me wondering whether this process is somehow behind it," he said.A number of O2 users who contacted the Guardian confirmed earlier on Wednesday that their phone number was being transmitted and offered links to screenshots of the data.The phone number is handed over as part of the "header" data sent by the phone to the web site, which usually contains information such as which browser the phone has so that the site can serve an appropriately formatted page, because mobile phones have smaller screens than desktop or laptop computers.Headers often contain other information about the device contacting the site – and in O2's case it has also included the phone number.However users of BlackBerry phones said that their numbers were not handed over – possibly because RIM, which makes the BlackBerry, uses its own encryption and forwarding system to connect to websites.The discovery was made by Lewis Peckover, a London-based programmer who says he discovered the flaw on Tuesday lunchtime while working on a method of identifying whether users were accessing a site via their mobile.The number forwarding only appears to happen on O2 and its associated virtual networks such as GiffGaff. Users of other networks confirmed to the Guardian that the number forwarding does not happen on Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile or 3's network. Peckoverhas created a web pagespecifically to let people check if their number is forwarded.• This article was amended on 26 January 2012. The original reported a spokesman for the Information Commissioner's Office as saying there was no immediate breach of the Data Protection Act in the 02 case. This has been clarified in the text. For the avoidance of confusion, the ICO adds that only after investigating in more detail can it decide whether there has been a breach.
He lived a life dominated by fast cars, holidays on $10m super-yachts and an obsession with shoot 'em up computer games. But on Wednesday associates of Kim Dotcom, the former hacker wanted by the FBI over download sites allegedly costing copyright holders at least $500m (£320m), claimed his cartoon-like image was carefully calculated to help earn him a fortune. In fact, they said, it obscured a sharp and decisive business intelligence.Dotcom, the 38-year-old German founder of Megaupload.com formerly known as Kim Schmitz, was on Wednesday refused bail by a New Zealand judge who warned he may try to flee the country if he were released from jail pending an extradition hearing on 22 February concerning online piracy charges in the US.Citing the discovery of unlicensed and illegal guns at Dotcom's rented mansion north of Auckland, where he was arrested with three others on Saturday, David McNaughton said "flight risk remains a real and significant possibility, which I cannot discount".Dotcom appeared at North Shore district court wearing an all-black outfit. Speaking afterwards his lawyer, Paul Davison, said he was "very disappointed" and that Dotcom "has no intention whatsoever of endeavouring to leave New Zealand". He said his client would appeal against the decision.Public fascination with the Megaupload case has been fuelled this week by details of Dotcom's flamboyant lifestyle, conducted under a variety of aliases, including Kimble, King Kimble and Kim Tim Jim Vestor.In 2001, for example, he embarked on a lavish trip to Monaco involving a fleet of supercars, a huge yacht and helicopters. Dotcom also commissioned a documentary for the occasion, which was fronted by a riotous shockhaired German TV comedian, Frank Lämmermann. The real purpose, a former associate who organised the holiday told the Guardian, was to create a sense of greater wealth than Dotcom actually had while he was raising finance for new businesses."The parties were in part advertising and PR," said the associate, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "He wanted to show how he was the biggest and greatest and how he had money. Back in 2000 he didn't have as much money as he showed the world he did."The filmKimble Does Monacoshows his entourage on board the Golden Odyssey with bikini-clad women, including Playboy model Gitta Saxx. In one scene a group of semi-naked women is sprayed with champagne by the yacht's pool while "Captain Kim" looks on, decked out in black suit and polo neck and black and white shoes. In another scene he is serenaded by his cronies around a grand piano, before they decamp to watch the Monte Carlo grand prix from a party room directly above the starting grid.The flamboyance and cult of personality masked not only his intelligence, but also his background and true personality, the associate said."I was close to him, but I never really know what he was thinking about. Sometimes he was a really nice guy and at other times he was awful. But he was really good at bringing people around him and getting them to do their best for him. He was able to talk to them and motivate them to do what he wanted."He never talked about his childhood, though I believe he had no contact with his father. He was a bit like the fat boy with no friends who only had his computer."Indeed, even as the FBI was finalising a charge sheet over Christmas, accusing him of racketeering and money&nbsp;laundering in one of the largest criminal copyright cases ever brought by the US, Dotcom posteda video of himselfbecoming the world's leading player of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, a computer game which he spent dozens of hours playing. His colleagues marked the achievement of the best "kill to death ratio" by whooping and firing confetti over him and preparing a celebratory cake in the shape of a number 1.Another former business colleague, again speaking anonymously, said Dotcom was "a very smart guy, very clever, very quick on the uptake, very driven, very pedantic". While he was trustworthy – "within reason" – he at times showed symptoms of "anger issues", and too often "thought money could fix everything", she said. "He likes playing God."Dotcom grew up in Kiel, near Hamburg. Having started as a hacker, he then helped firms with IT security. By 2000 he had founded a venture capital firm, Kimvestor, began to make his fortune and became a fixture on Munich's party scene. As the dotcom bubble burst in early 2001, he bought shares in a struggling website and promised to invest more before cashing-in as the share price rose. Then things went wrong. He was arrested in Thailand in January 2002 and spent five months in jail before being convicted in Munich of insider trading. He was sentenced to 20 months' probation and fined €100,000.He recently said he had come to regret flaunting his wealth, and defended his conduct during the dotcom high. "My mistake was that I embraced the media and gave them the stories they wanted," he wrote on the website Torrent Freak in December. "Let's just put this into the category 'young and stupid'. I was giving them a glimpse into my exclusive lifestyle. For this openness I was turned into the scapegoat when the German new economy bubble popped in 2000."I was convicted for insider trading (actually saving a company and over 120 jobs) and got a probation sentence because the judge and prosecutor offered a deal to my lawyers. My criminal record has been cleared under Germany's clean slate legislation. Officially I can say I am without convictions. I made mistakes when I was young and I paid the price. I am 37 years old now, I am married, I have three adorable children with two more on the way (twin girls – yeah) and I know that I am not a bad person. I have grown and I have learned."Neighbours close to Dotcom's rented 12-hectare property near Auckland have confirmed he had adopted a relatively low profile before his arrest. "We see him driving around, but he keeps to himself and we're quite close neighbours," said Libbi Darroch, as she groomed her 7-year-old showjumper Muffy at the Coatesville pony club. "I've seen him driving around with his 'GUILTY' number plate."But regardless of this lower profile, the FBI indictment of Dotcom and four others calls for the forfeiture of cash worth £175m and listed 57 bank accounts in Australia, Slovakia, the Philippines, the Netherlands, Singapore, China, Germany and New Zealand. The list of assets included 15 Mercedes cars with number plates including STONED, MAFIA and POLICE, as well as Maserati, a Rolls-Royce Phantom with the number plate GOD, and a Lamborghini, along with 60 computer servers and various sculptures and artworks.The indictment also alleges that between April and June last year, Dotcom's companies paid almost $8m to rent yachts in the Mediterranean.Meanwhile in the Netherlands, the prosecutor's office said Dutch police had arrested a fifth suspect in the alleged conspiracy, identified in the US as Andrus Nomm, a 32-year-old Estonian. He has been detained for 60 days pending an extradition request.
THQ has produced some nicely ominous teasers for its forthcoming Darksiders sequel, and here is the latest. In 'Death Eternal'. a montage of battle scenes and famous paintings is used to introduce the new lead charachter, Death, whose story runs alongside War's adventures in the original title.We're expecting some more hacking and slashing, with a modified version of the first game's excellent weapons and character customisation system, lots of apocalyptic scenery and plenty of gigantic monster battles. For now, we can enjoy Death cropping up, Zelig-like, in works by Paul Nash, Francis Bacon and others.Darksiders II is released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 this summer.
Facebook has suspended trading in its shares on the private secondary market for the rest of this week, raising speculation that the social networking site may be preparing to file a prospectus for its much-anticipated flotation on the stock market.The company's lawyers said investors could continue to arrange orders to buy and sell the shares, but the orders will not be officially processed until next week.Facebook and its lawyers, Fenwick &amp; West, did not explain the reason for the suspension. But Facebook has previously suspended trading to allow it to compile a list of shareholders.Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of PrivCo, an analyst firm that provides research on private companies, said businesses usually suspend trading ahead of a filing for an initial public offering (IPO) so that no one can buy or sell shares until all the information about the company is fully public. "Facebook and companies who do this don't want to expose themselves to lawsuits related to the fact that some people had it before others and were able to trade on it," he toldBloomberg. "The best way to protect yourself is to have no one able to trade."Facebook is reportedly planning to make its stock market debut in the second half of May. That timetable would mean Facebook would need to file documents for review by the US regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), within the next month.Facebook is hoping to offer 10% of its equity and raise $10bn in the world's biggest technology company float, valuing the whole company at about $100bn. British financial public relations specialist Brunswick Group is understood to have been appointed to manage the listing.Facebook's shares recently traded at $34 a share on SharesPost, an organisation that allows Facebook employees and others to sell their shares to institutional investors, which would value the social network currently at $80bn.Facebook declined to comment.
People using their mobile phone on O2's mobile networks in the UK to browse websites have been inadvertently handing over their phone number to the website owner.The privacy breach means that site owners could be collecting the phone numbers of visitors which could then be used for telephone and SMS marketing without the phone owner's consent. That in turn could open up phone users to reverse-charge SMS spams, which could cost them huge amounts in bills if their number is used for scams. O2 has now closed the loophole.TheInformation Commissioner's Officesaid it is considering whether to investigate further; a spokesman said it was not immediately obvious whether there had been a breach of theData Protection Act. [See footnote] A mobile phone number on its own is not classed as "personally identifying information" (PII), because it does not identify an individual on its own; but the spokesman said the office would consider whether other personal data was being processed at the same time.An ICO spokesperson said: "Keeping people's personal information secure is a fundamental principle that sits at the heart of the Data Protection Act and the privacy and electronic communications regulations. When people visit a website via their mobile phone they would not expect their number to be made available to that website. We will now speak to O2 to remind them of their data breach notification obligations, and to better understand what has happened, before we decide how to proceed."It is unclear how long the flaw has existed. O2 said it is investigating what is occurring and why the number is being forwarded, which was confirmed by a number of people who contacted the Guardian and offered links to screenshots of the data.The phone number is handed over as part of the "header" data sent by the phone to the website, which usually contains information such as which browser the phone has so that the site can serve an appropriately formatted page – mobile phones have smaller screens than desktop or laptop computers.Headers often contain other information about the device contacting the site – in O2's case it has included the phone number.Users of BlackBerry phones, however, said their numbers were not handed over – possibly because RIM, which makes the BlackBerry, uses its own encryption and forwarding system to connect to websites.The discovery was made by Lewis Peckover, a London-based programmer who says he discovered the flaw on Tuesday lunchtime while working on a method of identifying whether users were accessing a site via their mobile.The number forwarding appears only to happen on O2 and its associated virtual networks such as GiffGaff. Users of other networks confirmed to the Guardian that the number forwarding does not happen on Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile or 3's network. Peckover created a webpage,http://lew.io/headers.php, specifically to let people check if their number is forwarded.O2 is the UK's second-biggest mobile network, with about 22.2 million subscribers, behind the combination of Orange and T-Mobile, which has 27.5m. There are another 2.8 million subscribers on Tesco's network, which uses O2's system, and an unknown number on GiffGaff, its sim-only network where users provide their own mobile devices.• This article was amended on 26 January 2012. The original reported a spokesman for the Information Commissioner's Office as saying there was no immediate breach of the Data Protection Act in the 02 case. This has been clarified in the text. For the avoidance of confusion, the ICO adds that only after investigating in more detail can it decide whether there has been a breach.
The file-sharing multimillionaire, Kim Dotcom, is facing a further four weeks in custody after a judge in in New Zealand denied him bail.Judge David McNaughton ruled that the 38-year old German founder of Megaupload.com could try to flee the country if he were released from jail pending an extradition hearing on 22 February in connection with charges in the US of facilitating millions of illegal downloads of films, music and other content, costing copyright holders at least $500m (£320m) in lost revenue."With sufficient determination and financial resources, flight risk remains a real and significant possibility, which I cannot discount, and bail is declined," the judge said.The discovery of unlicensed and illegal guns at Dotcom's rented mansion north of Auckland when he was arrested with three others on Saturday could make it more likely that Dotcom would try to escape to Germany, where he would be safe from extradition, the judge said.Dotcom's lawyer, Paul Davison, said he was "very disappointed", and would appeal against the decision immediately."The judge has agreed with much of what we have submitted but he has taken a different view on the issue of flight risk," Davison said.Dotcom's legal team repeated that he denies the charges, adding he was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, and receiving treatment for a slipped disc.In the Netherlands, the prosecutor's office said Dutch police last Friday arrested a fifth suspect, identified in the US as Andrus Nomm, 32, a citizen of Estonia and a resident of both Turkey and Estonia. He has been detained for 60 days pending an extradition request.Megaupload.com became the 13th most-visited site on the internet, according to the FBI indictment, attracting more than 180 million registered users. Premium subscribers to the site, which allowed unhindered downloading of films, TV and music that had been uploaded by others, delivered an income of $150m while adverts delivered a further $25m.The indictment puts it: "Since at least September 2005, Megaupload.com has been used by the defendants and other members and associates  … to willfully reproduce and distribute many millions of infringing copies of copyrighted works, including motion pictures, television programmes, musical recordings, electronic books, images, video games and other computer software."It names films, including parts of the Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings franchises, among those whose copyright were infringed.Dotcom's neighbours and business associates have been describing the business approach of a man once fêted in Germany as a leading light of the internet business boom.One former business associate, speaking under condition of anonymity, told the Guardian Dotcom was "a very smart guy, very clever, very quick on the uptake, very driven, very pedantic".While he was trustworthy – "within reason", she said – Dotcom at times showed symptoms of "anger issues" and too often "thought money could fix everything". "He likes playing God," she added.On Tuesday the Guardian revealed the contents of an emailDotcom sent to neighbours in 2010 joking about his reputation as a hacker with a criminal past and a party-loving hedonist.He joked: "My close personal relations with other (far worse) criminals can help you whenever you have to deal with a nasty Neighbor". He signed off: "If you feel like it come over for coffee sometimes. And don't forget to bring the cocaine (joke). All the best, Kim."Late last year, Dotcom claimed he had turned over a new leaf."I made mistakes when I was young and I paid the price," he wrote on a website about file-sharing. "I am 37 years old now, I am married, I have three adorable children with two more on the way (twin girls – yeah) and I know that I am not a bad person. I have grown and I have learned."
A selection of 19 apps for you today:Take Me Out FlirtingITV's TV dating show Take Me Out has an app for iPhone and Android, which is encouraging viewers to chat to the contestants, and also to one another. So, besides being promotional for the show, it's effectively a mobile dating service in its own right.iPhone / AndroidMPmeTuneIn Radio has been hugely popular as a way to listen to radio on mobiles and tablets, but now it's got some competition in the form of startup MPme. Initially available as an iPad app, it uses your music library and social graph to recommend streaming radio stations that you might like.iPadMet Office Weather ApplicationThe UK's Met Office has taken its official app to Android, offering five-day forecasts, weather warnings and maps, UV forecasts and "feels like temperature" figures. It was developed by Mubaloo.AndroidI Am a Child: Just Like YouA fantastic idea for an app: this interactive book aims to show what life is like for children with Asperger's syndrome, written by author Travis Breeding as a way to help people "explore life through the eyes of a child with Asperger's".iPhone / iPadOfficial RBS 6 Nations Championship AppAs the 6 Nations rugby tournament prepares to get underway, Accenture has launched an official iPhone app, promising news, stats and video highlights throughout the tournament.iPhoneAnd to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry StreetOceanhouse Media's latest Dr. Seuss book-app is here, based on the good doctor's first ever book for children. The manuscript was apparently rejected by 27 publishing companies back in the day. Thankfully, Apple was more obliging.Android / iPhone / iPadMobile Threat TrackerWorried about malware and spyware? Make yourself even more paranoid by following outbreaks on a map of the world, courtesy of Lookout Labs' new Android app. It focuses specifically on mobile threats.AndroidLWR Personal TrainerDennis Publishing has teamed up with personal trainer Lucy Wyndham-Reed for this fitness app, which promises to build a 28-day workout and healthy eating plan for each user.iPhone / AndroidDream ZooZynga has ported its Dream Zoo mobile social game to Android in a beta version, getting players to breed animals and build a zoo for them to live in.AndroidAbsolut TruthsVodka brand Absolut has been making headlines with its use of augmented reality technology in a new branded app. Point your camera at one of the tags – they come on the bottles – and find out more about how Absolut is made.iPhone / iPadDolphin: Skitch Add-onThis add-on for Android web browser Dolphin ties in to Skitch, which is Evernote's app for taking screen captures, annotating them and then sharing with friends. It's one of a number of add-ons for Dolphin.AndroidOAP YourselfSeeing how manky you'll look as a pensioner if you keep smoking? There's an app for that. Creative agency Iris made the app for anti-smoking charity QUIT: it digitally alters your photo to show the likely effects.iPhoneBiography – A Journey With History's Most Influential PeopleThe biography book-app is based on "people who changed the world", from scientists and philosophers through to religious leaders, artists and politicians. More than 70 biographies are accompanied by photos.iPadNotebox – Dropbox Audio PlayerNotebox is the latest iPhone app designed to play music stored in a Dropbox cloud account. In fact, it downloads the music to the iPhone to avoid repeated data charges from streaming.iPhoneViz Profanisaurus DailyDennis Publishing has reconfigured its Viz Profanisaurus app into a free version for Android, offering 365 sweary definitions – one for every day of the year. It joins the existing paid app.AndroidArtSpotterLocation-based art-finding app ArtSpotter came out for iPhone in late 2011, but has now made the leap to Android. Find galleries, exhibitions and street art near you, and submit your own suggestions.AndroidFuel SchoolFuel School is an iPhone app that aims to help drivers reduce their fuel bills, analysing their driving style using GPS data, then providing tips.iPhoneThe Lighthouse HDShips, fog, monsters and line-drawing: those are the key ingredients for The Lighthouse HD, an iPad game from Kavcom that involves guiding ships to safety.iPadWunderlistCloud-based task manager Wunderlist has a firm following on other platforms, and now it's available on BlackBerry too, syncing with the apps on Windows, Mac, iOS, Android and the Wunderlist website.BlackBerry
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTim Cook on first four months at Apple &gt;&gt; AllThingsDCook is not discounting Windows Phone:"I wouldn't say it is a two-horse race," he said. "There's a horse in Redmond that always suits up and always runs."Apple reports first-quarter earnings &gt;&gt; AppleBlink and you'd miss it.[Apple] sold 37.04 million iPhones in the quarter, representing 128 percent unit growth over the year-ago quarter. Apple sold 15.43 million iPads during the quarter, a 111 percent unit increase over the year-ago quarter. The Company sold 5.2 million Macs during the quarter, a 26 percent unit increase over the year-ago quarter. Apple sold 15.4 million iPods, a 21 percent unit decline from the year-ago quarterGoogle's New Terms Of Service &amp; Privacy Policy: Anything You Do May Be Used To Target You? &gt;&gt; Marketing LandDanny Sullivan has an essential reader on Google's contentious new plans. Simple, you say?Western Digital hard drive prices rose 47% after Thai floods &gt;&gt; The VergeWestern Digital's earnings report for Q1 2012 attaches some hard numbers to the impact. Although prices rose 47% to $69 per unit over last year, WD sold 23.7m fewer hard drives, a 45% drop. Some of that price jump can be attributed to increased manufacturing costs, but most of it went to towards profit with a gross margin increase to 32.5% over last year's 19.2%. Overall, WD reported $199m in expenses related to the floods and $2bn in total revenue, down about half a billion dollars from last year. The company says its factories in Thailand should be back to pre-flood capacities by September 2012...Solid state drives are looking like a better deal all the time. Seen our comparative reviews?Amazon Fire takes Android, leaves Google Apps &gt;&gt; BloombergAccording to Flurry Inc., a software company that tracks usage of apps, the average smartphone owner uses a mobile app -- for example, seeking a restaurant by clicking on the OpenTable Inc. icon on a phone, instead of using a browser to access the website -- 94 minutes a day, compared to 72 minutes accessing websites via a browser. A year ago, time was almost equally split."This may be small potatoes now, but increasingly it's going to be way search gets conducted," Sena said.If mobile app usage becomes dominant in that way, it changes the whole tenor of search.GEMA hits back at Grooveshark's reasons for pulling out of Germany"Contrary to its statements, the provider Grooveshark did not discontinue its services in Germany due to disproportionately high operating expenses,"says GEMA in a statement."The fact is, as a service provider Grooveshark fundamentally refuses to pay compensation in any shape or form at all for the service. As of this writing, Grooveshark has also not contacted GEMA in any way."The statement goes on to refer to the lawsuits against Grooveshark from Universal Music Group, Warner Music Group and EMI, as well as Apple and Google's decisions to remove its native iPhone and Android apps from their respective stores.Wow - getting pulled by Apple is nothing special, but pulled byGoogle?Grooveshark is starting to look like the digital equivalent of something on the bottom of businesses' shoes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Wednesday already! Today I'll be visiting Aardman Digital, the gaming dept at the legendary Bristol-based animation company.
Google is under fire for plans to collect data on individual users across all of its websites and merge the information into a single profile that can be used to alter the person's search results and target them with advertising and services.The move is being criticised by privacy advocates and could attract greater scrutiny from anti-trust regulators. The company insists that users will be able to opt out of being tracked across the board. Users will be able to do so by using "private" or "incognito" setting in their browser when the search company unifies its privacy policy and terms of service for all its online offerings, including search, Gmail and Google+."If you're signed in, we may combine information you've provided from one service with information from other services," Google's director of privacy, product and engineering, Alma Whitten, wrote in a blogpost.After the new policy comes into effect, user information from most Google products – such as YouTube, Gmail, Google Maps, Google+ and Android mobile – will be treated as a single trove of data, which the company could use for targeted advertising or other revenue-raising purposes.An article in the Washington Post raised concerns about details of people's private meetings, health, politics and finances becoming part of their digital dossier kept by Google. Confidential discussions via Gmail of a meeting location might be transferred to Google Maps without the user's consent, for example."There is no way anyone expected this," Jeffrey Chester, executive director of privacy advocacy group the Centre for Digital Democracy,told the Washington Post. "There is no way a user can comprehend the implication of Google collecting across platforms for information about your health, political opinions and financial concerns."[see update]Google said it expected to roll out the revised guidelines on 1 March, consolidating more than 70 privacy policies covering all of its products.Right now, users of Google products have to agree to a new set of privacy policy and terms of services almost every time they sign up for a new service. They are able to opt out of certain services like Google+ or Picasa."In short, we'll treat you as a single user across all our products, which will mean a simpler, more intuitive Google experience."The announcement comes a few days after Google's decision to personalise its search feature drew criticism over privacy and anti-trust issues.Twitter, Facebook and Myspace havelaunched a tool called Don't Be Evil– which is Google's motto – that claims to neutralise any attempt by the search engine to skew results towards its Google+ service.Online privacy has come under scrutiny from anti-trust regulators as a handful of web corporations have been accused of compromising user privacy to attract advertisers.In 2011 Facebook settled with the American Fair Trade Commission, agreeing to be regulated for a period of 20 years whenever it decided to change its privacy policy.In 2010 the FTC settled charges with Twitter after the agency alleged the social networking service had failed to safeguard users' personal information.US regulators are reportedly looking into whether Google manipulates its search results to favour its own products and have expanded the investigation to include Google+.• This update was added on 25 January 2012. A Google spokesman said: "There are a variety of ways people can use our services without information being tracked. Users can use search anonymously or in a logged out state. We support people logging in with multiple accounts simultaneously--so you can separate your information into multiple accounts. Google also offers data liberation - a way for you to take your data out of some or all of Google services. Moreover, Google offers the Ads preferences manager for people to control what ads they see."Google's new privacy policy states that, as was the case before:'When showing you tailored ads, we will not associate a cookie or anonymous identifier with sensitive categories, such as those based on race, religion, sexual orientation or health'. "
Record sales of iPhones and iPads resulted in record profits at Apple in the final quarter of 2011, the first since the death of its co-founder, Steve Jobs.Apple more than doubled its profits: to $13.06bn (£8.35bn), compared with $6bn for the same quarter in 2010. The result easily beat analysts' forecasts, taking pressure off the chief executive, Tim Cook, handpicked by Jobs as his successor. Last October Apple shares recorded their biggest single-day dollar drop after iPhone sales missed their forecast.Cook said he was thrilled the company sold a record 37.04m iPhones in the final quarter of 2011, a 128% rise on a year ago. "We could have sold more if we'd had more supply," he said. The recently launched iPhone 4S proved to be the company's best seller in the quarter. "We could not be happier," said Cook.In record sales across nearly all product categories, Apple sold a record 15.43m iPads over the quarter, more than double a year ago. It sold 5.2m Macs during the quarter, a 26% unit increase.Only sales of iPods fell, down 21% year on year to 15.4m; however, Apple has enjoyed higher average selling prices as consumers buy more  of the iPod Touch.Cook told analysts that tablets would prove to be a huge market; they had already surpassed sales of desktop PCs in the US. He was dismissive of competition in the tablet market,  including Amazon's far cheaper, if less powerful, Kindle Fire. "I don't think limited function tablets are in the same category," he said. "Last year was supposed to the year of the tablet; and I think that most people will agree it was the year of the iPad, for the second year in a row."I think it's remarkable that we've shifted 55m iPads ,and we've only been in the market since April 2010."Competition is intensifying however. Apple this week lost a court battle to have Samsung tablets banned in the Netherlands. The two firms have been locked in legal battles in almost a dozen countries over smartphones and tablets.The company said its iTunes store generated $1.7bn in revenue; the 361 Apple stores also had a record run. The chief financial officer, Peter Oppenheimer, said the stores made an average $17.1m in the last quarter, up from $12m a year ago, More than 110m people visited an Apple store over the quarter, and the average store attracted 22,000 visitors per week.Cook said: "Apple's momentum is incredibly strong, and we have some amazing new products in the pipeline."Revenue jumped 73% to $46.3bn, exceeding analysts' forecasts. For the current quarter, Apple projected revenue of $32.5bn with earnings per share of $8.50, noting the quarter has 13 weeks. Analysts had forecast revenue of $32bn with earnings per share of $8.02, according to consensus forecasts.Last week Apple launched iBooks 2 for the iPad, a software and online store aimed at shaking up the textbook market by offering interactive books for students. According to Jobs' biographer, Walter Isaacson, the Apple founder spent the final years of his life looking at the textbook market. Oppenheimer said that more than 600,000 copies of its textbook authoring app has been downloaded.Analysts pushed Apple's executives on the $90bn cash pile that the company has amassed. Oppenheimer declined to comment on any specific plan but said the company was discussing what to do . "We are not going to let the money burn a hole in our pocket," he said. "What we focus on is making the best product," said Cook. "We just want to stay ahead."Cook was made chief executive in August last year when Jobs resigned through ill-health. He has been with Apple since 1998 and filled in for Jobs for two months in 2004, when Jobs was recuperating from cancer surgery.
The man's hand is twisted into a claw, crushed, he says by a metal press at the Foxconn factory in Shenzhen, where Apple's luxury electronics are assembled. He is looking at an iPad – he has never seen one switched on. His mangled hand strokes the screen, bringing it to life.Back at the factory, where the buildings are swathed in nets after 12 workers committed suicides in a single year, a young girl emerges from the gates. Her job is to clean the iPhone screens before they are packaged. She says she is 13.These are a few of the many shattering images in performer Mike Daisey's account of his 2010 visit to China. After hearing about the Foxconn suicides, he determined to meet members of Apple's largest subcontracted workforce.What he discovered ultimately led to the firm's announcement this month that it would throw open its factories to independent auditing by the Fair Labor Association (FLA). A non-profit group founded in 1999 after sweatshop scandals, it already audits Nike, Adidas and H&amp;M. Apple is its first tech industry member."In high tech to date there hasn't been anything like external independent assessment, which is what makes Apple's decision such big news," says FLA president Auret van Heerden.Apple has been auditing itself since 2007. Working hours are a major issue. In China, 12 and 16 hour shifts are common. In 2008, 82% of factories violated Apple's limits – a 60 hour week with no less than one day off. By 2011, the number was 68%. In 2008, half violated wages codes by deducting salary as a disciplinary measure, or not providing pay slips. The figure was 30% last year.Apple has ordered retribution. Factories discovered employing children must return the youngsters to their families, fund their education and continue to pay their factory wage too. Employers have been made to reimburse wage deductions and settle unpaid overtime.But six active and 13 historical cases of underage labour were discovered at five factories last year. Mandatory pregnancy tests were imposed at 24 Apple facilities.When Daisey visited, he found worker dormitories where people slept in bunks stacked five or six high, so closely there was no room to sit. There were cameras in the rooms, in the corridors.He found workers whose hands shook uncontrollably by their late 20s because of repeating the same motions at the same production line post, year after year.The FLA visited China at Apple's request on a test project in 2010, following the Foxconn suicides. Van Heerden describes what he found: "The whole campus has got excellent facilities. The problem is that [it] still doesn't touch the human being inside. You are at a work station all day – you can't talk to anyone else."Then you go back to your dorm and you might not know anyone there either, they might not even speak the same dialect. You are in a situation where you might go days without anything resembling human contact."He seems to suggest that in China at least, the problem is less about basic human rights and more about HR.Foxconn has much to learn about human resources, judging by a recent comment from the chair of its parent company, Hon Hai Precision Industry. Terry Gou told an end of year party, at which the director of Tapei Zoo was asked to share his management techniques: "Hon Hai has a workforce of over one million and as human being are also animals, to manage one million animals gives me a headache".Managing its supply chain will for now remain one of Apple's biggest headaches.
Apple reported record revenue in its first quarter since the death of Steve Jobs, as iPhone sales continued to soar.For the three months to December 31, Apple reported net income of $13.06bn compared to net income of $6bn for the same period the previous year.The company sold 37.04m iPhones in the quarter, a 128% rise on the same period a year ago. It sold 15.43m iPads during the quarter, a 111% unit increase, and 5.2m Macs, a 26% unit increase over last time.Sales of iPods fell 21% year on year, Apple sold 15.4m in the last quarter of the year."We're thrilled with our outstanding results and record-breaking sales of iPhones, iPads and Macs," said Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive officer. "Apple's momentum is incredibly strong, and we have some amazing new products in the pipeline."Revenue jumped 73% to $46.3bn, exceeding analysts' forecasts. For the current quarter, Apple projected revenue of $32.5bn with earnings per share of $8.50, adding that the quarter includes 13 weeks. Analysts consensus forecasts had been for revenue of $32bn with earnings per share of $8.02.
Smartphones are becoming pervasive: more than half the UK population has a phone that can browse the internet and run apps, and nearly half of US mobile users do too. It's a market that's bigger in number, and almost certainly worth more in revenues, than the PC market that we've been so familiar with for the past couple of decades.Yet smartphone brands can rise and fall in the commercial blink of an eye. Five years ago, Apple hadn't sold a single smartphone, and Microsoft and BlackBerry-maker Research in Motion doubted that the iPhone could work. Finland's Nokia dominated the (tiny) market with its Symbian platform. Barely anyone outside Google had ever heard of "Android", a company started by ex-Apple staffer Andy Rubin and bought in 2005 by Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin – who made the deal without telling their chief  executive Eric Schmidt.Now all that has changed. The iPhone has redefined smartphone design and interaction; Microsoft and Nokia have pensioned off the mobile software they then used (Windows Mobile and Symbian) to form an alliance of Nokia's hardware and Microsoft's software as they struggle for profitability (Nokia) and market share (both). RIM has seen profits peak and decline – leading it this week to boot out its two hapless co-chief executives and founders, Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie.Android, meanwhile, drives  all before it, operating more than  50% of smartphones sold today, and a growing amount of those in use.Horace Dediu, an ex-Nokia analyst who follows the smartphone market, has a theory that any smartphone company that falls into loss – even once – can never recover. As evidence he cites a long list – Alcatel, Siemens, BenQ, Ericsson, Sony, Motorola, Casio, NEC, Hitachi, Fujitsu, Toshiba, Palm and Handspring, none of which has recovered its former position (and some of which don't exist any more). "Profitability is the canary in the coalmine," he warns. "A loss maker is seen as a maker of damaged goods." Since he wrote that last June, Nokia has joined the list – and questions linger over whether glory days lie ahead or behind.The next internet battleground for Google, Microsoft and Apple is expected to be online TV. Samsung, Philips, Sharp and a number of Chinese companies were showing off "smart" TV at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas early in January – using Android, but not Google's "approved" version. Apple, meanwhile, is widely expected to have some sort of smart TV offering later this year.So how can one handicap the  runners and riders? Here's your guide to the phone in your pocket, and what may happen to it.RIMBest brainwave:devising both  encrypted email and free device-to-device communications (BlackBerry Messenger) in the past decade.Worst decision:aping Apple's iPad (having failed to ape the iPhone) and ordering 2m of them. After a year, has shipped about half of them, had to write off $485m in the unsold ones, and spent $1bn promoting them.Biggest strength:commercial customers who rely on BBM and encrypted email; teenagers who love the free BBM service.Biggest weakness:cracks have shown up in the system that keeps BBM and email running: last October there was a days-long outage which hurt business.What does the future hold? Unless new CEO Thorsten Heins creates a radical shakeup, a decline into invisibility or purchase by someone looking for a new corporate customer base – Microsoft maybe?Rising or falling?Falling, and with no bottom in sight.AppleBest brainwave:making the iPhone a completely touchscreen-based device, with a really good web browser, that could also run apps. Each has been key to the iPhone's growing success: despite being expensive (relatively) it has attracted a growing market in the US and China. European buyers tend to prefer less expensive Android phones.Worst decision:according to financial analyst Richard Windsor of Nomura Securities, Apple should have released two phones in 2011: a new high-end one, and a new midrange one. With that, he thinks, it would have cleaned up. Instead Android took over.Biggest strength:internally, its focus on design and quality, allied to a huge cash pile for hiring factories and  marketing; externally, continually loyal buyers.Biggest weakness:all the eggs are in in the iPhone basket, where there's only a single new model per year (so far). That hasn't served it badly – it makes more profit than any other smartphone maker – but if a new design misses, it could be left hanging.What does the future hold?Either huge success in China, or a gradual  erosion of its world share as people defect to Android (and perhaps Windows Phone) devices.Rising or falling?Finely poised.  Christmas sales will have been  gigantic, but now it has to keep that momentum going into economic headwinds around the world, while  Android phones keep getting cheaper.GoogleBest brainwave:making Android free for mobile handset makers, and tying Google services into it – a far simpler model than Microsoft's "pay per handset" version.Worst decision:putting Android into the market without getting adequate patent cover. Microsoft and Apple are pursuing handset makers such as HTC, Samsung, Motorola and LG through the courts, sometimes successfully; Google has very little to offer for a fightback, so it is buying Motorola for $12.5bn solely for its mobile patents to ward rivals off.Biggest strength:the number of handset companies using Android, officially and not, which point back to Google search and YouTube, from which it makes its money.Biggest weakness:lack of patent cover; unclear path to actually make money from Android. So far it's mostly been expense.What does the future hold?Further growth, especially in China – though handset makers there aren't using  "official" Android, so Google doesn't benefit. But it does keep out rivals.Rising or falling?Still rising.MicrosoftBest brainwave:tearing up Windows Mobile in favour of Windows Phone  in 2008. Windows Mobile was a  20th-century product.Worst decision:thinking that touchscreen interaction wouldn't be the important way of interacting with smartphones.Biggest strength:skills of its  engineers, and its huge cash pile  for marketing.Biggest weakness:tarnished brand in smartphones due to Windows Mobile, and some people's dislike of using  Windows on PCs.What does the future hold?Nokia is a strong partner which could make a comeback in the US, and Microsoft is a very determined company: expect more business sales in the coming couple of years, and more consumer promotions such as free Xboxes with handset sales.Rising or falling?Rising – because it can't fall any lower than it has.SamsungBest brainwave:deciding to focus on Android rather than its own Bada  mobile OS.Worst decision:getting too close to Apple's designs for its phones and  tablets. It has a huge design department that produces innovative  designs in other fields; in phones, it seems content to mimic Apple's.Biggest strength:vertical integration – it's the world's largest semiconductor maker, and makes the screens used in mobile phones, so it can get the very best prices on everything, and get it first, and make it very cheaply.Biggest weakness:brand name isn't as strong in the west as in its Korean homeland, so it can't rely on buyers in the way that Apple can.What does the future hold?Samsung now sells about half of all "official" Android phones, and the signs are that is going to increase. In theory, it should be telling Google how to run it, and even dictating terms. But it's probably content with the profits.Rising or falling?Rising.NokiaBest brainwave:sacking Olli-Pekka  Kallasvuo in September 2010 and  replacing him with Stephen Elop.Worst decision:ignoring the iPhone and its touchscreen capabilities:  executives were convinced Symbian could do it better.Biggest strength:enormous flexibility and agility in manufacturing: first Windows Phones were developed in less than a year. Most handset makers would struggle with twice that time. "Survival is in our DNA," one of its press officers once said.Biggest weakness:perception that it is "yesterday's brand", having defined  the mobile phone business in the  20th century and dominated it from 2000 to 2009.What does the future hold?As it has tied itself to Microsoft for the  smartphone business, and that's  where all phones are headed, they fly or flop together. As it's Nokia, a flop is unlikely. But there's a lot of competition from Chinese low-cost handset companies making cheap Android phones.Rising or falling?Rising, after bumping along for a couple of quarters. But its finances may still be rocky for a while to come.Digital Wars by Charles Arthur is published by KoganPage on 3 March, price £14.99.
January 2007Steve Jobs, chief executive of Apple,unveils the iPhone, which he says is "a revolutionary and magical product that is literally five years ahead of any other mobile phone". Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer calls it "the most expensive phone in the world".April 2007Technology research company Gartner says that in the first three months of 2007 Microsoft's Windows Mobile had an 18% share of the smartphone  market (then totalling 17m handsets).November 2007Google announces it will offer the Android mobile operating systemfor free. Anyone can use it and change it. By default it uses Google services for search, email and video.Asked if there will be a Google phone, head of Android, Andy Rubin, replies: "There will be thousands of Google phones – some you like, some you don't."Microsoft's Ballmer says "We'll have to see what Google does. Right now they have a press release, we have many, many millions of customers, great software, many hardware devices, and they're welcome in our world!"October 2008Appleannounces it sold 4.7m iPhonesin the summer quarter, giving it nearly 13% of the smartphone  market. Research in Motion  had 15%.November 2008First Android phone, the G1, launches. It has a slide-out  keyboard and limited touchscreen capability.December 2008Microsoft decides to kill off Windows Mobile because it can't compete with the iPhone and Android, and develop Windows Phone – a completely new mobile operating system.Autumn 2009RIM has a 20% share of the smartphone market from July-September, says Gartner. Second only to Nokia's Symbian, which has 44%.January 2010Applelaunches the iPad, a 10in tablet.February 2010Android phones with full touchscreen interaction like the iPhone's appear.March 2010Steve Jobs meets Google chief executive Eric Schmidtand threatens him over what he sees as copying of iPhone features in Android.Apple sues Taiwan's HTC over its touchscreen Android phone.April 2010Google's Android gained just under 10% of the market in the first three months of 2010, says Gartner.September 2010Samsung launches Galaxy Tab, a 7in tablet.Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo resigns as CEO of Nokia. He is replaced by Stephen Elop, who joins from Microsoft's Office division.October 2010Microsoft's first phones running  Windows Phone. Sales are low. Mike Lazaridis, RIM's co-chief executive, shows off the Playbook, a 7in tablet.January 2011Researchers Gartner and IDC announce that smartphones outsold PCs worldwide in the last three months of 2010 – 100m as against 93m.February 2011Elop announces that Nokia will use  Microsoft's Windows Phone software for future smartphones in a stage  presentation alongside Ballmer.April 2011Apple becomes the largest smartphone vendor by numbers and revenue,  selling 18.6m iPhones, just ahead of Samsung's 17.5m, in the year's first quarter. Android becomes the best-selling smartphone platform, with a 36.6% share, ahead of Symbian's 27%. Apple sues Samsung in the US over the appearance of the Galaxy Tab tablet, and follows it up with a string of legal cases around the world claiming infringement of patents and "trade dress". All are ongoing.June 2011Apple and Nokia sign a patent licensing agreement following a four-year dispute. Apple hands over €430m in a settlement and agrees a per-handset royalty for the future.Microsoft begins demanding payments from makers of Android handsets, claiming patent infringement. Samsung and HTC agree  per-handset payments.July 2011Android takes 43% of the  smartphone market in the  second quarter of the year, says Gartner.October 2011Samsung becomes the largest smartphone vendor, according to estimates. The company has stopped giving smartphone shipment numbers over concerns about Apple's lawsuits.Nokiaunveils the Lumia 800, its first Windows Phone device.Apple announces it has sold 11.1m iPads, giving it an estimated 60% share of the entire market.November 2011Android had more than 50% of the smartphone market in the third  quarter of 2011, says Gartner.December 2011RIM takes a $485m charge against an estimated 1.2m unsold Playbooks  sitting in its warehouses.January 2012Microsoft gets LG to pay undisclosed per-handset royalties. Microsoft says it now has such agreements for 70% of Android handsets sold in the US.January 2012Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis resign as co-CEOs and co-chairmen of RIM. Replaced by Thorsten Heins and Barbara Stymiest, who have been with the company for some years.
On this week's Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski is joined by Observer columnist and professor of public engagement with technology at Cambridge University John Naughton and Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur.The trio talk about the fallout of three of the biggest stories to rock the technology ocean this week. Making waves are the reshuffle at RIM - what happened in the last year that's seen this market leader take a dramatic tumble and cost the chief executives their jobs? What's the next for SOPA, now that the US Congress has shelved the current wording of the copyright bills, and what, asks John, does this say about our new concepts of ownership in a digital world? And is it the end of an era, now that film giant Kodak has filed for bankruptcy protection? John takes the long view, reminding us that it wasn't so long ago we thought Xerox was infallible. Charles suggests ways to future-proof your big idea so it sticks around into the next century.Charles also reports back from the Finnish version of Tech City, and test-drives some of the services and gadgets the startups there are hoping will be big hitters. From server technology to in-ear LED lights that tackle seasonal affective disorder – is there a method to the madness of the Finnish technology space?Finally, we hear more on John's latest book, From Gutenberg to Zuckerberg: What You Really Need To Know About The Internet.All this, plus chatter, gossip and laughs on Tech Weekly from the Guardian.
With all the noise about how last year'sfloods in Thailand have wrecked the hard drive industry, andIntel's latest efforts on ultrabooks(laptops which are obliged, by its requirements, to have some sort of solid-state disk, aka SSD, storage) it's time to really think about getting flash storage for your laptop: it will truly give it a whole new lease of life.Even better, if you upgrade to a faster machine, you can (given a little determination) generally take the disk from your old machine and get it transplanted into the new one.The difference that an SSD makes – especially to your startup time, if you have to boot your machine often – is dramatic. Startup processes that usually take a minute or so will take a few seconds, because SSDs are terrific at reading data (though less good at writing, because of the characteristics of flash memory).I tested four SSDs against the benchmarks for two hard drives (a Maxtor from an iMac and a Toshiba from a laptop). For testing the SSDs, I used the same machine (a 2008 MacBook) with SSDs which were all updated to the same status – 256GB capacity, 90% full. I ranXBenchagainst the four drives to calibrate them.This was done (as XBench advises) with no other user processes running, although it's worth noting that in real life you won't get performance like this if you do have many processes running, because programs such as browsers tend to swallow virtual memory, which means lots of paging in and out from your hard drive (try also to have more room spare than me). The Samsung SSD830, by the way, is rumoured to be the product that Apple will be using in the next generation of its MacBook Air laptops.Here then are the results. If you want to understand more about sequential v random read and write, and why you have different sized blocks, there's auseful Wikipedia page; the brief version is that sequential read and write is more like you do in everyday life, especially when transferring a large file to or from storage, while random read and write are tougher tests of how good the hard drive heads – or the SSD controller – are at finding memory locations.SSD Xbench sequential and random read/write comparisons.Because some of that might not be clear, here are the results boiled down to show the best in each class (all for uncached data):Sequential write 4K: SamsungSequential write 256K: CrucialSequential read 4K: Samsung [Note: Maxtor HD faster here]Sequential read 256K: CrucialRandom write 4K: CrucialRandom write 256K: KingstonRandom read 4K: KingstonRandom read 256K: CrucialNote that the Maxtor spinning hard drive is actually better on one test, the sequential 4K read – though it's almost on a par with the best SSD in that set, and in every other class the hard drives are outclassed by a mile; sometimes the average of the SSD results is more than 15 times quicker than the hard drive.Average of hard drive v SSD speeds for sequential and random block read/writes(There's some explanation of why inthis very informative MSDN blogpost: largely, it's about configuration. Read that post to understand more than you ever thought you wanted to know about caching, flushing and random writes.)So there you have it – the Crucial drive wins the most categories, while the Samsung and the Kingston win two each. Plextor, surprisingly, doesn't rank top in any of them.One other point: Microsoft's Windows 7 comes with built-in support for TRIM (which evens out the use of memory locations in SSD memory, which otherwise starts to degrade in accuracy over time – as it does anyway). If you're using Vista or XP, only the Kingston drive will work here because of its built-in TRIM support.Apple's Mac OS X doesn't have the same level of support as Windows 7. Even in 10.7 "Lion", which ostensibly has TRIM support, you'll find you need to do some tweaking to get things working well – otherwise you get what I came to call the "TRIM pause" as the system dligently wipes a big chunk of no-longer-needed virtual memory from the SSD in order to free up some space as it writes a new page of virtual memory. This can cause pauses of many tens of seconds. But it is entirely avoidable if you follow the instructions given atthis page.It does involve using the Terminal, but as installing an SSD requires you to take your machine to bits anyway (if you're using a Mac, search oniFixitfor a how-to guide) then you should be feeling brave. I have used it and it has worked perfectly for me, but it also creates a backup of the files you change, so you're safe whatever. Plus you'll have to create a backup before you replace the hard drive, because the SSD will be blank – so one way or another, you're covered. (The tweak described here doesn't interfere with the Kingston drive's working.)All the SSDs I tested came with Windows backup software in the box to let you create a partition; for Mac users I would recommendSuperDuper!orCarbon Copy Cloner.Make sure you create a backup and verify that it works.Here then are the prices, to help you make up your mind–- because you should know that there's an SSD in your future pretty soon. All prices are for the 256GB models.•Kingston 2256GB SSDNow V100 SATA-300£370. Weight: 77g•Plextor: £285. Weight: 75g.•Crucial£290. Weight: 75g.•Samsung SSD830 series:£320. Weight: 63g.
The former Everton and Manchester City defender Michael Ball has been fined £6,000 by the Football Association for homophobic comments posted on Twitter.Ball messaged the Coronation Street actor Antony Cotton, who is openly gay and plays the factory worker Sean Tully in the long-running soap opera. Cotton was at the time appearing in I'm a Celebrity … Get Me Out of Here! "That fucking queer," Ball wrote. "Get back to your sewing machine in Corrie you moaning bastard." The message has since been deleted.Ball, who won a single England cap under Sven-Goran Eriksson, the man who signed him for Leicester, in 2001, admitted improper conduct. The 32-year-old has been warned about his future behaviour.Ball's latest club, Leicester City, terminated the player's contract on Monday, but have insisted that their decision was based solely on footballing grounds. Ball signed a one-year deal after a successful trial last summer, but has played just three times this season, all of them in the Carling Cup, and not at all since September.
Facebook estimates that it benefits the UK to the tune of more than £2bn a year, including the development of an almost £500m "app economy" that has sprung up around the world's most popular social networking website.The company commissioned a study by Deloitte, which concluded that Facebook supports 35,200 UK jobs and fuels £2.2bn to UK GDP each year, and published the document at the DLD conference in Munich on Tuesday.Deloitte's estimates looked at the direct economic impact of Facebook – such as paying tax, profits and wages – as well as the more broad impact it has had in enabling businesses to reach customers, make sales, create and monetise apps and even boost demand for products such as broadband and smartphones.Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg said: "Today's report shows that Facebook is about a lot more than sharing pictures or keeping up with friends. Increasingly, social media means growth and jobs. Social media is proving particularly valuable for small- and medium-sized businesses, which form the backbone of the European economy."Facebook estimated that a breakdown of the figures show that it has a £1.14bn annual impact on what it refers to as "business participation effects", considered to be the value of the benefit to small businesses that launch Facebook pages to advertise and grow their companies. Facebook reckons this supports 18,400 jobs in the UK.Deloitte also noted the emergence of a £467m a year "app economy" as businesses have sprung up to build applications and games to tap into the millions of UK users of Facebook.The report reckons that the businesses involved in the development of Facebook apps generate about 7,500 jobs in the UK.The third benefit that the report identifies is Facebook's impact on increasing technology sales. Deloitte's theory is that lovers of the social network buy devices to, and sign up for, broadband connections – worth £550m in technology sales, which supports 8,800 jobs.Facebook is estimated to have made more than $4bn (£2.5) in global revenues in 2011, according to Enders Analysis. UK revenues are thought to be about £200m.Sandberg also said that the company would offer £4.2m of "ad credits" to small businesses including to help 50,000 companies across the European Union.
A portrait ofVo Nguyen Giap, a hero of Vietnamese independence, enjoys pride of place in the room occupied by the development team at Emobi Games, a recently launched Hanoi company. Its latest game, 7554, is an opportunity to relive the battle ofDien Bien Phu, one of the greatest war exploits of General Giap, now aged 100.From March to May 1954 the forces of the Vietnamese People's Army, commanded by Giap, laid siege to a French outpost in the north-west of the country. Vietnamese victory came at a high price (more than 10,000 Vietnamese and 3,500 French losses) but it signalled the beginning of the end for French colonial power.The offline video game starts with a reminder of the historical context, with the arrival of the French in 1858, drawn by Vietnam's rich natural resources. It ends with the defeat of the French expeditionary force and occupation of the camp by the Vietminh on 7 May 1954.Inspired by American first-person shooters such asCall of Duty, a global bestseller, 7554 differs in adopting the point of view of a Vietnamese soldier. Until now the "baddies", who serve as cannon fodder before the players' weapons, have always been enemies of the western powers."We wanted to make a game which talks about Vietnamese history, which isn't just fun but will give Vietnamese players a little bit extra," the Emobi Games CEO, Nguyen Tuan Huy, 33, said.He launched the firm in 2009 and it now employs 24 people. 7554 was released in December and sells for $12.49, with more than 4,000 copies sold, far from bad in a country where most games are played online and piracy is rife. An English version can be purchased on the net.The graphics are not as spectacular as in top US productions, but its designers reckon this is not a priority. "A lot of Vietnamese think a local firm cannot even develop a game like ours, so we're trying to change that mindset," Nguyen said.He said he was not worried about negative feedback from French veterans. "It is not an anti-French game. He's just a Vietnamese soldier fighting for his country. We don't want to offend French veterans."This article originally appeared inLe Monde
Kim Dotcom, theinternet mogul charged with earning more than £100m in illegal profitsthrough the file-sharing websiteMegaupload.com, sent an extraordinary email to his worried neighbours in an affluent New Zealand suburb in which he joked about having criminal links, laundering money and taking cocaine.The 38-year-old German sent the note, seen by the Guardian, after neighbours of his NZ$30m (£15.6m) leased property in Coatesville, near Auckland, were piqued by seeing his fleet of cars speeding round the neighbourhood bearing licence plates such as HACKER, MAFIA, GUILTY and GOD.They researched his past, which includes a criminal conviction for insider dealing, and sent their concerns to the owner of the mansion, who in turn sent them to Dotcom.That prompted a remarkable reply-all from the multimillionaire, who is currently being held in a New Zealand jail awaiting the outcome of an application for bail after police arrested him on Saturday, having cut him out of a locked panic room in his mansion."Dear Neighborhood-watch," began the email dated 21 April 2010. "As you all know I recently moved into the Neighborhood and I am a former hacker. Well I was just hacking into a local mail server and guess what I found."First of all let me assure you that having a criminal Neighbor like me comes with benefits."1. Our newly opened local money laundering facility can help you with your tax fraud optimization.2. Our network of international insiders can provide you with valuable stock tips.3. My close personal relations with other (far worse) criminals can help you whenever you have to deal with a nasty Neighbor."It continued: "In all seriousness: My wife, two kids and myself love New Zealand and 'We come in peace'."Fifteen years ago I was a hacker and 10 years ago I was convicted for insider trading. Hardly the kind of crimes you need to start a witch hunt for. Since then I have been a good boy, my criminal records have been cleared, and I created a successful Internet company that employs 100+ people."All the media has to report are old news. Why? Because I have chosen to avoid the media. Just look what the media did to this Neighborhood. Scary."Now you can make a choice: 1: Call Interpol, the CIA, and the Queen of England and try to get me on the next plane out of New Zealand. 2: Sit back, relax and give me a chance to do good for New Zealand and possibly the Neighborhood."If you feel like it come over for coffee sometimes. And don't forget to bring the cocaine (joke). All the best, Kim."However jocular the intention, Dotcom's email "scared the hell out of everybody", said France Komoroske, a retired lawyer who lives a mile along the street from Dotcom's estate.When asked if he was serious about hacking their email accounts, he replied: "Do you really think I hacked your emails? Nonsense. One of my agents has infiltrated your family :-)."Komoroske and a neighbour researched the new arrival's chequered past, the basis of which, she said, made a mockery of the decision to award him residency in New Zealand."New Zealand doesn't seem to care about moral character if you've got enough bucks," she said.Dotcom has lived a well-documented lavish lifestyle and in 2010, the FBI estimates, he earned around $115,000 (£73,800) a day from his empire. In the past he has videoed his adventures with a large entourage on Mediterranean yachts, in Monaco nightclubs and on the beach at St Tropez, in which he almost always appears wearing a black suit and polo neck sweater over his 6ft 6in, 20-stone frame.On 19 January Dotcom, also known as Kim Schmitz, was charged in a US court with racketeering, copyright infringement and money laundering and the FBI claims he and a group of co-conspirators caused $500m of harm to copyright holders.The US authorities are seeking his extradition.Dotcom denied the charges. His lawyer, Paul Davison, said Dotcom's business did not reproduce or copy material as alleged and that copyright holders had been given access to the site to identify improper posting of material.
Working out what Apple should do with its gargantuan cash pile has become a favourite Wall Street parlour game. When the company's reputedly frugal chief executive Tim Cook announces first quarter results on Tuesday, he will be under pressure to start spending some of the estimated $90bn (£58bn) amassed by the maker of the world's most desirable consumer electronics.It is a huge sum. Last summer, when the US government was debating how to balance its books, Apple held more cash than the US Treasury's daily operating balance. The world's largest company by market capitalisation, Apple's masters of the universe scale can be difficult to comprehend.As the websiteThings Apple is Worth More Thanpoints out, the company's market capitalisation exceeds the gross domestic product of Singapore, the value of gold held at the New York Federal Reserve, the largest bullion store in the world, and the value of the worldwide illegal drugs trade.Investors' favoured option for Apple's cash mountain would naturally be to resume paying a dividend, something Steve Jobs was vehemently opposed to. The last dividend was paid in 1995, before Jobs returned.Around two thirds of Apple's cash is held outside the US, and cannot be repatriated without a hefty tax bill – which limits the amount that can be returned to shareholders. Tavis McCourt at US brokerMorgan Keeganbelieves the company could afford up to $10 or $11 a share.A share buyback could also boost the price, although not as much as turning Apple into a dividend stock, say financial analysts.What Wall Street fears most is that Apple could be tempted to blow billions on a foolish acquisition. Fading technology giants have occasionally resorted to retail therapy in search of a quick fix.Microsoft spent $8.5bn on loss-making internet calls group Skype last year, and Hewlett-Packard, the world's largest PC maker, spent £7bn acquiring British corporate search software group Autonomy a few months later in a muddled bid to turn itself into a software and services supplier.But Cook is not known for splashing the cash. He slimmed Apple operationally, pulling out of the costly business of making its own hardware, closing factories and warehouses around the world.The company has tended to favour small acquisitions of highly focussed teams of developers and designers. Like the team who developed the iPhone's Siri voice recognition technology.Some would like Apple to buy a mobile phone network. Even with its cash hoard, the money would only stretch to masts in the US plus other countries, leaving a subscale operation compared to multinationals like Vodafone.Anyway, Apple is moving on from telecoms. Nothing has been confirmed, but an internet connected television set is expected to be unveiled later this year. The iTV will be more than a screen. If it works in the way the iPod and iPhone worked, it will light a fire under Hollywood's mighty film and cable TV conglomerates in the way its predecessors disrupted the giants of music and mobile telephony.Consumate Apple watcher and Gartner analystCarolina Milanesibelieves the iTV will, like a mobile phone, be based on the subscription model.In the same way that iPhone buyers subsidise the cost of the handset by signing a two-year calls contract with a network, customers will take a subscription for content from the iTunes store. Instead of selling films and TV shows, iTunes will rent them.To take on the broadcasting industry, Apple will need cash. The content will need to be compelling to convince users to sign a subscription, and exclusive first-run pay TV rights do not come cheaply. Bereft of interesting things to watch, Apple's current TV product – a box that connects your existing set to the internet – has been a rare misfire.Adding a very expensive screen will not generate the level of sales that the company needs to continue growing at its current break-neck speed. The iTV will need to convince people to spend more on TV content, perhaps even swap out of their Sky or Virgin Media channels subscription.Does Apple want to become a media company? I would argue that it already is. Gross revenues from iTunes, which totalled $5bn (£3.2bn) in 2011, are greater than ITV's £2bn turnover and on a par with the BBC's annual budget of £3.5bn. They are already a third of Amazon's $15bn takings in 2010 for media sales worldwide.Of course, Apple may prefer to let others do the work. Online TV and film rental services such as Netflix and LoveFilm have financial firepower and are already snapping up the rights to top-flight content.Foreseeing the threat, incumbent pay TV operators like America's cable companies or the UK's BSkyB are more likely to hamper than promote their growth. What they need to achieve lift-off is the kind of user-friendly, elegant interface that Apple excels at creating.Whether or not Apple decides its future lies in selling pay-TV, Cook will find it increasingly hard to resist sharing the spoils with shareholders.
