Markup timelines. HTML5 is.. Photo byobscure allusionon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOn the Steve Jobs v Flash/HTML5 v others:HTML5 Video &gt;&gt; Microsoft IE blog"The future of the web is HTML5. Microsoft is deeply engaged in the HTML5 process with the W3C. HTML5 will be very important in advancing rich, interactive web applications and site design. The HTML5 specification describes video support without specifying a particular video format. We think H.264 is an excellent format. In its HTML5 support, IE9 will support playback of H.264 video only."Why Some Media Companies Are Quietly Cheering The Apple-Adobe Tiff &gt;&gt; paidContent:UKJames McQuivey of Forrester Research guest-posts: "In fact, one publisher came dangerously close to scrapping Flash development altogether (before his internal tech experts talked him out of it) because he realized that in the end, Apple is handing them something the Web never has: a controlled, curated content environment where people pay for content, albeit in the form of software calls apps."World smartphone sales: Apple closes on RIM... &gt;&gt;  The Register"Apple's Q1 tally is two points up on the 14.4 per cent share it scored for 2009 as a whole. RIM's share remained static, at 19.7 per cent. Year on year, it was effectively static too: falling a fraction of a percentage point from the 20.3 per cent share it achieved in Q1 2009."The real reason why Steve Jobs hates Flash &gt;&gt; Charlie Stross"Apple are trying desperately to force the growth of a new ecosystem — one that rivals the 26-year-old Macintosh environment — to maturity in five years flat. That's the time scale in which they expect the cloud computing revolution to flatten the existing PC industry. Unless they can turn themselves into an entirely different kind of corporation by 2015 Apple is doomed to the same irrelevance as the rest of the PC industry — interchangable suppliers of commodity equipment assembled on a shoestring budget with negligable profit."Steve Jobs Is Lying About Flash &gt;&gt; Business InsiderDan Rayburn would be happier if Jobs just said he was out to make more money by banning Flash, instead of trying to dress it up as a technology issue.Thoughts on Apple &gt;&gt; Facebook Indie GamesYet another take. The overwhelming feeling that comes over: people recognise that Apple does stuff well. But it rankles, and they're sure that an "open" approach will win.. eventually.Steve Jobs on Flash: Correcting the Lies &gt;&gt; Jesse WardenDetailed and very good exposition which points out where Steve Jobs's article, um, departs from being accurate. His conclusion? "iPhones and iPads still rock.  While Apple is "only the 10th" largest phone manufacturer, they are the only mobile platform people care about right now in the USA (unless you're a pissed off Flash/Flex Dev).  Their app store, combined with the user experience, is un-matched."We are removing Flash support from OS X &gt;&gt; Fake Steve Jobs"As of some other day really soon, certain phone numbers will not work on iPhone, both for incoming and outgoing calls. We won't tell you which numbers these are, but trust us, they're not numbers you should be calling, and definitely not numbers you want calling you."Ubuntu 10 is out, and reviewed:Ubuntu's Lucid Lynx: A (free) Mactastic experience &gt;&gt; The Register"Those that consider GUIs bloat and think a good user experience involves green monospaced fonts on a pure black terminal window will not be pleased with the new Ubuntu. Unfortunately, from the looks of things, you are Ubuntu's past. The real world of everyday, dare I say ordinary, computer users are Ubuntu's future." Seems that 'past' and 'future' are the memes of the week.Ubuntu Lucid Lynx great as ever, no game changer &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWriting"I would recommend Ubuntu to anyone, provided that they can cope with occasional forays into menu.lst and the like." Umm.. OK. Remind us what that is?And the rest:Photography's Longest Exposure &gt;&gt; household name blogPinhole cameras are old technology - but surprisingly effective. This image was taken with a six-month exposure looking at Bristol's Suspension Bridge.Microsoft Education Competencies: Humor &gt;&gt; Microsoft.comCould we be told please which proficiency level Steve Ballmer has reached?Opera Browser Buying Webmailer FastMail.fm For Cross-Platform Email &gt;&gt; paidContent:UK"Cross-platform email"?Interactive online Google tutorial and references &gt;&gt; Google GuideNot affiliated with or endorsed by Google. Great front page, though the rest of the site throws you right into the deep end; the "novices" section could be much simpler. Even so, a useful reference.50,000 websites adopt Facebook 'like' button in one week &gt;&gt; The Wall BlogThat's a big number.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Super Street Fighter IV, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360The Street Fighter series, in which a Brazilian called Blanka chews heads and electrifies opponents while Russian wrestler Zangief's special moves would have him interfering with low-flying air traffic, is the king of beat-'em-ups. Resolutely 2D in its action and philosophy, only the game's enormous cast list of 35 characters are portrayed in 3D, and you can play as any one of them without having to go through the usual repetitious unlocking process. Hot on the heels of last year's Street Fighter IV, the "Super" version adds 10 fighters, new ultra combos and more fully featured online play options. It retains the series' millisecond-perfect timing and ability to turn brawls between well matched players into drawn-out tactical exchanges that pivot around the tiniest errors. It's the best fighting game of all time and they're selling it cheap. Hallelujah.Capcom, £29.99Lost Planet 2, PC, Playstation &amp; Xbox 360Lost Planet 2.Planet EDN III, the titular lost planet, is home to a species of large and very angry space monster called the Akrid, along with factions of human settlers who continually try to shoot you. Everybody's heavily armed and the robotic walking tanks scattered around are to be used alone or smashed together for giant, Transformer-style action. The relentless excitement that ensues, alternating between encounters with the howling original denizens of the planet and packs of fellow settlers, is skewed towards team play, either online or using split screen. Lost Planet 2 is nowhere near as daunting as its predecessor but still musters moments of teeth-gnashing difficulty, although not enough to ruin the fast-paced experience.Capcom, £29.99-£39.99WarioWare: DIY, Nintendo DSWarioWare: DIY.WarioWare introduced the world to micro-games – pieces of software played in under 10 seconds. These throwaway moments of entertainment dazzled in their variety, from picking a nose to spending six seconds as the original 8-bit Link. If you didn't like a game, it was gone before you could open your mouth to complain. DIY is really two games: a new WarioWare title and a detailed yet incredibly approachable level editor to make your own micro-games, comics and music. If you can stomach the tutorial's ineffable tedium, you'll have access to all the tools Nintendo's designers used to create the rest of the game, even letting you open and edit the pre-made titles to see how they work. It's a fascinating balance of complexity and accessibility, which isn't perfect – few games in DIY match the best of the series – but constructing them is a hugely satisfying process.Nintendo, £34.99
The Johnny Cash ProjectFew online collaborative projects – such as Star Wars: Uncut, in which fans reproduce the original movie scene by scene – are as immediately satisfying and straightforward as this "living portrait" of the Man In Black. Contributors turn film frames into illustrations using some rather nifty online drawing tools, and these images are then pieced together to create a video to Ain't No Grave, one of his final recordings, resulting in a unique mixture of playful software tinkering and excellent artwork. And when your picture appears online you get a credit – so you can claim that you worked on a Johnny Cash video.Such Small PortionsStephen Merchant And Ricky Gervais feature on Such Small PortionsFounded by 11 London university students, Such Small Portions (named after a Woody Allen joke from Annie Hall) is a social networking site for the comedy industry with an aim to unite comedians with promoters and writers via the combined forces of Twitter, profile pages and blogging. Among the latter, visitors can dip into reports on the Altitude comedy festival, which combines stand-up with skiing; the real school that inspired The Inbetweeners; and US news satire Infomania. Elsewhere, the video clips seem a little random but a regularly updated news section – including bulletins on the new BBC project from Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant and South Park's recent indiscretions – make it worth revisiting even if you don't sign up.Blog roll: JapanLady Gaga fan in Tokyo.Tokyo FashionStreet snaps, Barbie obsessions and Japan's love for Lady Gaga.Tokyo MangoKitty cosplay, USB gadgetry and the man who married a videogame character.Bionic BongJapanese iPhone apps, plus news that more Japanese people saw Alice In Wonderland than Avatar.Danny ChooPhoto blog focusing on Super Dollfie, Manga figurines and the fashion scene of Akihabara.Japan ProbeWonderful TV YouTube clips and what tourists trapped in Tokyo did during the volcanic shutdown.Super CuteKawaiiTransforming everything from owls to cakes into a knitted soft toy or grinning cartoon sticker.What we learned on the web this weekThe sexiest 70s album covers from the Eastern Bloc.The sexiest70s album covers from the eastern blocAlmost everythingyou need to know about LostTom Hanksdoesn't exist in Tom Hanks moviesAn answerto the question: do ducks blink?Timelapse photographyis reaching new levels of amazingEvery numberis specialEinstein kepta messy deskWe're moreof an E-vader than a Happier ChattererHow manyplanes are in the skyThe Welwitschiamirabilis looks how it sounds
Microsoft's Dean Hachamovitch, the general manager of Internet Explorer, says he has noticed "a lot of posting about video and video formats on the web recently," and taken the opportunity to chip in with support for the H.264 codec.He writes:HTML5 will be very important in advancing rich, interactive web applications and site design. The HTML5 specification describes video support without specifying a particular video format. We think H.264 is an excellent format. In its HTML5 support, IE9 will support playback of H.264 video only.There's nothing new about Microsoft supporting HTML5, even though it's not yet a standard. There's also nothing new about Microsoft supporting the heavilypatent-encumbered H.264. Nonetheless, some people have taken the "only" bit rather badly, saying that IE9 should support the open source codec Ogg Theora.Microsoft is supporting H.264 because YouTube -- which is owned by Google -- has adopted it, and because it's what Apple supports in the iPhone and iPad. Microsoft is therefore doing what users want, but does it really have a choice? It does not have the market power to go against Apple and Google, even though it has a similar and perhaps better technology of its own. VC-1, which is based on Windows Media Video, is just as much of a standard as H.264/AVC, and both are licensed by the MPEG LA. (Yes, Microsoft is one of the rights holders and will profit via fees paid to the MPEG LA, but Apple's self-interest in backing H.264 is even greater.)By contrast, Microsoft does not need to support Ogg Theora in IE9 because it's not part of the HTML5 specification, though at one time that seemed likely.Ogg Theora was, in fact, removed from HTML5 mainly on Apple's insistence. In July, when Ian Hickson announced that "I have therefore removed the two subsections in the HTML5 spec in which codecs would have been required" (Ogg codecs dropped from HTML5), he said "the current situation is as follows":Apple refuses to implement Ogg Theora in QuickTime by default (as used by Safari), citing lack of hardware support and an uncertain patent landscape.Google has implemented H.264 and Ogg Theora in Chrome, but cannot provide the H.264 codec license to third-party distributors of Chromium, and have indicated a belief that Ogg Theora's quality-per-bit is not yet suitable for the volume handled by YouTube.Opera refuses to implement H.264, citing the obscene cost of the relevant patent licenses.Mozilla refuses to implement H.264, as they would not be able to obtain a license that covers their downstream distributors.Microsoft has not commented on their intent to supportvideoat all.Hickson took the view that "Putting Ogg Theora in the spec doesn't lead to Apple implementing it, it just leads to them ignoring that part of the spec".Finally, Hachamovitch appears to be contributing to the war against Adobe because IE9 won't support Flash … but IE8 didn't support Flash either. Nor did IE7, IE6 and so on. Flash support has always been provided via an Adobe plug-in, and I can't see any reason why this wouldn't continue with IE9. Microsoft also plans to have a Flash plug-in in Windows Phone 7, though it will not be included in the first release.But that doesn't mean Microsoft wants everyone to use Flash. It is still developing its own system, Silverlight, which it claims is better than Flash for streaming media, and which fits in with Microsoft's own development environment rather than Adobe's. Microsoft wants to replace Flash by producing something better, not by blocking it through a dictatorial fiat. That way, users and developers have a choice.Update: Hachamovitch has responded to comments. See story above:Microsoft follows up on HTML5 video and Flash in IE9
Google's Android mobile phone platform seems to be taking off in the UK, with sales of mobile phones using the software platform increasing fourfold in the past month, according to new figures from retail watcher GfK. Almost one in every five smartphones now sold in the UK is Android.The increase in sales is due to a slew of new Android devices which have hit the market in recent months,not least the HTC Desire– which, over the past few weeks, has been added to the range of most major mobile operators and been well received by critics. Vodafone, meanwhile, started selling the HTC Legend at the start of April, adding it to a list of Android devices available in the UK which includes the HTC Hero and Xperia X10 from Sony Ericsson.GfK, whose pronouncements about the retail industry are pored over by City analysts, said that Android handsets accounted for 12.3% of all phones sold to customers signing up for a long-term mobile phone contract in week 15 of 2010 – the week ending on April 18 – compared with just 3% of the market in week 12, the last week of March. In terms of the total market, Android's share grew from 1.6% to 6.7% during the period.As for smartphone devices – which GfK defines as the market for phones that can download applications from third party providers, so it includes the iPhone – they now account for 37.6% of the total mobile handset market and 63.9% of the contract market. GfK said the figure has remained relatively stable so Android is gaining market share from rival platforms, rather than merely benefitting from an overall increase in smartphone uptake. GfK refused to give details of the market share of other operating systems."It's not down to one particular handset," said a spokesman for GfK. "More and more of the major handset manufacturers are viewing Android as a useful solution and using it in their smartphones".More Android devices will become available in the UK over the coming weeks. Google's Nexus One, for instance,went on sale through Vodafone's stores and website today, a new Android phone from LG – the Optimus GT540 – is due out next month, while Samsung is due to add the Galaxy S to the current Galaxy Portal (i5700) which is already available in the UK.Vodafone, meanwhile, will next month launch an Android phone designed for the mass-market as part of a "refresh" of its portfolio of own-branded devices. Vodafone has turned to Chinese manufacturers Huawei, ZTE and TCL as the mobile phone network looks to push smartphones into the mass market.The company announced nine new handsets in its own-brand range on Wednesday. Alongside some basic feature phones aimed at developing countries – including one called the Vodafone 247, which has a built-in solar panel that could find its way to the UK as an "eco-phone" – Vodafone announced new smartphones including the Vodafone 845.The 2.8in touchscreen device is the first Vodafone branded phone that uses Google's Android operating system and has been manufactured by Huawei, which until recently was best known in the mobile phone industry as the maker of 3G mobile broadband dongles. The Vodafone 845 runs on Éclair, the latest version of the Android platform and as well as being able to access thousands of applications it come pre-loaded with the Vodafone 360 service.Fellow Chinese dongle manufacturer ZTE, meanwhile, is responsible for another smartphone in the new Vodafone range. The 546 has a qwerty keyboard and is aimed at developing countries which have not yet installed 3G networks. ZTE also produced the 247 for Vodafone.Another Chinese manufacturer, TCL – which has a mobile phone joint venture with Alcatel – has produced a new touchscreen device for Vodafone called the 543, which is also aimed at the mass market.
This morning, I went to my Lloyds ATM. Imagine my surprise when, instead of the usual user interface on the screen, I saw the Windows XP Professional "flying window" logo. Surely they can't be using such a bug-ridden and vulnerable operating program to safeguard their (and my) money?John SteensonMicrosoft Windows XP (or Windows XP Embedded) has become the dominant operating system for ATMs and point-of-sale [EPoS] tills over the past decade, often replacing IBM's OS/2. Some use Windows CE, Unix and various real-time operating systems.Since I haven't noticed any major problems being reported, XP appears to be secure enough. Either Windows 7 or Linux should be more secure, but that would only matter if one of XP's insecurities turned out to be exploitable.Windows XP became popular for a number of reasons. It's easy for companies to program for its graphical user interface, and to connect to a range of peripherals, including magnetic stripe readers, cameras, fingerprint readers and printers. This has resulted in cash machines that do a lot more than dispense cash. The Windows Extensions for Financial Services (XFS) have been adopted as a standard, now known asCEN/XFS.In any case, ATM security involves a great many risks besides the operating system software, and includes breaking open or stealing the whole machine. Common attempts at fraud may also include stealing, cloning or creating cards, "shoulder surfing" to collect PINs, "social engineering" (eg phone calls to the user or the bank's call centre), hacking, and the use of "skimmers". A post by Brian Krebs has some fascinating pictures of skimmers from Rick Doten, chief scientist at Lockheed Martin's Center for Cyber Security Innovation.Krebs says:According to Doten, the US Secret Service estimates that annual losses from ATM fraud totaled about $1 billion in 2008, or about $350,000 each day. Card skimming, where the fraudster affixes a bogus card reader on top of the real reader, accounts for more than 80% of ATM fraud, Doten said.A recent report fromJavelin Strategy &amp; Research says that"in addition to the use of skimming devices, thieves are now gaining access to customers PINs by manipulating ATM software and by sending out bogus text messages to consumers requesting their personal information".A story atSearchFinancialSecurityquoting the report's author, Javeline's Robert Vamosi, says:For example, there have been ATM attacks in which apparent maintenance crews opened up ATMs and installed malware on the machines, he said. Early last year, Diebold Inc issued a security update for its Windows-based ATMs after criminals attacked a number of them in Russia and installed malware designed to steal sensitive data. In other cases, such as in the RBS WorldPay heist, criminals target the backend, where the ATM interfaces with other networks at a financial institution, Vamosi said.Still, securing an ATM is like securing your house: you're not going to make it 100% secure, and your spending on security (CCTV, burglar alarms, bars on windows, floodlights, guard dogs, a moat…) will reflect your perception of risk. Banks are only likely to spend money to increase ATM security in response to growing losses from fraud. The implication is that Windows XP's insecurities are not costing them a lot of money at the moment.That could, of course, change, and it wouldn't be the first time the banks' assumptions had turned out to be wrong.
Once again, the discounted world of console-endorsed, downloadable gaming comes good. Aqua Panic, while not quite hitting the home run other good value downloads have managed, is still a challenging and addictive puzzler.Remember Lemmings? This is pretty much the same, only vertical. With fish. In an eye-popping cartoon style. And with a jaunty soundtrack that sounds like it's been recorded in a helium-filled nightclub.As with Lemmings, the mission is simple: save a specified number of your tiny charges using the tools at your disposal. You start with 100 fish and a limited, carefully judged arsenal to change the flow of water in order to get them to the safe spot at the bottom of the screen. Get it wrong and they'll end up as a sushi supper for the waiting big fish.It's a simple set-up, yet the game is anything but. Indeed, even in the early training levels, you'll be gnawing your fist in frustration – but, and here's the key, you'll still be pressing reset to try again. These sorts of games survive or fail on that "just one more go" factor and Aqua Panic delivers that by the trawler-load.The learning curve is also well judged. For the early levels, you're eased into how to use your fish-assisting weaponry: bombs, flowers (which grow instantly to block water flow) and harpoons to shoot peckish carnivores lurking in the puzzle. Within a level or four, you'll be punching holes, blocking flows, assassinating beasties and laughing in the face of piscine danger. And then you won't be, because suddenly you've got valves to employ, flowers that grow at a particular time (which you don't control) and bits of rock that, actually, can't be blown up.On the downside, this can take many carefully-planned, easily messed up attempts to complete. On the plus side, because of Aqua Panic's refusal to mollycoddle, there's an intense satisfaction when you do finally save the required percentage of falling fish.There are flaws here. The cursor can get stranded off screen which, on time-sensitive levels, will have you pulling your hair out. The display is garish. The music will drive you homicidal. Misjudge a bomb or a flower by a millimetre and it's sometimes game over. However, the ease of play, the length of the challenge (a good week plus of tough puzzling) and the intense "eureka" moments as your final fish finds salvation still make this a very decent way of spending eight quid.
I must admit, before I actually played the game, I had some pretty serious reservations about 2010 Fifa World Cup. The idea of charging 40-odd quid for what looked simply like a reskinned Fifa 10 seemed pretty cheeky, especially as DLC updates are now pretty much accepted as the way for publishers to glean a few extra shekels out of a stale title.Thankfully, EA has jammed this game full of just enough new features and tweaks that they pretty much get away with it. Granted, you may not like the idea of buying two Fifa games in a year, but every effort's been made here to make sure you don't feel shortchanged. As with previous Fifa titles, presentation is one of the most immediately apparent ways in which 2010 World Cup excels. The in-game time and score displays are exactly the same as they will be when you watch the real competition in the summer; couple this with official branding, manager animations and even vuvuzela horns, and you really couldn't ask for a more authentic World Cup experience.There's also a noticeable improvement in graphics from Fifa 10, making this the best-looking football game there's ever been. Sure, grass realism and stadium detail is unlikely to be a factor of consideration when deciding whether or not to buy the game, but it does help reinforce the impression of a distinct step forward from last autumn's release.Clive Tyldesley and Andy Townsend take over commentary duties and have plenty of insight to offer about this summer's tournament. Particularly impressive is the bespoke commentary on offer in the game's new "Story of Qualifying" mission feature, where you're given the chance to rewrite history in a variety of short challenges.Curiously sponsored by Coca-Cola (which apparently ponied up the cash for this part of the game's development), in this mode you're given the opportunity to play as Ireland in extra-time after Thierry Henry's famous handball goal, or to re-enact England's Walcott-inspired victory in Zagreb.Aside from the main draw of playing through this summer's World Cup matches, with unlockable content and star ratings for each mission passed this is where the real longevity in 2010 World Cup lies. EA is even planning to release further missions based on events in South Africa via DLC during the tournament.When it comes to the action on the pitch itself, there have been a number of small tweaks which will satisfy Fifa 10 obsessives. Gameplay is noticeably zippier, and goalkeepers are now far harder to chip – something anyone who's played at a reasonable level online will know was disproportionately easy in the previous iteration. EA has also included the intriguing new feature of the "Dad Pad" – an option allowing a simpler set of controls and part-AI assistance meaning newcomers are less likely to be scared off in their first few games.It's likely the focus for most will be the World Cup mode itself, and this works flawlessly. Real-time scores filtering in from concurrently-played group games and football facts from the countries with which you're playing are just a couple of the small touches that contribute to the larger, hugely satisfying, experience. Add in the same excellent online play available in Fifa 10 and a "Captain your Country" mode (much like Be a Pro) and there's an awful lot to occupy yourself with.2010 World Cup takes the best football game out at the moment at improves on it, and you have to take your hat off to EA who must have known that any old tie-in release would have sold well given the excitement surrounding this year's tournament – they could easily have not made the effort.However, while a pared-down Fifa 10.5 with a brilliantly used license will be a pretty attractive prospect for many, Fifa 11 is still only four or five months away, and without any club teams available I can understand why many will be tempted to keep their wallets in their pockets until autumn.
Activision has officially named the next title in the lucrative Call of Duty series. Previously known as Call of Duty 7, the title is now confirmed as Call of Duty: Black Ops. The game is being developed by Santa Monica-based studioTreyarch, responsible for several previous instalments in the military first-person shooter series, including Call of Duty: World at War and Call of Duty 3.The press announcement provides little extra information, simply promising that Black Ops will, "take players behind enemy lines in an entirely new chapter in the groundbreaking and record-setting, No. 1 first-person action series of all-time."For the last few months, news sites have been rife with rumours that the game would be set in Vietnam - and the title announcement does not necessarily contradict that. As the Official Xbox Magazinereported, Treyarch put out a casting call in LA earlier this year, looking for an actor to play one 'Frank Barnes', a WW2 veteran and member of the Studies and Observations Group, a black ops unit active during the Vietnam war.There's an official websitehere, and Activision is promising that a teaser trailer will hit theGameTrailerssite this evening.
Wow, it's been quite a complex and interesting few days for Activision. On the ropes over the whole Infinity Ward debacle, the publisher has now bounced back by announcing a ten-year publishing agreement with Halo developer Bungie. According to a press statement, the deal is based around a new game series currently in development at the studio:"Under the terms of the agreement, Activision will have exclusive, worldwide rights to publish and distribute all future Bungie games based on THE new intellectual property on multiple platforms and devices. Bungie remains an independent company and will continue to own their intellectual property."However, this mention of new IP hasn't stopped news sites and pundits fromwonderingif the developer will be taking on Modern Warfare 3 duties. Analyst Arvind Bhatia, has been telling US sites, "We feel that, if needed, Bungie would be a very good potential fit to replace Infinity Ward on development of the Call of Duty: Modern Warfare franchise." Hmm, yes they would, you know, being an experienced developer of multiplayer-themed FPS titles, but no one needs an analyst to tell themthat.Meanwhile, MCV hassuggestedthat, as Activision's deal is limited to a new property, Bungie could effectively still work on more Halo titles. It seems, however, that the developer ( a bit like Infinity Ward, perhaps) is keen to flex its creative muscles on something entirely new. Plus, Microsoft has its own 343 Industries studio to head up Halo development in the post-Reach era.But the intriguing news is that the 'new IP' will be multiformat, introducing Bungie to the delights of PS3 - and, hey, maybe even Wii - development after a decade of Xbox patronage. It's also a message of intent from Activision - the company is inking a deal with one of the world's most respected studios, just as it appears to be losing control of another. A quick piece of advice to Bungie, though: don't be seen chatting to anyone from EA.Anyway, back to Halo Reach...Nowadays, certain games aren't just sold on their own features, they're sold on the inclusion of sought-after beta test invites - the beta has become a business model. We saw it earlier this month with Splinter Cell Conviction, which offered purchasers an invite to early tests on the forthcoming Ghost Recon: Future Soldier game. And of course, we're seeing it with Halo. Last year's release of Halo: ODST came with a 'key' allowing gamers to apply for the Reach betas, which open on Monday. Bungiereckonedthey'd get three million applications on day one.And Microsoft is certainly putting plenty of hype behind the beta kick-off, claiming in a press release that it's, "poised to be one of the biggest test events in entertainment history." Early hands-on reports have certainly beenveryenthusiastic, praising the unformly excellent map design, polished mechanics and return to classic Halo gameplay attributes. I like the sound of the new Invasion mode, a more strategic team-based option that requires a squad of the Covenant's Elite alien troopers to gain access to a downed spacecraft held by the human Spartan soldiers. Sounds a bit like Warhawk, with lots of co-operative interplay - and mid-air jetpack shoot-outs.It'll be interesting to see what game changes come out of this process, though. Apparently, Bungie are phasing the roll-out of levels and options in order to optimise the testing:"The beta kicks off with three playlists featuring the all-new, highly competitive Arena mode (4v4 ranked Team Slayer games) as well as 'Free-for-All' and 'Grab Bag' playlists, which include a mix of classic and brand new game types. Beginning May 7, the new large-scale Spartan vs. Elite 'Invasion' playlist will be added to the beta. Finally, beginning May 14 the 'Generator Defense' game type will become available."But then, pitching this at millions of gamers must be a feedback nightmare for the studio. It'll certainly show them how robust their network infrastructure is, but how do you pull the subtle design suggestions out of all that?For those who missed out on getting beta codes, Microsoft has a dedicatedHalo Reachwebsite (looks like you need Silverlight installed, mind). Otherwise, the game is out in the autumn.So, are you signed up on the beta? And what do you think about this new trend for vast open testing sessions?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?The Sony Walkman will always be one of my favourites for many reasons, along with the Dyson AirBlade – which actually dries your hands. The thing I liked about the Walkman, as opposed to the iPod, is that it forced you to make musical choices – what cassettes to bring with you, and having to turn it over halfway through!When was the last time you used it, and what for?The Walkman, many years ago; and the Airblade last week, to dry my hands.What additional features would you add if you could?A face dryer.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes and no. The Walkman has been replaced by the iPod, but a good hand dryer should last a while longer.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The promises it doesn't keep, and the assumption that being able to buy a thing implies you know how to use it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Every printer I've owned, including the one I'm presently battling with. Wireless my arse.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't believe your mate when he says he knows what to do.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A nerd with luddite tendancies.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Macbook – worth every penny.Mac or PC, and why?Mac all the way. PCs are like the American border with Mexico, you know – a nice idea, but really impractical. You have to keep putting up a new fence every five minutes. With Macs, you get the thing out of the box, plug it in and you can use it there and then.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Both – I still buy DVDs, CDs less often. My last download was a Cold War Kids EP.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?If it was just to fetch stuff no, but if it could remember all the things I forget to do each day and make tea, then definitely. I think you'd get tired of it quite quickly as I imagine you'd develop a relationship with a real butler that would change and challenge. But a robot would only ever be what you thought you wanted it to be, and expectation is often just another word for disappointment.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A new MacBook Pro. Mine's getting old.• Ian Hart stars inA Boy Called Dad, now showing in cinemas across the UK
With the UK weather forecast looking grim for the next few days this Bank Holiday weekend looks like the perfect opportunity to catch up on some gaming.  I remember spending one blissful May Bank Holiday completing Resident Evil Code Veronica on the Dreamcast.  Another was spent almost solidly on Phantasy Star Online, also on the Dreamcast. Maybe there was something special about Sega's last console? Or maybe I just had more time then? Anyway, this weekend will hopefully see a short burst of Super Street Fighter IV followed by another session on Lost Planet 2. Probably with some Sonic &amp; Sega All-Stars Racing thrown in too. But what about you? What are you planning to play this Bank Holiday weekend?
Friday's bring on the long weekend edition of Chatterbox
So, here's the conclusion of Ryan's list, which has already stirred minor controversy by including characters from Arika's Street Fighter EX titles, and several who originally appeared in Final Fight.Remember, it's a subjective collection, based on the characters Ryan has competed with and found interesting to use. It's a different angle on the whole 'best characters ever' thing, but - heck - you can find those anywhere.Okay purists, brace yourselves...10. RolentoThis hulking special forces bully was originally a boss character in Final Fight before cropping up as a playable character in Street Fighter Alpha 2. "He's in here for his uniqueness – the whole rolling around, running away, jumping off the wall. He would throw grenades and use his stick to lash you from a distance. He has pretty interesting supers too. Yeah, he's cool. He just has a very different appeal."Special move:Baton Spin:(QCF+P)Super:Super Hanging Attack: (QCFx2+K)9. ZangiefAnother seminal Street Fighter II veteran, this bearded Russian wrestler is, according to SF lore, a national hero who wrestles bears in Siberia. "I hated him at first, it seemed he didn't have any good moves – he's got no fireballs, no dragons, he doesn't have anything flashy. But when you get into the intricacies of how he's used, he's good fun. The idea with him is that you have to get right in next to your opponent, and I've always been more of an aggressive player anyway, I've always liked getting in and mixing it up, trying to read my opponent's mind. Beating a character like Ken or Ryu with him is quite an achievement."Special move:Atomic Suplex (Spin joystick 360 degrees and press Kick)Super:Final Atomic Buster (Spin joystick 720 degrees and press Punch)8. KairiAn amnesiac nomad warrior from the Street Fighter EX series, and seemingly brother to Hokuto. "He's quite a dark figure in the game. He had fireball and dragon punch moves, kind of in a similar style to the shotokan characters (i.e. Ken and Ryu), he had a cool presence, and he was very strong too. I really liked him at the time."Special move:Mo Ryo Ga Sen (QCB + K x3)Super:Sairo Ko Shu (QCB x 2 + P)7. GuyA brash American ninjitsu specialist who first appeared in the 1989 arcade game Final Fight. "I liked him in Final Fight, but when he appeared in Street Fighter Alpha, I wasn't that into him. But I found out about his spinning elbow attack which goes through projectiles, and he had a leg sweep which was a two hit knockdown, and he had an overhead kick too, so that's your basic mix-up right there. When I learned all that he was quite interesting. He was one of my main characters in Alpha 2 and now he's back in SFIV, I've picked him up again."Special move:Hozanto (QCB + P) or Bushin Muso Renge (HCB x 2 + All Punches)6. SagatA ferocious Thai kickboxer who lost an eye fighting Gou Hibiki, the father of Street Fighter IV character, Dan. "It's interesting how opinions of this character have changed over the years. He's the last boss in the original Street Fighter, and one of the hardest in Street Fighter 2 – he's always been a tough character. In Street Fighter IV some people think he's too strong and that there aren't enough ways to get round his moves, but he's interesting to use; he has some fun combos that are really quite difficult to access – you have to change the timing in between links, which is challenging. So he's a very strong, very technical character."Special move:Tiger Knee (F,D,DF+K)Ultra:Tiger Destruction (QCF x 2 + All Kicks)5. RyuThe central protagonist in the Street Fighter series, and one of the most recognisable characters in fighting game history. "He's the lone warrior traveller and learning about his background was kind of inspirational to me," says Ryan. In gameplay terms, Ryu is one of the most well-rounded options. "He has probably the best air defence manoeuvre in the game: the dragon punch. He also has a projectile attack, which means he can control the bout from long distance. He's quite a damaging character too – always a formidable opponent."Special move:Fireball (QCF + P)Ultra:Metsu Shoryuken (QCF x 2 + All Kicks)4. DudleyA good old British bruiser in the style of Eagle, but with a more refined Victorian look. "He's a cool English gentleman boxer – I don't think there's that much more I need to say! He's in here for his fast boxing moves, and close in, he's very strong because he's got a lot of different change combos. He quite unpredictable - can attack you low, overhead – he hit you with an overhead into a combo, he can go low into a combo, he can throw you, he can sway backwards and forwards if you try something. I think in Super Street Fighter IV, he's going to be a key character to watch out for."Special move:Machine Gun Blow (HCF + P)Ultra:Rolling Thunder (HCF x 2 + All Kicks)3. KenThe spoiled son of a billionaire hotel magnate, Ken is Ryu's best friend and sparring partner, and another mainstay of the series. "He's more cool and relaxed than Ryu, but he's just as strong. In the first games he was identical to Ryu, but now he has a more powerful dragon punch. Also his new ultra move can be used in basic combos – you don't have to stun enemies or hit them with a focus attack, which is good."Special move:Dragon Punch (F,D,DF+P)Ultra:Shinryuken (QCT x 2 + All punches)2. Dee JayA musically-inspired kick-boxer who first turned up in Super Street Fighter II. "I like him because he's from Jamaica where my family are from. He's also a really positive, happy character. He wasn't that strong in Super but when Super Street Fighter II Turbo came out, he had all these new additions, and he really appealed to me. He had a stronger projectile, he had good anti-air moves and his normal moves were all good. I'm glad he's back in Super Street Fighter IV – I'll definitely be using him."Special move: Jacknife Maximum Charge D, then U + KickUltra: Climax Beat (Charge D, then DF,DB,UF + All punches)1. EagleThe British nightclub bouncer, whose special moves are all named after UK cities, makes a surprise appearance at the top of Ryan's list. "He's a really vicious and aggressive character in Street Fighter 1. I liked his style – he was like a pub owner coming at you with two sticks! He was very original. And it took me ages to beat him. I like the fact that we've not seen much of him – he was only in the first Street Fighter and Capcom vs SNK 2 [plus Street Fighter Alpha 3 Max on the PSP and GBA] – he's this vague, but very strong presence in the series…"Special move:Oxford Red (HCF+K)So what would YOUR personal top five look like? Add it in the comments section below!
Don't expect ever to see this in the flesh: Microsoft's Courier concept tablet. Photo bynDevilTVon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links - well, 29 of them - for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPhone Finder Regrets His 'Mistake' &gt;&gt; Wired.comBrian Hogan, 21, is the guy who left the bar with the iPhone 4G. "Hogan didn't know what he had until he removed a fake cover from the device and realized it must be a prototype of Apple's upcoming next-generation iPhone, according to Gizmodo's account of the find. A friend of Hogan's then offered to call Apple Care on Hogan's behalf, according to Hogan's lawyer. That apparently was the extent of Hogan's efforts to return the phone." Hmmm.Microsoft Cancels Innovative Courier Tablet Project &gt;&gt; GizmodoWell, so much for Microsoft's revolutionary two-page folding tablet.Highlights: The Journal's Exclusive Interview With Adobe CEO &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogAdobe's chief executive responds to Apple's chief executive in an interview. Couldn't he have blogged it?Thoughts on Steve Jobs's Thoughts on Flash &gt;&gt; kottke.org"though Flash may have been necessary in the past to provide functionality in the browser that wasn't possible using JS, HTML, and CSS, that is no longer the case. Those open web technologies have matured (or will in the near future) and can do most or even all of &gt;&gt;  what is possible with Flash. For 95% of all cases, Flash is, or will soon be, obsolete because there is a better way to do it that's more accessible, more open, and more "web-like"."Bringing Living Stories to Wordpress &gt;&gt; Google News blog"For the last few months we've been talking with publishers about ways to make it easier for them to use Living Stories, our experimental format for displaying news coverage, on their own websites. Today we're releasing a Living Stories plugin and theme for Wordpress. Now anyone who publishes through Wordpress can use the plugin to organize coverage of an ongoing event on a single dynamic page."Steve Jobs' Thoughts on Flash, in Flash &gt;&gt; topherchris"Adobe Flash CS4 crashed twice while I threw this together."My Thoughts on Flash and Apple &gt;&gt; GartenBlogAnalyst Michael Gartenberg on Steve Jobs on Flash not on iPhone OS: "Like Steve, I have not seen Flash work well on a mobile device. That doesn't mean that it can't or won't. Adobe needs to not respond to Apple with words but rather actions and showcase shipping devices and how well they can run Flash. I'm especially interested to see how Flash works on Tegra 2 based devices...Fact is, the lack of Flash does not appear to have slowed down Apple sales in the slightest. In fact, the opposite seems to be true."Multitasking the Android Way &gt;&gt; Android Developers BlogJust in case you needed to know precisely how the Android kernel multitasks for that next pub quiz.How the iPhone may force South Korea's online banks to stop using ActiveX &gt;&gt; Mozilla BlogSouth Korea used to insist on ActiveX plugins, rather than SSL, for internet banking - meaning everyone uses Internet Explorer most of the time. Security hazard! But it neatly gives the lie to the idea that South Korea is the most fantastically advanced country technologically. Ever wonder why so much spam, proportionally, comes from there? IE is your answer.Thoughts on Flash &gt;&gt; Steve JobsOccasional blogger and emailer-to-strangers at Cupertino company does another blog post. Remember "Thoughts on music"? Adobe's damned if it responds to this, damned if it doesn't.Thoughts on 'Thoughts on Flash' — AdamBanks.comFormer MacUser editor giving Steve Jobs a right fisking. Not sure Steve will read it, though.Symbian 3 Courts Developers With HTML, CSS, and JavaScript &gt;&gt; GigaomThose sound like the same sorts of tools that Apple courts ex-Flash developers with.Why Ubuntu excites me more than Windows or Macintosh &gt;&gt; Times OnlineHugo Rifkind: "Look, bear with me. It's not easy writing in a passionate fashion about an operating system. It feels a bit like having a favourite type of petrol, or mounting a vigorous advocacy of a particular shade of lightbulb. But dammit, if you work on a desk, these are the environs are our worlds. Mine used to be Windows, and now it isn't. And, as a result my life is better. Sad, but true."Palm Wouldn't Have Lasted the Year &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"When Palm reported third quarter earnings in March it said it had some $591 million in cash and equivalents. In the 8K above, it says it expects them to have dwindled to between $350 million and $400 million by the close of the fourth quarter (the middle of the calendar year). That's a cash burn of $191 million to $241 million for the period."UN to distribute 200,000 laptops to Gaza refugees &gt;&gt; AFP"Israel and Egypt have sealed Gaza off to all but basic goods since the Islamist Hamas movement seized power in June 2007, but Israel has allowed UNRWA to bring in humanitarian aid and some construction materials." Which are computers?Office 2010: a deeper dive &gt;&gt; Ed Bott's Microsoft Report"I've spent the last six months immersed in Office 2010, using all the core programs day in and day out, digging in to see what's new, what works, and what's still annoying after all these years." Rather you than me, Ed...Goodbye virtual, hello real world: when China's web censorship helps &gt;&gt; Guardian Weekly"Looking back over the last eight months they realised that they have rediscovered face-to-face friendships, real books and films on the big screen. Groups have even ventured to the mountains and become aware of a world of beauty and fresh air that they had only ever read about online. More time with parents has had pros and cons, but is not without gains on both sides."Steve Jobs Email Reply Generator &gt;&gt; Joy of Tech"Bill, stop emailing me for ideas." "If you want porn, get an Android phone." Apposite.London Tube Flows &gt;&gt; OOBrienFantastic mashup - using OpenStreetMap for the map, and the London data store information - showing flows in and out of tube stations between 2003 and 2008 (you choose)Flash Player "Gala" Preview Release &gt;&gt; Adobe LabsWelcome to the Flash Player preview release, code-named "Gala," which introduces support for H.264 video hardware decoding on Mac OS X 10.6.3, the most recent release of Mac OS X Snow Leopard. Gala allows developers to preview Flash Player with hardware acceleration of H.264 video on supported Mac computers equipped with the following GPUs: NVIDIA GeForce 9400M, GeForce 320M or GeForce GT 330M."&#10;&#10;The graphics card spec means it works on "Late 2008" Macs onwards.The App Cubby Jr Sale: cheap at twice the price! &gt;&gt; App CubbyHis wife's expecting baby No.2: "These kids don't feed, clothe, and shelter themselves you know, so we've decided to hold an "App Cubby Jr" sale. This week only, you can buy any App Cubby app for twice the normal price! 100% of proceeds go toward diapers, food, our insurance deductible, and other baby related expenses."On the Twitter Patrol &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"A small but vocal subculture has emerged on Twitter of grammar and taste vigilantes who spend their time policing other people's tweets — celebrities and nobodies alike."Facebook is top search term across three major search engines &gt;&gt; HitwiseKeeping bookmarks is too hard nowadays, so you can see which popular sites people search for. Google users even search for Gmail, so perhaps it was a mistake for Google to hide the link....Five reasons iPhone vs Android isn't Mac vs Windows &gt;&gt; O'Reilly RadarWhat's different? Retail distribution, pricing overhang, developer ecosystem, consumer technology adoption and "Microsoft-like resilience" (on Apple's part). Well worth reading.Geo-tagging teen sexually assaulted in North Van &gt;&gt; Theprovince.comGeotagging apps considered harmful: "Police are warning parents about Grindr, a geo-tagging smartphone application, after it was allegedly used in the sexual assault of a 15-year-old North Vancouver boy."Apple prepares 3G-enabled iPads for shipment &gt;&gt; MacworldWell, you people outside the US can just wait.When Jack Dorsey Met Fred Wilson, And Other Twitter Tales (Book Excerpt) &gt;&gt; TechCrunchAn excerpt from Mastering The VC Game, a new book by Jeffrey Bussgang, tells the backstory of Twitter from the perspective of founder Jack DorseyWhat if I had bought Apple stock instead? &gt;&gt; Kyle ConroyIf you have a long history of buying Apple products, you might wonder how much better off you'd have been if you'd bought the company's shares instead. Kyle Conroy has a big table tohelp...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Street Fighter has always separated the men from the boys. This latest version – an update of last year's Street Fighter IV – is no different.Other fighting games allow you to win by simply jabbing at the buttons and moving the thumbpad in the vague direction of your opponent. Street Fighter instead requires practice, patience and dextrous skill to master the moves and learn how best to react to your opponent's strike. This is especially true when playing online.New modes of online play are the main incentive to grab this new edition. The most appealing of these is the "Endless" mode where up to eight players can compete to be the last man standing. The only downside to this is waiting for your bout, though you can watch and dissect the fight in progress. If the thought of delayed action makes you queasy then a new RPG-style ranking points system makes the standard and readily available one-v-one fights a more addictive long-term challenge too.Elsewhere, SSFIV offers some new – and typically over the top – characters for you to bond with or beat up. There is also the option to share video of your fight with friends. Less exciting but more useful is that the learning curve seems to have been slightly lowered. Yes, to get anywhere online you'll need to put in the hours, but offline play appears to have been made more welcoming to new players. You can't knock the retro appeal either, especially regarding the visuals. The vibrant backdrops and characters are a world away from the gritty environs of a Gears of War or Modern Warfare.Despite the online upgrades and new characters, much of the action here is familiar from Street Fighter IV. Publisher Capcom has recognised this by reducing the RRP, but less committed owners of the original needn't bother upgrading. For aficionados – and new players wanting to relive their arcade gaming youth – Super Street Fighter IV is as good as a fighting game can get in 2010.
Cascade. Photo byChris Owenson Flickr.Some rights reservedThe chief executive of Adobe, Shantanu Narayen, has hit back at Apple's Steve Jobs and thearticlefrom earlier today in which Jobs dismissed Adobe's Flash as belonging to the past, not the future.In aninterview with the Wall Street Journal, Narayen calls Jobs's article an "extraordinary attack".A few highlights [with comments]-Mr. Narayan talks about Adobe "certainly" shipping on Android's latest version. [CA: is that a full version of Flash Player? Or Flash Lite? And when?]-The technology problems [with Flash] that Mr. Jobs mentions in his essay are "really a smokescreen," Mr. Narayan says. He says more than 100 applications that used Adobe's software were accepted in the App Store. [CA: 100 applications that used Flash might have gotten onto the store - but Apple has since decided that it doesn't want Flash-written apps. That's history now.]-Speaking about Mr. Jobs's assertion that Adobe is the No. 1 cause of Mac crashes, Mr. Narayan says if Adobe crashes Apple, that actually has something "to do with the Apple operating system." [CA: probably right. However, who writes and compiles the version of Flash that runs on Mac OSX? PDF plugins don't crash.]-Mr. Narayan calls accusations about Flash draining battery power "patently false." [CA: Mac users are invited to comment.]-The Journal wants to know whether Mr. Narayan knows Steve Jobs. "I've met him on a number of occasions," he says. "We have different views of the world," Mr. Narayan says. "[Adobe's] view of the world is multi-platform."-Does Mr. Narayan use an iPhone? "I have a Google Nexus One device," he says. And what about the iPad? "I think it's a good first-generation device. I think you're going to see just tremendous innovation in terms of tablets." Adobe is, in fact, working with "dozens" of tablet projects with other companies, he says. [CA: we would love to know what those tablet projects are, and who the companies are.]Closing comments: Adobe's rebuttal isn't as detailed as one might have hoped for. The real question remains: if Apple isn't backing Flash on mobile, then who is? There's lots of talk from Adobe about mobile platforms that are going to support full Flash playback (rather than Flash Player Lite) - but little sign of it.And Adobe does have form in the talking big, delivering small area. Here's aBloomberg piecefrom January 2009:"It's a hard technical challenge, and that's part of the reason Apple and Adobe are collaborating," [Adobe chief executive] Narayen said today in a Bloomberg Television interview from the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. "The ball is in our court. The onus is on us to deliver."That's some collaboration. Let's hope the work on the tablet projects with the other companies doesn't end up the same way.
Two places you won't find Flash Player. Photo bybm.iphoneon Flickr.Some rights reservedSteve Jobs has defended Apple's decision not to allow Adobe's Flash technology on the iPhone, iPod and iPad - and cited a series of reasons why he thinks letting Flash onto mobile devices is a bad idea, including security, battery life and user experience.[Update:Adobe's CEO has responded in aninterview with the Wall Street Journal. Readmy take here.]In what could best be described as ablogpost on Apple's site, Jobs says that there are six key problems with Flash - and that the most important reason is that "letting a third party layer of software come between the platform and the developer ultimately results in sub-standard apps and hinders the enhancement and progress of the platform."Jobs hits out at Adobe's claims that Flash is "open" because 75% of video on the web is viewed using it. "Adobe's Flash products are 100% proprietary," he responds. "They are only available from Adobe, and Adobe has sole authority as to their future enhancement, pricing, etc. While Adobe's Flash products are widely available, this does not mean they are open, since they are controlled entirely by Adobe and available only from Adobe. By almost any definition, Flash is a closed system."He contrasts that with open web standards that Apple has adopted - HTML5, CSS (Cascading Style Sheets, used to format sites) and the programming language Javascript. "Apple even creates open standards for the web", he says, citing WebKit - the open-source browser code that Apple adopted to create its Safari browser, which is now used by a number of companies including Google.He rebuffs claims by Adobe that Flash offers "the full web":"Adobe has repeatedly said that Apple mobile devices cannot access "the full web" because 75% of video on the web is in Flash. What they don't say is that almost all this video is also available in a more modern format, H.264, and viewable on iPhones, iPods and iPads. YouTube, with an estimated 40% of the web's video, shines in an app bundled on all Apple mobile devices, with the iPad offering perhaps the best YouTube discovery and viewing experience ever. Add to this video from Vimeo, Netflix, Facebook, ABC, CBS, CNN, MSNBC, Fox News, ESPN, NPR, Time, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, Sports Illustrated, People, National Geographic, and many, many others. iPhone, iPod and iPad users aren't missing much video."He then takes shots at reliability, security and performance - pointing out that Flash has a bad security record, noting that "we know that Flash is the number one reason Macs crash" and that "we don't want to reduce the reliability and security of our iPhones, iPods and iPads by adding Flash", and putting salt in the wound by saying "We have routinely asked Adobe to show us Flash performing well on a mobile device" - pointing to continued delays in its implementation."We think it will eventually ship, but we're glad we didn't hold our breath," Jobs says.He slams its effect on battery life - "the video on almost all Flash websites currently requires an older generation decoder that is not implemented in mobile chips and must be run in software" - and on touch-based devices: "Flash was designed for PCs using mice, not touch screens using fingers... Most Flash websites need to be rewritten to support touch-based devices. If developers need to rewrite their Flash websites, why not use modern technologies like HTML5, CSS and JavaScript?"But the most important reason is that Flash comprises a layer of abstraction between the programs and the platform, Jobs says, adding that "we know from painful experience" that that leads to sub-standard applications.The conclusion: Jobs is calling Adobe's bluff about Flash running on mobile devices - and although Apple is making some efforts to work with Adobe on letting Flash run more efficiently on Mac OSX (such as thenewly-released alpha of a hardware-accelerated Flash decoder), Apple is clear about the compromises that Flash would impose - and its unwillingness to bend to them.Adobe has already abandoned plans to let developers create cross-platform apps compiled in its Creative Suite 5 application to run on Flash and also on the iPhone: Apple effectively outlawed any such apps with its revision to the iPhone developer licence just ahead of CS5's release.But by pointing to the continued delays in the release of a fully-featured version of Flash on mobile devices, Jobs - and Apple - also point to the problem Adobe faces: that HTML5 and H.264 may be adopted more quickly than it expected. The purchase of Palm by HP - which looks likely to implement Palm's webOS in tablet-style devices - will heighten that. Although Adobe announced in February 2009 that it would develop a version of Flash Player for webOS, itannounced a delay in April 2009.There wasn't much evidence of it by February 2010, when itannounced itagain.Yet at the time Adobe said"By 2012, it expects nearly 53 percent of phones to be shipping with Flash Player 10.1 and that roughly 250 million devices will be supporting it at that time."But 2012 suddenly looks a long way off. It's nearly the middle of 2010, and if you want to play Flash on your Symbian smartphone (which dominates the smartphone sector in numbers, if not access to websites) thenyou have to download a special app. Not that many people do.you'll have Flash Lite - but that's only a subsection of Flash playing (see thedifferences via the FAQ).How about on a BlackBerry? Adobesaid in April 2010that it will have support for those "in the second half of 2010".That's the two big ones. How about the third one, Apple? Oh, no. Well, what about Android? Well - that's promised too.But Android uses WebKit, and that's HTML5, and while Google might like a lot of things, and has even appeared to array itself with Adobe against Apple - why, Android 2.2 is going to support Flash, Andy Rubin of Googletold the New York Times- we have to say that we've heard that one before. Specifically, April 2009, when we were confidently told thatAdobe Flash Player 10 For Android Due in October. That was Adobe's chief executive in an earnings call.So Adobe has done: promise, promise, promise but not deliver, deliver, deliver when it comes to Flash Player for the mobile. Reality check: Apple is one of the biggest sources of mobile internet traffic to most sites that serve video. If your video site sticks with Flash and your rival's serves H.264, guess which one they'll go to? And if the folks at Google Android see that lots of sites are adopting H.264, will they really fuss about getting Flash playback on their devices? You can guess not.Flash on mobile? It's dead already. It just hasn't been told. Steve Jobs just sent it the letter. "Perhaps Adobe should focus more on creating great HTML5 tools for the future, and less on criticizing Apple for leaving the past behind," Jobs concludes. Put that on Flash's gravestone.* corrected detail about Flash Lite availability on Symbian.
To celebrate the launch of Super Street Fighter IV tomorrow, I asked European Street Fighter champion (andGuiness world record holder) Ryan Hart to pick his favourite 20 characters from the entire history of the series.Here's the first part of his interesting selection, taking in a range of cult oldies and fresh-faced newcomers. For each character, Ryan has also included a signature special move, as well as ultras and supers where relevant. We'll also be running images of each character in a special gallery feature tomorrow.So here are numbers 20-11. Come back in 24 hours for the top 10. And if you guess Ryan's favourite Street Fighter character of all time before then, you'll get a giant gold star. (Clue: it's not Ryu ...)20. Crimson ViperOne of the new characters introduced in Street Fighter IV. She's an American secret agent, with a specially designed battle suit, complete with electrified gloves. Not quite Queensbury rules. "She's on the list for her technical combos," says Ryan. "I appreciate the skill required to use her. Usually, new characters are easy to get into, but C. Viper definitely isn't. She requires a lot of skill, and I like that challenge. She's great at controlling the air, because of her flame kicks. And because she's got a large jump trajectory, she's quite unpredictable. It's especially tricky on wake-up, when you've just been knocked down and you're recovering, you just don't know where she's going to land. And that makes her really strong."Special move:Seismic Hammer (F,D,DF+P) or Burst Time (QCF + all punches)19. AbelThis mixed martial artist from France is another of the new characters for Street Fighter IV. Like Zangief, he's a grappler, with an array of grab and throw moves. "I like him for his modesty, he's a very gentle character. He's very strong, but he's patient. If you look at his win quotes and his presence in the story, he's really nice. I think that's the way strong characters should be. He's a grab character so you want to get in close to do the most damage, but he's actually not that bad from a distance – some of his normal moves are okay. A unique thing about him is, although he's a grappler, he has some good strings on the ground so he can hold you in position and set you up for whatever he's got coming. He's also got an ultra that goes through projectiles. Usually, to stop a grab character from getting in close, you throw out as many projectiles as you can, but Abel nullifies that option."Special move:Tornado Throw (HCB + P)Ultra:Breathless (QCF + All Kicks)18. HokutoA gamine martial artist from the Street Fighter EX series, and an expert in the Kobujutsu style. "She's in here because of her counters. I like the idea that you can visually read your opponent's moves and react to them, and also havethem knowthat you knew what they were going to do! A lot of the time in Street Fighter, it's not quite clear that you knew – it could be that you did it randomly. But with Hokuto's counters, they know you knew … I wish they had more characters like that."Special move:SPM: Shinku Geki (QCB + P)/Super:Kiren'eki (QCF x 2 + P)17. Darun MisterA gigantic Indian wrestler with an extravagant moustache, Darun appeared in Street Fighter EX, then promptly disappeared. "He's a Zangief-type grappler and he kind of reminds me of Hakan in SFIV. His grab is his main move; it's cool, because everyone was used to the spinning pile driver – that was the best grab move in Street Fighter – but Darun brought in his own version, and that raised his appeal. He was really interesting."Special move:Brahma Bomb (Spin joystick 360 degrees and press Punch)Super:Chozetsu Ki Shin Bomb (Spin joystick 720 degrees and press Punch)16. Allen SniderAnother character exclusive to the EX series, Allen is an American karate expert, once considered the finest in the US until beaten by Ken. Great sideburns, too. "He's similar to Kairi – it's like, there's Ryu and Ken, then there's Kairi and Allen. That's how it works. It's been a long time since I used him, but I remember him as a very favourable character."Special move:Rising Dragon (F,D,DF+P)Super:Fire Force (QCF x 2 + P)15. DhalsimThe Indian mystic with the rubberised elongating limbs, and another classic character from Street Fighter II. "He changed the way you see fighting game characters. He was the first character who could extended his limbs and win a match from the other side of the screen without projectile attacks. And you're not restricted to the speed of a projectile's release or how many frames it takes to come out. You can send your limbs out as many times as you want, you don't need a super bar or anything. But I always respect anyone I see using Dhalsim because he's quite difficult to learn."Special move:Yoga Fire (QCF + P)Super:Yoga Inferno (QCF x 2 + P)14. GuileThe US special forces operative with the oh-so-eighties hair is widely considered to be the third man of Street Fighter after Ken and Ryu. "I like his personality – he's very confident, very determined, but he's not infatuated with himself like Vega. He's a very defensive character – he has to stay back and wait, use projectiles, mix up the speed of the projectiles to confuse enemies. When you're fighting him, he's the sort of character who plays on your patience – he makes you want to get in, he makes you anxious, and then you're more prone to make mistakes. That's where he's strong."Special move:Sonic Boom (Charge B then F+Punch) or Sonic Hurricane (Charge B then F,B,F+All Punches)13. Charlie NashGuile's bespectacled war buddy is another Brash young American with extravagant hair. "He's like Guile, but he had more interesting combos – you could chain more of his links together and that made him more fun to use in the Alpha series. You could get in there, do a few hits, go into a special move, into a super, into another super … that was enjoyable but quite challenging."Special move:Somersault Kick (Charge D, then U + Kick)Super:Super Crossfire Blitz (Charge B then F,B,F+K)12. Fei LongCapcom's tribute to Bruce Lee, Fei Long is a super fast Hong Kong-born kung fu master. "I've always been into Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan movies so I liked him from the start. Fei Long is very fast, very nimble, but in Super Street Fighter Turbo, although he was good he was never up there with Ryu, Ken and co. In fact, he has trouble with any projectile fighter, because he has no distance moves of his own. But he's a cool character and that's why he's in here."Special move:Rekka Ken (QCF + P)Ultra:Rekkashingeki (QCF x 2 + All Punches)11. Yun/YangWith their extravagant hair and Top Man fashion leanings, Yun and Yang are essentially the Jedward of Street Fighter lore. "They appealed to me because they were really fast as well as being strong. In Street Fighter II 3rd Strike, Yun had a super called Genei Jin – Yang had his own version, too – and what this did was, it allowed you to come up with your own custom combo to maximise damage within the time gauge. You could be really unique in what you used on your opponent. They were the only characters who had that."Special move:Zenpou Tenshin (HCB + K)Super:Genei Jin (QCF x 2 + P)KeyF = ForwardB = BackU = UpD = DownDF = Down ForwardDB = Down BackCharge = hold joystick in positionQCF = Quarter Circle ForwardQCB = Quarter Circle BackHCF = Half Circle ForwardHCB = Half Circle BackNote:All 360 + 720 commands, as well as Yun's Zenpou Tenshin and Abel's Tornado Throw, must be performed close to a grounded opponent.
Was it a good idea for Hewlett-Packard, the world's biggest computer company, to buy Palm – which now specialises in mobile phones – for $1.2bn?The initial response from analysts has been as mixed as you'd expect – see the comments from Forrester, Gartner, IDC, Informa, and Ovum below – but almost everything depends on what HP intends to do with its new company.At one extreme, the takeover could just involve a change from a Palm that's struggling in the smartphone business to a Palm with the cash (and the resulting market confidence) to create a successful smartphone business. That's IDC's basic view. At the other extreme, HP could be more interested in owning its own operating system across phones and mobile devices (and being free of Microsoft in those areas), much like Apple. That seems to be the view held by Informa Telecoms &amp; Media.But in the long term, it also depends on how these market areas turn out.Previously, Palm and many rivals – including Microsoft and Nokia – took the view that the mobile phone business would develop like previous technology platform businesses. Typically these start with one or a few small companies that supply an end-to-end solution, but develop into large industries to which many companies contribute parts. This involves a change from vertical organisation (where one company provides the hardware, software, online service, shops etc) to a horizontal organisation (where different companies provide the chips, operating system, services etc).Palm split itself into hardware and software divisions, and Nokia helped set up Symbian, precisely to enable a move from a vertical (owned and mostly closed) organisation to a horizontal one (open licensing). Both wanted to avoid Apple's mistake in staying with a vertical organisation: that while the bits work together, you end up with 2% (or so) market share.But the mobile phone and media tablet markets won't necessarily follow the sort of path that has become well known in the computer industry, and change from vertical to horizontal structures. They could, instead, reduce to a few vertically-oriented companies. That's how the games console business still works, with platforms owned and closely controlled by (currently) Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft.Apple's iPad is another example of a vertically-organised highly-controlled system, exactly like Sony's PlayStation Portable, for example. This kind of structure works better in the consumer market than the business market, because businesses hate the prospect of being overcharged by companies who realise they don't have a choice. Consumers just throw their gadgets away.If HP sees the market becoming Balkanised so that a handful of competitors (Apple, RIM, Microsoft, Nokia) own and control their own platforms, then buying Palm makes perfect sense. It will have its own platform.But if the market is going to tip to a horizontal one, where a few companies compete to provide software (Google, Microsoft, Symbian), many compete with hardware (Samsung, LG, Sony, Dell etc), and many compete with services (AT&amp;T, Verizon, Orange etc) then the Palm purchase may not work out too well.HP is, of course, capable at both types of business. It's the world's biggest supplier of Windows PCs, a horizontal business, and it is also the world's biggest supplier of printers, where vertical lock-in drives profitability. At the moment, we don't know which way HP plans to go. Does it know itself?What the analysts sayCharles Golvin, mobile analyst at Forrester Research"The good news is that HP made a strong move toward becoming a player in the mobile market. The bad news is that it's the wrong move. Palm could be valued for its brand, its intellectual property, its platform, or its people. HP doesn't need the Palm brand; the IP helps an existing player not a new entrant; we don't think the WebOS platform is viable long term in the face of its competition; and HP could sweep up Palm's people individually at a much lower price. HP needs a strong presence in mobile, but Palm doesn't deliver that."Carolina Milanesi, Gartner's research vice-president for mobile devices"We believe HP's purchase of Palm shows a clear intention to enter the consumer mobile device market. The pairing has merit: HP brings financial strength and broad reach; Palm brings a set of consumer-focused hardware, OS, application store and intellectual property. HP has made a clear commitment to invest in Palm's technologies and has hinted at ambitious plans that go beyond smartphones. But neither Palm nor HP have a strong presence in the consumer market. Most significantly, they lack momentum around mobile application stores and a developer ecosystem. It will take time for HP to build up such an ecosystem, and it faces extremely strong competitors like Apple and Android. The consumer smartphone market moves quickly and HP will have to act fast."Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's European research manager for mobile devices"This is a good move for both companies. HP always struggled to grow its smartphone business unit because it never knew how to make mobile phones. The iPaq devices never were successful, and HP only achieved 0.1% market share in 2009. On the other hand, Palm developed a good operating system but was struggling to sell its new WebOS devices, Palm Pre and Palm Pixi, because money makes the difference at point of sale. Palm's worldwide market share was 1.5% in 2009. If HP didn't have the right products to become a smart phone player, Palm didn't have the money to compete with Apple and RIM in the US market and to make the brand known outside its home market. This deal takes a good operating system to the right hands and to the next level."In the short-term, the impact of this deal will be felt in the US market and Nokia will be one of the most affected players. When a company has a good product and the money for marketing activities, it creates a problem for its competitors. With money to invest, Palm will be able to leverage its brand, broaden its portfolio, and provide carriers with the money they need to sell devices. Money brings success if you have the right product, as Palm has. Palm's survival no longer seems to be a problem, for the time being, but one question remains: will HP allow Palm to drive the business the way it wants and back it up with cash? To HP, smart phones are not new – it always had money, but it never succeeded. Will things be different this time? Yes, if HP takes advantage of the convergence with mobile, but sticks to the business it knows best – printers."Tony Cripps, principal analyst at Ovum"After several seeming knock-backs from specialist handset manufacturers, HP's rescue of Palm will be great news for the Palm faithful and undoubtedly the best deal for Palm – the Palm brand continues to receive a considerable following and goodwill from the North American public and HP is serious about boosting its image and presence in the connected consumer device space. WebOS could indeed become a major asset for HP and obviously has scope for use on devices such as tablets – Palm's engineers and designers clearly put a lot of time and effort into creating a very slick user experience. However, HP will need to drive traction for WebOS among developers, if it is to truly capitalise on that potential."That may not prove easy – as Ovum's recent survey of mobile application developers shows, application writers show an overwhelming desire to support three or perhaps four device platforms. With at least that many already dominating the space, HP may have its work cut out proving the revenue earning potential of WebOS devices to developers."Dave McQueen, principal analyst at Informa Telecoms &amp; Media"The acquisition of Palm seems to be a good fit for HP; however, it will be interesting to see how the combined organisation will operate – particularly as neither HP's Windows Mobile business focused devices nor Palm's webOS handsets have been particularly successful in the mobile handset market. I'm not convinced the Palm devices will add much to HP's portfolio (relatively poor sales, build quality, etc)."It appears that HP intends to use webOS in other device types, much as Apple has extended iPhone OS X to the iPad. However, there are still issues with awareness and applications development, which is paramount to success in the smartphone market. Also, does that mean HP will not make Android smartphones and focus solely on webOS devices? This could prove to be a restrictive strategy in the fast growing smartphone market. Distribution is key, as Google recently learned. Traditionally, HP has a very good distribution network that will help channel to market but it will need to work closely with mobile operators, a weakness of Palm's, in order to succeed."
What was Hitler like? I mean, what was hereallylike? To those who never saw him in the flesh, it's hard to imagine how an individual could have hypnotised so many intelligent people into doing and believing unspeakable things. What was the secret of the man's psychic grip on others?The answer, it turned out, was provided not by historians, but by a German actor, Bruno Ganz, in the filmDownfall, which charts the dictator's last few days in his Berlin bunker. The pivotal moment in the film comes when Hitler's senior generals reveal to him that the game's up – the Allies have Berlin encircled, the Russians are at the eastern gates and German military resources are exhausted.In the scene, Hitler absorbs this information in silence. Then he orders most of those present to leave the room, leaving only the most senior military people. He looks crushed. And then he explodes into life. As David Denby, theNew Yorker's film critic, describes it: "Energy rushes up in galvanic surges from Ganz's pelvis or spine or some other mysterious source of actorly strength. The dark head, slumped over a map, suddenly rises, the arms wave about wildly, and the voice erupts in that familiar deafening bawl. The rages are mesmerising, appalling... and somehow Ganz pulls them off without lunging all over the room; he explodes and implodes simultaneously, and then subsides and becomes even smaller."Ganz's performance is a real tour de force, so much so that theNew Yorkercritic wondered aloud if it would have the effect of humanising Hitler. But the scene had another, equally extraordinary, side-effect. It became the basis for a wildly successful and entertaining comic virus, in which people used everyday video-editing software to remix the scene in modern contexts (politics, sports, technology, popular culture). The German soundtrack was left unchanged, but new subtitles were added and then the results were posted on YouTube.So we had Hitler raving about the defeat of the New York Mets, being excluded from Xbox LIVE or not getting an Apple iPad. After Irish voters rejected the Lisbon Treaty in a referendum, Hitler became the taoiseach, Brian Cowen, ranting about the venality and incompetence of his advisers and the stupidity of the electorate.In one spoof, Hitler becomes Hillary Clinton who is enraged by Barack Obama's victories in the US presidential primaries; in another, he is John McCain being told the early results from the election. And there's even one based on the sub-prime mortgage crisis, in which Hitler is a property investor ("All over the map, mein führer, mortgages are resetting and homes are going into foreclosure"). And so on, ad infinitum.Some of these parodies are tiresome. But many are side-splittingly funny, a testimony to the power of remixing as a way of enlivening cultural life. Nevertheless, not everyone is delighted by this new art form. Jewish organisations have been understandably disturbed by the way the architect of the Holocaust has been turned into a comic turn. "Hitler," said the director of the Anti-Defamation League, "is not a cartoon character".Now the makers of the original film have decided that they've had enough. They have asked Google (which owns YouTube) to take down the remixes and it looks as though Google will comply – though hundreds were still online when I checked late last week.To an intellectual property lawyer, this will seem entirely straightforward. To normal human beings, however – and especially those who are interested in culture – the issue is more complicated. For one thing, there's the awkward fact that all artistic endeavour involves borrowing from other art works. Just think of Handel, who was a notorious borrower. And every song ever written has been informed by music that the composer has absorbed in his or her earlier life.Or, as TS Eliot put it, one of the "surest tests" of the superiority or inferiority of a poet "is the way in which a poet borrows. Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal; bad poets deface what they take, and good poets make it into something better, or at least something different. The good poet welds his theft into a whole of feeling which is unique, utterly different than that from which it is torn; the bad poet throws it into something which has no cohesion".The YouTube remix culture is thus a new take on a venerable tradition. I wouldn't argue that theDownfallspoofs are high art, but they are evidence of bottom-up creativity and intelligence in a new medium. And if we allow narrow considerations of intellectual property to stifle this creativity, then we may all, except for the lawyers, live to regret it.
The UK is heading to the polling booths to vote for its new Parliament on 6 May. This year, the main parties have made Britain's digital future a central issue in their election promises, releasing technology manifestos and making speeches about how they will promote the country's thriving technology industry.We want to know just what each party plans for the digital economy, how they'll curb piracy and filesharing, where they stand on intellectual property copyright reforms, how they'll fund rural broadband penetration, and what they intend to do with the library of government data.Joining us for this week's programme are Stephen Timms, Labour MP for East Ham, financial secretary to the Treasury, and minister for Digital Britain; Jeremy Hunt, Conservative MP for South West Surreyand shadow secretary of state for culture, media and sport, and LordRazzall, the Liberal Democrat's spokesperson for business, enterpriseand regulatory reform.Also in the studio are our Tech Weekly regulars – presenter Aleks Krotoski, Guardian Technology editor Charles Arthur and New Media correspondent Jemima Kiss.It's a packed hour of discussion. In addition to our own interests, we've lobbied our listeners for their questions for this debate via Twitter and the Guardian's blogs. Listen and learn more about what's behind the technology election promises, and what will happen in Digital Britain over the next five years.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Nottingham-based games festivalGameCityis holding its third GC Nights event tonight at the city's stylish Antenna Bar. The headline act will beBeatnik Games, the fabulously talented indie studio behind downloadable PC hitPlain Sight, a multiplayer deathmatch shooter, in which suicidal ninja robots attempt to kill each other in a surreal outerspace setting.The team will no doubt be discussing the vagaries of bringing android slaughter to the Steam platform – although there may well also be some topical chatter.  "With the election fast-approaching, I'm hoping we can address some real issues on the night and demonstrate how exploding robots can hint toward a new kind of progressive politics," says Beatnik Games' MD Robin Lacey.As I always write when flagging up these events, they're the sorts of things I want to see more of across the UK. We have passionate gamers, and passionate game makers here, and there's no reason why the two parties shouldn't be brought together on a more regular basis.Anyway, the event starts at 7:30pm this evening, and will also involve food, drink and quizzes, as well as other indie developers. There's more informationhere.
The first part of Windows Live Wave 4 got its first showing in Sao Paulo, Brazil, today when Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer met students at the Universidad de Sao Paulo. The new version ofWindows Live Messengeris not yet available in beta form, but is expected to be the first of a series new Live programs.Live Wave 4 programs require Windows 7 or Vista. They will not run on Windows XP.There will also be mobile versions of Live Messenger for Windows Phone 7, Apple iPhone, RIM BlackBerry and Nokia, but not Windows Mobile.The new Windows Live Messenger has social networking features, and to begin with, taps into data from Facebook, MySpace nd LinkedIn. Other services will be added later. Microsoft won't say which ones are planned, but Twitter is a likely suspect.The connection works both ways. If you comment on a Facebook item in Messenger, for example, the comment is posted to Facebook. Interoperability with Facebook chat is still being developed.Messenger's features include tabbed conversations, high-definition video chat, the integration of Bing search results, and the ability to distinguish best friends (as favourites) from ordinary friends. Items from your favourite people are separated out at the top.The tabbed conversations feature means you can chat with several people at once without having several different Messenger windows open.David Law* from the Live team in Microsoft UK said the aim was to make Messenger "the best way to share photos and videos online." It won't replace other services, such as Facebook and Flickr, but "it will bring together things that you wouldn't immediately check." It will also enable people to post synchronised status updates and keep up with friends without having to access too many services separately.Windows Live Messenger dominates the instant messaging market in the UK: Law says 93% of messaging minutes are in Windows Messenger. However, many people now communicate via other services, including Skype, Facebook, and Twitter.* Corrected, with apologies...
Photomontage from theNew York Times Bits blogReady for the latest instalment of what we must, to make things clichéd, call Gizmodogate? Then we'll begin.&bull; the person who left the bar in Redwood with the iPhone 4G prototype has been identified.&bull; Wiredsays thatApple worked out who it was before the police:"People identifying themselves as representing Apple last week visited and sought permission to search the Silicon Valley address of the college-age man who came into possession of a next-generation iPhone prototype, according to a person involved with the find."It continues:"News of Apple's lost iPhone prototype hit the web like a bombshell, but it was apparently an open secret for weeks amongst the finder's roommates and neighbors, where the device was shown around mostly as a curiosity. According to the source, who has direct knowledge of the Gizmodo transaction, the group of friends suspected this might be Apple's new phone, but no one knew for sure. "There was no effort to keep it secret," the source said. "There were a bunch of people who knew."Now here's the intriguing paragraph:"The finder attempted to notify Apple and find the owner of the device but failed, even going so far as to search alphabetically through Facebook, the source said."If you've read many newspaper or magazine stories involving a celebrity or politician who's in some sort of trouble, then you'll have noticed that when they refer to a "source" it's - buttons to doughnuts - the actual person who's talking. Because they know things that only the person involved would. Such as that they went through Facebook alphabetically. (You can decide for yourself whether social media is really the right way to try to contact Apple.)"News accounts depicting the $5,000 payment as a "sale" are incorrect, this person said. Rather, the agreement with Gizmodo was for exclusivity only. "It was made very explicit that Gizmodo was to help the finder return the phone to its rightful owner or give it back," this person said. "Gizmodo said they could help restore the phone."This is known as "getting your story in front of the jury before it's convened".&bull; Jason Chen, whose house was searched (and property seized) hasretained a criminal lawyer."I don't know whether he's the target of the criminal probe or whether they're trying to get information about sources from him," said Thomas Nolan Jr. [veteran criminal defense attorney from Nolan, Armstrong &amp; Barton in Palo Alto]."There's plenty of argument about shield laws - which protect journalists' sources:"Terry Francke, First Amendment expert at Californians Aware, said under those laws, the search warrant shouldn't have been issued."""The normal procedure would be to informally request and then perhaps use a subpoena for the information," he said.""But Francke said shield laws aren't designed to protect journalists from their own criminal acts. "I don't think that anyone's arguing that these protections for unpublished information provide protection against accusations of receiving stolen property," said Francke. "And:"The difficult question of law will be whether or not Chen's source of the iPhone can be protected the same way that a source of information is, Francke added. "The question is: Can he use his own rights as a journalist to suppress evidence that's sought in the prosecution of someone else?" Francke said. "My rough guess is that he probably can." "&bull; Jay Oatway, a journalist based in Hong Kong,would like to explain"Why Gizmodo's iPhone Coverage Is a Critical Test Case For the Future of Journalism". OK, Jay: fire away. First he asks whether bloggers are journalists (well durr, of course they are) and then goes to his next point:"Sure, there are recognized codes of conduct, and questions as to whether Gizmodo overstepped the boundaries. But considering the depths that tabloid journalism as gone to over the past century, Gizmodo looks like an upstanding citizen."Hmm, actually, it's the question of whether the boundaries were overstepped that thepoliceare interested in. After all, nobody disputes that the News of the World employs lots of journalists. Yet somehow that hasn't prevented some parts of the police being interested - though arguably not interested enough - inphone hacking.
Hewlett-Packard is buying Palm for nearly $1bn in cash, ending a brief period when it had looked as though the troubled smartphone maker might be bought by rival phone makers HTC or the Chinese computer maker Lenovo.The $5.70 per share price represents a 23% premium over the price yesterday. Accounting for debt, which HP is also taking on, the transaction has a value of $1.2bn. It is expected to close by the end of July. Last year Palm stock traded at up to $18 - though that is a far cry from its 2000 high of $552.The deal means that HP can move aggressively into the mobile phone market using Palm's WebOS operating system, and also attack the market for "slate" computers like Apple's iPad, a niche for which sales are expected to grow rapidly this year.The transaction also means that the uncertainty that has been hanging over Palm - which attempted to break the three-way stranglehold on the smartphone market by Nokia, BlackBerry maker RIM and Apple - is over.In theofficial statement, HP says the deal has been agreed by both boards."Palm's innovative operating system provides an ideal platform to expand HP's mobility strategy and create a unique HP experience spanning multiple mobile connected devices," said Todd Bradley, executive vice president, Personal Systems Group, HP. "And, Palm possesses significant IP assets and has a highly skilled team. The smartphone market is large, profitable and rapidly growing, and companies that can provide an integrated device and experience command a higher share. Advances in mobility are offering significant opportunities, and HP intends to be a leader in this market."The statement notes that Jon Rubenstein, the former Apple executive who was brought in as chief executive at Palm after joining it in October 2007, is expected to remain with the company.HP has not previously been seen as a player in the mobile phone market. But it has the heft to be able to cut deals with the big phone networks: Palm struggled to get good prices for its Palm Pre and Pixi products, despite enthusiastic reviews. It is reckoned that about 500,000 Pre handsets were sold in the US after its release in 2009.A key feature that Palm will bring to HP is the WebOS operating system for mobile phones, putting HP into contention with Nokia's Symbian, Google's Android, RIM's BlackBerry, Apple's OSX and Microsoft's Windows Mobile and upcoming Windows Phone.Palm has been losing share in the smartphone market to Apple and, now, Android.Elevation Partners, the company which provided repeated investments that in effect kept Palm from going bust, should realise a small profit on the deal. Dan Primack of PEHub, which follows private equity transactions,noted: "Back of envelope math shows Elevation would get $485m from HP/Palm deal. Compared to $460m in. "Engadget hasdetails of a phone callwith HP executives: the suggestion is that HP adds the global reach, while Palm brings the intellectual property.In a related post,Engadget saysthat[the] word is that Palm's existing hardware roadmap is basically untouched at this point by this acquisition, but the good news on the HP end of things is that the company sees WebOS as a "prized asset," and they intend to "scale it across multiple connected devices." That sounds like tablets to us, and HP didn't beat back that assumption. On the Palm hardware end, Jon [Rubenstein] is very fond of saying "scale," referring to the money and manufacturing resources at HP's disposal, but he also says that he sees Palm working hand in hand with HP on devices.
Last week's episode of Doctor Who ended with a trailer not just for the next show, but alsothe upcoming Doctor Who game. It's an exciting moment for fans such as me. We were last able to play a computer game as our hero in the 1992 Spectrum and Windows 3.1 titleDalek Attack – a fun, if fairly generic, action platformer.But I am worried that it may be difficult to translate the magic of Doctor Who to a game format. Sean Millard of franchise Sumo Digital has said: "The Doctor himself . . . saves humanity, with the power of negotiation and clever quips, which . . . doesn't make for great gameplay." Some games have proved him wrong about the quips – notably theMonkey Island series– but most strip out these qualities. TheBuffy the Vampire Slayer games, for instance, lost much of the show's trademark humour.And games, famously,do not make great movies. They are often essentially exciting learning experiences: practice the same skill in different environments, get rewarded for doing it better until you are ready to take on the big boss. Translated into a movie, this makes for a repetitive, over-structured story with little emphasis on characterisation or relationship development. The best of the bunch was probably Tomb Raider starring Angelina Jolie, with Chris Barrie as Lara Croft's butler – and all I can really say of it is that it passed the time on a transatlantic flight.The fact that Doctor Who has at last been recognised as a national treasure is worth celebrating. Any writer or games designer would love to have a crack at it, and the fact that the game will be free for licence-fee payers is exciting. But I can't help thinking this could be one time when TV trumps games.
The Infinity Ward saga is dragging on but analyst Mike Hickey of Janco Partners thinksthe Modern Warfare developer will soon disappear.We expect Infinity Ward studio will be essentially closed after their next map pack release, with development work on Modern Warfare 3 spread between two studios not historically tied to the franchise.Hickey unsurprisingly blames the staff departures and legal issues for the problems.Continued defections from their Infinity Ward studio have created meaningful uncertainty around the future of their Call of Duty: Modern Warfare franchise.The recently released and aptly titled "Stimulus" download pack has sold over 2.5 million in less than a month. It will be interesting to see how well the next map pack does when released later this year. Will Infinity Ward go out with the proverbial bang? Or will fans finally tire of Modern Warfare 2? Given the amount of friends I have who still play regularly I'm guessing it may be the latter.Of course the most interesting reaction will be when Modern Warfare 3 arrives. Hickey predicts that MW3 will arrive in late 2011 and earn publisher Activision $738 million in sales. But how will fans react to the changes in developer? Clearly the multiplayer is key and will need to be as well designed as MW2 for MW3 to stand any chance. Let's face it though – come November 2011 (or whenever), are Modern Warfare fans really going to shun the new game because Infinity Ward is not involved? Do most Modern Warfare players even know or care who made their favourite game? What do you think?
Just in case you've missed this over the last day or so, it seems there's no end in sight to the Infinity Ward drama. It has now emerged that 38 former and current staff are suing Activision for breach of contract.Through their attorneys, the so-called "Infinity Ward Employee Group" has claimed that the publisher withheld royalties in order to ensure development staff stayed on to complete Modern Warfare 3. Last month, studio heads Jason West and Vince Zampella were sacked for "insubordination" and later set up their own studio, Respawn Entertainment. The duo has filed its own $36m lawsuit against Activision. Since then,a reported 26 staffhave left Infinity Ward, some of whom have gone on to join Respawn.The legal documents were unearthed byUS news site G4TV, which quotes attorney Bruce Isaacs:"Activision owes my clients approximately $75 million to $125 million dollars. Activision has withheld most of the money to force many of my people to stay, some against their will, so that they would finish the delivery of Modern Warfare 3. That is not what they wanted to do. Many of them. My clients' entitled to their money. Activision has no right to withhold their money -- our money."The action focuses on royalties apparently due to the employees after the completion of Modern Warfare 2, which has so far generated over $1bn in revenues for Activision. The game hasrecently been recognised by Guinness World Recordsas the most successful entertainment launch in history. The group claims that by delivering the project on time, they met the stipulations behind the delivery of royalty payments, but that these amounts were at least partially withheld by the publisher.Activision has provided a terse response to this latest escalation:"Activision believes the action is without merit," a company spokesman said in response to the suit. "Activision retains the discretion to determine the amount and the schedule of bonus payments for [Modern Warfare 2] and has acted consistent with its rights and the law at all times. We look forward to getting judicial confirmation that our position is right."The publisher has been desperate to claw back the PR initiative over recent weeks. In the immediate aftermath of the West and Zampella dismissal, the companyannouncedthe formation of a new business unit to oversee the Call of Duty brand, and confirmed that a new CoD-branded action adventure title was in development at the newly formedSledgehammer Gamesstudio. Two weeks ago, Activision COO Thomas Tipplclaimedthat Infinity Ward was definitely working on a Call of Duty title. However, it would seem that tensions between publisher and developer over the future of the studio have been bubbling for some time – back in January, insiders apparentlytold news site VG247, that Infinity Wardwouldn'tbe working on Modern Warfare 3, and that the studio was creating an entirely new IP.It would seem at the heart of all this is that old bugbear creative freedom. Perhaps the Infinity Ward staffers were keen to move way from a franchise they'd been working on for almost ten years. Activision, meanwhile, must have been equally keen to keep them plugging away at what is by far the most successful brand in its portfolio. Now, the studio looks to be irreparably damaged: a quarter of the Modern Warfare dev team gone, a third of that team suing their publisher, the creative leads of that team working at a brand new studio. Analysts and Activision shareholders alike will no doubt be wondering how this could all have been handled differently...
Carol Bartz, the new chief executive of Yahoo, says the company is "definitely" interested in acquiring small start-up companies in the coming year – but declined to say how much money is in the pot, or whetherthe location-based social network Foursquareis in her sights.Making her first visit as chief executive to the UK, Bartz said that Yahoo's target was to make the site's homepage more personalised – even for users who haven't bothered to personalise it. That has been shown to bring advertising benefits, because more people click through to adverts and news items which are local."I won't comment on Foursquare directly, but what I'll comment on is that local information, where someone is, what's in your neighbourhood, that's very interesting," Bartz said. Location-based services are a major growth driver, she suggested.Web reports have suggested that Bartz is in talks to buy Foursquare, which has a rumoured valuation of $80m (£53m), more than a million users and said earlier this week it was considering whether to seek a buyout or more venture capital funding. But though she mentioned it unprompted, and notably did not mention its rival Gowalla, she would not say whether the companies are in talks.Asked how much she would spend on such companies, she said "it depends how much they want".Bartz has spent the past year defining and focussing the company on its mission statement – which she described as "to combine your world and the rest of the world on the internet", contrasting it with Google's (to organise the world's information and make it accessible) and Microsoft's (to get a PC on every desktop).Personalising the site's pages and services would bring big benefits, she explained. Allowing networks to target users with special offers, recommendations and other services depending on their location promises to open up the mobile market to advertisers, who have until now struggled to find value in mobile ads.Bartz said Yahoo was neck and neck with Google in the number of mobile users it could reach – mainly through deals with carriers and handset makers. Last week, it agreed to expand the role of its services on cellphones of the world's second-largest handset maker Samsung."My Yahoo" – which lets users tailor the home Yahoo page as they wish – "has been around for a long time, but only 15% of people have taken the time to tailor it to their needs", Bartz said. "The other 85% haven't. We should be able to do that by knowing what you're doing on the internet."Bartz, a famously straight-talking Silicon Valley veteran who took over the helm of the company in January 2009 after it fought off a bid from Microsoft in 2008, did not hold back from criticising her own company's most recent efforts. "I was looking at the home page last week trying to find out about flights to the UK and it had a story from AP [the Associated Press] that was 17 hours old. That wasn't good enough, so I looked again and there was one from CNN that was 38 minutes old. That's better, I thought. Everything should come in as real-time as possible."Bartz insists that Yahoo will regain some share in the search market, which is dominated by Google, this coming quarter. Yahoo stabilised its share last quarter after several quarters of losses and Bartz said last week it had hit bottom.In March, Yahoo had 17% of the U.S. search market, the world's biggest, while Google had 65%, according to industry tracker comScore. Microsoft, which launched a revamped search engine, Bing, last year, had 12%.Yahoo also said it had boughtexclusive online rights in Britain to show highlights of English Premier League soccerfor the next three seasons, until 2013. It will offer five-minute highlights packages of each match.Asked whether she was worried that many developers have left Yahoo during her tenure – and that the company might not be viewed as innovative as it had been in the past – she indicated that she was not. "You're going to see us building up a lot more things with the social graph," she said. "I reject and resent the idea that you will never see innovation from Yahoo."
Microsoft and HTC "havesigned a patent agreementthat provides broad coverage under Microsoft's patent portfolio for HTC's mobile phones running the Android mobile platform. Under the terms of the agreement, Microsoft will receive royalties from HTC."Since the patents are not listed, it's hard to know what's going on here.TechCrunch's first speculationwas that this was Microsoft helping HTC, because HTC is being sued by Apple for infringing its iPhone patents. An alternative speculation is that Microsoft is collecting rent by licensing the unspecified patents it claims are infringed by Linux, on which Google's Android operating system is based.The latter idea has been floated byIna Fried at CNet, who reported:Microsoft has taken the position, according to those close to the company, that Android infringes on the company's patented technology and that the infringement applies broadly in areas ranging from the user interface to the underlying operating system.Fried has good contacts inside Microsoft, but "those close to the company" remains somewhat short of an official endorsement. It's a long way from a court case.HTC built its entire business on PDAs and then mobile phones running variants of Microsoft Windows CE, including Pocket PC and Windows Mobile, but has recently become a leading supplier of phones running Android. It can therefore expect help from both Microsoft and Google against Apple, their common enemy, but that won't stop Microsoft and Google from being enemies as well.Will anybody actually benefit from this latest round of patent spats? Of course. It's great for the lawyers involved, and some of the courts in America's cowboy country could get incidental benefits. Users? The vast majority will be worse off.Microsoft will make at least a bit of money from its licensing agreement with HTC, though maybe not enough to cover the reduction in licensing fees from HTC as it shifts emphasis from Windows Mobile to Android. And I suspect it will be a very long way from enough to cover Microsoft's horrendous losses in previous patent cases, where it has generally had a noticeable lack of success.
There can be few gamers who have not, at one time or another, thought "I have an amazing idea for a game" – and then done absolutely nothing about it. Even comparatively user-friendly design packageslike the excellent Game Makerare too complex and demanding for most of us. But now the answer is here – and it's wearing a moustache and an evil grin.Experienced Nintendo fanatics will recognise the WarioWare series of frenetic micro-game collections. Each title contains dozens of three-second tasks, which usually involve quickly poking, grabbing or shoving onscreen objects with the stylus. They're the interactive equivalent of a punk song – cheap, fast and grubbily compelling. WarioWare D.I.Y comes with 90 such challenges, but the main draw is the editing suite which lets you create your own idiotic micro-games from scratch. Here, game design is broken down into its constituent elements – background graphics, animating objects, AI and music – and players build each one via a series of point-and-click applications.At first, it's easy to get lost amid the wealth of icons and options. While creating backgrounds for example, you can choose from a selection of paint brushes and fill tools, as well as various pre-drawn elements such as trees and buildings. The music studio, meanwhile, is a four-track sequencer, complete with an impressive range of instruments and sound effects. The most complex part is the AI builder, where the mechanics of the game are laid down. You'll need to define the winning and losing dynamics of each game, as well as the effect every object has on the world and other objects. If your knowledge of cause and effect is hazy, this could represent a considerable challenge.Yet, the jaunty tutorial mode teaches you the basics quite quickly, and it's easy to experiment and work out where you're going wrong. The early results are often ludicrously hackneyed, in a charming low-fi sort of way – and you'll have hours of fun slowly crafting these interactive sketches into fully-formed masterpieces. Importantly, WarioWare D.I.Y has things to say about the foundations of game structure that all players could benefit from learning and understanding.Sadly, due to Nintendo's over-protective friend code system, you can only share your wondrous creations with your mates – you can't upload games to a dedicated website for all to enjoy. It would have been interesting to see a community flourish around WarioWare D.I.Y, as it has done with the similarly creative Little Big Planet on PS3, but then, who knows what salacious, family-unfriendly fare gamers will produce, and Nintendo has a rep to protect.If you're determined to share, there are unofficial WarioWare D.I.Y forums where fans are already exchanging their friend codes to allow a more expansive distribution network. Nintendo is also running themed design competitions for fans to enter, and in Japan has made available several micro-games created by well-known designers like Yoshio Sakamoto, the co-creator of the famed Metroid series. Over here, they'll probably draft in Ant and Dec or – lord help us – the Redknapp family.It doesn't matter. What matters is that WarioWare DIY is a Mario Paint for the 21st century; a lovely little creative tool that pretends to be throwaway kitsch, but is really rather powerful, instructive and wonderful.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
I would really appreciate a quick heads up as to whether Google Apps could be set up to provide a viable alternative to Ning for a not-for-profit organisation doing community and specialist projects.Norma FosterGoogle Apps and Ning don't do the same sort of thing, so it depends what you're using Ning for, and how well it meets your needs..Google Apps mainly exists to provide online applications such as email, shared calendars, a word processor and a spreadsheet, so it's useful for collaborative online working. It's not so useful as a social network. Ning is a social networking system, but it doesn't provide applications. I'm sure there are lots of people who use both.If you like Ning's social networking features, then you could consider staying put. The company has said it is planning to phase out the free service, but it hasn't announced a date, or said how much it intends to charge. Still, it would be wise to start exploring -- and costing -- alternatives now. I suspectGroupSitewould be most suitable for your needs, but also have a look atSocialGoandKickApps. Phil Bradley's blog postAlternatives to Ningmentions several others.GroupSite's basic service is free, but itcharges for premium features, starting at $9 per feature per month. SocialGo charges $24.99 per month for itsPremium service, which includes audio and video chat, and it has a bandwidth cap. KickApps has offerings at $9.95, $19.95 and $39.95 per month.If you want something that bridges social networking, collaboration and apps, thenSocialTextis worth a look. This combines social networking and blogging with wiki-based workspaces, and it also has a spreadsheet, at extra cost. It's aimed at business users and you might find it costs more than you want to pay, but you can try it free for 30 days.Facebook could also be an option once Facebook Docs becomes widely available. Docs is based on the Microsoft's forthcoming Web Apps version of Office, though it's not clear how much functionality will be easily available to Facebook users, or when. Also, your users would have to be extremely careful about how much information they share. For businesses and charities, the privacy issues could mean Facebook isn't worth the risk.If you are mainly interested in online applications rather than social networking, then Google Apps is a good solution for £33 or $50 per user per year. We use it at the Guardian. The main benefits are access to Gmail and the ability to share calendars, but the other apps are not as good, and the contact manager is dreadful.Have a look atZoho, which offers more applications than Google, including Zoho Wiki, Zoho Meeting and Zoho Planner, plus a number of business services including online invoicing. Zoho Writer has an offline mode so you can use it even if you don't have an internet connection, and there's a plug-in that lets you create, edit and save your work directly to Zoho Writer/Sheet from inside Microsoft Word/Excel.In fact, Zoho is useful even if you already use Google Apps.Zoho for Google Appsintegration means you can log into Zoho with your Google name and password, access Gmail, Google Docs and Google Calendar from inside Zoho, and embed Zoho Projects and CRM gadgets in iGoogle and Google Sites.Zoho is free for personal use, and charges for serious business use. It offers discounts to non-profit organisations, so ask for a quote. Another alternative is ThinkFree Office, though I now realise I haven't looked at it since myNetbytes review in 2007.Bear in mind that you can only use most online applications when you have a reliable internet connection, and that it's vitally important to keep offline copies of essential data. Accounts get hacked, users can get locked out or banned for no apparent reason, and service suppliers can make mistakes (which includes deleting your data) or go bust. Having backups for online data is just as important as having backups for the data on personal computers.Incidentally, the ability to work well with Microsoft Office can be useful because registered UK charities may be eligible for free Microsoft software via CTX, theCharity Technology Exchange. Alternatively, if charities get refurbished hardware from a Microsoft Authorised Refurbisher, Microsoft provides Windows XP (if it was sold as a Windows PC) and Office 2003 free.twitter.com/jackschofield
Yes, the US Army really does use Powerpoint to show voting choices. Photo byhectoriron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSpecial: #gizmodogate linksApple asked for 'lost' iPhone criminal probe &gt;&gt; Silicon Valley / San Jose Business Journal:"Investigators said they have identified and interviewed the person who took the phone from the Gourmet Haus Staudt on March 18 after it was left there by Apple engineer Gray Powell following a birthday celebration.&#10;"Officials were unable to tell the Business Journal whether that person, whose name has not been released, was the same person who eventually sold the phone to tech Web site Gizmodo.com."Thoughts on the Legality of the Gizmodo Warrant &gt; Eugene VolokhHe actually is a lawyer - a professor at the University of California at Los Angeles who teaches First Amendment law. He thinks the warrant is likely OK on 4th amendment (against unreasonable searches); OK on nighttime warrant ("night" starts after 10pm). &#10;&#10;Shield Law? Probably doesn't apply. Nor does the Privacy Protection Act for journalists. In other words, Jason Chen really needs a very good lawyer, and could face a felony charge.iPhone blogger has computers seized by police &gt;&gt; BBC NewsInteresting for the EFF comment: "The second issue the EFF is concerned about is if police officers are doing the investigative work of a private company. "If there was some offence here it is not apparent what it is", [Jennifer Gannick, the EFF's civil liberties director] said.&#10;&#10;Apart from the potentially receiving property that under the law is stolen?OK, back to normal again...Twitter buys Cloudhopper &gt;&gt; Twitter blog"Over the last eight months we have been working with a startup called Cloudhopper to become one of the highest volume SMS programs in the world—Twitter processes close to a billion SMS tweets per month and that number is growing around the world from Indonesia to Australia, the UK, the US, and beyond."Google's Andy Rubin on Everything Android &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoogle's Andy Rubin talks about the importance of being open, and says Adobe Flash will be built into version 2.2Wikimedia Foundation Form 990 for 2010 - no riches in nonprofit salaries &gt;&gt; InfothoughtSeth Finkelstein looks at Wikimedia's 'form 990' (a tax return for non-profits): "We finally get to find out what Sue Gardner, Executive Director, receives for being ringmaster of the wiki-circus: $150,000 base salary, $6,350 benefits, and $18,700 of what looks to be a one-time housing relocation expense.&#10;&#10;"That's decent money in general in the midst of a recession, but in a relative sense, it strikes me as quite reasonable for the position, especially in Silicon Valley."BuildBot: Chromium &gt;&gt; Chromium.orgSee where all the different builds - and wow, there's a lot of builds - of Google's Chrome browser are. And also what's stopping them building.The Windows Phone difference &gt;&gt; Windows Phone Secrets"Clarity Consulting has drawn up some amazing prototypes of Windows Phone experience to show off what's possible," reports Paul Thurrott.Microsoft's Office Web Apps - Google killing not included &gt;&gt; The Register"These are the first ever, in-browser versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote from Microsoft. They represent a significant break with the past for a suite that's been one of Microsoft's cash cows," says Tim Anderson.Israel lifts ban on imports of Apple iPad &gt;&gt; ReutersiPad wireless: mostly harmless.Find where you parked your car with Sally Park &gt;&gt; DoseidoAs Rick Wray points out, "surely you'd only need this if you were drunk, in which case you shouldn't be driving your car anyway?"Brands become top technology tweeters according to TweetLevel &gt;&gt; The Naked PheasantA list of the top bazillion "technology tweeters". Good to see that @barackobama still has some heft. Though his gadget reviews have been a bit slipshod lately, don't you think?Is Facebook testing HTML5 video for iPad? Apparently not &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebInstead, it's transcoding to MP4. Simples!Apple rejects Michael Wolff's iPhone app; is it because he criticizes Steve Jobs? &gt;&gt; BusinessInsider"Lacks sufficient amounts of content to appeal to a broad audience" has to be one of the lamest excuses ever used to reject an app.Enemy Lurks in Briefings on Afghan War - PowerPoint &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Like an insurgency, PowerPoint has crept into the daily lives of military commanders and reached the level of near obsession. The amount of time expended on PowerPoint, the Microsoft presentation program of computer-generated charts, graphs and bullet points, has made it a running joke in the Pentagon and in Iraq and Afghanistan," says The New York Times.Squeezing the life out of your free Google Appengine Quota &gt;&gt; Anekdotz blog"From personal experience, if used properly, the free quota is generous enough to serve far more than Google's estimated 5 million page views/month." If that's not jaw-dropping enough, keep reading.Computer tycoon Sir Clive Sinclair, 69, weds his 33-year-old lap dancer ..."The pair wed at the Civil Court in Las Vegas on April 16. The single witness is believed to have been a passer-by," says Mail Online. Miss Bowness is also a former Miss England.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The pioneering computer journalist Guy Kewney, who has died of cancer aged 63, will be remembered for the NewsPrint column he wrote for Personal Computer World magazine throughout the 1980s. It was a time when the microchip represented the future, and everyone was being encouraged to buy microcomputers from Acorn, Amstrad, Sinclair and other British companies. Kewney, who seemed to know everybody, was a cool voice in an ocean of hype.For a decade, Kewney's long, discursive NewsPrint section was the voice of British microcomputing. He wrote as he spoke, in a quiet, down-to-earth way. Since he was legendary for the lateness of his copy, subeditors rarely had the time to convert it into proper journalism – even if they hadn't learned that readers liked it the way it was. It also enabled him to run the latest stories. As he said: "I take a very simple view of news: first is all that counts."Kewney, the eldest of six children, had not set out to be a journalist. He was born in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa; his father was a civil servant and his mother a teacher. He didn't enjoy his years at Maritzburg college, apart from playing the clarinet in the school and cadet bands. His engineering studies at the University of Natal were interrupted by national service, and, after his mother died, the whole family moved to Britain in 1965.In London, he got into programming and various journalism, PR and advertising jobs. A stint as a programmer at a British computer company, English Electric LEO Marconi, brought him into contact with LEO (Lyons Electronic Office), the world's first business computer, developed for the tea-shop company J Lyons &amp; Co. But he said it was obvious that he would never make much of a living programming, and he decided to follow his other obsession, writing.He married Mary, a teacher, in 1972 and worked for a number of technology magazines including DataLink, Electronics Weekly and Computing. He contributed to Personal Computer World as it struggled to life as Europe's first microcomputer magazine, founded by Angelo Zgorelec in 1977, and NewsPrint was launched in 1979. PCW was taken over by Felix Dennis, who made it hugely successful then sold it to VNU.The golden age of NewsPrint came to an end in 1991 with the arrival in the UK of Ziff Davis, the big-spending American publishing giant specialising in computer magazines. Kewney moved on from PCW, leaving NewsPrint to a string of other contributors, to join Ziff Davis as editorial fellow, writing for PC Magazine, PC Direct, Computer Life, IT Week and ZDNet. However, Ziff ran into trouble and was swallowed by SoftBank.After watching the dotcom bubble collapse, Kewney started a dotcom company, AuthorIT Publishing Ltd, and&nbsp;launched NewsWireless online. He&nbsp;also wrote columns for several computer magazines, and continued to contribute to PCW until the last issue, in&nbsp;June 2009.Kewney wanted the respect of his peers, and to be known by his market, but he said that being really famous "destroys your life". He wanted to be able to pursue his personal interests, especially dinghy sailing and watching Test cricket, without attracting undue attention. And while his name did become widely known in May 2006, it&nbsp;didn't mean anyone knew his face.Guy had been invited by BBC News 24 to comment on the Apple v Beatles court case, but while he was waiting, a completely different Guy appeared on screen. Guy Goma, from Congo-Brazzaville, was even more surprised to find himself unexpectedly being interviewed on live TV, andthe resulting clip was a global hit, though not one that benefited Kewney.After he was diagnosed with cancer, he continued to write about technology, but he also blogged about his illness and his terminal decline. "If it's just 'slowing down for the last station' then I might have a couple of weeks and just 'fade to grey' as the final script directive," he wrote. "Either way, I know my place ('bottom of page 94, sir!') and neither script is worrying me. Heck, I may even have a surprise! Current Mood: content."Kewney is survived by Mary, their daughters Lucy and Alice, and two grandchildren.• Guy Johan Kewney, journalist, born 30 April 1946; died 8 April 2010
Spammers are, as is their cockroach-ly way, focussing more and more on growing social networks to peddle their wares. Latest to receive this attention in a big way is Twitter, through two methods: fake support emails, and accounts on the service itself.The fake support emails - there's an example in the picture above - seem like they're pointing you to Twitter, but in fact relay you to hacked and/or malicious sites (in this case a mysterious site allegedly allocated to an Ethiopian domain, suffix .et). In the case of the site linked above, it loads a script from another site entirely which is hosted in China, the spammers' haven, and claims to sell pharmaceuticals.(If you need any reminding - some do - giving your card details and a home delivery address is the perfect way to get your card cloned and yourself ripped off all over the globe, even if theydodeliver anything afterwards and even if itdoeshave any pharmacological effects, which we suspect would be indistinguishable from placebos.)Meanwhile Graham Cluley of Sophos is warning that what appears to be the selfsame bunch - claiming to be a pharmaceutical "shop" based in Canada (and so attractive to Americans because it avoids various taxes on drugs) - has set up on Twitter itself. But, has says, "Twitter users who choose to visit the site risk handing placing sensitive personal data in the wrong hands and being sold counterfeit drugs.""Sophos has found that @canadianshop is not hiding who they are – even their background wallpaper uses familiar imagery to promote medications such Viagra and Cialis. At the time of writing @canadianshop is following more than 2,000 people and - more worrying still - 589 people are following the account back."That though is most likely because those people have set themselves to autofollow anyone who follows them."Followers put themselves at risk of falling foul of the bit.ly links that redirect them to the Canadian Pharmacy website," notes Cluley. "Such sites are well known for frequently being promoted in email spam and search engines but Twitter provides them with a new platform to peddle their wares."Indeed, bit.ly probably does need a new way to report spammy links in its system.And a final roundup of today's computerised malfeasance: BitDefender sent us an email with the fascinating title "Early iPad virus strikes users".This of course would be world-shocking news: a virus that affects the iPad? That thing with the locked-down operating system, where apps only get onto it once they're approved by Apple, andwhich I suggested might be a good line of defence against online malware? Hell, there goes my reputation for analysis.But wait, let's read further."BitDefender has identified a virus targeting the estimated 600,000 iPads sold since its release."Hell! Reputation in shreds! Carry on."An email promising "…best performance, newer features and security" instructs iPad users to download the latest version of iTunes onto their PC to begin the update, and provides a bogus link to do so. Following the malicious link shows a perfect imitation of the one they would use for legitimate iTunes software downloads, which results in malware being downloaded onto the user's system and leaving their sensitive data open to exploitation."Damn! Er, wait a minute. An iPad doesn't store iTunes - that's an app on the main computer that you synchronise to. What's going on, BitDefender?"Identified by BitDefender as Backdoor.Bifrose.AADY, the piece of malicious code inadvertently downloaded injects itself into the explorer.exe process and opens up a backdoor that allows unauthorized access to and control over the affected system. Moreover, Backdoor.Bifrose.AADY attempts to read the keys and serial numbers of the various software installed on the affected computer, while also logging the passwords to the victim's ICQ, Messenger, POP3 mail accounts, and protected storage."Oh - so it's aWindowsvirus. Yes, I've heard of those.BitDefender's signoff:"It is important to say that Mac users remain unaffected by this piece of malware."Oh. OK. Which means that actual iPads remaineven more unaffectedthen?Nevertheless, the cockroaches are all out there, notably on email but also on Twitter. Avoid at all costs.
The Sims 3was EA's biggest ever PC launch title, with 1.4 million copies disappearing from shop shelves in the first week. Inevitably then, the publisher has announced that it's bringing the latest instalment in the virtual soap opera series to the current gen consoles; the PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 versions will be out this autumn, as will a DS iteration.As usual, players will be able to create sims with unique personalities and ambitions before dropping them into the game's detailed environment. There will, however, be some new features. As the press release explains:"Players can unlock the ultimate 'Karma Powers' for instant control and unleash them on their Sims. Players can help their Sim 'get lucky,' bless them with 'instant beauty' or be deviant and curse them with an 'epic fail.' But players should use these powers wisely—they may have unexpected results and karma may come back to bite."Apparently, PS3 and Xbox 360 owners will be able to use the respective online services to share their customised content, and will be able to boast about in-game achievements via Facebook. For the Wii version, meanwhile, there's a brand new beach town, complete with, "unique residents, traits, careers and lifetime wishes." Players will also be able to compete head-to-head in the  "Life Moments" challenge to earn rewards.Finally, DS owners can use the stylus to completely design, build and furnish homes for their sims, and to sculpt the facial features of their digital pals. There's also a story mode in which players control a whole sims family through a series of defining life moments (the mind boggles). "For the first time ever on the Nintendo DS, players can enjoy a complete life simulation as they guide their Sims through completing challenges to unlock additional items, new buildings and landmarks, and more," asserts the grammatically challenging press release.But what else can EA do to make the ridiculously successful series more inviting to contemporary console gamers? A sims deathmatch? The ability to drop your Xbox Live avatar into the Sims environment? Extra downloadable 'family moments' packs for hardcore fans of inter-generational dynamics? Seriously, the brand is enormous on PC and has an avid community (The Sims 3 YouTube Channelis within the top five most viewed sponsored channels of all time with over 42,000 subscribers and nearly 22 million video views), but this has only ever been partially realised on console hardware before. It will be interesting to see if the increased connectivity of the current machines will finally allow console gamers to fully appreciate the addictive power of the series...
Either HP or Acer led the market in notebook shipments in the first quarter of this year, but the main two market trackers -- Gartner and IDC -- appear to differ about which company took the top spot. IDC apparently thinks Hewlett-Packard did it by shipping 9.5 million units against Acer's 8.65m, while Gartner has Acer pipping HP by 9.5m to 9.47m.Neither Gartner nor IDC makes a habit of revealing numbers for specific types of product (PC shipments includes desktops, laptops, netbooks etc, but not servers) or of listing firms outside the top five. They have the numbers, of course, but they charge for them. However, a certain amount of bragging goes on, which can make some of them available, though they're not guaranteed to be reliable.In this case, the Taiwan-based DigiTimes has covered the disagreement about which company shipped the most portables inMarket watchers differ with the leader of notebook brands for 1Q10(a story that will soon be available to subscribers only). It has also reported IDC numbers for other top suppliers. The pecking order looks something like this:1. HP -- 9.5m2. Acer -- 8.65m3. Dell -- 5.7m4. Toshiba -- 4.6m5. Asus -- 4.3m6. Lenovo -- 4.1m7. Apple -- 1.85m8. Samsung -- 1.72m9. Sony -- 1.68mAll but one of those companies ships netbooks as well as notebooks, and three companies seem to have done particularly well out of them: Acer, Asus and Samsung. They could therefore be hit if the netbook market declines.At the moment, it seems the netbook market may have reached a plateau. In discussing its latest quarterly results, earlier this month, Intel noted that Atom sales dipped by 19% to $355m over the previous (Christmas) quarter, though they were up by 62% year-on-year.But as I commented at the time, the netbook market could be boosted by the arrival of dual-core Atom chips that remove many of the performance limitations (Dual-core Atoms coming as Intel aims for the first "netbook refresh cycle"), and some PC manufacturers could also have hits with tablet versions and other form factors -- Samsung, for example, has done OK with its Q1. The new system-on-a-chip Atom design codenamed Tunnel Creek could also have an impact: it's cheaper and uses less power, which should encourage more innovative form factors.Note: I expect that tablets running Windows 7 will count in the rankings but Apple's iPad tablet will not. The iPad is a media consumption device like the iPod Touch or Sony PlayStation Portable. There are now lots of devices -- including smart phones and games consoles -- that are not personal computers, even though they are personal, and compute.
The ash cloud has receded and the airports are open again. The memory of that week when the only airborne things were bees and birds seems ancient.Just to refresh your memory, the team at itoWorld has created a video showing the airports rebooting as the airlines got the go-ahead to fly through all that suddenly-less-lethal-to-engines ash.(Apologies that it's not in HTML5. Perhaps a future option from Vimeo...?)
Gas masks being tested by ARP wardens at Welshpool, 1940. Available as disguises for Gizmodo staff.... Photo byLlGC ~ NLWon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHere's All The Stuff Cops Confiscated From Gizmodo Editor Jason Chen &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderThis particular page being from Gawker Media complaining that the search of Jason Chen's house was unlawful. Could get interesting.Dilbert and That Lost 4G Phone &gt;&gt; Scott Adams blogThe Dilbert cartoonist offers you two free cartoons with his take on the iPhone 4G disappearance. "They wouldn't have appeared in print before June 18th," he explains.Facebook Open Graph: The Definitive Guide For Publishers, Users and Competitors &gt;&gt; Read Write WebA comprehensible overview of Facebook's "bold and visionary new platform".The Most Influential Women in Technology 2010 &gt;&gt; Fast Company"The overwhelming number of nominees and fresh names proved that, while women in tech may remain at a distinct disadvantage by almost any metric (average salary, top-management representation, etc), there is also plenty to celebrate and be inspired by," says Fast Company.Earthly pleasures come to Maps &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogGoogle Maps users "can now explore the world in luxuriantly-detailed, data-rich 3D imagery and terrain from Google Earth".Lib Dems still riding the sentiment wave &gt;&gt; Fishburn HedgesI blame Nick Clegg.iPad, Two Weeks In &gt;&gt; Fraser Speirs"For me the iPad is about reading. I tolerate the Kindle app for its vast selection and syncing with the iPhone, I love the reading UI in iBooks but I adore Instapaper. Instapaper turns the iPad from "a great thing to browse the web on" to a "space-age newspaper made from all the most interesting things on the internet".&#10;&#10;"The other killer app on the iPad is Safari. Quite honestly, every word of hyperbole that anyone on an Apple stage has said about the web on iPad is (almost) true.&#10;&#10;"The Flash thing? The Flash thing is that fig leaf that journalists reach for to give a glowing iPad review that veneer of balance. Given the HTML5 support on YouTube, the non-existence of Flash is completely irrelevant to my experience of the internet, except in one regard: BBC iPlayer still serves Flash to an iPad."clinched: I will write a computer virus for $5 &gt;&gt; Fiverr.comFrom the site where people tell you what they're willing to do for $5. This guy will write a virus in Visual Basic. Or, you know, work from your website template and create the site in HTML and CSS. Huh? A problem?A Loss of SecurityFocus &gt;&gt; Praetorian PrefectSecurityFocus, the news portal for computer security started in 1999, is being closed - sort of. The Bugtraq (started 1993) and the Vulnerability database will remain at SecurityFocus.&#10;&#10;More to the point, Symantec bought the site in 2002 for about $75m in cash. Mm, smell that dot-com hangover.Apple open NVIDIA GPUs for H.264 decoding: faster Flash a possibility &gt;&gt; SlashGear"A recently added Apple technical document has led to suggestions that Adobe Flash could take advantage of GPU hardware acceleration on certain OS X 10.6.3 MacBook Pro, Mac mini and iMac models," says SlashGear.UK Online Video Viewing Up 37% &gt;&gt; ComscoreYouTube (Google) dominated with 2.5 billion videos viewed in February 2010. BBC Sites ranked second with 140 million videos viewed on its sites followed by Megavideo.com with 53 million videos.xkcd: It baffles me that people find HDTV impressiveAs usual, the "webcomic of romance, sarcasm, math, and language" hits the mark.How To Tell If You've Been Blocked On Twitter &gt;&gt; Twittercism.comThe really capable will simply create a second account which echoes the blocker's one using the API and Yahoo Pipes. If, that is, they still want to read what the blocker had to say...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Is there more to the modern first-person shooter than intricate militaristic detail? And what does Black's obsession with Lady Gaga have to do with game design. The affable, turbo-mouthed creative director of Codemasters Guildford explains all in part two of our interview.Part one can be foundhere.You said Black reflected the post-9/11 era shows like 24. What do you think the key series' are now? You've referenced True Blood, Fast Forward and Lost quite a bit…Yeah, in terms of TV shows, JJ Abrams is a huge influence – love his stuff. Black was supposed to be sort of 24 and Alias, but it was more 24 than anything else. There was a book accompanying the first season of 24 about Bauer's overseas missions before joining CTU and that became an influential reference for us. We felt we caught the start of a zeitgeist, we didn't do it deliberately, but we were sensitive to the flow of where things were going at that time and just hooked into it.So where is the zeitgeist now?A very different place! What's the thing that makes everyone go, 'what the fuck?' That for me right now is Lady Gaga. I saw her at Glastonbury last year – it blew my fucking socks off. From the moment she popped out of her dress at the start, I just thought, wow this is important, this matters this changes… I didn't know what the fuck it changes, but it felt like it changed everything.It certainly changed me, changed the way I looked at things – I just felt really fucking old, and I felt our industry was really old and inward looking and boring. She just came in across genres – it was her attitude more than anything else. So I started to talk to people about that, and there was a lot of 'what the fuck do you mean?' I didn't really know what I meant, I just know it meant something and I had to dive in and find out what it meant for us. And over the last few weeks we've been building on that, and she's being doing stuff like dressing in guns – and I thought, Jesus, this has fallen right into my lap!It'll be difficult for some people to see the influence of a pop star in a first-person shooter...She talks a lot about living in the apocalypse; the apocalypse is happening, we're in it, so the only thing left to do is party, have a good time – positive upwards, forwards thinking. So this guy [in Bodycount] is in a crazy, desperate situation out of his control, but he's not going to get down about it, he deals with it, he keeps his head up, he pushes forward – that's the kind of action we want to have.That's what we're saying to our players – when they're feeling a little bit down, a little bit harassed by all the pressure, slap this game on and blow some fuckers away, you'll feel better. You'll get an uplift – that's ultimately what we want to do.I can also see elements of Hurt Locker in the game – that sort of celebration of the effects of weapons and explosives…Yeah, loved the Hurt Locker – the machismo, the adrenaline, the addiction. It's interesting, in terms of IP space, and the tone of the game, we went through a lot of changes. It kind of started off on the Black track, because that was easy, we knew we weren't going to stay there, and I explored four very different concepts for the game, we went from very irreverent Tarantino-esque tongue-in-cheek humour right down to a serious Generation Kill feel, the total moral corruption of war, before coming back to where we are now – kind of glossy techno thriller. So maybe there are some remenants of that Hurt Locker feel. I'm a huge Ridley Scott fan, particulatly with shooting, so there's got to be an element of Black Hawk Down in there – I just don't believe you can do shooting without getting some of that intensity.And Michael Mann, of course?Yes, I'm a big fan – obviously the big Heat street battles…The shoot-outs in MIami Vice were excellent, too.Yeah, the shipyard at the end is very strong – that actually has more relevance to the other title we're working on. So yes, those kinds of things – that's the more serious side of it. That's got to underpin the gameplay. But the story we want to tell and the characters we want to tell it with, we want those to be frothier, lighter in tone. More hip if you like, I don't want to sound too uncool!The whole set up of the game – high-tech anonymous organisation seeks equallly anonymous highly trained hit man for global assassinations. This'll sound very familiar to gamers – are you going to subvert that?Yes, we are. It's kind of fair what you're saying, on the surface. I take issue with the 'anonymous' hero, because our guy has a really strong personality and the core of the thing is his character journey through the game.I don't care about plots and plot machinations as such. There will be a plot but so many games get fixated on the intricacies and details of that, I just think that's reductive – this is not a movie, it's not a TV show, this is not the medium for that. The very nature of interactivity is counter that kind of stuff – you need enough story, enough of a reason to justify what you're doing, but it's ALL about the doing. And rather than plotting you can explore more with character development, who you are and who the people are who you're coming up against within the plot.Anonymous corporation? Yeah, that would be the kind lazy way of saying it. Weve not gone deep into the personality of the The Network or The Target at the moment, but they do have strong very indivisualistic and I think quite unique personalities. So yes, they're the stereotypical shady organisations, secret socities, Illuminati, whatever – but who they are and how they represent themelves is hopefully kind of fresh and different.So the big building blocks are the standard building blocks, but the difference between a cliche and an archetype is, if it's done cheesily it's a cliché, if you do it well, it's archetypal – and we hope to be archetypal.Do you think there's going to be a problem tearing gamers away from the style of FPS that CoD has made popular – you know, worthy military super realistic…If we were going to complete directly with them, and try to get people to play our gameinsteadof Call of Duty, yeah. And there's some titles out there in development at the moment that are sending out that message. Well, it's kind of a crazy message. Really, the best you could hope for is to be a subset of Call of Duty – if you're not one of the team who made CoD, it's not in your DNA, it's not in your blood to make that game in that way – you can never achieve what they achieved – just like anyone else who tried to make a Black-style game – they're not going to be able to do it.I'm not interested in beating CoD, I'm not interested in pulling people away from it, I want to give them something else to play as well. No matter how big a CoD fan you are, nobody's playing that all year long - you need to change up once in a while and play something different. We want to provide a worthwhile alternative. Play thisandCoD, and Bioshock, and Battlefield, and Halo – they're all strong titles, the leaders of the genre, they all deserve to stand next to each other. Every time you talk about making an FPS, everybody says, 'oh, it's such a crowded market', and yeah, there are a lot of shooters, but there aren't manygoodones – I pretty much just named them all. There are five or six franchises that are really strong, that have something different to say. We want to stand beside them.British developers haven't been responsible for many first-person shooters – but the big ones have all done something different with the genre.Individuals matter. If there's one message I want to get across... Not enough attention is given to that. We talk too much, way too much, about publishers. Publishers don't make any difference to the quality of the title, they just chose the titles to produce - quality is in the hands of the developer.And then most development studios have multiple teams. Not all: Media Molecule is one tight, very focused team. But quite a few do, so just because it says developer X on the cover, doesn't give you a guarantee of quality either – it's the individual team making that game. So you have developers like Blizzard, who have consistency, Valve… they have consistency in their staffing and you can see that in their software. They build on their ideas and themes and the games they develop get richer. But those teams that chop and change on membership, they flounder. I'll pick out, just in broad terms, EA – I don't think there's a lot of respect for individuals on teams, the team members are building blocks that they can just mix and match…That's what Activision are about to try with Call of Duty!Yeah, well, good luck to them on that! I know nothing about that situation, but it seems a bit crazy…So, you're building a team that works like a band. But don't all the best bands eventually implode?Ha, well, not all of them! But yes, they have strong passions and personalities involved…Exactly, so is that a worry for you here?Not really. We'll face that problem when we come to it. It's not like everyone who's joined has stayed with us, and it's not like everyone who's left has been crap. We've lost some really good people because they just didn't feel that this was the place for them and that's fair enough. I'm not overly worried about it.Right now we're building the band, we're still expanding, we need to get to 120-130 people to feel comfortable, because we have some ambitious projects down the pipeline. As much as we want to make this a great innovative title in itself, it's also a stepping stone for us, a bringing together of the team. A lot of us worked on Black, but a lot of us have never worked together at all. There's abonding process that goes on when you're making a game – a level of trust. You understand the things people can and can't do, and the level of commitment from people. You can't get that unless you make something together.So you get through that process and the next thing you make, you get even tighter and you can take on something with much more ambition. And hopefully friendship overcomes whatever passions are enflamed – the people we have, we're all aligned.Is there a checklist of things you want to achieve with this game?Absolutely, there are headlines that I want to achieve, for sure. We don't know how we're going to achieve them, or the order of importance of those headlines. I want to create situations that provoke an emotional response, that's the core of it – something players haven't felt before, whether that's just the level of intensity they get, the visceral feeling of the firefight, or the feeling of immersion within that, the emotional resonance. All that feeds into who you are as a character, the story, his arc, and therefore you care about that arc. It's all about emotions.And by emotions, we're talking more than anger and fear?Yes, those are the big emotions, right? Make someone scared, make them feel excited… It's a young industry, I often talk about this. We're at the point of movies before sound, just at the part where Al Jolson did Jazz Singer, we're certainly nowhere near the point where United Artists formed and created cinema history – we've still got a way to go to get there. There's a lot of innovation still to come...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
California police have taken six computers and other items from the house of Jason Chen, the editor of the gadget blog Gizmodo who appeared on a video on the site showing off a lost Apple iPhone prototype which, it transpired, had been bought from a middleman for about $5,000.The search was carried out last Friday evening, but Gizmodo only revealed that it had happened on Monday evening. Chen was not present when the police entered the house.The police seizure, which would have been the decision under the criminal code of California of the district attorney for San Mateo - and not Apple - may turn into a test of the US "shield law" for journalists, which allows them to protect their sources. The New York Timesreportedlast Saturday that "charges would most likely be filed against the person or people who sold the prototype iPhone, and possibly the buyer."The lost iPhone was a prototype of the new model that Apple's chief executive Steve Jobs is expected to announce this June, sporting a higher-definition screen and ceramic casing.Chen appeared in a video on Gizmodo last week showing off the so-called "iPhone 4G" - which, it transpired, had been lost by an Apple employee called Gray Powell when he visited a bar in Redwood, about 19 miles from Apple's headquarters. The phone was lost on March 18 - but did not turn up in Gizmodo's hands until earlier this month, suggesting that the person who took it away from the bar (who has apparently insisted to Gizmodo that they called Apple to return the phone) did not making great efforts to return it. Nick Denton, the former FT journalist who is now chief executive of Gawker Media, which owns and runs Gizmodo, has said that the phone was acquired for money - at a rumoured $5,000.But Gizmodo's actions in paying for the phone and not returning it at once to Apple may have infringed California's civil and criminal code byreceiving stolen goods. And if there is a suspicion that the phone was stolen from Powell, and especially if it was sold rather than returned to Apple, that would implicate both Chen and the person who took the phone from the bar under the code.The warrant for the search was issued on the basis that Chen's apartment "was used as a means of committing a felony".Denton has written to the San Mateo police departmentprotestingthat the confiscation breaks the so-called "shield law". The warrant, which Gizmodo hasreproduced, also states that "night searches" are not allowed - but Denton says that Chen consented to the warrant at 9.45pm on 23 April (the warrant having been authorised at 7pm), which makes the warrant invalid.The New York Times reported that""California law prohibits the sale of stolen goods and states that a person who uses someone else's lost property without permission may be guilty of theft. Stephen Wagstaffe [San Mateo County's chief deputy district attorney] said in cases like this it might not necessarily be a matter of lost versus stolen. In some instances of missing property, he said, "we call it misappropriation of lost property; it's a crime but it's not theft." He added that "knowledge is a very important factor in a theft case.""The police officer who led the search is a specialist in computer forensics, but it is not clear whether the computers will be searched for information about the identity of the person who sold the prototype to Chen.Apple has remained almost silent throughout the affair. Though Powell is reported to have made strenuous efforts to find the phone, contacting the bar where he last had it repeatedly in the weeks after it went missing, the company itself has barely acknowledged the hullabaloo. The only sign that the prototype indeed belonged to the company came in a letter to Gizmodo last week in which it said that the site had "a device which belongs to Apple" and adding "Please let us know where to pick up the unit."Business Insider produced agallery of the items taken from the house- though they're not the actual items. Those are still with the police.
Ed Roberts, who has died of pneumonia aged 68, was a founder of the microcomputer industry that ushered in the ubiquitous personal computer. In 1975, he introduced the first home-computer construction kit, the MITS Altair 8800. In the same year, he gave Bill Gates and Paul Allen their initial break by hiring them to write software for the computer. While Gates and Allen later flourished as the founders of Microsoft, Roberts sold his business in 1977 before the personal-computer industry became a global phenomenon.Roberts was born in Miami, Florida, the elder child of Henry and Edna. His father was an army conscript at the time of the birth but subsequently established an appliance-repair business. Roberts was educated in Miami, although he spent summers at his grandparents' farm in rural Georgia. As a schoolboy, he showed an aptitude for hobby electronics.He began an engineering degree at Miami University, although he always had a yen to study medicine. He married in 1962 and, with the need to earn a living when his wife became pregnant, he gave up his studies and joined the air force as an electronics technician. The air force sponsored him for an electrical engineering degree at Oklahoma State University and in 1968, he was posted to the weapons laboratory at Kirtland air force base in Albuquerque, New Mexico.Roberts and a colleague joined the local Albuquerque Model Rocket club, and in 1970 co-founded a small business making electronics kits for model-aircraft enthusiasts. The firm was named Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems, but was known by its initials, MITS, chosen to evoke the scientific image of the prestigious MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology). Roberts soon assumed sole ownership, and in 1971 introduced an electronic calculator kit, which he advertised in electronics and radio hobbyist magazines.Calculators were one of several waves of electronic consumer products in the early 1970s – others included video games and digital watches. In each case, the market was initially very profitable but, as the technology became commoditised, prices collapsed, and small makers were forced out, leaving just a handful of global producers. By the time of the calculator price crash in 1974, MITS was employing more than 100 people. At this point, Roberts adroitly switched to the novel idea of a computer kit.In 1974, the chip-maker Intel introduced the 8080 microprocessor, the first microchip capable of powering a small computer. Roberts negotiated with Intel to obtain a hefty volume discount and began to design the machine. He also arranged with Les Solomon, the technical editor of Popular Electronics, to carry a feature on the machine. The Altair 8800 was the cover story of the January 1975 issue. That edition of Popular Electronics has since become an icon of the computer age, eagerly sought by collectors. The Altair 8800 – named after the destination of Star Trek's Starship Enterprise – sold for $397, a fraction of the price of the cheapest commercially available computer.The Altair was not a "personal computer" as we now understand the term, which had not yet been coined. Rather, the machine was sold as a "minicomputer" and was aimed exclusively at electronics hobbyists. The machine was rudimentary in the extreme – there was no keyboard, screen or software. Once a hobbyist had built the machine – assuming he (almost always a he) could get it to work – programs had to be laboriously entered bit-by-bit using hand switches.The Altair created a thriving aftermarket for would-be entrepreneurs selling add-ons to make the machine more practical, such as extra memory, disk drives and programs. For Gates, then at Harvard University, the arrival of the Altair was the defining moment of his life.He and Allen, his collaborator since school days, contracted with Roberts to&nbsp;write a BASIC translator for the Altair&nbsp;– a software system that made it much easier to program. Gates dropped out of Harvard, he and Allen formed Micro-Soft (the hyphen was later dropped), and set up shop in Albuquerque. There they remained for nearly four years before relocating to their present headquarters in Bellevue, Washington.By 1976, MITS had 230 employees and reported annual sales of $6m. However, in a rerun of the calculator wars, dozens of newcomers had entered the industry and competition was intense. In May 1977, Roberts sold the business, making him wealthy for the time (though merely comfortable by later standards). It was a good time to sell. In the next two years, there was a massive shake-out of the industry as the personal computer became an established product category and global firms such as Apple Computer, Tandy-Radio Shack and Commodore Business Machines came to dominate the industry. The IBM PC arrived in 1981.After the sale of MITS, Roberts bought a farm in Georgia, close to that once owned by his grandparents. He finally fulfilled his ambition to study medicine, signing up at Mercer University, in Macon, Georgia, and established a small-town medical practice.Roberts is survived by his mother, his third wife, Rosa, five sons and a daughter.• Henry Edward Roberts, electronics engineer, businessman and doctor, born 13 September 1941; died 1 April 2010
Facebook's new system for connecting together the web seems to have a serious privacy hole, a web developer has discovered.Some people report that they are able to see the public "events" that Facebook users have said they will attend – even if they person is not a "friend" on the social network.The discovery was made by Ka-Ping Yee, a software engineer for the charitable arm of Google, who was trying out the search query system known as the "Graph API" released by Facebook last Friday. In some cases – though not all – it will let you see the public events that people have said they will attend, or have attended.Yee demonstrated the flaw by showing how the API – which plugs directly into Facebook's databases – can show you a list of Facebook founderMark Zuckerberg's planned public events.Yee says that he was very disturbed by the discovery – because there seemed to be no way to prevent the events from appearing on the API, which is publicly accessible, except by saying you were "not attending" an event."It seemed that anyone could get this list. Today, I spent a while checking to make sure I wasn't crazy," hewrote on his blog. "I didn't opt in for this. I even tried setting all my privacy settings for maximum privacy. But Facebook is still exposing the list of events I've attended, and maybe your event."The discovery will intensify the debate over Facebook's new system – which has drawn complaints that it makes itfar too difficult to keep personal information private.The implications of being able to find out the movements of any of the 400m people on Facebook are potentially wide-ranging – although the flaw does not seem to apply to every user, or every event. Yee says that the simplest way to prevent your name appearing in such lists is to put "not attending" against any event you are invited to."This kind of event list is not even accessible to your friends on Facebook," noted Yee. "As far as I can tell, there is no way to turn this off with your own privacy settings."The problem mirrors that which Google ran into when it created its new Buzz systems, which aimed to create a Twitter-like social network – but annoyed people because it assumed that anyone with whom you had exchanged email would want to be part of your network. But the example of a wife who wanted to stay away from her abusive husband – but with whom she had once swapped an email – showed that Buzz had a flawed approach to privacy.Similarly the Facebook API system may turn out to be crucially flawed. "What can your event list say about you? Quite a bit," wrote Yee. "It might reveal your home address, your friends' home addresses, the names and groups of people you associate with, your hobbies, or your political or religious activities, for example. "However some people who have tried Yee's method of accessing the site were not able to repeat widespread invasion of privacy – though Zuckerberg's calendar was discoverable by everyone. The accessibility seemed to be semi-random: despite Yee's best efforts, alist of events still shows up for him.Although the system only reveals data about "open" events – which by definition are public already – the new system changes the game radically. "There's a big difference between publishing an event page with a list of people attending, and publishing a list of events that you attended. Before last Wednesday, to find out which events you attended, I'd have to visit every single event page on Facebook and look for your name among the people attending. Now, I can just ask the API what you've been doing, and it will tell me. This kind of event list is not even accessible to your friends on the Facebook website; I haven't found any page at http://facebook.com/ that lets me list a friend's events. The API provides this list to anyone, so this is newly exposed information."
The number of software vulnerabilities has gone down again, by 8.4% to about 2,500, according to the eighth edition of Microsoft's Security Intelligence Report (SIRv8), which is published twice a year. The latest edition was published today atMicrosoft.com/sirHowever, botnets continue to be a problem as they are hired out by cybercriminals in what Cliff Evans, Microsoft UK's head of security and privacy, calls a "black cloud". He says that in the second half of 2009, the top five botnets were responsible for sending more than 94% of all botnet spam.Attacks are now motivated by financial gain, with a "black economy" of malware authors, botnet herders and other criminals working together to exploit vulnerabilities in Windows PCs.As before, the numbers show that more recent versions of Microsoft Windows are less vulnerable to attack. In terms of vulnerabilities across the industry, Evans says only about 5% are in Microsoft software. This has led to a shift in emphasis to targeting third party programs and utilities. In XP, around 45% of attacks exploited third party (ie non-Microsoft) code, whereas with Vista and Windows 7 it's around 75%.This means Windows Update is not enough to protect users, who must also install updates from Adobe, Apple and other software suppliers. (For Windows 7 users, Adobe Reader took three places in the top 10.)However, Microsoft is now finding fewer infections when it scans PCs, which it does by running its Malicious Software Removal Tool before installing Windows updates. Evans says the number of "cleans" in the UK has dropped from 4.9 per thousand PCs to 4.1 per thousand.In the UK, Win32/Renos was the top Trojan found by Microsoft security products, with 245,921 infections, and the Win32/Hotbar adware came second with 228,801 infections. The much-publicised Conficker worm placed 13th with 57,133.Fake security software continues to be a major problem. Win32/Renos claims that your PC is infected with spyware and offers to remove it for a fee. Win32/FakeXPA, Win32/Yektel, Win32/Winwebsec, Win32/FakeSpypro, Win32/FakeVimes, Win32/FakeRean and Win32/InternetAntivirus all appeared in the top 25.But game password stealer Win32/Taterf -- the world's most common bit of malware, as detected by Microsoft -- only ranked 24th in the UK.As usual, most threats exploit vulnerabilities that have been fixed. For example, 75.8% of the attacks on Microsoft Office files exploited a single vulnerability (CVE-2006-2492, the Malformed Object Pointer Vulnerability in Microsoft Office Word), and you can see when that was found: 2006.If you've been caught by a vulnerability when you've had more than three years to apply a free fix, whose responsibility is that?
