The originalForce Unleashedrepresented what a lot of gamers have always wanted from a Star Wars game – a big, burly Jedi fest with megaton Force powers and a rip-roaring story of rage and betrayal. The first game to be based in the period between Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope, it centred on Starkiller, a young warrior recruited by Vader as a secret apprentice. When sent out to spy on the burgeoning rebel alliance, the brooding anti-hero gradually comes to sympathise with their viewpoint.Although criticised in the gaming press for its one dimensional hack-n-slash gameplay, the mix of relentless third-person lightsaber battling with a twisting plot (which nicely explained the origins of the original Star Wars trilogy) brought in sales of 7m copies and a host of awards. A sequel was inevitable, but there was always going to be one problem: at the end of the original game, Starkiller is killed saving the rebel leaders. Though, of course, in the Star Wars universe, problems like this are never impossible to address…"When we startedForce Unleashed 2, we kicked around some ideas," explains the game's executive producer and lead writer, Haden Blackman. "We considered starting with a new character or going to a different time period, or even doing some weird thing where we start from the 'evil' ending of Force Unleashed 1, which actually then became the basis for a couple of our DLC levels."But ultimately we kept saying that Starkiller was a character we'd invested a lot of time into. I enjoyed writing for that character, we enjoyed working with Sam Witwer, the actor who portrayed him, and we thought there was still room to tell stories with him. It wasn't a huge debate – once we'd put the idea forward everyone got behind it."So at the opening of the sequel, Vader seems to have a clone of Starkiller locked up in a holding cell on Kamino, the water planet from Attack of the Clones. When Starkiller escapes, his first thought – apart from wondering whether he actuallyisa clone or not – is to track down his love interest from the first game, Juno Eclipse, while rebel chief Rahm Kota wants to use him as a weapon against the Empire.These contrasting missions see Starkiller travelling to Dagobah (where he apparently uncovers some uneasy truths about himself in the Dark Side Cave), and on to join a rebel fleet at the edge of the galaxy – just as it's attacked by imperial bounty hunters. So, Starkiller just needs to locate Juno, save the rebellion and discover the truth about his own identity. "I was really happy with how the story turned out in Force Unleashed," says Blackman, "But it's a broad story in terms of the action focus. We don't get into the heads of characters very much – apart from some new insight into Vader. I want to make this a much more personal story..."This all sounds intriguing, but what Force Unleashed 2 really has to do is build some depth and substance into the button-mashing maelstrom that was its predecessor. Blackman claims this has been a key priority; the team has completely redesigned all the familiar Force powers from the first title including Force Push and Force Grip, and has added a few newcomers including the potentially amusing Force Mind Trick that'll allow you to trick Storm Troopers into leaping from high ledges. Each power is upgradeable, too, so with Mind Trick, you'll eventually be able to encourage enemy soldiers to start firing on each other. Plus, Starkiller can wield dual lightsabers now, which opens up some new combo possibilities. And looks cool.More importantly, the design team has chosen to actually scale down the variety of enemies you'll face. In the original game there were around 100 different kinds, now there are 25, but each has its own unique abilities. As Blackman says: "We took a lot of time with TFU2 to really sit down and redesign our whole AI system, the way they navigate, but also to invent a whole host of new enemies, and make them tactically significant." He shows us two enemies to illustrate this new diversity. The carbonite trooper is large robot capable of freezing the player Han Solo-style, if they get too close – so that's one to tackle from a distance. Conversely, there's the missile trooper, which resembles an enlarged power droid complete with an array of ranged homing projectiles; so this is one you need to get in close to and take out with a lightsaber.Level design has changed this time, too. In the first title, many gamers admired the art direction, which recalled the grungy look of the original movies, but disliked the linearity. This time things are more open and interactive; Blackman describes the stages as "Force playgrounds", each one littered with objects that can be picked up and propelled around the environment to destructive effect. Players will be able to gain XP by using props in imaginative ways, and this in turn feeds Starkiller's Force Fury gauge, which gives a temporary mega-boost to his powers. It looks like there will also be special sequences which Blackman refers to as "run for your life moments", in which you'll have a set amount of time to leg it through an area while the whole place is systematically destroyed. Sounds a little like the end of the Crew Expendable mission in Modern Warfare, but we'll see how it goes.At the heart of it all, the game engine has been upgraded, with an overhauled streaming system, as well as new lighting and physics. Like its predecessor, Force Unleashed 2 will combine three third-party physics engines,Havok,EuphoriaandDigital Molecular Matter, to provide cutting edge human animation, materials effects and authentic physical forces. But this time round, the team feels it's getting the most out of its triple engine set-up, with enemies flailing and scenic structures collapsing as you blast them with Force powers. "The biggest difference is that the team knows how to use this stuff!" jokes Blackman. "Whenever you're building the first iteration [of a game series] and a brand new game engine at the same time, everything comes in hot and fast – we were literally figuring out how to get the most out of those three technologies all the way up to shipping. The DLC then helped us to learn more, and that knowledge has given us the biggest leap forward."As a writer though, it seems what Blackman is most excited about is the story behind Force Unleashed 2. During the pre-E3 hype for the game, he's been telling reporters "this is our Empire Strikes Back", which was always going to drum up interest. But what exactly is he getting at with this quotable soundbite? "Empire feels to me like a more personal story," he says. "They introduce the romance between Han and Leia in a really meaningful way, and it's a much darker story than A New Hope – so there are some of those elements that we wanted to carry over."But we always looked to Empire Strikes Back as our guiding star - a lot of the art direction in Force Unleashed was based on Empire. But we really made a conscious effort to say, 'okay this is a sequel, how do we take some of the same steps forward that Empire did in terms of tone and character development?' And to me, Empire may be the best movie of all time, so to set that as a goal was good for motivating the team!"Like the first game, too, Force Unleashed 2 will create direct parallels with the movie saga. The original talked about the formation of the rebellion, but the sequel will move things on and explain other factors of the era immediately before A New Hope. As Blackman hints: "There are moments fans will look at it and say, 'well I didn't know it happenedthatway…'" He also mentions that several major characters from the movies will take significant roles in this game, though won't be drawn on who. I ask about the demo, which shows the rebel forces about to be attacked by mercenaries – does this mean we can expect a certain favourite bounty hunter to appear? "You mean IG-88?" quips Blackman.But it's not all going to be about thrilling hardcore fans with recognisable cameos. Blackman insists that he wants Force Unleashed II to interest those who haven't even seen the film saga. "We're trying to re-envision and reinvent Star Wars in some ways," he claims. "If you like the big OTT action games, I'm hoping you'll like this one, and that the Star Wars setting is just a bonus. At the end of the day, we're making a game not a movie. It's the gameplay that has to really grab you."He also points out that there are both obsessive Star Wars fanatics and casual fans on the team, and that they have regularly looked outside of the series for inspiration: "We're constantly referencing other movies and games when we're trying to get a point across. We have a kind of short hand. If I say, 'I want his reaction to be like Roy Scheider in Jaws when he fist sees the shark' everybody knows what I'm talking about. There's a moment we touch on in the story – this is one of my favourite moments – when Starkiller has a vision of Juno and she passes right through him and fades away. And I wanted his reaction to be reminiscent of the moment in Poltergeist, where the mother of Carol Anne, the girl who's disappeared, feels her daughter pass through her. She closes her eyes and can smell her daughter around her. I wanted to get that same emotional punch."So what can we really expect from Force Unleashed 2?Demo footage from E3suggests a strong physics system, some outlandish powers and a range of interesting destructible environments. But can the game really move us away from button mashing and toward a more refined system, like Bayonetta or Yakuza 3? We'll need hands-on experience to gauge that.What we do know is that, once again, there will be no multiplayer with the PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 versions. Blackman says he wanted to concentrate on the single-player story, but as Red Dead Redemption has recently shown, it's possible to have a very strong campaign-based game, but still make some room for a few offbeat online multiplayer activities. It seems that the Wii version will feature a four-player deathmatch, though, and there's talk of a "Challenge" mode in the other versions which will feature an online leaderboard – perhaps little consolation to many gamers in this connected era.But then, as the strongest element of the original game was its twisting cinematic narrative, there's still going to be plenty of interest in this clearly intricately planned and crafted sequel. Blackman has been working on Star Wars games for 13 years and seems as excited by this one as anything that's gone before. "I can't wait to see the reaction to the ending!" he says. " It ties directly into the saga, and to the character arcs of some of the main characters we know from the saga. I think we've made some bold, ballsy choices that are going to leave fans talking …"•Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II is released on DS, PC, PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 on 29 October
Flickris the web's treasure trove of creativity, from the weird and wonderful groups likeOdd-Eyed Cats(population 178) to the deeply committedMonthly Scavenger Hunt(3,260).With more than 4bn images to choose from, how do you find the gems? We've picked a few of our favourites, for starters.Half Domeby brainchildvnPhoto bybrainchildvnon Flickr.Some rights reservedShot on a Canon EOS5D in 2009 is an image that would put Ansel Adams to shame. This photo describes the natural, intricate detail of the textures of the mountain in dramatic monochrome - an almost frightening image of the power of nature and our own insignificance. In one picture. We are not worthy.Nightly Flowerby MSVGPhoto byMSVGon Flickr.Some rights reservedTaken in June 2010, the secret to this image of the scarlet lily is the perspective which makes the flower seem larger than life, as if it is a statue on the Toronto pavement.Slipby Thomas HawkPhoto byThomas Hawkon Flickr.Some rights reservedThis close-up of a cash register, taken by photographer Thomas Hawk in California, was used in the United Nations 2010 annual report on crime, drugs and terrorism. You can almostsmellthe varnish of the wood and the dusty buttons thanks to the vivid textures and colours.Untitledby Grace-OliviaPhoto byGrace-Oliviaon Flickr.Some rights reservedTaken in December of last year using a Canon EOS 450D and red powder, it could be an outtake from the Sony Bravia campaign.Carnival SF: Demonic Childby tibchrisPhoto bytibchrison Flickr.Some rights reservedThis aptly named 'demonic' looking child embraces his heritage at this year's San Francisco Carnival which "showcases the very best of Latin American and Caribbean cultures with a dynamic array of food, music, drumming, dancing, live music, and artistry". And, apparently, face paints.Lion's Mane Jellyfishby Dan HershmanPhoto byDan Hershmanon Flickr.Some rights reservedThis picture of a Lion's Mane jellyfish was taken in Hood Canal, Washington in 2006. "Their body is about the size of a basketball, with stinging tentacles trailing 20 feet in their wake", says Hershman. It might look like a dream, but being stung might be more than your worst nightmare.Weird Skyby judepicsPhoto byjudepicson Flickr.Some rights reservedTaken with Fujifilm FinePix S9600 in 2007, 'Weird Sky' is so idyllic you'd be forgiven for thinking a little Photoshop was applied, when actually the gold clouds and graduated blues in the sky are created by the rays of the setting sun.Stranger in a Strange Landby Maggie-MePhoto byMaggie-Meon Flickr.Some rights reservedThis 'strange' Dalian landscape was created on the program Vue 3D in May this year.Movementby gcfairchPhoto bygcfairchon Flickr.Some rights reservedThis snapshot of a journey was taken in May earlier this year on a Canon EOS 50D. The train is speeding past the stationary woman in a demonstration of how fast the world is moving around her. Even though there is a second- and possibly third- figure next to her, the strong, contrasting tones of her body, clothes and hair set her apart from the grey blurred world surrounding her.World's  Favorite Sportby vramakPhoto byvramakon Flickr.Some rights reservedTiming is crucial in this image as the sun is eclipsed by a moving football, captured on a Sony DSC-H7 in 2008. But then we can forget about football for another four years - right?
Apple has finally confessed that something is wrong with its Time Capsule wireless storage product - nine months after aGuardian investigation pointed to problems, and after thousands of people saw their valuable data lost when the devices failed to power up.Owners of units whose serial number lies within the range of XX807XXXXXX - XX814XXXXXX can get them repaired or replaced free of charge, by post or in person - though to save your data you'll have to take it to an Apple Store or authorised retailer so that they can retain the data from the hard drive.But if you've got a dead Time Capsule and its serial doesn't lie in that range - ah, you're going to have to take that fight up with Apple. Possibly via a lawsuit.It's another embarrassment for Apple, following hard on the heels ofrows over iPhone 4 reception issues(due to a longstandingerror in iPhone software, according to Apple) andearly problems with the iPad's Wi-Fi.In asupport document put out with absolutely no fanfare on Apple's Knowledge Base- no link from the front page, no press release - Apple says that "Some Time Capsules sold between approximately February 2008 and June 2008 may not power on or may shut down unexpectedly after starting up." In other words, they're dead: you can't get data onto them, and more importantly can't get it off. Which isn't much use for a device intended for backup.The problem that we identified, with the help of Pim van Bochoven - who set up theTime Capsule Memorial Registerafter his own TC turned up its toes unexpectedly - was that after about 18 months, the systems simply stopped working. The cause identified independently by a number of people, mindful of previous problems with early versions of Apple's Airport (its wireless router), was with the power supply: the reckoning was that it overheated.At the time we did contact Apple, pointing to the results of the analysis we'd done with van Bochoven, and asking if it could confirm that there were problems with Time Capsule. We never received any answer.Van Bochoven's Time Capsule Memorial Register was launched in October of the same year to provide a crowdsourced official record of the serial numbers and lifespans of broken devices, which totalled 2,500 doomed devices before he stopped updating the site in February 2010, having reached 2,500 dead devices (plus a number of "prank" submissions from Windows users, whose attempts were evident from the incorrect serial numbers offered - come on, people).Van Bochoven noted then: "Around halfway November 2009, Apple finally came to their senses and put together an internal Knowledge Base article for their worldwide support staff in which they outlined instructions to check failed Time Capsule serial numbers and offer a replacement if the number was within a certain range. We have no idea which range this is, and we're skeptical about it: the Time Capsule thermal design is flawed, regardless of the serial number." The flaw, as van Bochoven pointed out to us last year: "Overheated electronics... Apparently the power supply's capacitors can't take heat for such a long period of time. Like so many others, I noticed that the TC gets really hot, but I hadn't expected this to become fatal in just 18 months time."Until today, there had been no official response from Apple. What's interesting is that van Bochoven did provide us with a set of serial numbers - up to November, when there were only 600-odd registered. (Things got even busier after that.) Out of our database of 598 registered failed devices, 487 had serial numbers which fall within the recall boundaries.But that also means that 20% of the failed devices had serial numbers which lie outside the recall/replace boundaries - and that must mean that Apple isn't out of the woods on this.The statistics from the Time Capsule memorial site show a dramatic peak at 19 months' use.Van Bochoven has an analysis of theoverall statistics for the lifespan of Time Capsules registered at his site,  which shows that there's an abrupt peak at 19 months.In July 2009 Apple did release a revised version of the Time Capsule - again, with no fanfare, and certainly no acknowledgement of the problems with the first versions - but it's not clear whether that solved the problems, or whether they are still there, waiting to bite people around, let's see now, that would be December. Perhaps you might consider a new hard drive for Christmas, Time Capsule owners?Meanwhile, any energetic lawyer in the US might find there are still plenty of annoyed Time Capsule owners who have a dead machine whose serial number is not in that range above who think there is a strong case that Apple realised there was a design fault but hasn't acknowledged it.After all, if you think about it, 19 months from September 2008 takes us to... April 2010. If Apple changed something radically in the Time Capsule manufacture - different electronics, power supply, or whatever - might it be prepared to tell us? We aren't holding your breath. But if you bought a Time Capsule in that period, you definitely should - and it would be wise to swap it, while getting the data copied, right away.
Facebook has announcedthat its Gift Shop will closing down from 1 August in order to "focus instead on improving other products". Gifts that have already been sent will still remain on your wall but the company has decided to pass the functionality on to third party applications - such as theHallmark Social Calendar.Gifts were first launched back in 2007, for just $1 each with personalised greeting to the recipient. Designed by the excellentSusan Kare, noted graphical designer of the original Macintosh icon set, these gifts were commonplace in the early days of the site but have noticeably passed out of most news feeds as trends have changed.Initially, Gifts looked like an important part of the revenue stream of the early Facebook. But the relatively high price meant that many people shied away from them, and they didn't make sense in hugely popular games such as Farmville - which tried to create its own in-game payment system, but eventually had to capitulate to Facebook, under severe pressure, and signed a five-year deal to use the new Facebook credits scheme, among others.The introduction ofFacebook Credits- from which Facebook itself takes 30% of any transaction - is an example of how the company is moving the social network into an open platform and less of a controlled site.Credits are also much more granular than Gifts - $5 buys you 50 Credits. Creating a virtual market economy is important to ensure the long term survival of the site, as well as keeping the doors open to new third party features. The demand for virtual goods will only increase with theever-growing number of userson the site, with the site hoping to reach 1 billion users in the future - though it's only on about 500m presently.
It seemed such a bold step - and it was: Mike Morhaime, chief executive of Blizzard, makers of World of Warcraft,announced on its forums five days agothat from 27 July, people would only be able to use their real names to post in its forums. The reason: to "contribute to a more positive forum environment, promote constructive conversations, and connect the Blizzard community in ways they haven't been connected before".Blizzard was just giving people some warning, so that they could get themselves in order. "These changes will go into effect on all StarCraft II forums with the launch of the new community site prior to the July 27 release of the game, with the World of Warcraft site and forums following suit near the launch of Cataclysm. The classic Battle.net forums, including those for Diablo II and Warcraft III, will be moving to a new legacy forum section with the release of the StarCraft II community site and at that time will also transition to using Real ID for posting."So of course at the announcement everyone cheered! And danced in the (virtual) streets! And hung out bunting! And embossed the names of the Blizzard staff on their computers, because at last someone was taking a stand against pseudonymity being used to diss people endlessly in a sort of Beavis-and-Butthead style endless oneupwizardship.Oh, no, wait, they didn't. Instead the reaction was a bit like telling people that you hadn't managed to plug that oil spill in the ocean that supplies their beach.The first comment pretty much summed it up: "This is possibly the worst thing I've ever read in blue [the text colour used for official announcements]. I can't even begin to fathom why you would do this."An interesting responsecame on page 79(yes, there was a bit of discussion), where one user wrote: "When you get interviewed you get analyzed to see if anything you currently do would so drastically impair your ability to come in every day and do work. Honestly if I was an employer and saw that a one of the applicants spends most of their days awake at 2-3AM raiding or posting, I am probably not going to favor them because lack of sleep would impair their ability to be in work and on time every day and being able to function in the workplace."I don't like it, nobody does, that behavior should not even be there, but it is. We cannot stop the fact that this will happen. This facts applies moreso to college aged applicants as well. Incriminating facebook posts or photos will never land you a job. Employers do research and use that to base their view of you. They don't know you, they will only have about 30 minutes to meet you before they make a decision if you are the right person or not. Unfortunately this is how the world works. I know a number of people that work hard and are good at what they do and still find time to play games. The perception of the gamer is painted as a "slacker" and "uncaring" person. A common cliche is the video game nerd not doing anything with his life (living in the mum's basement picture)." And it's signed "Blizzard gamer since 1995".And so now:Blizzard (specifically, Morhaime) backs down:"We've been constantly monitoring the feedback you've given us, as well as internally discussing your concerns about the use of real names on our forums. As a result of those discussions, we've decided at this time that real names will not be required for posting on official Blizzard forums."So: the end of a non-era? Yet there was an interesting discussion at theGuardian's Activate conference, where Steven Clift, of the e-democracy project, insisted that using your real name should be the norm in online discussion, not - as it presently is - the exception. "Why do we accept norms of flaming in online commenting? It doesn't happen in our private networks of communication," he remarked. (Clift's comments are at 12.35pm in the liveblog; We'll have an interview with him in an upcomingTech Weekly podcast.)Clift's point is that if you want to have reasoned discourse - which can only be done with a starting point of real names, because we then know that what we say will be attached to us (think of Facebook, for example) - then you have to have real names. Yet Blizzard's experience suggests that people don't want to do that.So where are the right places to use your real name, if not in games forums? (Or should they be used there too?) Would you continue commenting here if you had to give your real name? (That isn't testing the water, it's offering a hypothetical.) And since you wonder, my real name is Orc Slayermaster.
What exactly is a 'panic button'? I've written before that child safety and online behaviour is afar more nuanced problemthan a single Batphone-style button could solve, but it's an image that still obscures the detail in theongoing tusslebetween Facebook and Ceop, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre.The solution announced today is not apanic button- it's an app. It is something every major brand has had, in the form of a page or an app, on Facebook for some time - but that public agencies don't have the marketing resources to come up with. This project took two months.Photo byemilydickinsonridesabmxon Flickr.Some rights reservedFacebook say the app combines its expertise on technology and marketing with Ceop's in online safety. This is not a 'reverse ferret' on the company's stance that a panic button isnot an effective solution; it still holds that one button published on every page of the site will attract too many false reports and create too much work for Ceop. What it does do is give Ceop the chance to put its logo, which is recognised by most UK schoolchildren, on anofficial pageand use the virality of Facebook to promote the service.On the downside, because users have to activelyadd this appto their profiles to use it, the viral success of the app depends on how attractive it is. Though it will be helped by promotion in Facebook's ad spots over the next two years it will still be competing with Farmville, vibrating hamsters and quizzes about which member of Glee you most look like.This is just one privacy-related issue Facebook is dealing with, alongside changes in its privacy terms that have triggered various protests and demands for a simplification of its privacy settings for users.Clearly no-one has any truck with Ceop's mission, which is essential. But I can't help feeling that this move is overdue and that, in the bigger picture, Ceop needs a more sophisticated and youth-friendly campaign.Though the name 'Ceop' is being promoted in schools, it's a terribly dull acronym and an unimaginative brand with little resonance that will miss the opportunity to engage a far larger audience. Think of theNSPCC's Full Stopcampaign, the Department of Health'sChange4Lifeor the brilliant anti-drug campaignTalk to Frank. Still, with 40% cuts I don't suppose we'll see that kind of imagination or impact from a government-run campaign for years.
UK top 10 video games, week ending 10 July 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Crackdown 2(15+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (1)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (28)Xbox 360 (27)DS (24)PS3 (20)33 (2)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)84 (6)Dance On Broadway(12+)Wii (100)25 (5)2010 Fifa World Cup South Africa(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (39)PSP (9)Wii (7)116 (3)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)57 (4)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 11(3+)PS3 (45)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (13)28 (8)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (41)PC (5)359 (7)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)3110 (18)Ufc 2010: Undisputed(15+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (47)6Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Google announcedApp Inventor for Androidtoday, which is attempting to bring programming and app-creation to the masses. Unlike itscomprehensive software development kit, App Inventor is a web application that "...requires NO programming knowledge. This is because instead of writing code, you visually design the way the app looks and use blocks to specify the app's behavior". The basis of the application is to simplify the long and tedious process of coding, by allowing users to drag and drop display elements and 'blocks' for the "programming-like stuff". The creators said that there are blocks available for just about everything you can do with an Android phone, as well as the more in depth function calls. There areplenty of tutorials availableto help you get started.It's a web application which runs on all platforms, and all major browsers - including Internet Explorer 6. It does require Java installed too.Besides the altruistic motivations of using Google's research to push the latest technology into the hands of normal users, there may be other motivations behind the development. The Android Marketplace has over 90,000 applications, which while initially impressive is sparse compared to the 250,000+ available on Apple's App Store. Google obviously wants to bump up the numbers, as more apps add to the allure of the platform and App Inventor may be the perfect way to bring in new programmers.Personally, having just spend the past three years learning to code for various platforms (including iOS), it is easy to be skeptical over these short cuts to writing applications. Knowing the ins and outs of how the devices work is essential for creating something unique and useful. Past experience have shown me that drag and drop interfaces only allow for a limited range of functions, produce clumsy applications and stifle creativity. Nor do they provide a good introduction to the world of application writing, as much of the process is covered up by a pretty interface.So will App Inventor produce thousands ofHello Worldapplications or genuinely useful programmes that would have never existed before? Have you managed to write something for your Android? Let us know your thoughts below.
TheDaily Telegraphappears to have its head in the clouds, though this is not meant in any way to be a criticism.Indeed, in cyber circles, it is regarded as a major plus that the paper has embraced, to use the jargon, "a cloud adoption strategy".Bernard Golden, reporting on the recentCloud Computing World Forumin London, was full of praise for a presentation byToby Wright, chief technology officer at theTelegraph Media Group.It was bothfascinating and compelling, to say the least, observes Golden, claiming that the Telegraph's IT approach can be summed up as "let someone else run operations."He says Wright outlined his firm's use of SaaS (software as a service) applications as follows:Salesforcefor customer interaction;Googlefor email and collaboration;Ooyalafor video distribution;Disqusfor blog comments; andCordysfor business process management and workflow.Golden writes: "Essentially, Wright wants to get out of the business of running kit, recognising that specialised providers operate less expensively than he could in a self-hosted data centre."More from Wright's presentation (as reported by Golden):SaaS-forward strategy lets the Telegraph IT organisation focus on delivering application functionality that helps the Telegraph offer more value to its readers (or more accurately, content consumers).In fact, the Telegraph's IT strategy is that 100% of new business ventures will be cloud-based. No software procurement or hardware provisioning looms on the horizon.Wright also gave a practical example of the way in which editorial staff are interacting with website users. He described how a Telegraph writer preparing to review a digital camera began by posting a picture of the box in which the device arrived.Then, over the course of a couple of weeks, she posted updates of her progress in evaluating the camera, with lots of photos and comments about her experience getting up to speed with it. By the time her final review was written, she had created a group of followers looking forward to the piece.Golden writes: "This kind of engagement is the hallmark of social media, and community involvement is thesine qua nonof the business environment of the future."Applications that make it easy to publish and support rich involvement via comments and online video help the Telegraph play in the changing world of media, content, and community engagement."Golden argues that the Telegraph "didn't have a choice about changing the way it did computing" because its "wretched financial situation... forced a re-evaluation of its IT practices." (Well, it's not really wretched, given that TMG makes a profit, but that's Golden's take (or Wright's), not mine).Anyway, back to Golden's narrative.The Telegraph's experience provides evidence of how cloud computing supports IT becoming a value provider rather than a cost centre.As long as IT conversations are dominated about investing capital in infrastructure, and the majority of its budget is devoted to 'running the business,' it will be placed with the other internal service organisations and excluded from discussions about how IT can help frontline business units deliver greater value...The Telegraph provides an instructive lesson in how rapidly the business world is changing and how imperative it is to move to an IT approach that supports it.Ten years ago the newspaper world was one of the greatest industries extant, with net profit margins well north of 20%. Today, it's a wasteland of red ink, layoffs, and mergers. Ten years from first to worst. That's how quickly... When change is afoot, it's critical to be nimble.Indeed, it is. And that's the lesson we journalists - desperately trying to preserve old practices - also have to embrace, despite the pain.Source:CIO
Has Google (NSDQ: GOOG) invested $100m or more in gaming start-up Zynga? That's what TechCrunchis reporting, citing multiple unidentified sources, asis Venturebeat; although, so far, neither company is confirming the reports;  Zynga spokeswoman Dani Dudek said by e-mail Saturday evening that the company isn't commenting.Photo bynadyneon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe TC report has Google investing anywhere from $100m to $200m in the California gaming company, which built its rep and revenues as a Facebook gaming phenom with Farmville but has been branching out. In February, Zynga said it would put its games on Microsoft (NSDQ: MSFT) properties, such as Windows Live Messenger, and it followed that up with asimilar dealwith Yahoo (NSDQ: YHOO) in May. Google and Zynga are also working on a strategic deal, which will have Zynga titles show up on a new Google Games site, according to TC.The investment from Google - not Google Venures - reportedly closed last month. Zynga had already raised a staggering $327m since last fall.More as warranted.
Get a chance to game this weekend? Mine was limited due to travel but I did manage to get another couple of hours on Dragon Quest IX on the DS. After the slowest opening 3 hours in gaming history - ok, this year then - the Japanese RPG does get going nicely. After 20-odd hours though I still feel like I have barely scratched the surface. The review will be up later this week.  What about you though? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
After months of pressure to improve its online safety features, Facebook has reached an agreement to provide an application not dissimilar to the "panic button" critics have called for, which users can add to their homepage and links to the UK's online child protection watchdog.Facebook has been put on the back foot in recent months and forced atfirst to defend its safety measuresand thenannounce a raft of new initiatives as criticism mounted.Founder Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged late last month that the global expansion of Facebook meant privacy controls had become too complex and that"very legitimate questions"had been raised about its failings in this area.Now Facebook UK is to launch a new initiative with the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, one of its harshest critics, to give all users the potential to access the organisation's advice and reporting centre.The service, accessible via a ClickCeop button, includes a dedicated facility for reporting instances of suspected grooming or inappropriate sexual behaviour.Facebook said that it marks the first time in the UK that all users, and especially the target demographic of 13-to-18-year-olds, will be able to have direct access to CEOP's services. However, the new system is opt-in, meaning that Facebook users will have to actively choose to download, add, or bookmark the new button onto their homepage."Our dialogue with Facebook about adopting the ClickCeop button is well documented," said Jim Gamble, the chief executive of Ceop. "Today, however, is a good day for child protection."In April Facebookannounced new measures including a £5m education and awareness campaign but declined to add the Ceop button.Because users will have to be made aware of the existence of the new button and have to pro-actively add it to their homepage, Facebook will be running an online awareness campaign targeting members.The campaign will include an automatic advert-message appearing on every homepage of users aged between 13 to 18 inviting them to add the application.The new alert application will be backed by aCeop Facebook pagethat, when "liked" by users, aims to help raise the profile of online safety. The page will look at topics that teenagers care about, such as celebrities, music and exams, and will link these subjects to questions about online safety."We know from speaking to offenders that a visible deterrent could protect young people online," said Joanna Shields, vice president of Facebook for Europe, Middle East and Africa. "There is no single silver bullet to making the Internet safer but by joining forces with Ceop we have developed a comprehensive solution...   and backed this with an awareness campaign to publicise it to young users."
More than half of people with geolocation-capable mobile devices worry about "loss of privacy" from using their location-sharing features, a survey has found - even though location-sharing apps such as FourSquare and Gowalla have millions of users checking in every day.Among UK respondents, 52% said they were "very or extremely concerned" about loss of privacy from using location-sharing applications - even though the same proportion said that they geotag photos, indicating where they were taken, when uploading them to the internet.The survey, commissioned by security company Webroot, interviewed 1,500 owners of devices with geolocation capabilities, including 624 people in the UK.Yet other data shows that there are more than 1m lonely hearts now looking for location-based lovevia an iPhone application, andtouching two million userschecking-in with Foursquare, sharing whereabouts is the social currency du jour.But that can be risky, as a trio of developers showed earlier this year, grabbing the headlines when they launchedPlease Rob Me, a live stream of people sharing their location on Twitter, the site playing on the fact these people were out of their homes. After doing what it set out to do -bring attentionto the risk associated with location sharing - the stream was turned off.Yet FourSquare and Gowalla have continued theirupward trajectoryof users, investors and commercial partners, such as Dominos Pizza, the Huffington Post, MTV and theWall Street Journal.But according to David Bennett, director for Webroot in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, "It's not about securing the hardware anymore, it's about securing the person as mobile internet-connected devices become widespread." He reiterates the challenges associated with attitudes towards publishing personal information online: "If you look over the last year, it takes about a year for people to be educated about putting stuff on Facebook - I think it'll take that same amount of time for geolocation applications."This, Bennett says, gets to the nub of the concern: "A lot of people don't necessarily know what they do or what the implications are of these services. Of the half that thought there was a problem, how many people know that the pictures they're taking can be geotagged? Say if you move into a new house, and you say 'Here's a picture of my house', you then take a picture of you and your family on holiday - this is where cybercrime really expands. What's to stop a certain segment of the marketplace burgling your house? That's the challenge as we go forward.""I think it's the new version of the telephone directory," Bennett says of the presence of food chains on Foursquare. "Can you be sure the company you're interacting with is really the company? That's one of the biggest challenges. when you rang them up you knew it was them - if it's online how can you be sure? But that's the way the business marketplace is going to go - the next generation of bringing people to the doorstep."And to the doorstep goods and services will come.Skoutis a location-based "social dating application" that connects singletons within metres or miles of your exact location. Last week Skout welcomed bothprofitability and its one millionth user. But news like this is anathema to the cause of "securing the person". Bennett continues the refrain: "When you're online it's so easy to pretend to be someone you're not. Everyone's hidden behind the keyboard if you start going into some of these dating areas."There are certain parts of our information that should always be private. It comes down to people understanding what they're doing."The researchWebroot commissioned a survey of 1,645 social network users (including 624 UK-based) who own geolocation-ready mobile devices on June 7 and June 8 2010.-39% (around 600 of the sample) of mobile device users use location-tracking applications on their mobile phone–73% of those use a "geo-tracking application" to do so–Of this 73%, more than a quarter used location-based services to share their whereabouts with "strangers" and 14% use them to meet new people–55% of respondents said they worry over loss of privacy incurred from using geolocation data–One in 11 respondents have used geolocation applications to meet a stranger, either digitally or in person. This is predominantly within the 18-29 age group–64% have accepted a friend request from a stranger–41% are "aware or extremely concerned" about letting "potential burglars know when they are not at home"–In the UK, 46% of women are "highly concerned" about "letting a stalker know where they are," compared to 27% of men–52% of UK respondents tag their whereabouts in a photograph online–In the past year, 30% of UK respondents have shared their geographical location with "people other than their friends"
Hey, Android. Photo byclaudia.rahanmetanon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's culture needs a change &gt;&gt; MarketWatch"It's high time for Apple Inc. to try and fix its corporate culture of arrogance," begins this column. However, only one example of "arrogance", over the iPhone 4 antenna (which could just as easily be described as mendacity or confusion or cock-up) is cited. Most Apple-watchers would easily be able to offer more.A Youthful Market Spurns the Wares of Microsoft &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"In 2008, Microsoft acquired a start-up, Danger, that had built popular mobile phone software, hoping that technology would revitalize its waning phone software business. But Microsoft stumbled as it took longer than expected to create a new product with the technology. In April, Microsoft finally introduced the fruits of this labor when it unveiled the Kin phones.&#10;&#10;"In contrast, Google, a chief Microsoft rival, also bought a mobile technology start-up — Android. Both Android and Danger were co-founded by Andy Rubin, who joined Google."Though note that Google bought Android in August 2005.Hacks and Hackers day, Birmingham, July 23 &gt;&gt; ScraperWikiThere's also one in Liverpool on July 16.Microsoft's 8 new billion-dollar-revenue businesses this decade &gt;&gt; TechFlashNote that billion-dollar revenue does not mean profit to match at the equivalent level (which on a normal business would be 10%, or $100m). Oh, and before you go there, see if you can guess four of them.The KIN-fusing KIN-clusion to KIN, and FY11 Microsoft Layoff Rumors &gt;&gt; Mini-MicrosoftEveryone's man on the inside of Redmond on the failures of that sort-of smartphone; read the comments too for a lot of insight into Microsoft.The Fastest Growing Online Jobs for Q2 &gt;&gt; Freelancer.comGeolocation, HTML5, Amazon Web Services, mobile phones, Salesforce and Kindle devs all see dramatic growth in demand. Pity they don't give us the baseline numbers to know how that compares to the previous quarter in absolute terms.The fightback starts now &gt;&gt; Nokia Conversations"Yesterday was the first day in my new job. I'm fortunate to say that I must have one of the most exciting jobs in the business. As head of Mobile Solutions, it's my aim to ensure Nokia stays as the market and intellectual leader in creating the digital world. I'm under no illusions; it's no small task. Over the coming months, we'll be advancing current projects and working to simplify the way we work in order to deliver products and services faster, and with a laser focus on quality.&#10;&#10;"I am committed, perhaps even obsessed, with getting Nokia back to being number one in high-end devices."&#10;&#10;Hang on, though, Nokia &lt;i&gt;already&lt;/i&gt; leads in terms of market share of smartphones. What on earth is this about?Repeal the laws of physics &gt;&gt; HMG - Your FreedomSomething tells me that the "repeal laws" site has become the new version of the e-petition site. We refer you to Chris Applegate's critique of a while back - which included the suggestion of pre-moderation.&#10;&#10;Meanwhile, can't we do something about that pesky Law of Gravity?Distimo: 57% Of Android Apps Are Free Vs. 28% Of iPhone Apps &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"App store analytics provider Distimo last week published its report for June 2010, and zoomed in on the pricing of mobile applications across a variety of platforms once more. "Slurp digital eyedropper sucks up, injects information wirelessly &gt;&gt; Engadget"Slurp can "extract (slurp up) and inject (squirt out) pointers to digital objects," enabling connected machines and devices to have information transferred from desktop to desktop (or desktop to speakers, etc.) without any wires to bother with."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Age:60.Appearance:two shiny gadgets with an idiot in the middle.One gadget, surely? Buttons on top, batteries inside. You point it at the telly . . .And nothing happens. So you use the f-word, get up and change the channels by hand? That's the old style of remote.But I like the old style of remote. I know how it works. Howdoesit work?Infra-red light. Earlier versions used visible light or sound. The very first was connected to the set with a wire.I know it looks as if I'm yawning, but I'm just exercising my jaws.Now scientists have discovered a way to use both infra-redandbluetooth, which is a trendy kind of radio.You call that progress? Two things to break down, rather than one? Is it at least cheap?Dream on. You can pick up a traditional remote for a few quid; this new device will cost £79 when it goes on sale at John Lewis in the autumn. But it's still set to become one of the gadgets of the year, according to . . .John Lewis?Yup. As long as you own an . . .This isn't yet another iPhone story, is it?Of course not. It's yet another iPhone, iPad and iPod touch story.  The battery-powered "Gear4 Unity" turns your iDoodah into a "universal" remote that opens garage doors, controls hi-fis . . . in theory, it can control anything run by infra-red.Everyone's just going to use it for TV, aren't they?Naturally. But they'll have thepotentialto do so much more. And because it's an iPhone, every time they lose their new-fangled remote, they'll simply be able to phone it. Muffled ringtone? Side of the sofa. Bubbling sound? Dropped in the vase. Genius.So how doesthiswork?iThingies can't&nbsp;talk to most devices because they don't have infra-red, only bluetooth. Simply install Unity near your telly/garage door and this little cylinder bridges the gap.What could go wrong?You now have two loads of batteries to worry about.Do say:"Lose this remote and we can&nbsp;ring it."Don't say:"Lose this remote and we're&nbsp;stuffed."
As is well known in these quarters, Apple makes beautiful kit. Actually, that's not quite true. Appledesignsbeautiful kit, but the stuff is made byFoxconn, a huge oriental company. That's why, on the back of my iPad, it says: "Designed by Apple in California. Assembled in China." And therein lie a number of tales.The standard narrative is the ironic one about rich westerners with more money than sense enjoying luxury gadgets manufactured by poorly paid Chinese workers under commercial security so paranoid that it has allegedly led to suicides. But there are other narratives which receive less attention. The one that concerns me just now is what all this "designed in California, made somewhere else" syndrome means for us.This thought was prompted by a recent broadside from Andy Grove, the former CEO of Intel, the world's leading chip-maker. In the real world, Mr Grove may not be exactly a household name, but in the computing business nobody sleeps at the back when he's talking.He's famous for the mantra: "Only the paranoid survive", which summed up his attitude to competition when he ran Intel. But as well as being fanatically competitive, he's also far-sighted and perceptive. In 1999, for example, he became briefly notorious for predicting that "in five years' time, companies that aren't internet companies won't be companies at all".Grove was widely ridiculed for this statement. Was he saying, critics inquired sarcastically, that every fast-food joint and grocer would have to be into e-commerce by 2004? Not at all: what he meant was that the internet would become an everyday utility like electricity, something that every company uses, but very few generate, and none can do without. And he was right.In an essay entitled"How to Make an American Job Before It's Too Late", Grove pointed out that whereas Apple has 25,000 employees in the US, Foxconn has 250,000 in southern China alone. "The company," he points out, "has grown at an astounding rate, first in Taiwan and later in China. Its revenue last year was $62bn, larger than Apple Inc, Microsoft Corp, Dell Inc or Intel. Foxconn employs more than 800,000 people, more than the combined worldwide head count of Apple, Dell, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard Co, Intel and Sony Corp."Grove cited these figures to attack what he regards as a pernicious mindset that now afflicts government policymakers in most western countries – "Our own misplaced faith in the power of start-ups to create US jobs. Americans love the idea of the guys in the garage inventing something that changes the world.New York Timescolumnist Thomas L Friedman recently encapsulated this view in a piece called 'Start-Ups, Not Bailouts'. His argument: let tired old companies that do commodity manufacturing die if they have to. If Washington really wants to create jobs, he wrote, it should back start-ups."Grove thinks this is baloney and he's right. Start-ups are wonderful but – at least in technology – they generally don't create jobs on the scale that western economies need. What really matters is what comes after that eureka moment in the garage, as the new idea goes from prototype to mass production. "This is the phase," Grove writes, "where companies scale up. They work out design details, figure out how to make things affordably, build factories and hire people by the thousands. Scaling is hard work but necessary to make innovation matter."At the moment, any successful start-up engaged in scaling up will immediately plan to outsource production to China or Taiwan, because it's the economically rational thing to do. As a result, most of the jobs created by the new idea will not be in the US (or Britain) but somewhere in the far east. "No problem," say the venture capitalists who are funding the process. "The intellectual property – and the value – stay here while the grunt-work of mass production goes elsewhere."All of which is true. But consider the outcome: the new company has a smallish number of highly qualified (and well-paid) workers in its home base, oodles of incoming revenue (eventually) and a great deal of government and media approval. But the only other jobs it creates will be in low-paid service occupations – cleaning, warehousing, shipping and the like.And so the hollowing out of western economies continues, even as they continue to be powerhouses of innovation and technological ingenuity. Every time you buy the latest gizmo – smartphone, tablet, flat-screen TV, broadband router, camera – you're an unwitting participant in it. And it's all the product of our fanatical commitment to economic rationality.The Greeks used to say that those whom the gods wished to destroy, they first made mad. Now it seems that they just make them rational.
Stealth is an integral part of many a first-person shooter, but inSniper: Ghost Warriorit's the entire deal. Ignore the backstory (tossed off and naive, plus you're not even a ghost) and the deplorable voice-acting (like members of the Republican party getting in a lather) and what's left is a game where the majority of your time is spent moving very slowly, sometimes face-down in the dirt and often dressed as a bush.S:GWis concerned on a deep level with that über-Freudian preoccupation of Sticking It In, From A Distance. There's some sneaking/knifing to be done, and a pistol for the real extroverts, but most killing is via the sniper's rifle. If crawling tentatively through garishly lit jungle isn't exciting enough, just wait until you begin factoring wind speed and direction, as well mastering control of your breathing (oh yes) when attempting to blow someone's head off from hundreds of metres away. Ultimately, it's the quieter moments ofDoom,Half Lifeand the rest, without the interesting bits in between.
The story behindDemon's Soulsis almost unheard of nowadays. Released 15 months ago in Asia, it has travelled the world by virtue of nothing more than sheer brilliance and word of mouth. It inspired such passion in its players – and in critics – that thousands bought import versions before the game's western releases were announced. I was not immune. When the Eurogamer website asked me to name the game of the past decade, my import ofDemon's Soulstook the prize. The most striking and uncompromising title of its generation, it is a beautifully realised, absorbing and brutally dark fantasy.You are plunged into a dying world struggling for its last breath, overrun by demons and left to fade into darkness. Crumbling medieval forts, a dungeon littered with the evidence of unimaginable torture, a fetid, disease-ridden swamp – each area is guarded by a massive, gruesome boss as well as hundreds of other, smaller foe. As one of the last living entities, your undertaking is to explore and overcome this evil, and it's one of the hardest tasks that a game will ever present.Unremittingly difficult,Demon's Soulspits one brave but weak player against an entire universe of grotesque creatures, all committed to killing you quickly and creatively. You will die, frequently and without much warning; in fact, you play almost all of the game as a dead person. The worlds are littered with traps, and every death sends you back to the beginning, offering the challenge: get better or give up.But how? You learn. You learn to suspect every shadow, every faint glint at the end of every dark tunnel, using the small victories that earn you souls to buy a tiny boost for your abilities. You learn to adapt your tactics, switching between spears and magic wands, bows and axes – the game never restricts your character by class, allowing you to use anything you can scavenge as a lifeline. You learn, slowly, until you're able to achieve the impossible.This whole process, once you've overcome the initial difficulty barrier, is indescribably rewarding.Demon's Soulshas a deep and perceptive understanding of the self-mastery at the heart of gaming. Its difficulty also leads to one of the most forward-thinking online modes of any game yet. There is a built-in system for players to help each other, leaving messages on the floor to warn of danger ahead and allowing them to summon each other as Blue Phantoms for co-operative assistance.The playing community's support and advice exists in place of the usual tutorials and self-explanation of other games. Of course here nothing is without its dark side: other players can also invade and assassinate you as Black Phantoms – as if things weren't already hard enough.Demon's Soulsis a game that reminds us why we love gaming – why we started playing in the first place, how far we've come, and where we want to go. Once it has its jagged, bloodstained teeth into you, it'll never let go.
Honest, potential humiliation is the usual fear when embarking on rhythm-based Wii titles, as each one seems to offer brand new ways for adults to look foolish. ForDance on Broadway, however, disaster was averted as my 11-year-old sister-in-law, Dolina, was roped in to take charge. She is, after all, the target audience and her infectious enthusiasm inevitably led to the grown-ups breaking out the jazz hands too.Dance on Broadwayuses the Wiimote to capture your dance steps. The fact that it fails miserably in this task doesn't detract from the fun of the game in the slightest. Up to four players can dance together, following the on-screen characters who demonstrate the respective moves, although mimicking them accurately yielded fewer points than flailing wildly; indeed, stepping on the cat and the ensuing scramble earned five "GREAT" ratings in a row...The short, 20 song line-up is disappointing, but each number is long enough to work up a sweat and, away from the embarrassing elders, the target audience gave it a big thumbs up.
The World Cup concludes tonight, with one whole month until football proper starts up again. What to do until then? Well, there's always the happy panacea of the shiny pocket gadget…Fifa has spent years attempting to beautify the already beautiful game when they should have just had a word with developers Super Awesome Hyper Dimensional Mega Team. This lot know that the only thing that could possibly improve the sport is a healthy dose of the undead.Pro Zombie Soccer(iPhone, Apple app store, 59p) in truth doesn't offer zombies playing football, but rather one recently infected ex-pro (below) who is angry at having been bitten and is attempting to free the world of their shuffling presence. Using the touchscreen to aim at the oncoming horde, you charge up a shot and fire. Any contact is enough to remove body parts, with headshots offering best results. Chain together hits to unlock special shots, the best allowing the ball to slice through rows of ghouls like (somewhat inevitably) a German through the English defence. The cartoon-style action and cutscenes look superb, while the sheer variety of brain-eaters makes the game fiendishly addictive.Given the lack of free time this will allow, considerThe Girlfriend App(Android marketplace, $1.99 full, free lite version). It offers a random generator of yoof-friendly bons mots ("Someone pass the tartare sauce cuz you're quite a catch") that can be texted or emailed directly from the app to your other half, be they girl or boy. Curiously reassuring when discovering you're whispering: "Mmm, brains" in your sleep.
Where does music come from? If pressed on this question, many of us would say it comes from the "soul", or from the "heart" of the person who composed it. That music is the clearest expression of human emotion, one person to another; that certain chords, certain melodies seem to communicate a whole language of feeling. When we listen to a Beethoven symphony or a Chopin sonata, we are hearing, we might say, the authentic expression of the composer's inner harmonies and discords, carried magically across the centuries. Could we ever be so moved by a piece of music written by a computer? We'd probably like to think not. David Cope, emeritus professor of music at the University of California, Santa Cruz, would beg to differ. "The question," Cope tells me, "isn't if computers possess a soul, but if we possess one."Cope, now 69, has devoted the past 30 years of his life to what amounts to an obsessive examination of that particular question. He began, almost by default, back in 1980, with a severe case of writer's block. One of America's most acclaimed young composers, whose music had been performed at Carnegie Hall, and won great critical praise, Cope had been commissioned to write an opera. For weeks and months he sat at his piano, or stared at a blank piece of sheet music; nothing came. He had a wife and four children to support. In desperation he started playing with a computer.What he found there changed his life and, perhaps, the course of musical history. Cope had long held the belief that all music was essentially inspired plagiarism. The great composers absorbed the music that had gone before them and their brains "recombined" melodies and phrases in distinctive, sometimes traceable, ways. We all have an internal database of musical reference; composers were those with the ability to manipulate it in new patterns. With the aid of an early computer, he realised he could put this to the test.His first experiments with artificial musical intelligence were clunky, synthesised pieces, pastiches of easily identifiable work; but slowly, programming and reprogramming, inputting vast amounts of coded reference, he came to see how he might begin to shape a musical memory. The Eureka moment came one afternoon in 1983 after he had been working for a while trying to take apart and put back together chorales (four-part vocal hymns) in the style of JS Bach. He had a rules-based program, complicated and code-heavy, but it never produced anything approaching life or surprise.That afternoon, on the way to the local store, he came to realise that Bach didn't exist in his predictability, but in the minute, multiple places where he broke his own rules, where he defied expectation of a particular progression. Cope developed "a little analytical engine" that could insert some randomness within the predictability. He began to analyse Bach's music not just mathematically but with a sense of narrative tension and surprise, weighting different components according to his own feel for the music's "storytelling" power. His program, at this point, seemed to develop a personality of its own; "Experiments in Musical Intelligence" became Emmy. When fed with enough of a composer's work, Emmy could deconstruct it, identify signature elements, and recombine them in new ways. One day Cope pushed a button on Emmy, went out to get a sandwich and when he returned his workaholic creation had produced 5,000 original Bach chorales. In 1993, Cope released an album,Bach by Design, and waited for the response.When you listen to that album now – and those that followed, includingVirtual Mozartand, triumphantly,Virtual Rachmaninoff, you are discomfited and surprised in equal measure. Cope's work is far more than copying, it carries the recognisable DNA of the original style and fashions it into something recognisable but entirely new. The musical establishment reacted at first with alarm, and then with vitriol. Cope found it difficult to get any serious musicians to play Emmy's work, though it made many of the same demands as the "real thing". Critics convinced themselves that they heard no authentic humanity in it, no depth of feeling, Cope was characterised as a composer without a heart; his recent memoir is calledTin Man.One of the problems that the music highlighted was the fact that in Cope's terms, the music of Mozart, say, was endless in its possibilities. As he suggested when I spoke to him last week: "Because my program was continuing to pump out music like a spigot, it became a problem of: 'Why play this sonata and not that one?'" Cope has no doubt that Mozart in particular, with his structural genius, would – if he'd had the means – have utilised computerised intelligence in exactly the same way. When you remove the "human" element of the work, however, Cope recognised, you also lose a great deal of its urgency. "When you had the database figured out it was really a one-stroke deal: you pushed the button and out came hundreds and thousands of sonatas or whatever."He realised that what made a composer properly understandable, properly "affecting", was in part the fact of mortality. Composers had to die, and the ending made sense of what had gone before. With this in mind, Cope unplugged Emmy six years ago; her work – which he limited to 11,000 chosen pieces, was done. Emmy – housed on an ancient Power Mac 7500 (discontinued in 1996) now sits idle in the corner of his office. Cope has subsequently been at work, nurturing Emmy's "daughter", Emily Howell, (the first name from her mother, the second from the Christian name of Cope's own father) with whom he has a far more "equal" relationship.Emily Howell has a compendious memory that involves an intimate understanding of the works of 36 composers "starting with Palestrina, [an Italian court musician of the 16th century] and ending with David Cope in the 21st century". Their output is far more collaborative than that of Emmy. Cope will ask Emily a musical question, feeding in a phrase. Emily will respond with her own understanding of what happens next. Cope either accepts or declines the formula, much in the way he would if he was composing "conventionally"."It is," he says, "a bit like dealing with a small child; the program is an empty pot and I dribble small bits of music into it, and it responds to what I have put in… it's a process of carrots and sticks, really. I think it is producing good results but it takes a lot of time."Cope's ambitions remain exactly what they were, when, as an asthmatic child in Phoenix, Arizona, he was moved to wonder by Tchaikovsky'sRomeo and Juliet, and knew he had to be a composer himself. "My two goals are an original style and to create something I love," he says. "The program is a cat not a dog, it keeps itself to itself, you can't take it for walks. I can only generally pick it up and point it in the direction that I want it to go…"Emily Howell's first album,From Darkness, Light, composed in six movements and performed on two pianos, was released earlier this year. It was met largely with silence; the critics who were moved to respond did so with the usual sniffy constructs about "an absence of genuine humanity". Cope remains undaunted."People tell me they don't hear soul in the music," he says. "When they do that, I pull out a page of notes and ask them to show me where the soul is. We like to think that what we hear is soul, but I think audience members put themselves down a lot in that respect. The feelings that we get from listening to music are something we produce, it's not there in the notes. It comes from emotional insight in each of us, the music is just the trigger."Emily is still a work in progress for Cope. He thinks she is getting towards a mature style. "Five years from now I believe she will really be somewhere," he says.It must be a curious process, like watching an external mind working, I suggest. What has it taught him about himself? "Two things. That the mechanisms of the brain are incredibly simple, but that its ability to create extraordinary complexity should constantly amaze us."Will Emily survive him? "She needs a provocateur," Cope says, "but then so do humans. You cannot create music without reference to other music. Like us, she needs to be turned on to something."He can't imagine the possibility of going back to writing with just his own intuition and a pen and paper. "The programs are just extensions of me. And why would I want to spend six months or a year to get to a solution that I can find in a morning? I have spent nearly 60 years of my life composing, half of it in traditional ways and half of it using technology. To go back would be like trying to dig a hole with your fingers after the shovel has been made, or walking to Phoenix when you can use a car."When he began, though he was confident that what he was embarking on represented the future, Cope felt all the loneliness of the pioneer. Now, he suggests there is a growing interest in the possibilities. Not least the commercial ones. He was recently approached by a headline pop band – he won't say which – to see whether Emily could be persuaded to produce some hits. Though "recombining" elements of popular music is a court case in the making, there has, he suggests, not surprisingly been an enormous interest in creating music for ringtones and for games. "In the next 10 years," Cope says, "what I call algorithmic music will be a mainstay of our lives."The perception that we might identify the particular musical combinations that stir our individual souls suggests many other potential applications. Until now online music stores have based recommendations for future purchases on what a customer has bought before, but Cope's kind of musical analysis suggests a more intimate understanding of our particular desert island discs might be possible. It was reported last month that separate teams of researchers at universities in San Diego and in São Paulo are refining different ways of analysing musical genres and rhythms, to enable predictions of what we are likely to buy to be far more precise (see panel below).If music can be reduced to formulae and equations, does it begin to undermine notions of what music might mean to us? Douglas Hofstadter, author of the key book on the fundamentals of cognition,Gödel, Escher, Bach, has long lectured on the implications of Cope's work in understanding how the mind – and music – works. "In 20 years of working in artificial intelligence," he says, he has encountered "nothing more thought-provoking than David Cope's experiments." Hofstadter has distilled his thoughts on Cope's work into a full-length lecture performed in rhyme that begins with a question that might prove fundamental to future understanding of composition:Is music a craftOr is it an art?Does it come from mere trainingor spring form the heart?Did the études of Chopinreveal his soul's mood?Or was Frédéric ChopinJust some slick "pattern dude"?Hofstadter is very fond of Cope's remark that "Good artists borrow, great artists steal," though he is troubled that some of the mysteries of the creative process might be lost along the way, and with them a part of our understanding of what it means to be human. Cope, for his part, retains all of his sense of wonder at the composers – geniuses of recombination – who have gone before. Does he still dream of creating a masterpiece? I wonder.He says he has no idea what that word means.Have Emmy and Emily at least short-circuited the angst and musical block that led him to create them in the first place?"No," he says. "Not at all. I still get anxious and despairing. It never turns out as well as I hope it will. Every morning I wake up with the notion that I have failed at everything and I have to create some reason to exist." He and Emily then get back to work.
Black And WTFWTF is the only rational response to many of the images in this ongoing collection of "found" black and white photos from yesteryear. LP Hartley wrote that the past "is a foreign country, they do things differently there", but on this evidence the past is another planet where everyone is insane. Dip in and you will find pictures of some hilariouslyunconvincing bearded ladies, disturbing clowns, all manner ofgiants, twins and dwarves in various juxtapositions(big people in small cars, always a classic), the most alarming beauty contest of all time, vintage racism and some disturbing tattoos. One marked difference between now and then is how society treats animals, unless the information that sheep enjoy smoking and dogs like wearing hats has been suppressed for decades.Jon And AlJon and Al Kaplan are the geniuses behind current YouTube hitConan The Barbarian: The Musical, Arnold Schwarzenegger's mongol grunt-fest miraculously transformed into a musical. In the clip, sung in faux-Arnie accent, we learn about the Mighty Crum, the crushing of enemies and, of course, "the lamentation of the women". The pair's own site houses this masterpiece alongside other examples of music and video tomfoolery. Earlier this year they staged a musical version of Silence Of The Lambs, and here you'll finda Lego versionas well as their musical take on the moviesTotal RecallandFatal Attraction, plusan entire rock opera based on season two of 24, anda song based on Morgan Freeman monologues.Blog roll: MapsMaptubeResource to share and remix maps - from antisocial behaviour data to global Big Mac prices.Theme Park BrochuresHow to find your way around Alton Towers in 1986 plus other vintage theme park maps.KosmogradBrilliant blog with a rare glimpse inside Shenzen, the city where they build iPods; plus atlas design and World Cup TV studios.SubwaysThe transport geek motherlode, full of inner-city train and tram maps.GeographFinding a photo for every square on the Ordnance Survey map of Britain and Ireland.Strange MapsWhere the "Twittering classes" live, finding Marge Simpson in mainland Europe, and hard-boiled cartography.What we learned on the web this weekOwwww: Michael Jackson and Thriller folk. Photo: Skyline Features/RexHow Michael Jackson made the Thriller videoSome inappropriate songs for weddingsWhat it was like on the set of the Muppets MovieFrank Sinatra thought George Michael should loosen up101 uses for an old bridal gownThe best ways to hide a corpseTwitter is killing meA brief history of female robotsWho the Google Street View Horse Boy isWhy the dark side will always win on penalties
Crackdown 2, Xbox 360Taking control of a faceless agent employed by an organisation known only as the Agency, your job is to rid the city of organised crime syndicate, the Cell, and Freaks, the motley band of monsters who swamp the streets after dark. Set in a sprawling metropolis whose tall buildings, bridges and patches of wasteland get increasingly accessible as your powers increase, there's an emphasis on co-operative play, so you can invite friends or strangers to join you on missions at any time, and certain collectibles only appear when another player is present. The feeling of space and freedom is palpable but there's a lot of awkward-sounding swearing, the mission objectives are recycled frequently enough to be repetitious, and the sheer scale of the city can make getting around it a bore. The slow rhythm of its lengthy multipart tasks does make sense, but only if you have the protracted time to appreciate it.Microsoft, £39-£44.95Singularity, PC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360Singularity is set in Russia, with a faux-Cyrillic R, which means a voice cast thronging with outlandishly overblown sort-of-Slavic accents and plenty of rusty machinery to look at. This being a videogame, you'll also find radioactive zombies queuing up to snack on your brains. Part of a special forces reconnaissance team sent to a remote island 50 years after it was destroyed by an explosion, your job is to find out what happened. Sharing plenty in common with spooky first-person shooter FEAR and its sequel, this sees you stalking corridors, suffering hallucinations and shooting tough, faceless mutants and lethally armed Russians. LikeBioShock, its story is brought to life by recordings strewn around its shattered buildings, which look appropriately gritty in their decaying majesty. Atmospheric, fast-moving and brimming with wacky set pieces, this is highly entertaining monster-baiting stuff.Activision, £39-£49.99Doodle God, iPhone/iPod TouchIn Doodle God you start with only earth, air, fire and water. Combining them produces new elements, which can themselves be fused to produce 140 other "elements" from alcohol to zombies. The joy inherent in this process is guessing which substances will go together and finding out what they create when they're mixed. Some are straightforward, like fire and sand making glass, or air and water turning into steam, but it would be harder to predict that clay and "life" become a golem, or that worms and air create butterflies. The fact that it remains highly addictive is testimony to the wit of its designers, who have honed the list of elements and their recipes into something that's never less than a delight to uncover. The interface and charming artwork remain intact from itsfreebie web incarnation, and the series of brief interactions is perfectly metered for a quick stab while you're waiting for the train.JoyBits, 59p
A small confession: I&nbsp;think BMWs are overrated. Actually, that's overstating the overrating. What I&nbsp;think is that the 3&nbsp;Series is not the car that many seem to think it is, and sometimes I'm inclined to extrapolate from that about other BMWs, which is unfair.It's particularly unfair in the case of the 5 Series. Whereas the 3 Series is just an executive saloon, the 5 Series istheexecutive executive saloon. The latest update, although not radically different, is such a&nbsp;consummate piece of managerial machinery that as soon as you clap eyes on it, you want to go out and get a senior-ranked job with ICI or Unilever. Or at least get a job as a&nbsp;driver, delivering senior executives from ICI and Unilever to vital business meetings and golf matches.The interior – all cream leather and comfort room (it's slightly longer than its predecessor) – is perhaps the most attractive aspect of the car. From the outside, it's not stunning or sumptuous, nor will it trigger an instant craving in watching pedestrians. But it is handsome – blandly handsome, perhaps, like some well-turned-out faceless European bureaucrat, yet substantial and sleek with it. Although there may well be no solution to the economic crisis in the eurozone, this&nbsp;is nonetheless the car in which you'd want to set out to find one.Lacking a critical meeting, or indeed a noncritical one, I instead drove around aimlessly. Except you can't really drive around aimlessly in a BMW 5 Series, any more than you'd chill out in a suit on your day off. It simply packs too much punch and embodies too much sense of purpose to allow faffing around.The acceleration, for a start, has a way of focusing the attention. Who'd have thought, even just a few years ago, that a diesel automatic could ever leave your stomach in the boot? Fortunately there's plenty of room there for your stomach and many other stomachs besides. It's the kind of car in which you want to receive an urgent phone call just so you can tell the driver, or indeed yourself, to step on it.I found I got a lot more done in the day, driving around in the 530d SE, than I would otherwise. I'm talking about picking up the dry-cleaning, buying postage stampsandcollecting a parcel from the sorting office.In other words, it revolutionised my productivity, taking it to the kind of executive levels of activity that previously seemed unimaginable. A few more weeks and I would have mastered French, become a parent governor, moved into property speculation and perhaps even started opening my bank statements. I felt almost relieved when it was taken away.BMW530d SEPrice£37,100Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph 6.3 secondsAverage consumption44.8mpgCO2 emissions166g/kmEco rating5.5/10Bound forCanary WharfIn a wordPurposeful
The government has struck a deal with Facebook to field ideas from the public on further state spending cuts, it emerged today.Facebook's "spending challenge channel" is an expansion of the social networking site's "Democracy UK" pages, set up during the run-up to the general election, and will be used to take suggestions from the public for saving money ahead of the spending review.The chancellor, George Osborne, has already asked public sector workers for their views on cuts, to the fury of one trade union. The government claims the exercise has resulted in 60,000 suggestions being put forward in just two weeks.Now, a call has been made to the wider public as "taxpayers and users of services" to submit and vote on ideas for where cuts can be made.To complement the online consultation exercise, ministers will meet the public to hear views and suggestions first hand. Writing in today's Sun, Osborne urged readers as taxpayers to come up with ideas between now and the end of August to help the government cut the deficit."People know this new coalition government has got to deal with the debt we've inherited if Britain is to avoid economic disaster. That's what the Budget was all about. And as every family knows, when you've got less money you have to spend it better .That means getting your ideas."He went on: "You pay the taxes that fund our public services, so you should also have a say on how we improve public services."David Cameron said: "We are really excited about having Facebook involved in the spending challenge. There's enormous civic spirit in this country where people want to take control and do things in a different way. We are giving people an opportunity with Facebook and I am sure that they will take it."Facebook says that more than 1 million people participated on the democracy page in election day polls. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, said: "The government's willingness to reach out and engage with Facebook users is going to go a long way because I'm sure that all the people using Facebook in the UK have a lot of great ideas on how they could do this."It's really innovative to open up policy making and engage the public in this way to try and create more social change."Osborne today published asampleof ideas put forward by public sector workers in the first phase of consultation. These include merging back-office services for public sector organisations, renegotiating government IT contracts, and switching off office computers over the weekend.
A group of Argentinian researchers has reportedlycompromised the Pirate Bay's databaseof more than 4 million email and IP addresses of registered users.Ch Russóposted on the blogfor the group, explaining that it took advantage of flaws in the security of the site through multiple SQL injections to download the information.Surprisingly, the blogpost includes a comprehensive video explaining the process. The group believes it was acting with the best possible motives in gaining access to the site.Ch said in the post: "What we have done, we did not do it with anger, or for commercial value. As always, we saw the change, the moment and decided to take it. The protocol or procedure done to achieve this wasn't anything out of the ordinary". How very noble.No matter the nature of its content, gaining unauthorised access to a website and downloading confidential information is illegal in most countries. The group believes it was aiding the work of the authorities to curb illegal file sharing from the site, as well as proving what it considers to be the insecurity of The Pirate Bay. "We beleive [sic] that the people behind this comunity [sic] always acted with the local laws on their side, and so have we."TheMPAA and RIAA have notoriously battledto bring down the website as one of the main proponents of illegal file sharing. Whether the agencies will want to work with a group of unaffiliated hackers to further their goals is yet to be seen.Despite this and many other attacks on the fabric of the site, it was announced earlier this week that the site may be soonhosted from inside the Swedish Parliament, under the auspices of the Pirate Party.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?That's an easy one for me – it's my iPhone. It allowes me to email and receive email wherever I am. You suddenly realise: how did I ever live without it? You can also listen to music with it and play games.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning to have a look at these questions.What additional features would you add if you could?A lie detector would be quite good – that would be awesome.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Only if people stop lying. But the phone? I hope not, because it's one of the great design classics.What always frustrates you about technology in general?There's always something new coming out. You buy something and then they launch a new, better model. They always get you hooked like that.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Not really. The only thing I could think of is those hands-free kits. Very practical when you're driving, but I hate people walking down the street using them – it looks like they're talking to themsevles, and it drives me nuts.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Read the instructions, which I never do. Or ask the wife, who always does read the instructions.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a luddite who looks like a nerd. Or should that be the other way around?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I try not to buy expensive kit because I lose it or break it! But I suppose my tractor was quite expensive. I bought a new one and had it sprayed Barbie pink. I bought it for my wife, but she never uses it because I'm always on it.Mac or PC, and why?Probably PC, because all the Mac owners say they're no good. And Mac owners all seem a bit smug.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I love buying books, because there's something tangible about books. DVDs I buy, but music I download. The last DVD I bought was Zombieland.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?As long as it came in a 4-by-4 verson, otherwise it would be useless on the farm.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A litte personalised submarine, which would be perfect on holidays. Everyone should have one – it beats snorkelling.•Watch Doherty's new BBC series,The Private Life of...
China has renewed Google's licence to operate in the country, the search giant announced today.Writing on the company blog, chief legal officer David Drummondsaid: "We are very pleased that the government has renewed our ICP license and we look forward to continuing to provide web search and local products to our users in China."Google – which has a 30% market share of Chinese search traffic – recently begandirecting Google.cn visitorsto its uncensored Hong Kong site, saying the new approach ensured it stayed true to a commitment not to censor searches from internet users in China.Relations with authorities in China have been strained since Google said it no longer wanted to cooperate with government internet censorship. The announcement was prompted by cyber attacks the company traced to China.Google stunned markets and consumers in January when it warned it might quit the country, saying it would not provide the censored search results that China requires.However, the Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt,said yesterday the company was confident of being granted an ICP licence extension.Google is due to report its second-quarter financial results next week. Google's search business in China accounts for a tiny slice of the company's £15.82bn in annual revenue. Analysts' estimates of Google's annual revenues in China range from $300m to $600m, but long-term growth prospects are key.There was no immediate word from China's Information Ministry about the renewal.
Australia has rowed back on plans to introduce a wide-ranging mandatory internet filtering system, with communications minister Stephen Conroy saying a further 12 months is needed to review what content should be blocked in the country.Conroy announced plans in December that would force Australian internet service providers to ban access to any websites listed as "inappropriate." If implemented, the policy would make Australia one of the strictest internet regulators in the world.The move – which attracted widespread condemnation, not least from  the majority of potentially affected ISPs, including Google and Yahoo – has now been put on hold for another year. "Some sections of the community have expressed concern about whether the range of material included in the RC [restricted content] category... correctly reflects current community standards," Conroysaid. "As the government's mandatory ISP filtering policy is underpinned by the strength of our classification system, the legal obligation to commence mandatory ISP filtering will not be imposed until the review is completed."The public needs to have confidence that the URLs on the list, and the process by which they get there, is independent, rigorous, free from interference or influence and enables content and site owners access to appropriate review mechanisms."The proposed filter would ban access to a regularly updated list of sites that include child pornography, sexual violence, and detailed instructions on crime, drug use and terrorist acts. Three of the country's largest telecommunications companies today said they would voluntarily implement a child pornography filter, a move that would take several months to put in place.Karim Temsamani, managing director of Google Australia and New Zealand, welcomed the review, but said concern remains about the plans. "Our primary concern had always been that the scope of the proposed filter is far too broad," Temsamani said in a statement. "It goes way beyong child sexual abuse material and would block access to important online information for all Australians."Simon Sheikh, chief executive of online activist group GetUp!, told the Sydney Morning Herald: "A delay is not enough – the government needs to announce that they will either scrap, or change the policy to an opt-in model, so that Australians themselves can judge how best to protect their children online."When it comes to protection of our children online we need investment in education, home-based filters and the federal police. These investments will better equip parents to protect their children at home, and better equip police to combat the issues at their source."More than 127,000 people have signed up toa protestlaunched by group.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
8-Bit Cities are the geekiest maps we've seen &gt;&gt; MashableVisit London in retro style - fantastic detail in the geekiest maps around.NASA's free Moonbase Alpha now available &gt;&gt; JoystiqIt's a NASA game: Want. 3D. now.There are 75million US adults on the mobile internet, more than half of them daily &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandAn interesting trio of US-centric surveys giving insight into the near future of m-commerce and consumer behaviour while on the smartphone.Mobile web use and the digital divide &gt;&gt; New York Times"The image of the affluent and white cellphone owner as the prototypical mobile Web user seems to be a mistaken one, according to a report published Wednesday by the Pew Research Center's Internet and American Life Center."RIM needs a lift with Blackberry 6 &gt;&gt; BusinessWeekDespite Her Royal Highness joining the customer base, RIM needs a boost with their next operating system releaseVideo: Yoda recording TomTom GPS - behind the scenesYoda joins Darth Vader and C-3PO to provide voices to navigate you to your destinationAndroid 2.2 demolishes iOS4 in JavaScript benchmarks &gt;&gt; ars technicaInteresting - looks like Apple have some work to do...Nokia pulls an Apple, enlists police to retrieve prototype N8 smartphone from blogger &gt;&gt; VentureBeatIt's one ofthosequestions: would you keep the prototype, set up a blogorreturn it immediately..?[TechCrunch TV] Alleged Russian phone thief: "I have no phones"Scoop for TechCrunch as they get the aforementioned alleged Russian phone thief on newly-launched TechCrunch TV, he reiterates his innocence.Rich text signatures &gt;&gt; Gmail BlogWhat we've all been waiting for...apparently. Rich text signatures for your emails. First to build a Rich Text Signatures Blocker wins a prize.The mobile winner will not take all &gt;&gt; Financial TimesInsightful piece on the future of the mobile ecosystem by John Gapper: "Unlike the businesses that wanted Windows to be a single, compatible operating system for desktops, phone operators want to maintain sufficient choice not to find themselves at the mercy of one handset maker. This time, the revolution will not end in one-party rule."Double rainbow meme takes web by storm &gt;&gt; Mashable [randomly viral]Something a little lighter - man seemingly overwhelmed by nature becomes a video viral.
"If you are reading this article on a printed copy of the Guardian, what you have in your hand will, just 15 years from now, look as dated as a Western Union telegram does today," writes Decca Aitkenheadafter interviewing internet guru Clay Shirky(G2, 5 July). The thing is, if you can't read it on paper 15 years from now, you may not be able to read it at all. How is the Guardian going to generate the necessary revenues to pay the salaries of the large number of journalists who make it what it is, solely from online revenue?How will any newspapers? Rupert Murdoch's pay wall experiment is probably doomed, now the free-news genie is out of the bottle. Everyone assumes the ad revenue will simply shift across from newsprint to online. How can anyone be sure? A factor no one seems to be addressing is the problem of reading on the internet: newspapers and their still lucrative advertising can be read/perused/scanned in minutes. Online, it takes much, much longer and readers won't have the patience, and so advertisers won't pay anything like the current rates. There is no way internet newspapers can make anywhere near as much money as traditional ones, whose profits pay the salaries of estimable journalists like Ms Aitkenhead. Citizen journalism, that ludicrous oxymoron, will not fill the void.Andrew NapierAlresford, Hampshire
Just in case you missed this, EA and Bioware today announced that a sequel to last year's engrossingDragon Age: Originsis in development and will hit the PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 next March. Promising a new, more responsive combat system and a dynamic story, the press release promises a typically epic plot:"Dragon Age 2 thrusts players into the role of Hawke, a penniless refugee who rises to power to become the single most important character in the world of Dragon Age. Known to be a survivor of the Blight and the Champion of Kirkwall, the legend around Hawke's rise to power is shrouded in myth and rumor. Featuring an all-new story spanning 10 years, players will help tell that tale by making tough moral choices, gathering the deadliest of allies, amassing fame and fortune, and sealing their place in history. The way you play will write the story of how the world is changed forever."The original game – lengthy and unashamedly traditional in its use of RPG maxims, tropes and imagery – seemed a popular title among Gamesblog's regular readers. The sequel looks to be slightly more progressive, touching on elements of Fable with its emphasis on moral choice and personal reputation. Intriguing stuff. Naturally, there's aTwitter feedand aFacebook pagefor more info...
Mobile phone users in the UK will at last soon be able to transfer their phone number to another network within one working day.Britain will come into line with European Union guidelines on the matter in April 2011, Ofcom ruled today, following several years of wrangling between the communications regulator and the mobile telecoms industry.Currently a mobile operator is allowed to take two working days before allowing a departing customer to "port" their number to their new operator. Ofcom originally tried to bring this down to two hours, but lost a court challenge from Vodafone, O2 and Orange in 2008.Ofcom has also decreed that the code required to switch provider and retain a number, called a PAC, should be issued to consumers immediately over the phone or within a maximum of two hours via text message. This will end the practice of some PACs being sent out by post, forcing customers to wait several days before changing to a new operator."Ensuring consumers can switch between communications providers by removing unnecessary barriers is one of Ofcom's priorities for 2010/11," said the regulator's chief executive, Ed Richards. "Being able to switch quickly and easily between mobile providers is an important part of healthy and effective competition."But the decision was criticised by 3, the fourth-largest UK mobile operator. It is unhappy that the onus for moving the number still falls on the customer, rather than the operators involved, and accused Ofcom of failing UK consumers.It said that the system of "recipient-led porting", where number transfers are handled by the new provider, was "the fundamental platform for choice and competition" in the mobile market. "Nowhere else in Europe is a consumer forced to ask permission to take their number with them when they choose a new operator," said a 3 spokesman. "The donor-led porting system that Ofcom proposes to keep makes it more difficult for customers."But other operators argue that if consumers did not have to request the PAC themselves before swapping networks, they could fall victim to high-pressure sales tactics known as "slamming", where their mobile phone providers are summarily changed without their full consent.
Photo byBen Ohon Flickr.Some rights reservedReports of satnav's death are greatly exaggerated – and retailer Garmin has launched an inspired marketing fightback to prove just that.The arrival of Google Maps Navigation was touted bymany– includingthe Guardian's own Jemima Kiss– as a "satnav killer." Google Maps Navigation is free (at the point of sale), familiar, and feature-rich. But don't count on traditional satnav retailers to give up the ghost just yet.Seeking to capitalise on customer (and industry?) confusion surrounding mobile data charges – not to mention what happens when you dare to venture outside of the UK – satellite navigation specialists Garmin have embarked on a Top Gear-esque experiment.Using Google Maps on an O2 Pay As You Go tariff, the company set out to see how much a summer tour of France would cost with only an Android phone for company. Twenty pence per mile is the (approximate) answer.A return Calais-to-Paris (185 miles) trip by car notched up £74 of data roaming charges, using 12-13 megabytes of data. Here's what return trips further afield cost:• Avignon, 614 miles: £245.60• Saint-Tropez, 730 miles: £292• Grenoble, 540 miles: £216• Marseille, 667 miles: £266.80• Lyon, 474 miles: £189.60• Cannes, 747 miles: £298.80• Bordeaux, 540 miles: £216• Valence, 539 miles: £215.60• Saint-Etienne, 510 miles: £204And the eye-watering bill you could find on your doorstep isn't the only reason you should spurn Google's advances and stick with traditional satnavs, says Garmin head of communications Anthony Chmarny: "Using free satellite navigation isn't as free as it would like to make out, especially when you are using your mobile phone abroad."Many of the well known navigation products use the mobile phone network to download maps as they go, meaning people could end up with a nasty shock when their mobile phone bills arrive – the costs could be double that of the fuel used for the journey they were navigating."For someone using so called 'free' navigation abroad this could leave them in the absurd position that they get half way through a journey and no longer have access to navigation to complete it."Convinced?UPDATE 15:46:An O2 spokesperson, unavailable when contacted before publishing, told us: "Those figures are incorrect. O2 charges £3 per MB, so 12-13 MB would cost £39 at most. Once you reach £40 per month, O2 stops charging you until you reach 50 MB. We then offer you the high user bolt-on, which gives you up to 200 MB for £120."
The original Crackdown is one of the finest Xbox 360 games ever released. Arriving at a time (2007) when the 360 was dominated by shooters and sports, Crackdown offered gamers an expansive urban playground to play in.Yes, there was a plot of sorts but essentially Crackdown was a go-anywhere-do-anything experience where players could drive, climb, collect and fight.The ability to go online and team up – or simply do you own thing in another part of their world – with a friend was a key part of the experience and remains so in the sequel.This time round up to four players can play together and it's when this happens that Crackdown 2 really shines. The addition of two extra players simply multiplies the opportunities for chaos. Unfortunately, the rest of Crackdown 2 feels very familiar. This is primarily due to the use of the original – albeit modified – city from the first game.A change in art style struggles to disguise the fact that the locales have previously been used. The addition of a day/night cycle – a zombie-like horde called the Freaks comes out at night – does help, but ultimately the city feels very similar.Luckily then the gameplay is as enjoyable – if not as groundbreaking – as before. Upgrading your hero; grasping at air as you fail to reach a tantalisingly close ledge; taking out enemy goons in ever more explosive ways – Crackdown 2 is undeniably entertaining. Collecting orbs remains as compulsive as ever too, particularly when chasing the new movable variety. A stack of new weaponry is included too, with magnetic grenades a particular treat.Overall though, Crackdown 2 feels like a missed opportunity. The changes to the original game – multiplayer aside – are relatively minimal. Also, the graphical overhaul has not been successful. The comic book art design suits the mood but the vistas – so impressive when climbing up high in Crackdown – look underwhelming when compared to the likes of the Assassin's Creed series. The targeting system too is erratic and unhelpful, especially in the heat of an outnumbered battle.Despite the issues there is undoubtedly an entertaining ride to be had with Crackdown 2. Fans of the original though should prepare for evolution rather than revolution.
Facebook will announce its 500 millionth user any day now, and that's around 22% of all internet users globally. That's a pretty impressive milestone, but founder Mark Zuckerberg has already said he expects Facebook toreach one billion usersbefore long.But given that take-up among those key demographics in the developed world isn't far from saturation, the next phase of growth will be in developing markets and will prove harder work for the firm in the face of domestic incumbents, technological differences and government censorship. So how is Facebook moving in on those markets?•Venturebeatinterviewed Facebook's head of international growth, Javier Olivan - the guy who led Facebook's crowdsourced translation project. He described the development of a free, low-bandwidth mobile version. Facebook is making deals with at least 50 operators across India, Russia and more that means the expense of using data services is carried by the operators rather than users.Photo byorphumon Flickr.Some rights reserved• Across Asia, the growth pattern varies from one extreme to another. Indonesia is just 500,000 users behind the UK, Facebook's biggest userbase, and is top,according to comScore, in the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia. But in Vietnam and China Facebook is blocked, and elsewhere, like Russia, it faces an uphill struggle to overtake domestic rivals.• Facebook acquired a Malaysian contact importing service called Octazen Solutions, which means it can tap a wide range of email services in the region.• In India, the site built a database of school details to pre-populate lists and make it easier for users to search for friends, one of a number of 'under the hood' strategies for growth.• Facebook is closing in on Google's Orkut in both India, which appears to be stalling, and Brazil, where it has a quarter of Orkut's traffic.• In Japan, where it has 5% of the traffic of market-leading Mixi, Facebook had to focus on making a decent mobile web version rather than replying on apps. In Japan and South Korea, more users access social networks via mobile than by desktop, so Facebook has some substantial catching up to do given that Olivan admits its mobile site was "unusable" eight months ago.• Interestingly China appears a no-go area, with Google's problems and eventual withdrawal, the current block on Facebook and the dominance of domestic sites like RenRen, 51 and Kaixin001 presenting too much of a challenge at this stage. Olivan puts this down to "anROIcalculation that goes into every country we consider entering".• TheNew York Timesalso points out that though Olivan only has a team of 12, he is backed by Facebook's $1bn annual revenues, which means significant investment in new products and a steamrolling of its rivals. It also means Facebook can continue to hire much of the world's best developer talent, which it regularly poaches from Google.Will Facebook reach 1 billion? I don't doubt it. We can expect them to focus on the highest growth countries with strong commercial potential and the least established incumbents. But this will still be likeBagneres-de-Luchon to Pauon stage 16 of the Tour de France. Tough, in other words.Also in Facebookland• The New York Times has helpfully compiledan introductory guide, for those who might have been living in a cave for the past four years. Or, my mother.• AFuturescapereport predicts Facebook will fight Twitter for the $180bn global TV ad market as these social networks and back channels are formally built into new TVs. While social media has some impact on TV ratings now, the report predicts recommendation, discovery and content sharing will be central to pay-TV services in the future.
In a bid to introduce it's content to a wider audience, YouTube haslaunched two new servicesto deliver video straight into the hands of viewers in the form ofLeanbackand the newYouTube Mobile site.Following from theannouncement of Google TVback in May, the launches from the internet's favourite video site come as no surprise. But where did we begin?With the launch of YouTube in 2005, the video streaming phenomenon truly began and, for the first time, users could view clips ofskateboarding dogsorcats falling aboutwithout the hassle of installing third party applications. Internet providers baulked at the increased strain on their capacity and rapidly started expanding their bandwidth to cope.The launch of the BBC's iPlayer in 2007 upped the ante again, providing full length television shows any time of the day. Despite shows only being available for seven days after broadcasting, the service has been a tremendous success, with the BBC reporting more than 18 million users streaming videos each week.The caveat is that you have to sit in front of your computer. Instead of lounging on the sofa to gaze at your 42in plasma screen, internet streaming entails perching in front of a considerably smaller screen, inevitably producing an inferior experience.However, the push out of the study and into the living room has already begun – iPlayer is available on many games consoles as well as numerous digital TV set-top boxes, of which the implementation works rather well. The golden magic box we are waiting for – streaming music from Spotify and streaming television from YouTube and iPlayer – has yet to appear.The little-knownApple TVandSlingCatcherdevices give us a glimpse at how these eventual devices may work.Who wins out of the providers having new mediums to pump out content? The consumer of course. Instead of sitting through adverts and hours of irrelevant programming, on-demand television provides what you want, when you want.The barrier of the personal computer still exists and the jump needs to be made for streaming to become a mainstream technology. Do you think online television streaming will reach the mainstream mindset any time soon? Will it rival the content of the main television channels?
My wife travels a lot for work, and would like as small a laptop as possible that is capable of running Civilization IV comfortably – and hopefully Civ V when it comes out.Chris GreenGaming laptops need lots of power so they tend not to be very portable. Usually they will have a 17in or similar large screen, a separate graphics card, and perhaps even a quad-core processor. Portable business laptops are at the other end of the scale. Usually they have 13.3in or smaller screens, Intel integrated graphics chips, and nowadays may well use slow but power-efficient Intel CULV (Consumer Ultra Low Voltage) processors.Civilization IV is a relatively old game and certainly ought to run on a modern thin-and-light CULV portable, but I suspect it would not be comfortable. I'd look for something with at least a 2.2GHz Intel Core 2 Duo chip and a separate graphics card.There can't be many lightweight laptops that fill the bill, and the one that springs to mind is the Acer Timeline 3810TG running Microsoft Windows 7. This has an Intel Core 2 Duo (SU9400) processor and an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4330 graphics card with 512MB of dedicated memory. It is thin and light (1.4kg) and Acer claims a 9-hour battery life, so it is certainly suitable for a business traveller. It ought to be good enough for mid-range games, the drawback being the processor speed: it's only 1.4GHz.I looked at a CULV version of theAcer Timeline 3810T for Technophile, and was impressed by its quality. You can now get a 3810TG for about £600. However, I'd worry about the SU9400 running Civ IV, because it's a processor-intensive game. If any readers have tried it, please let us know.At this point, however, I'd go for one of this year's new processors such as an Intel Core i3, i5, or i7. The i3 is the cheap entry-level version while the i7 offers the highest performance at too high a price. For gaming, the Core i5 would be a good compromise.The new range of Core chips has an improved version of Intel Integrated Graphics on the processor. The new Intel HD Graphics system is DX10-compatible and seems as good as or better than the sort of mobility graphics cards fitted to laptops. Any Core i5 laptop should handle Civ IV comfortably, and might handle Civ V. Fortunately, HD Graphics is switchable, which means the Core processor will also exploit a separate graphics card if one is available.Sticking with the Acer Timeline range, the Timeline X 3820TG has a 2.26GHz Core i5 processor with HD Graphics and an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5470 graphics card with 512MB of memory, so it should be able to handle most games. The specification includes a 4GB of memory, a 650GB hard drive and Windows 7 Home Premium. Acer is still claiming up to 12 hours battery life. Of course, it's a bit heavier at 1.8kg, and more expensive, but you can find models discounted to £770 - £780.Both the Acer machines mentioned above have 13.3in screens. If you shop around, there are Timelines with 11.6in, 14in and 15.6in screens and different processors at prices from about £300 to £1,000. There are also a few Sony models such as the Vaio VPCZ12M9EB with a Core i5 and Nvidia GeForce GT 330M graphics, but that costs £1,700 to £1,800.Civilization V is scheduled for its UK release on 24 September, and we don't know what sort of specification will be needed to run it. It's hard to guess because there are some dramatic changes from Civ 4, such as from squares to hexagons. (GameSpot published an interview with the lead designer, Jon Shafer.)But Civ has never targeted high end PCs, so I expect Civ 5 will run in Windows XP with 2GB of memory, a Core 2 Duo processor and DX9c graphics. If it actually needs a next-generation PC with Vista or Windows 7 and DX11 graphics, that would greatly restrict its potential market. I would therefore predict that a Core i3/i5/i7 with 3GB or 4GB of memory and integrated DX10-compatible HD Graphics will be able to run Civ 5. However, it would be safer to wait until the recommended specification is published atcivilization5.comand then, for "comfortably", try to double it.
BT and TalkTalk want a judicial review of the Digital Economy Act, saying the controversial new law could infringe "basic rights and freedoms,"reports the BBC.The act – which proposes to disconnect persistent illegal filesharers from the internet – was passed into law in the April wash-up period before parliament was dissolved.Both BT and TalkTalk are understood to want the high court to clarify whether the act conflicts with existing EU regulation. Ofcom has said plans to disconnect people from the internet would not come into force until next year.Concerns over "basic rights and freedoms" to access the web are made worse by the manner in which the act was passed into law, BT and TalkTalk say.The act was "rushed through" parliament with "insufficient scrutiny", claim the internet service providers. After two hours of debate in the House of Commons, the bill was given royal assent – the vote in the government's favour by 189 votes to 47.Nick Clegg, leader of the Liberal Democrats,said at the time: "We did our best to prevent the digital economy bill being rushed through at the last moment. It badly needed more debate and amendment.""This is exactly what we and 20,000 supporters warned their MPs," said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group. "The Act was rushed through and is already working extremely badly. It threatens basic rights and large chunks need to be repealed."At present, the act applies to ISPs with more than 400,000 customers – putting larger companies at a commercial disadvantage, says TalkTalk.Andrew Heaney, executive director of TalkTalk, told the BBC: "It means we could have huge swathes of customers moving to smaller ISPs to avoid detection [from copyright owners]."Heaney said the act could be in contravention of EU privacy and electronic communications directives, as well as an e-commerce directive stating that ISPs are "mere conduits" of content and should not be held responsible for traffic on their services.The coalition government, of which Clegg is deputy prime minister, told the BBC it has no plans to backtrack on the act: "The Digital Economy Act sets out to protect our creative economy from the continued threat of online copyright infringement, which industry estimates costs the creative industries, including creators, £400m per year. We believe measures are consistent with EU legislation and that there are enough safeguards in place to protect the rights of consumers and ISPs and will continute to work on implementing them."Charles Dunstone, chairman of TalkTalk,told The Times: "The Digital Economy Act's measures will cost the UK hundreds of millions and many people believe they are unfair, unwarranted and won't work. Innocent broadband customers will suffer and citizens will have their privacy invaded."Gavin Patterson, chief executive of BT Retail, said: "We feel we have no choice. We have to do this for our customers."Ofcom declined to comment.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Today's selection of links, as crafted by the Technology teamSales through Xbox Live "probably" topped $1billion last year &gt;&gt; GizmodoOver half of Microsoft's 25million Live users pay for a Gold subscription, racking up $600m alone.Photo byButchicun.info :)on Flickr.Some rights reserved'Star Wars' creator says laser too much like lightsaber &gt;&gt; CNNGeorge Lucas has sent a cease-and-desist letter to Hong Kong-based Wicked Lasers, which seems to be aimed a dissuading the company from ever making a product which some - technology blogs, for example, might refer to as lightsabre-like. Android Twitter application Twidroid had to change it's name to Twidroyd because Lucas owns the trademark "droid."Darts from the iPhone to the iPad &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple Weblog"This is probably the coolest bit of iOS connectivity I've seen so far" - we'd have to agree.57% Android apps are free &gt;&gt; Download SquadHighlighting the differences in the ecosystems between mobile platforms, the lowest being Windows Marketplace with only 22% of applications being freeApple bans 'fraudulent' developer from iTunes &gt;&gt; BBC NewsUser hacked into 400 accounts to boost sales of comic book apps, which has lead to tightened security in iTunes Store.Twenty-five resellers caught in Microsoft piracy probe &gt;&gt; CRNOut of court settlements for the UK resellers trading illegal software. Both independent shops and eBay sellers were part of the anti-piracy clampdown by Microsoft.Amazon moves into grocery sales &gt;&gt; The InquirerTaking on traditional retailers such as Tesco and Waitrose as well as online retailer Ocada, Amazon offers 22,000 products for deliverySplit/Second 'sploding on PSP this holiday &gt;&gt; JoystiqDisney Interactive's Split/Second is coming soon, unlike online multiplayer. Grump.AT&amp;T seeks a piece of the $663 mobile payment pie &gt;&gt; GigaOMAT&amp;T announce they have joined forces with Apriva to deliver new mobile payment applications to turn smartphones into point-of-sale devices that accept credit and debit card transactions.
For some people, it was Grand Theft Auto (GTA) that did it.Tom Bissell has written enticinglyof the wonder of GTA: Vice City, his sudden understanding that this world was without boundaries, that you could "do anything": tune the radio, drive into pedestrians, steal cars.But of course, you can't do "anything" in Grand Theft Auto. All games have boundaries. In GTA you can't befriend a prostitute. Or take up farming. Or go into a library, take a book from the shelf, and start to read it.No, for the latter pleasure you'd have to play Myst.A friend at college in 1997 told me about Myst. "There's this game, set in this imaginary world, andyou can go into the planetarium and look at the stars!And you can actuallyread the books on the shelves!Andplay a piano that activates a rocket!" Myst sounded like it had possibilities I wanted to try.The delight of the game was its peaceful, thoughtful quality. Nothing jumped out at you, you never had to make sudden movements. Instead you wandered through wooded landscapes, or among bubbling streams, trying to get various rusted machines to work. It was a game for engineers, but with a strong story. In those pre-internet-walkthrough days, the puzzles kept me thinking for hours. I've played it five or six times now; it's like a favourite novel, a comforting place to go.Games are fantasies. They're safe spaces where we can act out experiences we'd never have in real life. For some people, that's crashing cars and shooting enemies in the face. But for me, the point when I realised that videogames were magic was when they let me mend virtual water-wheels, and work out the positions of imaginary constellations using books I'd pulled from a virtual bookshelf.
If you are interested in testing your resistance to psychic pain, may I recommendQwitter? This is a service that emails you daily to impart who has "unfollowed" you on Twitter in the last 24 hours – who, among all the new friends you have acquired online, has decided they no longer want to read your hilarious 140-character posts. If Twitter is the bright, open heartland of limitless conversation, then Qwitter is the abandoned wheelie-binbehind the boarded-up kebab shop of failure, a place where the limitless conversation ends.The email arrives heralded by the strapline "Your latest Twitter Qwitters!" – has there ever been a more unwelcome exclamation mark? – and your eye is immediately drawn to that day's number. Today it was small: just one, a T-shirt company. Why was a T-shirt company following me? More to the point, what did I do to make a T-shirt companyunfollowme? Losing something a step up from a spambot (an automated identity that posts malicious links) is nothing; much worse is when the rejections come in groups. Last week I lost six in a day. Six entirely (as far as I can see) unconnected people decided they could live without my sun-bleached pictures of Dulwich park and excitable Spotify recommendations. To be Qwit is to be reminded that someone has stopped listening, stopped caring. It's as if they have, very quietly, put the phone down on you while you are still talking.In the past I have unfollowed many people, recently jettisoning a number of blowhard wafflers, a young rapper constantly plugging his CD, and a maddeningly ponderous website editor. I've dropped people I have interviewed, worked with and even like, in an attempt to keep the online noise down a little. And not one of those decisions was personal – apart from maybe the website editor. I just wanted something else from my Twitter feed. So I know how ridiculous it is to feel bad about being digitally dumped. Yet this distancing still stings. What did I say? What did I do? Don't go, you feel like shouting, tomorrow I might tweet a blurry picture of my lunch or even say something mildly amusing about a Coronation Street character.
The world of Facebook can be a dangerous place, as two separate incidents this week have proven.The first instance is actually a genuine IQ test, which takes control of your profile and signs you up to a $10 per month premium mobile phone service. If you spot a link along the lines of 'I'm NEVER texting AGAIN' in your feed, then be sure to stay clear.Roger Thompson from AVGdemonstrates what you are likely to find if you click through.Thesecond roguehas its main intent on becoming viral through your friends. The page '99% of people can't watch this video for more than 25 seconds' suggests you copy some Javascript code into a browser window to view the video.Executing this code will pass the page to all of your friends, casuing them similar hardships. The eventual intent is still unsure, as the page has been taken down after compiling over 93,555 fans.Legitimate Facebook pages and applications will never ask you to paste something into your address bar, or to sign up to premium services. Remember to always how much data the application is requesting access to.Common sense will usually prevail in these situations though, so do not be fooled. Vigilance is the best method of stopping these rogues from spreading.
Reflecting on 91 days holed-up in an intense business hub in the North East, entrepreneur Paul Rawlings exhales heavily. "It was the most rewarding experience of my life. Seriously, I can't emphasise it enough," said theScreenReachco-founder.Rawlings' feet have barely touched the ground for the past three months. Along with entrepreneurs from eight other fledgling companies, he has just completed the first 13-week programme of new start-up incubatorThe Difference Engine."When we started The Difference Engine we started with a technology which we had high hopes for," Rawlings says. "Being part of the Engine has really helped us focus our technology into a series of products, given us access to some of the North East's finest mentors, and given us the confidence to sit in front of global businesses and tell them why they should be using ScreenReach."Using Reach XML code, ScreenReach offers an "audience engagement technology", ripe for content companies and retailers to interact with their customers. Having secured £250,000 first-round investment through the programme, Rawlings and fellow co-founder Chris Farrell are in talks with big-name potential clients with partnerships expected to go live in the next two weeks.As well as the access to mentors, initial funding of £20,000 (in return for 8% of future stock) and being surrounded by like-minded digital upstarts, Rawlings said being squirreled away in Middlesbrough – away from the hustle-and-bustle of London – helped focus attention on the product. The importance of this can be understated, says Jon Bradford, who originated the idea of The Difference Engine two years ago, eventually launching the first programme in December last year."There are significant advantages of being outside London," Bradford says as he catches a breather inbetween catching trains and aeroplanes marketing the Engine. "One of the key elements of being up north is for them to concentrate on their start-ups for a short period of time. We make sure we have all the right people for the right companies so there's no distractions."You have to have the right people to do the programme. Most good small businesses start and work up to 25 people then start fragmenting – that's why we only have around 10 teams, to create a more cooperative atmosphere."Bradford says that he actively encourages people to launch similar incubator setups around the UK. "The model we've adopted is similar toTechStarsin the US, that kind of open-source spirit to help build an ecosystem of mentorship."That's the hard part of Europe," he says. "Culturally, we're people who are not warm and friendy, we're quite reserved people. When we get over that and not feel there's something in it for us, I think we genuinely can compete with the Americans."The Difference Engine are now accepting applications for the second programme, based in Sunderland and starting on September 20. A shortlist of around 25 start-ups will be whittled down to around 10 who will complete the 13-week programme ending on December 17.UK-based Difference Engine early alumniCANDDiIn it's own words, CANDDi "turns anonymous aggregated analytics into a rich list of targeted individuals".  The team threw away their software two weeks before the end of the Difference Engine programme and started from scratch, having realised that it wasn't what people wanted!Curated.byCurated.by is a curation platform for the real-time web. The crowd are given the tools to create handpicked streams of updated, tagged and categorised content. Similar to Wikipedia, users sort the best content into bundles of information to be shared and consumed by other people. Curated.by currently supports Twitter, with additional social networks and microblogging services coming soon.ReciteRecite says it allows any website to become more accessible to people who are dyslexic, visually impaired or who have a "young reading age."  By intercepting the webpage content, Recite instantly adds and outputs accessibility features such as voice, high contrast text, and alternate word options.Rock ControlRock Control encourages the public to launch and manage a band from scratch. From deciding the final line-up, "the public" will decide the look and feel of the band and manage their PR. Ultimately, one song will be created and simultaneously released into every chart around the world with the intention of gaining a global number one slot.ScreenReachScreenReach is pitched as "the next generation in presentation and interaction technology," allowing real-time delivery of media content to a smartphone via any digital display (TV, outdoor advertising, PC, kiosk etc). Service providers - such as museums, broadcasters, fashion retailers - can engage and interact with customers instantly and reward them for interacting with their content. Secured £250,000 first round funding.TagorizeThe Tagorize system apparently describes online information so accurately that it can provide a level of search relevancy that is more valuable and accurate than existing systems. Using the Tagorize indexing system substantially increases search accuracy and relevancy, leading to higher search conversion rates. Tagorize is the most natural and flexible way to store and retrieve data of large, unstructured datasets.Wishlistwishli.st is a Facebook application that helps people give gifts. Users can create a list of the people they buy presents for and invite them to create wishlists. Then they receive email reminders before birthdays and buy them things they want.
The Mozilla Foundation hasannounced the first beta version of Firefox 4,the next generation of its cross-platform web browser.Although there is some way to go until the final release, the beta is considered to be stable and safe enough for daily use.Mozilla is aiming to engage up to 4 million users in an interactive process to shape the final release. Feedback opportunities are prominent in the user interface, with users encouraged to submit their thoughts to the developers.The popular browser isundergoing many changes, both visible and under the hood. The Windows release has seen the most apparent refinements, with tabs moved above the address bar as well as a single Firefox button to replace the menu bar.Universal changes include a Smart Location bar, updated add-ons manager, replacement of the bookmarks bar with a bookmarks button, support for high definition WebM video, extra privacy protection and crash protection against media plug ins.For web developers, the main feature to embrace is the new HTML5 parser – which has full support for drag and drop, audio, video, file handling, and in-line SVG and MathML support.Taking the beta for a spin, one enhancement is immediately apparent – the speed. Taking a leaf from the book of Chrome, the rendering of web pages is instantaneous and video sites such as YouTube load up in record time.The beta does not include all the intended features of the final release – the Mac and Linux releases have yet to adopt the new menu layout and the synchronisation and privacy controls features are yet to be seen. Mozilla claims that it is going to squeeze even more speed from the engine for the final release later in the year.So, have you had a look at the Firefox 4 beta yet? If so, what do you think? Do you like it? Let us know below.
Ridley Scott, director of films such as Gladiator and Alien, is to crowdsource a feature length documentary by getting members of the public to post snippets of a day in their life on YouTube.Scott,who is collaborating with the State of Play director Kevin Macdonald and YouTube, intends to create a feature length documentary based on the clips called Life in a Day. The project aims to get individuals toupload to YouTubefootage of a moment in their lives on 24 July.Individuals whose footage makes it into the final film will be credited as co-directors and 20 will be flown to the Sundance Film Festival in January where the film will have its premiere. Life in a Day will also be shown for free on YouTube."Life in a Day is a time capsule that will tell future generations what it was like to be alive on 24 July 2010," said Macdonald, who will direct the project. "It is a unique experiment in social filmmaking, and what better way to gather a limitless array of footage than to engage the world's online community?"The project will be executive produced by Scott and produced by his company, Scott Free Productions.Life in a Day follows two previous crowd-sourcing projects by the Google-owned videosharing website. The YouTube Symphony Orchestra gathered together classical musicians and atie-up with the Guggenheim took artist submissions from around the world."Over the past five years, You Tube has changed the way media is created and consumed," said Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Google. "We're thrilled to give our community the opportunity to work with Kevin Macdonald and Ridley Scott and are grateful to our long-term partner, the Sundance Institute, for their support of this global initiative."
Despite reeling in $160m in venture capital funding and worth an estimated $1bn, Twitter is still on the hunt for sustainable revenue sources to support the company.Early indications on Promoted Trends and Promoted Tweets appear to have been successful, and are part of a larger strategy to avoid paid accounts yet gain financial security.After what seems like a lifetime, the company has nowofficially announcedEarlyBird, which aims to inform users of special promotions that are unique to Twitter and the account. Selected advertisers will pay to distribute offers to the thousands of users present on the network, although none of these has yet been named. The offers will be time sensitive, so fast action will be needed to catch that particular worm.EarlyBird functions in the same way as a normal Twitter account – for the offers to appear in your follow feed. Unlike Promoted Trends, however, they do not appear automatically on your front page and it is an opt-in service, as opposed to the opt-out follow that had been mooted. EarlyBird tweets can also be retweeted to pass them onto your followers.What's the catch? Initially, EarlyBird offers will be US-centric, although Twitter has said this will likely change: "We're starting with US-wide offers but will explore location-based deals in the future."The opportunity for EarlyBird to go viral is huge, with offers potentially spreading around like internet like wildfire – if they are deemed worthy enough. As I type, the account has 9,545 followers, something that will need to multiply infinitely for the scheme to be successful. Thanks to the joys of trends and retweeting, this seems likely. Assuming the followers flood in, Twitter will be closer to long-term sustainability.
