Fading memoryI have just bought a very small 1GB Flash memory stick. Then I read that the number of times you can store and erase data is fairly limited. Is that the case?Adrian GreemanJack Schofield replies:Flash memory chips do have a limited lifespan, but it can be hard to find out how many erase cycles any particular type of Flash chip will support. Figures seem to vary from 10,000 to 1m. However, it probably doesn't matter, for three reasons. First, there's no guarantee that a memory stick will fail after a certain amount of use. Second, with normal use, you're unlikely to reach the limit before 1GB is too small to worry about. Third, some manufacturers guarantee their Flash products up to and beyond their useful life. San Disk CompactFlash cards, for example, are guaranteed for five years. I don't know if my 32MB and 64MB cards have reached the end of their guaranteed life, but at this stage, I really don't care.Incidentally, some SSD (solid state disk) drives have balancing algorithms that monitor how often blocks of memory are used, and make sure they are all used as often as one another. This dramatically extends the life of memory disks that have to withstand heavy use.Feet firstIn the "bad old days", we dictated things and gave the cassettes to secretaries to transcribe. Now, we can use digital voice recorders to produce a wav file that can be sent to the secretary by email and played on Windows Media Player. However, the most useful part in the previous system was the foot control that allowed secretaries to stop, rewind and restart without taking their fingers off the keyboard. Is there an equivalent foot control for Media Player?Dr Krisantha WeerasuriyaJS:Most of the companies that provide digital dictation systems can also supply foot controls, which usually plug in via a USB port. Some firms, including Sony, Philips and Olympus, can supply complete systems that include a digital recorder, software and foot pedal. Examples include the Sony ICD-WFT2 and the Olympus AS-4000 Professional Transcription Kit.There are also independent offerings such as the GearPlayer PC from TranscriptionGear.com (www.transcriptiongear.com/TG_Store/prods/GearPlayer-USB.html). If you don't take this route, I'd suggest High Criteria's Transcription Buddy (www.phoneinbuddy.com/TB_main.htm), which gives you a choice of at least three foot pedals: VEC Electronics' Infinity Pedal, the Olympus Foot Switch, and the VPedal Foot Switch. You may be able to find a local supplier in New Delhi, but if not, it should be possible to find a US firm that can handle mail order.Better bookmarksI have used Backflip.com for several years so that I can remotely store bookmarks and access them easily when I am not at my home PC. However, the site has become slow and unreliable. Can you or your readers suggest an alternative?Mike FraserJS:I've been happily using LinkaGoGo (www.linkagogo.com) in spite of its silly name and its clunky interface. Since I use Yahoo for lots of things, I should probably switch to Yahoo Bookmarks (http://bookmarks.yahoo.com). However, with  out this consideration, I might well go for MyHQ (www.myhq.com). There are lots more free alternatives, and there's a good list atwww.emailaddresses.com/email_bookmarks.htm. More suggestions welcome.Backchat&#183;I suggested some "nanny" software as a way of keeping track of websites that have been visited. Peter Berrie suggests adding FreezeX software from Faronics.com as well. "Any self-respecting teenager will find a way around parental controls, but if you cannot install anything it's a different matter," he says. FreezeX prevents any executable software from being installed without permission, and could provide a defence against malware as well. Seewww.faronics.com/html/Freezex.asp&#183;Jason Scott-Taggart suggested CD Check (www.elpros.si/CDCheck) as a way of recovering data from unreadable DVDs. Ian McRobert says: "I tried it and got exactly the same result as I did using Roadkil's Unstoppable Copier (www.roadkil.net/unstopcp.html), a totally free program - about 95% recovery in both cases."&#183;David Wagstaff reports his success at using the free version of A Squared to remove malware that survived Spybot and Ad-Aware. See:www.emsisoft.com/en. I have not had time to test it, but I have run it. You have to register on the website first, so A Squared can email you a password needed to run the program.&#183;Alissa Lever wanted help with a game and I suggested Gamefaqs.com. Kenny Anderson agrees it is a very useful site, but recommends the Universal Hint System instead. "It works by giving more and more detailed hints about how to find/solve a given puzzle. It's free fromwww.uhs-hints.com. It doesn't cover as many games as Gamefaqs, but might be worth a look."
"Amazon wants to be the dominant e-commerce system on an interplanetary scale," said Werner Vogels, Amazon's chief technology officer, at O'Reilly's recent Emerging Technology Conference in San Diego, California. To make that happen, its computer systems will probably work like an epidemic. Or, he said, like women talking on the telephone.Although "epidemic techniques" and "viral data dissemination" sound pretty far out, they are commonplace in both biology and in real life. Another name for "viral data dissemination" is, of course, "gossip".I'm not sure about the interplanetary bit, but many companies are having to think about how they tackle things on a different scale. Amazon, for example, has 47 million active customers, which sounds a lot by conventional standards. However, it's less than 10% of the number of PC users globally, and less than 5% of the number of mobile phone users.Given that the world has 6.4 billion people, most of them rapidly adopting whatever technology they can get, it's reasonable to think about having a billion customers. The problem is developing systems that can handle that sort of user base. Vogels said that Alan Turing, the great British computer pioneer, reckoned there were three possible approaches: organised systems, unorganised systems, and self-organising systems.Amazon and almost everybody else has an organised system, but these don't scale well. As they get bigger, they slow down and tend to break down. Centralised control doesn't work on a global scale, let alone an interplanetary scale.Unorganised systems are obviously not an option, so self-organising systems are the way forward. Vogels thinks systems that work like epidemics provide the answer, because they become "way more effective" with increasing scale.Gossiping on the phone illustrates this kind of distributed data transfer. If all the women pass on all their gossip, it will eventually reach all of them, even if some phone lines and some women (network nodes) fail. For proof, Vogels cited a 1972 paper, Gossips and Telephones, from Discrete Mathematics 2. On his blog, Vogels writes: "Once a message has been received by at least one of your peers it is almost impossible to prevent the spread of the information through   the system. In the most popular demo I give, the system still operates under 90% message loss with limited or no loss in functionality."In computing terms, think of it as a loosely coupled peer-to-peer networking system with built-in redundancy.Vogels was hired from Cornell University, which has been pioneering the use of epidemic techniques to build reliable, scalable distributed systems; it even has some working distributed software, Astrolabe. Similar research is being done by others, such as Microsoft Research in Cambridge.What Vogels didn't talk about was exactly how his epidemics relate to the same or similar techniques that are already common on home PCs. I don't mean computer viruses, but file-sharing networks such as Gnutella and BitTorrent.LinksVogels's bloghttp://weblogs.cs.cornell.edu/AllThingsDistributedHistory of Epidemicshttp://masl.to/?Z554223CAAstrolabewww.cs.cornell.edu/ken/Astrolabe.pdfGossips and Telephones, Discrete Mathematics 2 (1972)www.cs.cornell.edu/vogels/Epidemics/gossips-telephones.pdfFrom Epidemics to Distributed Computingwww.epfl.ch/peugster/papers/gossips.pdf&amp;#183If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
Read and rightLots of people have trouble reading handwritten documents, even when they are neatly written in English, if they were produced between 1500 and 1800. Times, and handwriting styles, have changed. Now, University College London and the National Archives have come up with a handy guide, which includes an interactive tutorial based on 10 old documents. The site also has a ducking stool game. While palaeography might sound like a bit of an obscure topic, the site should appeal to its target audience: the millions of people who are researching their family history.www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/palaeographyGet a buzzYahoo turned up at the O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference to launch a game: Tech Buzz. It's a Hollywood Stock Exchange kind of thing, but instead of buying film stars, you buy gadgets, gizmos and technology trends, including browsers. The buzz that decides your fate is based on how many people search for these topics on Yahoo. The serious idea behind this Yahoo Search Labs project is to test the operation of a dynamic pari-mutuel market. Really. Anyway, this is not to be confused with Blogger's Buzz, a new blog about blogging from Blogger.buzz.research.yahoo.com/bkorbuzz.blogger.comFrom the top downAll being well, Gavin Bate has just left the UK for Nepal. He is planning to climb Everest on his own, and for 25p, he'll SMS you a text message from the summit, if he makes it. (He hasn't quite made it on two previous expeditions.) Alternatively, you should be able to listen to him audioblogging. Bate is raising money for a charity, Moving Mountains, which he founded to help street children in Kenya and to support community projects in some Himalayan villages. Details of how to subscribe to text messages and donate via Justgiving.com are on the blog.www.adventurealternative.com/everestpost2005www.movingmountains.org.ukMobile Wallpaper*This has nothing to do with the room spinning round. Wallpaper*, the trendy interiors and lifestyle magazine, has joined with Nokia to create a minimalist version you can view in the browser of a GPRS-equipped Nokia phone. Of course, you can also look at the full site with a PC.www.wallpaper.com/mobileFlickr spellrAs mentioned on page 21, people are doing all sorts of amusing things with images posted to the Flickr photo-sharing website. Spelling is just one of them. Just type in a word and Kastner's snippet of code will spell it out in images. If you don't like one of the letters, you can click on it to get a different image. If you like that, also try Amaztype, which uses covers from Amazon. But pick a short word: it can take quite a while.metateam.net/wordsamaztype.tha.jpStar searchIxquick, the Dutch metasearch engine, has come up with a clever idea. It sends your search word(s) to a whole bunch of search engines, and adds a star to each result that comes in the top 10 hits. A really good site ought to come near the top in Google, MSN, Yahoo, etc and accumulate four or five stars, so Ixquick's results should be excellent. But it ain't necessarily so. Try searching for black death, for example, and Google's results are superior to Ixquick's.www.ixquick.comTicket to rideAre you a search supremo? If so, you could win &#163;500 worth of Lastminute.com vouchers by answering 10 tricky quiz questions in the fastest time of the week. This is a Microsoft promotion, so naturally you'll use Microsoft's search engine to do it. Users of most modern browsers are welcome, including Firefox and Safari, but you must also enable JavaScript and Java to play.www.msn.co.uk/searchsupremoLearn the wayMarc Liron, who runs a Windows XP help site, is now offering free training on RSS website syndication feeds. The lessons are for Windows users only, and use trial versions of FeedDemon and NewzAlert Composer.www.rss-lessons.comwww.updatexp.comSix of the best: Royal WeddingThe Prince of Waleswww.princeofwales.gov.ukCamillaen.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camilla_Parker_BowlesTheir romance in picturesnews.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/in_pictures/4253099.stmWindsor Guildhallwww.thamesweb.co.uk/windsor/guildhall/guildhall01.htmAfter the weddinghttp://www.astrologer.com/aanet/pub/transit/march2005/wedding.htmCamilla lookalikewww.toplookalikes.co.uk/Camilla-Parker-Bowles.htm&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Solo effortsChris Anderson (A miss hit, March 24) suggests that the profit margin at the lower end of the "long tail" is the same as at the top. This may be true for a record company or Amazon. But when a band or producer makes its own CD on its own equipment, the proportion going into the artist's pocket can be far more than the normal 5-10% expected from a record company. Costs can be as little as &#163;1 per CD, and with a normal sale price of &#163;10, margins of 90% are possible. Multiply this by the sheer volume of product that some producers can create and home music-making really does seem a viable alternative.Stephen AllanBathMarket senseThat the "perfection" or "frictionlessness" of a particular online market does not in fact lower prices (Second Sight, March 24) echoes research that haggling in an Arab souq or market is - for locals, if not tourists - a myth. Rather, traders keep prices remarkably uniform. As well as tacit and overt collusion, the reason would seem to be, as Clint Witchalls describes, the absence of any profitable interval before other traders respond if one cuts prices. In this case, the perfect market mechanism is created by close physical proximity and constant human toing and froing.Guy DugdaleMake your caseClint Witchalls's idea that apparently "in the real world" customers get to hear about your low prices with no trouble but your competitors don't, is just plain loopy. You cannot attract the attention of customers without attracting the attention of competitors. Unless, I suppose, you're selling out of a suitcase round the back of Oxford Street.Mick HarperLondonQuality countsI'm not surprised to read Carphone Warehouse claims to be the biggest camera retailer in Europe (Get the picture, March 24), as more and more features are glommed to phones. Bad photos have always been with us and always will be; similarly, there will remain a need for quality lenses and professional flash equipment.The cameraphone might replace the single-use or crappy camera, but quality photography is always about the glass and its ability to capture light, and that will remain true forever. I'm sure profits for camera manufacturers come at the high end; the Jessops story shows what happens when you chase consumer sales.Rob McMinnBuckinghamMaking a standI think most consumers are looking for smaller cellphones, but what they don't realise is that no matter how many megapixels a phone is capable of, it will be constrained by a small lens and CCD size, which are both just as important in determining image quality. Unless the phones take a backseat to the cameras and the big camera manufacturers start building phones, I think that standalone cameras will always have a large market.Eric WuCanadaSimply perfectI have just returned from replacing my phone that "has everything" with a phone that is just a phone, but is light and therefore truly portable. I asked for the smallest/lightest phone in the shop, with features not an issue. I figured Apple's iPod will take care of music and Sony's Cybershot of photos - why merge when the individual offerings are so fine? And this was in gadget-crazy Sweden, where 90% of the population between nine and 90 owns a mobile phone.Rolf HughesSwedenGiving it awayIn response to Bernard Smyth's inquiry about donating old hardware to good causes (Feedback, March 24), there are several sites that might help: Donate a PC (www.donate.apc.org.uk); IT for Charities (www.itforcharities.co.uk/pcs.htm); Computer Aid (www.computer-aid.org); and London-based Realise IT (www.realise-it.org). It's also worth pointing out that while they are generally willing to accept all help they can get, non-profit organisations also have to deal with the challenges of ICT infrastructure, so it's not just as easy as finding somewhere to plug in donated equipment.Adrian De LucaLondonBlogbackThe Guardian's review of the PSP was easily digestible (Ahead of the game, March 24), but wrong on one front - the Nintendo DS is anything but a toy.http://jonchoo.blogspot.comI find the prospect of Canon, Olympus and Nikon having to produce phones just to stay in business (Get the picture, March 24) quite interesting.http://biffasblog.blogspot.comSending data over your skin (Kiss and tell, March 17) is definitely an interesting technology, but my first thought was "bump into the wrong person, and lose your identity".http://sholden.typepad.com
Victoria Mellor is, by any standard, a successful businesswoman. Nine years ago, she and her husband Robin Crumby set up a small publishing company, Melcrum, that has grown to 35 employees and has offices in London, Sydney and Chicago. "I knew that I wasn't suited to working for a large organisation," says Mellor. "I wanted to do my own thing. I was fairly driven to prove myself."But Mellor is unusual. According to a recent survey of its membership by the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB), only about 15% of small businesses are owned by women. Of those, about a third are new businesses, started in the last three years, and more than a quarter are businesses run from home. Very few long-established businesses are run by women.The situation is similar in the corporate sector, where barely a handful of women make it to the board, let alone to the chief executive position.Why do so few women become business leaders? There is no simple answer, but recent research sheds some light on the matter. The Centre for High Performance Development (CHPD), which held a seminar earlier this month on women in leadership, has conducted research on leadership qualities among managerial staff. The CHPD, which advises organisations on how to develop individuals' leadership skills, looked at the performance of 1,500 managers and leaders in organisations in a variety of sectors, both in real life situations and in simulated situations.And it discovered, when it analysed the results by sex using leadership metrics devised over years, that women performed better than men on three of the main measures (thinking, developing and achieving) and equally on the fourth (inspiring).As Chris Parry, the CHPD's chief executive, puts it: "If you ask the right question, namely what is it you need to do to be effective in a very fast-moving, complex and competitive environment, and you get good ways of measuring that, you find that women are more capable than men."If it's not true that women are less capable than men of running an organisation, then it seems other barriers are stopping them from reaching the top. The conventional wisdom is that, once women reach their 30s, they tend to become more interested in starting and bringing up a family than in pursuing a career.If you ask women, however, their explanations are very different. A study by US research firm Catalyst in 2001 found that women cited several barriers to promotion, only one of which was commitment to family responsibilities.Parry believes women are given fewer opportunities in a male-run organisation: "Men are much more capable at the things that get you promoted, in terms of getting exposure, being visible, communicating upwards, getting people to know what you're doing."Women, on the other hand, tend simply to get on with the job and expect - wrongly - to get promoted on their ability alone: "If a group has created that kind of structure and culture, then generally that group is going to know how to play it much better than the group that didn't." This is why, she argues, women do better in organisations with open, transparent promotion policies that can be understood by all.Another reason fewer women become leaders is to do with self-confidence. "If you ask men and women to rate their capability, men always rate themselves higher and women always rate themselves lower than they really are," says Parry.This view is backed by Hilarie Owen, founder of Renew, an organisation aiming to get more women into board positions. Owen recently did research among schoolchildren about attitudes to leadership, and found that 48% of boys thought of themselves as leaders, compared to 18% of girls. She believes that girls are put off thinking of themselves as leaders because, from a very early age, adults reprimand them for being bossy.It would seem that women stand a better chance of doing well if they set up in business on their own, and indeed new research from the Small Business Research Trust (SBRT) quarterly report, shows that SMEs run by women are doing better than SMEs run by men, both in terms of sales growth and employment growth.In practice, however, women-run businesses are rare. Owen argues that women's leadership qualities often centre around people skills and inclusiveness, and perhaps it's not surprising that when women do branch out into self-employment, they tend to be concentrated in people-focused sectors: the main ones, according to the SBRT quarterly report, being wholesale and retail, real estate, and education or health.Anneline Oliver is in some ways typical; she left her management consultancy job two years ago to set up Tribe Events, which organises social and sporting events for young, single professionals. She got the idea when her professional female friends started complaining about the lack of opportunity to meet people: "I thought there must be some way of creating something that allows like-minded people to get together."Building up a thriving business, which now has 300 members, has been hard work, says Oliver, but she loves it.However good women may be as leaders, the question of combining family responsibilities with work is still a pressing one for many women, whether they are seeking promotion or planning to set up in business on their own. Increasingly, pressure is coming from government to force businesses to allow employees time off for family commitments. But how much difference does it make?The LSE sociologist Dr Catherine Hakim has recently published a book, Key Issues in Women's Work, that argues that such policies are counter-productive. In family-friendly Sweden, she says, 1.5% of senior managers are women, compared with 11% in the USA, where maternity leave is much less generous. Citing research into Sweden's family-friendly policies, she writes: "Extensive use of parental leave, time off to care for sick children, and reduced work hours, make female workers less attractive to employers." It is not possible, she argues, to devote time to managing a career and running a family.Hakim's research is controversial, and her views run counter to current trends in large businesses, which increasingly employ diversity officers and hire organisations like the CHPD to improve women's prospects.Norma Jarboe, director of Opportunity Now, a business-led organisation tackling barriers to women's progress, says that SMEs will eventually be forced to adopt family-friendly policies too: "SMEs are going to have to recruit from a talent pool that includes women, and they're going to have to retain them. They're competing for that talent with very large organisations who are looking at these kinds of policies as a way of being an employer of choice and retaining staff."But where does this leave women who want to run their own businesses? As Oliver points out, "Having your own business can be really tough because you can't turn off." When you have to look after children as well, the demands are considerable.Female employees, too, may find it harder that the flexibility offered by corporates simply isn't there in an SME. Sue Terpilowski, who has been successfully running her own PR business, Image Line, for 17 years and employs eight staff, feels that the SME sector is being unfairly squeezed by government: "Maternity leave is a big problem because you only have so much for your salary budget, and then when you have to pay two people it creates a big hole. It impacts on every one else in the company, the money's not there the following year for wage rises."Yet there are also ways in which the SME sector is a more friendly environment for women. An SME is less likely to be constrained by the rigid organisational culture and hierarchy that prevails in many corporates, and can therefore can find it easier to change. Mellor certainly feels it has been reasonably easy to accommodate flexible working. The four or five people in the firm's Chicago office, she says, have children: "They are now working for us part-time and it works perfectly for us, because it means we've got highly skilled, highly experienced people, who can work flexibly around their childcare."And it can, says Mellor, work for owners too - it's a question of finding the right solution. She and her husband are able to share childcare as well as the running of the business: "We both do 50-50. We rely on each other: if one can't do it the other one steps in. There are positives to being self-employed, because if anything goes wrong, you can just drop everything and go home."Bumbletots.co.uk: new mothers, new businessFor south London business partners Jane McQuitty and Alison Williams, it was the demands of combining parenthood with work that provided the impetus for setting up in business. Both continued to work after the birth of their first children, McQuitty as a tourism consultant and Williams as a management information systems analyst for JP Morgan."We thought, 'what's the point in having children then doing the commute and not getting home until it was their bedtime?'" says McQuitty.They were both committed to using cloth nappies themselves, but found it difficult to fit washing the nappies into busy working lives, and they thought there were probably other local mothers in the same situation. They decided to provide a service selling cloth nappies and laundering.While the project was in the planning stages, both became pregnant again, which delayed the launch. Nonetheless, they have enrolled other partners, such as local authorities, hospitals, nurseries and health visitors, and are frequently invited to talk at antenatal and postnatal classes. Because of the need to juggle family commitments, they have had to be careful to plan each stage of growth precisely, including the time they needed to take off to have their second babies.In the meantime, says McQuitty, their hard work in the initial stages is paying off: "We've got some branded products, a laundry service that works and a customer base that's still growing. We've managed to get partnership deals with two local authorities and we're only six months in."bumbletots.co.uk
&#183; Outsourcing looks set togrow in the small to medium enterprise arena, says the National Outsourcing Association, which has recently started a special interest group on SMEs. The association believes this is inevitable because although the larger companies are the ones most likely to use outsourcing at the moment, the smaller concerns are the ones that will benefit by competing on equal terms and cutting costs. Among the special interest group's activities will be a mentoring system and a guide booklet on how to become more competitive through outsourcing. Those interested can get more information atwww.noa.co.uk.&#183; People considering awireless network may want to consider new research from RSA Networks that says more than a third of all businesses using them are insecure and that the popularity of public wireless networks isn't helping. Essentially, many businesses are failing to ensure that only their employees can get into their network, so anyone with a passing laptop will be able to log on and get through to company files, or use a connection to the internet. More worryingly, the same survey last year suggested that only 15% of wireless networks were insecure, which suggests that a lot of people are installing them without considering any possible consequences.&#183; Owner-managers,meanwhile, will be interested in a statement from accountants PKF that says business owners are suffering from a lack of forward planning when it comes to exit points. The company has produced a guide called Extracting Value From Your Business in response to its findings that only 7% of UK owner-managers have taken any steps to make their exit plan happen, while 45% of them want to retire before they reach the age of 50. The booklet covers items such as winding up a solvent company; when and why you should want to exit; valuing a business and grooming it to add value; and business and wealth preservation planning. More information is available atwww.pkf.co.uk.&#183; Online merchants continueto thrive according to affiliate marketing specialist TradeDoubler. Although February's overall online sales figures are included in the inevitable post-Christmas dip, they are up compared to February 2004, and impressively so: sales volumes were up 80% and the value of the sales increased 66%. Interestingly, the telecoms and financial sectors saw the greatest growth, with consumer electronics - traditionally a high growth area online - increasing less rapidly.&#183; Meanwhile, online paymentspecialist PayPal believes a lot of sales are still being lost because of individuals getting part-way through a purchase and not going any further. The company believes the complexity of stores is the main reason that as much as &#163;1.11bn a year in sales is being abandoned by otherwise willing customers. Older internet customers are more likely to give up than their younger counterparts, with almost half of 45- to 54-year-olds (49%) and 56% of 55- to 64-year-olds confirming they'd scrapped a purchase because of an unhelpful website.&#183; 02 has partnered withSmart Global to offer business applications to customers' mobile phones. The services include instant messaging on the move, access to marketing data, email push (such as Blackberry technology), synchronisation, navigation and mapping technology. This follows research from Forum 4 Business that suggests increasing amounts of businesses will be spending their money on mobile technology rather than on the desktop. Further information is atwww.smartglobal.comand the applications are available on a 30-day trial basis.&#183; Government programmeEnvirowise has laid the blame for Britain's throwaway culture at the door of the business community for building products that consumers expect to last only a short time. Sixty five per cent of people felt that products lasted a shorter time than 25 years ago, for example. Among the specifics were the findings that 46% of customers expected a washing machine to last less than six years, 75% felt a laser printer would last less than six years and 51% of iPod owners had no idea how long their product would be compatible with other similar devices on the market.&#183; Computing isn't exclusivelyfor the young, and to stress that point MaP&gt;IT (Mature People into IT) is offering free IT training for the over-50s. The scheme, called MaP&gt;IT Extra, was launched at the London Innovation Conference and for the moment covers only the capital. This is the sixth such scheme that the organisation has run but it is the first that will apply to the over-50s rather than the over-40s, as this appears to be where the main skills shortage lies. UK and EU citizens who are working in Greater London for organisations of 250 employees or fewer (including those who are self-employed) may apply online by visiting the website atwww.tvu.ac.uk/mapitextra.
Fisher Wrathall is an estate agent and surveyor covering a wide area in Lancaster. Its problem: clients were demanding faster reports while the company was spending a long time travelling between appointments. Guy Clapperton found out what it did to fix the problem from partner Nick Pilkington.GC: Tell me about the company.NP:Fisher Wrathall is a multidisciplinary general practice firm of chartered surveyors. We have offices in Lancaster and Morecambe; we're all part of Allied Surveyors plc. One of our primary functions is the provision of surveying services to building societies, banks, businesses, whatever. We have 12 employees. We divide the country up into postcode areas and due to the geography of it, Lancaster is the southern end of our empire in terms of valuation provision - we go as far as Keswick in the north and as far as the Cumbrian coast.GC: So, what problem did you face in this instance?NP:Because lenders compete on service standards, performance etc, the big stick came out in terms of the time it takes to turn these things around. As valuers we came under pressure to stick to timescales; a lot of lenders are scoring valuers on their ability to turn most valuation reports around in 48 hours from receiving the instruction. Some will allow you 72, but some count weekends in their calculations.GC: Is that recent?NP:That's evolved over the last two or three years. Our problem was that we'd got a patch that stretches for the best part of 70-80 miles north of us, and to make it viable to cover that area, which is fairly sparsely populated, realistically you need six or seven jobs minimum to do in a day. You can be driving for one-and-a-half hours plus to get to your first appointment; you've then got the rest of the appointments to do, and by the time you've got back to the office for 4pm there isn't sufficient time to dictate your reports, give them to your secretary, type them and get them out that day. So we were falling behind with our service standards, considerably.GC: So what were the first steps you took to try to remedy things?NP:As part of the whole group we were going to overhaul our IT and were already considering going for a remote server solution. &#91;Note: this is a system in which someone else hosts all of your computing and you log on to it from a terminal in your office&#93; So we went to see NetCentric and its SystemHost operation.GC: What prompted you to go that way?NP:I knew one of the directors. We'd spoken and this sounded like something we could use. It seemed to deliver a fairly high-tech solution to a very small business. One of the beauties of that was that we could discuss with them the ability of remote working, with particular respect to our surveying activity, because if we could in some way get some information back to the office before we arrived back there, there was a greater chance of those reports going out that night.GC: When did you actually agree to take on the service?NP:We were up and running within nine months.GC: So you opted to have a full computing service that you could dial into rather than have everything on your own computers. I understand this included a lot of maintenance and regular upgrades - which would all be handled from the SystemHost office. Did you look at other service providers as well?NP:We looked at other solutions, whether it was going out to buy a new stock of Dell computers or whatever.GC: What made you go for this one?NP:The back-up, primarily. The fear is that we're not IT experts. Some of us can drive a computer but having that seven-days-a-week back-up facility on the calibre and quality of equipment we had was persuasive.GC: How long did it all take to set up?NP:The NetCentric system was in within two weeks and was fully operation, with no glitches, from day one. Remote working was something that came later; I'm the only surveyor who has a laptop, so we're still in the stages of development. The way it works is that we use 3G mobile broadband, we stick a card in the side of the laptop that gives us a broadband connection. We have created a number of standard templates for our major clients which we fill in on the laptop outside the property, dial up the server remotely, that then goes on the internal email to the secretaries, who pull out the information which is 99% of what the finished report will be; they prepare the finished report as a pro forma, so when we return to the office it's just a matter of downloading the photographs we've taken, bang it on to the report, sign them and off we go.GC: So, how much does it cost and how do you measure return on investment?NP:Each station costs us just short of &#163;100 per month. Compared to a new Dell PC that's an awful lot of money when you can get a brand new PC for &#163;400; I think where we do value the service is in the ability to pick up the phone and have a problem sorted within 30 minutes. They have a remote server facility that can dial into us and sort out the problem extremely quickly.GC: And return on investment?NP:How you quantify return on investment is difficult. If you took our old IT systems, we had all sorts of systems lying all over the office, failing to start up, going down, crashing - we didn't have an internal email system or network, so in hard cash it's hard to quantify, but in terms of lack of stress on the partners, it's paid many times over.
Banks may be a useful source of financial guidance for thousands of entrepreneurs, but new research suggests that businesses value good customer service more highly and do not want to pay for "added value" specialist advice services that they don't use.Non-financial advice offered by banks covers everything from information on business planning to exporting and importing to legal and marketing issues. Most banks offer free banking to start-ups for an initial period, with no charges for transactions and no monthly fee. When the free banking period ends, usually after a year or 18 months, fees and charges kick in. Outwardly free specialist advice services are often bundled into the price of the overall package.Now it seems many customers resent paying for advice they never call on. A survey of 750 businesses by Alliance &amp; Leicester Commercial Bank found that one in three wanted a simple and straightforward bank account with low charges. Almost half (49%) thought they should only be charged for advice they actively sought.Seventy per cent of respondents said they had sought advice from an external source. Of these, more than half (53%) said they had gone to their accountant, 28% used other professional advisers and 10% talked to trade associations or advisory groups. Just 7% turned to the bank. The survey also found that good customer service was seen as more important than the amount of advice on offer or interest rates.Of the businesses surveyed, 82% banked with the "big four" banks - Barclays, LloydsTSB, HSBC and the Royal Bank of Scotland. A competition commission probe in 2002 accused the banks of making excess profits at the hands of small businesses.Recent research by HBOS showed one-third of all small businesses were considering changing their bank account because they were unhappy with the services they were being offered. More than a third said they did not receive interest on their current accounts and 20% said they had to apply to their banks for interest to be paid.A&amp;L senior product manager Alex Smith says: "Some accounts try to attract customers by offering additional services and advice. It is clear from our research that many business owners want simple, straightforward banking with low charges and separate fees for advice."Traditional business banks do not differentiate when it comes to their charges. They charge the same amount no matter if the customer uses the additional service and advice or not. This means that many business banking customers are ultimately paying the cost of additional services and advice, through lower credit interest rates and higher fees, but getting nothing in return."Shopping around for a new business account is always a good idea. But a cursory look at the small business banking sector reveals a multitude of deals offering several different levels of advice, often with baffling charging structures.A&amp;L claims to be capitalising on this with its free business account, which does not have the transaction limits which trigger fees. The simplicity strategy seems to be working, as the bank has been awarded "Best Business Current Account Provider" by independent financial information provider Moneyfacts for the last two years.With businesses apparently keen on such low-cost, no-frills accounts, are banks actually offering "added value" by making specialist advice part of the deal? If not, shouldn't they stop charging customers for services they are not interested in? Do they have anything to offer other than financial advice?Stephen Pegge of LloydsTSB says: "For start-ups, banks are often the first port of call for advice. Banks are good for offering general help and guidance and, perhaps more importantly, for networking and making introductions. For example, a new business might not know where to get an accountant, and we can provide useful help with that side of things."We have held hundreds of networking events for business customers, not so we can go along and tell them what to do, but so we can introduce them to specialist advisers and help the smooth running of the business."It is true that people get suspicious about complex accounts, so there is a point to be made about not bundling lots of advisory services into the account and muddying the charges. But I think most people realise that if they want intense, hands-on advice, you have to pay for it."Pegge also points to research by the British Bankers Association that shows business customers who are dissatisfied with the charges they pay tend to be those who don't always check their statements and are not sure how much they pay and for what.A&amp;L's Smith adds: "Not all business current accounts are the same and I would encourage business owners to review their banking arrangements to ensure that they have the most suitable account for their needs."Businesses should check Moneyfacts(www.moneyfacts.co.uk)to look for the best accounts currently available. Once an account has been opened, financial arrangements should be reviewed every year.
Looking back on the dot com bubble of the early 2000s, many will recall the dramatic failures: meteorite companies that dazzled with their confidence and ambition, before crashing to earth.But some stayed airborne. In late 1996, Dr Simon Murdoch launched Bookpages, an online bookseller. In April 1998, Amazon decided it liked Bookpages so much it bought the company, making Murdoch a multi-millionaire. In October, it relaunched the firm as Amazon.co.uk, and made Murdoch European vice-president; he helped set up the German and French branches of the company.On leaving at the start of 2000, Murdoch became a partner of venture capitalist and adviser Episode 1, through which he has been involved with betting exchange Betfair, music service Shazam and DVD hirer ScreenSelect. He is now chief executive of FriendsAbroad.com, which aims to match those learning languages with native speakers.Steve Bennett has run businesses since 1989. He sold PC Advisor magazine in 1996 and set up Software Warehouse, which he turned into Jungle.com at the height of the dot com frenzy. In September 2000, he sold the business to Argos for &#163;37m (despite earlier valuations in the region of &#163;700m). After serving a lock-in period as part of that deal, he set up Eagle Road TV Studios in Redditch.Bennett says his firm had struggled to find the right formats, before hitting on teleshopping a year ago. Now, through Sky channels 646, 658 and 663, he expects the firm will turn over up to &#163;90m during 2005.Bennett describes the dot com days as "a surreal time". "In that one period of my life, profit was not relevant. The more losses you had, as long as you were building a brand, people said you were investing in building long-term value. Obviously since then, with the crash and all the things that have happened since then, it is back to building sustainable businesses based on good values and profitability."Simon Murdoch thinks there were unique opportunities available during that time: "Once Amazon owns e-commerce, particularly books, music and DVDs, you can't start now in building the next Amazon."But others remain open. "I think creating a new business and inventing a new space is absolutely, definitely possible, and that's really what I'm try ing to do with FriendsAbroad." During the first quarter of this year, it plans to start selling phone services to its members, taking advantage of voice over IP and social networking technologies. "To build a business that ends up becoming a global leader, you have to find something where there isn't already a global leader on the internet," he says.Murdoch says Amazon shows the way forward: "A key thing, which has always been true in business and even was at the height of the internet boom, is you have to do a great job for your customers."He thinks some kinds of marketing have got significantly cheaper since the dot com boom. "Cost-per-click advertising is fantastic," he says, of online ads which appear only on relevant pages, and cost money only when someone clicks on them. "It's particularly good for start-up businesses. If you take FriendsAbroad, in two months we've had 14,000 people sign up as registered customers, largely on the back of being successful with cost-per-click advertising. For entrepreneurs who want to get started or test an idea, look into how Google and Overture work."Bennett is cynical about marketing: "Any business today will only grow on recommendation and repeat &#91;business&#93;. It's almost impossible today to build something from marketing."However, he thinks that a good name, easily found through the web or an electronic programme guide, is more important than ever. One of his channels, selling jewellery, is Gems TV - an easy name to type into a search engine or web-browser. With new domain classes and less hype overall, memorable domain names cost rather less than the six-figure sum he paid for Jungle.com.Murdoch thinks there is less enthusiasm about start-ups, and it is harder to hire experienced staff, but adds: "I think it's a good thing that the froth has gone away. There was disappointment for a lot of individuals, who left a well-paid job, went into an internet start-up, got stock options and never made very much money because the company folded."So should people take the plunge? "When you start a business or run a business, stuff is going to go wrong," says Murdoch. "Unless you've got an absolute conviction that it's what you want to do, you're going to find it difficult when the going gets tough.""Although almost anybody can run their own business, you have to have to be able to give it everything," says Bennett, who says he is only prepared to invest in someone else's business plan if they are risking their house. "People have got to be completely absorbed by the whole thing. If the idea can't be your hobby, your entertainment, your life, your fulfilment, your everything, then just forget it."However, there is a danger. "You've got to know the difference between never giving up and changing direction. With the internet, it's so easy for a competitor to copy and offer slightly cheaper prices, so you have to be constantly changing the whole time."Bennett adds that an entrepreneur needs to focus on the business, not the rewards: "If you think about the money, you'll never make it." In the dot com boom, the idea was to sell or float on a stock exchange as fast as possible, but Murdoch agrees that this has changed. "Entrepreneurs need to go into something because they want to create the business. I think that if you as an individual focus just on 'what's in it for me', I think you've probably got the wrong attitude. If you can create a customer that is willing to pay, the results will come for you anyway, but don't focus on that, focus on how you're going to do a good job for the customer so they are willing to pay."I don't necessarily need to work, but I want to, because I find it fascinating," he says. "One of the most exhilarating things is starting with an idea, a blank sheet of paper, and turning it into a real business that's got real customers. When you've got customers that are paying money for something, that's a great endorsement that you've created something, and that creative process can be huge fun."Finding the fundingDuring 2000 and 2001, Simon Murdoch at Episode 1 found small and medium-size firms for US bank Chase to invest in. "They went back to big buy-outs at the end of 01, and didn't do any more early-stage technology investing. It's not impossible now, but it was so much easier to raise finance then. It did seem that anybody could start a business."However, he thinks funding is easier to find now than it was before the dot com boom: "I know quite a few venture capitalists and they do tell me that the best ideas and the best management teams are getting funded."Steve Bennett says it is relatively easy to raise either small or large sums. "The only difficult bit now is the middle ground, &#163;100,000 to &#163;10m," he says. "When I was looking to raise &#163;2m for the TV channel, the VCs just didn't want to know - it wasn't big enough. For the smaller sums, because of the tax breaks the government has put in, you can find wealthy individuals willing to back you," he says.Murdoch says he raised &#163;1m for Bookpages from wealthy individuals, or "angels", in 1997. "They did very well, because we sold to Amazon within about three months of them investing."He adds that some kinds of business, particularly those selling to other businesses such as software development or consultancy, do not need venture capital if they can find customers quickly. "A key thing to think of as an entrepreneur is 'how can I get this business going with as little cash as possible?'. As an investor, I've always tried to invest in things where the amount of cash that gets raised in the round I'm investing in is enough to get through to break-even."WeblinksFriendsAbroadwww.friendsabroad.com/Profile of Simon Murdochwww.e-consultancy.com/other/internetdecade/Default.asp?nextStep=4&amp;group=m&amp;view=16Gems TVwww.gems.tv/Article on Steve Bennett from December 2000www.quintessential.org.uk/bennettAlternative profile of Bennetthttp://www.e-consultancy.com/other/internetdecade/Default.asp?nextStep=4&amp;group=b&amp;group=c&amp;view=2
The problem with spam - computerised junk mail, effectively - is that it's essentially an attack, and an attack by someone who's not entirely stupid. This means they realise that their attacks aren't working and are being dealt with by so-called anti-spam measures. On seeing this they rethink their approach, a new technical wrinkle appears and the problem is back again, effectively appearing with reinforcements.Before looking into how to deal with the issue it's worth considering whether the problem is all that severe to begin with. OK, you get a few unwanted emails and yes, some of your staff may be offended by some of the content, but once they understand it's mostly automated, is it such a big deal for your network? Unfortunately, the answer can be yes, certainly. Masses of spam can block an email system, clog your network and fill mailboxes.There are numerous means of dealing with it, and the security companies often have a good overview of what can actually be done. "If you're a small business you can probably benefit from some of what I call the industrial strength spam software the big corporations use," says Graham Cluley, "There are small business versions which can update themselves, which you can put at your email gateway."Already, people who use an ISP and who have no dedicated IT support are likely to be concerned, but this isn't a complicated concept - the gateway is essentially what it sounds like, the bit where the email comes in. "The important thing is how you're getting your email," he confirms. "If it's through something like an exchange server, you can actually run software at the server which will do the spam and the virus check and reduce a lot of the overhead that way."If you're doing it directly to your PC, it's really a case of putting the end user products in, the sort you'll find down your high street, on all of your PCs. And there are some very good products out there."There are a number of popular retail products and indeed downloads which do the job. SafetyBar from Cloudmark, elements of Norton, and for personal use PopFile, which will do a reasonable job of preventing the junk coming in.The snag with all of them is what might be called "false positive" syndrome - identification of a piece of mail as spam because it contains a word someone else has designated as spam, when actually it's no such thing (your correspondent once nearly missed a three-figure commission because his spam control software had binned something, only a week after he'd recommended it in these columns).Quarantining is also an approach, advocated by Postini, a company that launched last week with a system called Perimiter Manager that it says is aimed squarely at the small business community. It insists that tackling the problem at the server level rather than at each individual workstation is the only way to handle it."You're stopping all the garbage at the earliest possible place, rather than letting it come into your network and all the way down to the desktop," says Andrew Lochart, director of product marketing. Consistency of approach is also helped in this way rather than leaving spam control to the individual employee. "If you do it at desktop level then it's every man for himself, and you don't really know what's happening at the desktop." There are also mass email attacks - known as denial of service (DoS) attacks - which a desktop system can't intercept because by the time the mails are at the desktop it's already too late.There can be no absolute guarantee that someone will never find a false positive on their system, but just about every anti-spam scheme on the market has an option to quarantine rather than delete each piece of mail it believes is a piece of junk. "After a while you may come to a stage where you think it's so reliable you only need to check it once a week," says Cluley, but becoming accustomed to the system is essential."The thing is, all anti-spam isn't equal. It's not like anti-virus, most AV software is pretty much as good as each other, there's not much difference between anti-virus vendors. When it comes to anti-spam, so many companies are trying to sell software and some of them are pretty lousy to be honest."Fortunately there are a number of practical pointers available to people buying into anti-spam for the first time. Buying a product rather than taking a free one is always better if you want any product support, or if you want the manufacturer to have a vested interest in keeping up to date with the spammers' technology (and you do).Check the comparative reviews, preferably using the internet newsgroups as well as the published stuff - people will be less inhibited online and won't worry so much about whether expressing a particular view will get them sued. Cluley recommends also talking to your ISP: "How much better if the ISP will do the anti-virus and spam control," he says. "If you want it to work at the desktop level, make sure you get something that updates itself automatically in the background. Spamming campaigns change so often that we're having to update our product sometimes every two hours to keep up."
When Qiu Chengwei reported the theft of his "dragon sabre" he was laughed out of the police station. So the 41-year-old online games player decided to take matters into his own hands.Swapping virtual weapons for a real knife, he tracked down the man who had robbed him of his prized fantasy possession and stabbed him to death.Mr Qiu is now facing a possible death sentence in a Shanghai court case which has highlighted concern about the social, psychological and economic impact of one of China's fastest-growing industries.A spate of suicides, deaths by exhaustion and legal disputes about virtual possessions have been blamed on internet role-play games, which are estimated to have more than 40 million players in China.Mr Qiu's favourite game was Legend of Mir III, a South Korean game which is a huge hit throughout Asia.It took him hours in front of a computer to win the dragon sabre, one of the game's most valuable weapons.He used a feature of the game to lend it to Zhu Caoyuan, who reportedly sold it on without his permission for 7,200 renminbi (&#163;480).Although this is considerably more than the average monthly wage, the police told Mr Qui that they could do nothing because the law does not recognise virtual property.He has pleaded guilty to the manslaughter of Mr Zhu, a crime that can carry the death penalty.The number of internet users is estimated to have doubled from under 60 million in 2002 to more than 120 million.More than a third are believed to be game players, creating one of the world's most lucrative online markets. The operators revenue has grown by more than 40% in each of the past two years.Shanda Networking, the biggest online game company with at least 2 million users at any given time of the day, more than doubled profits last year.The national leadership said recently that the country's biggest skill shortage was of internet game developers.The information ministry estimates that China needs 600,000 online game technicians to fight off foreign competition.But there is also growing alarm about the social consequences. The government has cracked down on unlicensed internet cafes, which the official news agency called "hotbeds of juvenile crime and depravity".Newspapers are filled with reports of internet-game related crimes and tragedies, such as the suicide in January of a boy of 13 who left notes saying he was so addicted to online games that he had difficulty distinguishing between reality and virtual reality.Last March, two students in Chongqing fell asleep on a railway track after an all-night internet session, and a 31-year old Legend of Mir addict reportedly dropped dead after a 20-hour session. Many of the crimes are related to the thefts of virtual possessions.Hard-core players invest so much time and money into building a powerful online character that the loss or theft of a virtual identity prompts some to take violent action.At the Shanda customer complaints office in Shanghai, where the staff work behind reinforced glass panels, an adviser, Cassie Fan, said: "We get about a thousand complaints a week.""I have been threatened on several occasions. People put so much time and energy into the games that some get extremely upset."One customer was so enraged that he set fire to himself, suffering serious burns.
Marketing needn't be conventional or boring - in fact if it's boring you've defeated your own object. It should be sparky and individual. Of course, this belief can lead people into areas they might regret, or lead to controversy that might - or might not - be what you planned all along.Take the Japanese restaurant in Manchester that decided to use a naked geisha girl for what was arguably a publicity stunt. It certainly delivered in business terms, and according to the organisations involved, there were no complaints, but everyone was aware that it could have backfired.The key thing was that the whole exercise was handled tastefully, says Stuart White, a senior consultant at public relations company Native Instinct. It was his client - a small chain of Japanese restaurants called Samsi in the north-west - which discovered the ancient tradition of Nyotaimori, which involved noblemen eating their food not off plates but off the unclothed body of a geisha.The then-owner of the restaurants, Samantha Gore-Lyons, had travelled through Japan and come across the rite. "Wherever the food was placed it signified something. Sara had seen this and we decided to implement it at the restaurant, but there had to be a certain sensitivity - we didn't want drunken yobs coming in of a Friday night abusing it."The answer was to go ahead with the idea on a short-term basis, pitching it as an ancient and respectful tradition rather than anything seedy - and it was quite a success. "We had about &#163;1m worth of coverage that we saw, and we weren't using a cuttings agency or anything." Targeting was vital: "The restaurant at which we piloted this was purely the Manchester one - we didn't think it was appropriate for Chester or Wilmslow."Coverage got as far as page 3 of The Sun - no, not the main picture - and Friday Night with Jonathan Ross. The gamble paid off and the restaurant gained customers, but you can't help feel that if they'd made it anything but short-term, the novelty could have palled and accusations of exploitation would have followed.Marketing any small business is difficult, and it could be that an off-beat, quirky approach will appeal initially. Whether it's dressing up as a rabbit or using a totally undressed person to promote your activity, the concept still needs to be backed up by serious research and consideration, like any other element of a business plan.Attracting media attention is famously difficult, and controlling that attention once it's focused upon you is even more so. Getting it can pay handsomely, however, as Lydia Ross, co-founder of rabbit hutch accessory specialist Scratch and Newton will confirm, it pays to believe in what you're selling.She set up the business when her daughter fell sick and her job fell through; she took to dog walking and animal minding as a means of earning money. "I was looking after what I call the original guinea pigs, who are still quite close to me. It was a really horrible wet and windy day, and I looked at the double hutch and I had to feed them all with fresh food. I chopped up all the carrots and took them in, and the guinea pigs were hiding. I put them in the middle of these wet, soggy wood shavings and realised they were so hungry but didn't want to run out and get it in that rain."Ross was inspired to start selling accessories to make hutches more comfortable. She and colleague Chrissie Slater asked various guinea pig and rabbit owners how they tackled the problem and once they had established that most people used bits of old carpet and other accessories, they set up Scratch and Newton. To publicise it they decided that there could be no better way than to set up a big rabbit hutch and get journalists to sit in it; and if you could dress as a rabbit in the meantime, all the better."We wanted people to really realise what this was about and think about it. Instead of animalising humans we wanted to humanise animals - and if any ideas were going to work, we had to try it first." The giant hutch was to encourage people to think about what it would be like to be a rabbit, and the idea caught people's imagination quite quickly. "We got interviewed by a radio journalist who sat in the hutch with us, and it took off from there."Clearly, the off-beat approach isn't going to work in every context, but "off-beat" is relative. Chris Clarke, one of the founders of PR agency Clarke Mulder Purdie, felt that one of the best ways of demonstrating value in the field was to show that a small agency could generate as many ideas as a large one by being well connected."We wanted to demonstrate that we had access to some leading thinkers with good ideas, and that was the rationale between the Hothouse - that and the fact that none of us really felt comfortable with traditional selling."The Hothouse is a regular meeting of businesspeople in a seminar that focuses on different subjects. "This gave us a way of reaching prospects and existing contacts in a non-salesy way: they'd get something out of it, we could demonstrate the sort of things we could deliver to the client and it was away from that whole cold-calling, direct mail process." Twenty-five people attended the first session and 40 went to the second. The cost to the agency was mostly in terms of time and some pro bono work for the expert speakers.Cost is, of course, a vital issue - it's fine having an idea but another thing working out the figures. White points to the success of another campaign as evidence that off-beat needn't mean expensive. The client was an accountancy firm called McLintocks &amp; Partners, and the "&amp;" in the logo looked a little like a tie being tied. The agency suggested a celebrity tie auction for charity to get people in.They targeted celebrities and football clubs for ties and luminaries such as Kevin Keegan, Bobby Robson, Michael Caine and others obliged. "What we also did where we thought there might be a problem, like with football clubs, was to buy plain silk ties in the corporate colours of the club and send them with a pen and a letter from the charity."The ties came back signed, the auction raised &#163;2,000 for MacMillan Cancer Relief and McLintocks found themselves with &#163;50,000 in additional fee revenue for the year and subsequent years, assuming the new clients remained with the firm. The cost was around the &#163;6,000 mark for agency time, silk ties and black pens.Inevitably, taking an unusual approach is about how appropriate the idea is to both the business and the aimed-for client group, although it's a mistake to make too many assumptions.Ross says that one of her contacts, a solicitor who specialises in fighting off inheritance tax, finds that adding a picture of a cat to his advertising increases take-up by 75%. White believes how off-beat you go should depend on the target audience. "McLintocks were looking at a corporate audience, so we augmented the event by having giveaways like mirrors for the women and cufflinks for the men; it all went with the formal theme."But the most important thing for us to consider is the audience and the reputation of the company, whether it could be damaged. In the case of the restaurant, having that sort of frisson to it, we had to make sure that everyone was prepared for the possible negative publicity that may have happened, although, in the end, it didn't.Top tips to be successful&#183;Don't assume that being original is everything. If an idea has worked before it can still be a good one - seminars had been done before but Clarke (see body text) made it work. By the same token, if an idea has been rejected before there can be a reason for it.&#183;Tailor your ideas for your market: dressing up as furry animals worked for Scratch and Newton because they wanted the "aah" factor. In the corporate market, a souvenir biro is likely to be better, if commonplace.&#183;Be tasteful. Using a nude geisha girl did the job for a Japanese restaurant, and won PR awards, but it won't go down well everywhere.&#183;When promoting things to either the press or the public, remember the difference between promotion and bribery - even if you find a willing participant, say someone who's incredibly fond of long lunches, you're unlikely to retain their loyalty for long after someone with a bigger hospitality budget turns up.&#183;Always be thorough. When consultancy PriceWaterhouseCoopers renamed part of its operation "Monday" (a policy it abandoned) it famously registered the domain name "introducingmonday.com" but failed to spend the &#163;9.99 it would have taken to register "introducingmonday.co.uk", leaving web comedians b3ta.com free to register it and put a silly song up there for everyone to see. It's still there.&#183;Remember that although it's said no publicity is bad publicity, you might find a quirky idea stays with you longer than you intended. Consider typecast actors who can't shake a role off, and ask whether you want to be the private bank remembered for having the Elvis impersonator in the lobby when you're sure you've outgrown that image.
Public benefitsThe UK public sector IT software and services market grew by 12.1% last year, and will grow by 9.5% a year on average to 2008, according to the Ovum consultancy. Ovum expects the market to grow from &#163;6.7bn in 2004 to &#163;9.6bn in 2008. This compares with a projected annual growth of only 3.9% for the private sector. It reckons the public sector growth will be driven by huge projects, such as the NHS National Programme for IT (NPfIT) and the "Joined Up Justice" programme, which is expected to ramp up over the next few years.One-minute wonderToshiba has announced a lithium-ion battery that can be recharged to 80% of its capacity in only one minute, which is about 60 times faster than the batteries commonly used today. The new battery, which is based on nano-material technology, will also be smaller and last longer. However, it will not be available in commercial products until next year.Don't w8 for justiceText messaging will mean less waiting around the courts of Maidstone and Canterbury for crime victims, witnesses and police. The area has been chosen to pilot a system called Xhibit as part of a planned &#163;20m project to improve the running of crown and county courts in England and Wales. Xhibit combines mobile phone messaging (SMS), a website and monitor screens in the courtroom building to display the status of each case. This replaces a paper-based system that could have witnesses, victims, police and support organisations hanging around waiting for earlier, overrunning cases to finish.www.courtservice.gov.uk/xhibithttp://www.gnn.gov.uk/environment/detail.asp?ReleaseID=153375Lock it upBritain's Data Encryption Systems Limited is claiming "a major breakthrough in the fight against identity theft" by offering version 3.0 of its DESlock+ security software to home PC users free of charge. DESlock+ 3.00 allows the transparent encryption of email, files, folders and other data on systems running Microsoft Windows 2000 and XP. Businesses can try the program free for 60 days, then buy a licence from the company's website. The standard version costs &#163;25 per user, while USB hardware versions cost from &#163;40 per token. Both prices exclude VAT.www.deslock.comDamned publicitySybase is threatening to sue a UK security firm if it discloses details of eight holes it found in the company's database software. Next Generation Security Software (NGS) of Sutton, Surrey, says it acted responsibly by reporting the vulnerabilities to Sybase and allowing the company to issue patches. NGS then said it planned to publish details of the flaws found in version 12.5.3 of Sybase's Adaptive Server Enterprise (ASE) software but the US company is threatening court action. David Litchfield, a founder of NGS, says Sybase claims the discovery of bugs comes under database performance testing and benchmarking, and publication of details is prevented in the ASE licence.www.ngssoftware.comRelatively betterBarrow-in-Furness borough council hopes to improve public access to its online services by using a citizen-relationship management system designed by Northgate Information Solutions. The application improves access to council services and gives the council a better insight into individual citizen's needs. Barrow has been working with Northgate for almost a year, and the project shares its infrastructure with South Lakeland council to improve cost-effectiveness. Barrow is also creating a one-stop contact centre for citizens who don't have an online service. This will free of some of the current customer-facing staff to gather information for answering the more complex queries.www.barrowbc.gov.ukSQL footingMySQL, one of the most popular open source databases, is making a bid for corporate acceptance. The Swedish company behind MySQL is holding its annual conference in California during April when it will start to push the attributes of its version 5 release. These will include features it has lacked but are considered essential by many corporates, such as stored procedures, triggers, and views. The company is also ramping up its services offerings to match the aims of the database. This includes 24x7 support with rapid response for Platinum subscribers, certified quality for new software releases, and notification of new products and security bulletins.www.mysqluc.com&#183;Contributions from Eric Doyle and Jack Schofield
Are you all digital now?I'm not actually ... I still work in analogue. There are some elements of digital photography that I don't really like, such as the fact that you see the results immediately. I've always thought photography was a bit of an adventure so to come home with the film, develop it then look at the results has more of a sense of excitement. Digital changes your end results because if you think it's not totally there then you are going to shoot it differently - you get the perfect image but that kills it for me as I like the imperfection. For square format I use a Hasselblad (www.hasselblad.co.uk) and for 35mm I use a Leica (www.leica-camera.com) - they're both beautiful cameras.No Photoshop then?Photoshop is a different matter as it's post-production really. It's like an extension of your darkroom so I have no problem with it - although you do see many examples of it being used badly. I'm trying to get to grips with it. With the whole digital thing I sometimes feel like everyone's been driving cars and I've been taking the bus. Inevitably, I'll have to change at some point as I feel that companies are investing more in digital technology now so you're left with paper and film that are no longer as good. I took a beautiful picture of Nelson Mandela recently, which we worked on for a week in Photoshop until it ended up a perfect picture, but it had lost all the soul ... so we printed the original.Is the net a good showcase for photography?I think so - just to get an idea of what a photographer is about. I never really enjoyed getting a portfolio together then sending it out whereas putting up the website is quite an enjoyable experience. The net's just a much faster and more modern way to distribute things and you have to embrace it. I don't particularly use the net too much, though, other than occasionally Googling my name to see what comes up, and even then you get too much information.How do you feel about file-sharing?I think they were very slow to react to it and I think selling your music or films over the internet is a great way for artists to get a bit of control over their own work again. So in some ways it's been a breath of fresh air - although I think when you get things for free you tend not to attach the same value to them, so it all becomes very disposable. When I was younger I'd buy a vinyl album, take it home and live with it, and I think that attachment's largely gone for the file-sharing generation. I took out a subscription to iTunes a few months back and I've yet to download one track.Safe to assume you got a U2 iPod?No, I asked for one but never got it ... then they used some of my pictures on the packaging! I designed a stage-show for Depeche Mode in 1993 and I did back projection for a couple of songs with silhouettes against bright colours, which strangely was exactly the same as Apple have used for their recent iPod adverts. I do love the design of Apple stuff though ... I lived in New York in 2003 and the Apple store (www.apple.com/retail/soho/week/20050327.html) there was incredible. I'm using the AirPort at home now, which is brilliant. Fran from Travis gave it to me. He's very into technology and set up iChat (www.apple.com/ichat) for me so we can stay in touch.Visit:www.corbijn.co.ukLinks: Anton Corbijn's favouritesBandswww.u2.comwww.depechemode.comAirlineswww.virgin-atlantic.comwww.klm.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Every year, Novell takes a group of journalists to the ski slopes of Utah to relax before its annual BrainShare conference at the Salt Palace in Salt Lake City. And, let's face it, when it comes to going downhill fast, who better than Novell to act as host?Novell almost invented the PC Lan single-handed, and at its height, its NetWare operating system held about 80% of the market. Then along came Microsoft's Windows NT and Novell began its downhill run. Market analysts at IDC tracked NetWare's decline from 35% market share in 1995, double that of Windows, to 19% in 1999, half that of Windows.Sales of NetWare have been falling steadily since, at about 17%, but in the first quarter of this year alone licence sales plunged by 14%.This rapid erosion was attributed by Jack Messman, Novell's chief executive officer, to the anticipation of the rollout of Novell's Open Enterprise Server (OES), the company's blending of NetWare with the SuSE Linux Enterprise Server, which appeared earlier this month.Throughout BrainShare, Messman was putting a brave face on the crisis facing the company. With the availability of OES, the company is offering a migration path for the faithful NetWare community, he said, and next summer's release of ZenWorks 7.0, a configuration and patch management system for Windows, Linux and NetWare platforms, will add to the appeal of enterprise-wide Linux.Novell bought SuSE 18 months ago and has since been migrating NetWare and other products across. Another BrainShare attendee, Graham Titterington, a principal analyst at Ovum, said: "It's a race against time. The big question is whether there is enough revenue-generating material in Novell's portfolio going forward. The company will have to do a lot of investment up front to get the business running."While the Salt Palace was awash with the hoorahs of the faithful, a Microsoft lorry was cruising up and down the main street outside with a Windows XP billboard on its back, slicing the chill air like a shark's fin. This, and the Windows posters littering the airport, may have confused long-haul visitors as to which conference they were attending.Microsoft is equally perplexed by Linux, and seems to find its business strategy difficult to grasp. The Windows empire is built on proprietary software with many legal locks and very few keys. Open source does not have any locks - or even doors, windows or walls. It is a world in which Novell, with its equally proprietary NetWare, is hoping to build a new market and revive its reputation.With the OES and ZenWorks foundations almost in place, Novell is concentrating on its value-add products. It has to span the range from small businesses to multinationals, and attendees were given glimpses of both the clustering in SuSE for the data centre and its package for small businesses. This Small Business System offers users the opportunity to run up to three servers on Linux with Windows clients, while experimenting with Linux on the desktop.Novell executives gave the impression that the Gnome and KDE open source desktop environments are not quite up to competing with Windows, but it is getting excited about the version of KDE that will accompany SuSE Linux 10 next year. This is based on Mono, another Novell takeover, which aims to provide a development environment that will run Java and Microsoft.net on Linux. The demos look fantastic but the timing of the launch may clash with Microsoft's release of Longhorn.Novell's other jewel is e-Directory, which started life a decade ago as Novell Directory Services (NDS). This was the first attempt to give everything on the network a label, be it a human resource, a hunk of hardware or a tiny piece of data: it's the ultimate software for anally retentive stocktakers. The only drawback was that directories became too large and unmanageable. This led to metadirectories such as Novell Nsure Identity Manager to coordinate data held in separate e-Directories or any other standards-compliant directory.Messman was keen to discuss this strategy in interviews. He describes the vision as Identity-Driven Computing. In this locked-down environment, nothing moves without a label granting it permission. The big argument is the size of the label.Ovum's Titterington commented: "We'll have to wait and see how big an overhead this works out to be. It took me a while to work out Novell's view of Identity-Driven Computing - as it will also, no doubt, take customers. Ultimately, it seems to be much like object-oriented programming, with a security layer grafted on to each object. My guess is that it will be applied at a fairly coarse level of data, such as a document, rather than at the level of, say, a paragraph."Titterington believes Novell should be safe investing in identity management, but questions whether this will be big enough to become a core business for the company.Novell is negotiating the gates in its downhill race against time without too much hindrance, but will it become king of the piste or end up on an apres-ski binge, moaning that it could have been a contender.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
It might have been some of the most inclement weather New York has seen in a while, but a little rain and snow didn't put off hundreds of journalists, celebrities and obsessive gamers who thronged the city last week for the launch of the Sony PlayStation Portable (PSP).Sony was apparently delighted with the launch - it is likely that the 1m PSPs lined up for the US will sell out almost instantly. While Sony's success in Japan and the US is great news for a company in need of a hit, it could mean bad tidings for UK gamers. The huge demand in the US may result in Sony delaying the UK launch of the PSP until the summer.Those who can't wait can buy a PSP from one of many sites willing to ship them to the UK. There is also brisk cross-Atlantic business in PSPs on auction site eBay. Potential buyers should, however, be warned that while games are playable on any PSP, the unique UMD movie discs are regionally encoded, so UK discs won't play on US devices.Quite how important the PSP is to Sony shouldn't be underestimated. "Shoot anyone &#91;who&#93; calls it a gaming device," says Sony's president of computer entertainment, Kaz Hirai, stressing its role as a personal entertainment platform. To this end, the PSP boasts MP3 audio and MPEG4 video playback, as well as Wi-Fi, which US hackers have harnessed to enable web surfing on the device.It does, however, have some distance to go before it offers an alternative to rival non-gaming devices. With its limited battery life, for example, it is hard to imagine viewing full-length films on a PSP.Also, unless Sony eats humble pie and kits it out with a hard disk, it will be a long time before the PSP rivals personal media players and personal audio players.This is, however, only one part of Sony's personal entertainment strategy for the year. Expected in the UK soon is the Sony Ericsson W800 Walkman phone and a range of personal video players. Sony is also unlikely to cede the personal audio market to Apple, so expect some pretty spectacular hardware from the company before the year is out.As for the PSP, this peerless games machine made a good start in the US, but it isn't the last word in personal entertainment systems.
When Google launched a test version of Gmail on April 1 last year, the thousand or so accounts that were granted and the handful of invitations to sign others up to the free email service felt like favours handed out by a benevolent deity.It's not hard to see why. Gmail had not just moved the free email market up a gear, Google had fired its rocket boosters and left the competition eating its dust.A year ago, two market leaders in free email, MSN and Yahoo!, gave their users 2MB and 4MB of storage space respectively: Gmail's free storage package was 250 to 500 times bigger at one gigabyte.With Gmail celebrating its first birthday tomorrow, Google is tight-lipped about growing speculation that it is about to open Gmail up to the masses with a public release.In the past 12 months, Gmail's competitors have joined the email arms race, both upping their storage to 250MB; Yahoo! revealed last week that as of next month its accounts will match Gmail's gigabyte.The Gmail launch was not without controversy, though. A clutch of privacy groups complained to Google that Gmail raised "significant and troubling questions" about how users' data will be used and stored. Such worries did not stop Gmail accounts becoming a cult item in early 2004, as invitations changed hands for $100 or more on auction site eBay.And those who embraced Gmail have found innovative ways of using it to organise their lives and communicate with others, setting up dozens of tools and sites to spread their wisdom around the net.  
Tomorrow, Guardian Unlimited's Newsblog will be marking the first anniversary of Gmail by collecting readers' top tips and hints. We also want to know what you think of Gmail: are you steering clear over privacy concerns, or have you become a Gmail evangelist? Let us know by emailingweblog@guardianunlimited.co.uk, and log on tohttp://blogs.guardian.co.uk/newstomorrow to read more on the rise and rise of Gmail.
Stewart Butterfield launched Flickr, the online photo-sharing system, somewhat quietly at last year's Emerging Technology (ETech) conference in San Diego, California. One year later, at the same show, Flickr is running on almost everybody's laptop, Butterfield has become a star and, we suspect, a multimillionaire. The word - confirmed the following week - is that Flickr is being taken over by Yahoo, but Butterfield can't talk about it, and has threatened anyone who asks with cartoon violence.It's fitting that the chief executive of a company called Ludicorp should use a joke to make a serious point.I became a Butterfield fan five years ago, when Online featured one of his earlier ventures: a competition to design web pages using only 5kB of code. This jokily made the serious point that too many web pages were bloated, and also gave designers the chance to show just how clever they could be.After that, he spent a couple of years working on the development of Game Neverending, a massively multiplayer online game, which sadly closed in November after Ludicorp decided it didn't have the resources to develop both that and Flickr.Still, while Flickr didn't fit the Ludicorp name, at least it fitted the corporate strategy, which says: "The goal is to kick ass." It is admirably direct for a former Wittgenstein fan who got a first in philosophy at Cambridge, and now lives in very laid back Vancouver, Canada.During ETech, we sat and chatted on one of the wooden benches outside the Westin Hotel, and I asked him why Flickr has been so successful. "I ask myself that all the time," he grins. "Part of it is being in the right place at the right time. There are a few larger trends that converged nicely for us: the spread of the network, Wi-Fi, GPRS, things like that. Another is that a good deal of people now have a capture device with them all the time - a digital camera, a cameraphone. The third one is that people are becoming more comfortable interacting with one another online. It no longer seems weird, which it did at one point. The time was ripe for something that would not just allow you to store images but to share them and capture the conversations that go on around them."Flickr is also much better now than when it was launched. The extra features include tagging, inspired by the Delicious link-sharing website, and notes. These have made it much easier to find, sort and group photos.Butterfield also argues that the API (applications programming interface) has been a factor, "particularly with this &#91;ETech&#93; audience". Ludicorp provided ways to blog photos, for example, but the API allows other people to write programs that add functionality. "There are dozens of those. Someone did a screensaver, someone did a wallpaper generator, and a new one is Flickr Postcard," he says. "There's one that takes photos tagged with different colours and arranges them into the shape of a rainbow. The sexy ones get linked around the web the way cool things do, but they all point back to Flickr. If we did a survey, I doubt that many people would say, 'I joined because of the API', but they did, indirectly."There is as yet no name for add-on apps, so I have coined Flickros, from Flickr and macros - but I don't expect it to catch on.Flickr's co-founder, Caterina Fake, former Salon art director and Butterfield's wife, joins us to add that Flickr has grown in the wake of the web becoming much more of a social medium, through things such as online dating, Friendster and similar sites. "Blogging has had a big impact, and people are a lot less frightened of being themselves online," she says.Fake points to Flickr's liberal policy on hotlinking, which allows people to post images on their blogs. It costs Flickr from 5% to 15% of its bandwidth to support offsite uses, Butterfield adds, "but almost all of them are great for us. The benefits are greater than the cost of bandwidth."What about the other kind of abuse common with photo sites: using them to host pornography?"We haven't had much of a problem with that," says Butterfield, "partly because we were very vigilant in the beginning." Some moblogging sites - on which people blog from their mobile phones - have become almost porn sites because they didn't stamp it out immediately. "What people see there, they will post there," adds Fake.Flickr is still in beta and has a long way to go to achieve world domination, so what's next? "We do need at least versions available in other languages, and billing systems that will allow people in most of the world to buy accounts. Right now we're using PayPal," says Butterfield. "We have quite a large proportion of the Japanese tech-geek community, and a lot of people in the United Arab Emirates taking pictures of their cars and Starbucks in Dubai. There's obviously a much bigger opportunity for us. One of the things we're waiting for is for the interface to stabilise, and I'm sure there are a lot of culture-specific alterations we'll have to make."Also on the way is the ability to print photos - usually a staple of photo sites. "There's a startup called Qoop which does print on demand, and last week, a stack of books turned up at our office, of my photos, Caterina's photos. Maybe you could get photos of your hometown, or midnight in Tokyo, or 11.15pm in Leicester Square," says Butterfield.After one year, Flickr has more than 3.5m photos, with an amazing 82% publicly available. It is turning into a huge global resource. We have barely started to exploit it.www.flickr.com
Those worried about PSP becoming a dumping ground for PS2 brands may well see a slither of hope in Coded Arms, Konami's forthcoming first-person shooter on which fresh details were released today. Based in an abandoned virtual environment originally constructed to teach humans how to see off an alien invasion, trouble flairs up when the system becomes self-aware and you, as a kick-ass hacker, are sent in to shut it down. Half-Life meets Tron, Terminator and Neuromancer, then.The press release pads things out a bit:"The game's virtual landscape is split into three distinct worlds and enjoys a lavish level of detail and lighting effects that show off the power of the Sony system perfectly, while eerie lighting and shadow effects add to the ever-present oppressive atmosphere. Similarly, Coded Arms' computer-devised aliens are equally impressive and range from enhanced soldiers, insect-themed species and robotic adversaries, each of which have certain vulnerabilities to specific weapons that the player can use to their advantage."Okay so this doesn't sound like a masterwork of original thought, but at least it's not a conversion. And Sony desperately needs more third party developers to follow Konami. If you read my review of PSP in last week's Online section you'll know I have been very impressed by the machine. It's been fun getting to grips with the technology, marveling at the screen quality and rediscovering my love for Ridge Racer. I was being open-minded and generous, I was thinking about PSP's potential and ambition.Of course, backing a Sony product is frowned upon nowadays. Nintendo is the gamer's champion. Sony is evil. This standpoint is, or at least should be, ridiculous to anyone with so much as a passing knowledge of videogame history. Not so long ago, although admittedly it seems like eons, Nintendo had a stranglehold on the industry, herding publishers into crushingly restrictive cartridge production deals. Backing one corporation over another is a fool's game anyway. This is about the likes of Lumines and Mario 64 DS not faceless mega companies who'd sell an army of grandmothers to please their shareholders.And yes, DS has some cracking games and it's a great piece of kit. Idiosyncratic, innovative, fun. You'd be daft not to experience it. It will never get the third-party support it deserves, but the four or five triple A titles Nintendo develops every year will probably justify the purchase. PSP is something entirely different, and it is screaming out for original content, or at the very least, content brilliantly re-engineered for its specific strengths. Take a look at the release schedule and that's not what you'll see. Oh lord, do we really have to get excited by the next round of last year's big PS2 sellers? Does anyone really have the energy, the soulless unquestioning acceptance, to go through all that time and time again?A new console is a blank slate, a newborn baby. The potential is there, but with poor guidance everything just falls apart. A vacuum of hype and mediocrity is waiting to swallow up all the possibilities. Somebody needs to do something incredible.
There are some things that money can't buy, says the ad, but for everything else there is a credit card. Sadly one thing money can buy is the execrable FIFA Street. The shocking "freestyle football" game is thenumber oneselling game in the UK. I blame the Easter holidays - how many disappointed kiddies will have had their gaming dreams shattered by this travesty? How many will buy/be bought fewer titles as a result? And while I'm ranting about the charts - the lack of Resident Evil 4 stock is embarrassing. Didn't Capcom realise that practically every Gamecube owner who hadn't imported would be dusting off their consoles in preparation?
There's no doubt about it:folksonomyis hot right now.In tomorrow's edition of Online, we've got an interview with Stewart Butterfield, the founder (or perhaps that should be foundr) of folksonomic photo-sharing siteFlickr. Yahoo just bought out his firm, and he's probably a very wealthy man as a result.Similarly, Joshua Schachter, the man behind folksonomic bookmark sitedel.icio.usrecently revealed that he'd taken onsome venture fundingso that he could work on the site full time.We ran abig story on folksonomiesin February andJack wrote about taggingin a column on ETech.Yep: there's no mistaking it. There's a real buzz going on around tagging, as a bottom-up way of organising data that lets users impose their own taxonomy on information and (hopefully) join the dots between items. In effect, this is all part of theSemantic Web, which aims to give order to the internet by using metadata to describes a document's contents.But here's a thing I'm interested in, which relates to folksonomies and tagging: I'm lazy. I'm really, really lazy.I want my life to be organised, but I never seem to have the get-up-and-go to do the organising. I want to do things, but I get waylaid by other thoughts or more pressing issues. I want to tag things, but there's never enough time.In this, I might not be like other early-adopting taggers - but I am probably like the far wider internet population. I want my data to be connected to other people's - but I want to do it without my intervention. I want it to recognise relationships without my promting.What do I do, then? Are there ways we can understand data without having to tag it?In fact, I know these technologies exist, even if they're not in the general market at the moment. I know there are systems which can determine what's in a document without you telling it. I know that we're close to being able to get systems to decide what's in a picture, or a video. Why are we close? Because if you believe in the wisdom of crowds to organise themselves, as folksonomists clearly do, then you also believe that there are implicit similarities between data. And all you need to harness that automatically is a way to recognise the similarities.So, when these things hit the market, will folksonomy simply be unneccesary? Or is the wider taxonomy - the one being done automatically - going to rely on the likes of Flickr and Delicious to provide a context on which it can intelligently base its recognitions?
A:Can you hear that?B:What?A:That.B:Yes, yes I can. What on earth is it?A:That, my friend is the sound of the Guardian's wheels creaking into motion. And why? Because they're working, creating - crafting, even - anRSS feedfor theGuardian Online...B:Lawks. But what exactly is anRSS feed?A:It's an easy way to keep track of lots of websites, using a little bit of software magic. You can find out morehereandhere, and there's a very simple explanationhere.B:And where, pray, is thisGuardian Online RSS feed?A:It'shere. TheGuardian Online RSS feedis here.B:By Jove, that's useful. I can stick into my newsreader alongside theOnlineblog feed, theGamesblog feedand Guardian Unlimited'sother fine RSS products. Huzzah!A:Huzzah!
Earlier this month, Maria was feeling desperate: alone at home with two young children and a husband who worked all hours, she was sleep-deprived and depressed. She submitted a posting about being at the end of her tether to an online parenting network. Within two days she received 27 email replies from mothers in her neighbourhood. They offered practical advice on good therapists and playgroups that would give her a break from the children, as well as many sympathetic reassurances of the "You are not alone" variety.This was Berkeley Parents Network, a US service I discovered when preparing for my family's move this summer from London to California. Since subscribing to the free network, I have received an overwhelming amount of information about this leafy suburb of San Francisco.While worrying about how I could avoid becoming either a "soccer mom" or a Desperate Housewife, I also needed practical information such as: which neighbourhoods were the most desirable and/or affordable, how to find a house for rent and schools to shortlist. I now know which paediatrician my two boys "must" sign up with and where to find a babysitting cooperative, as well as a multimedia summer camp (whatever that is).Angela, who recommended her paediatrician, has been a regular   correspondent. She has already done extensive - bordering on obsessive - research on schools for her offspring and, although my views do not always correspond with hers, her advice has been welcome.Berkeley Parents Network was started by Ginger Ogle in 1993 - before the worldwide web in its current form even existed. Ogle was a computer science graduate student at Berkeley with two school-age children. Originally a list of 14 student parents campaigning for improved parental leave, the database grew to encompass all parents on the campus, then, eventually, was made open to all parents in the community.Today, this non-profit-making, parent-run email forum has a subscriber base of more than 10,000, most of whom are parents or carers who look after young children and who live in Berkeley, with its population of around 100,000. BPN works entirely online, predominantly by email. Busy parents post questions about child-rearing, local resources and community events, look for childcare and sell household items. Newsletter digests with dozens of parents' questions and the responses they generate are emailed to subscribers eight-10 times a week.As Ogle puts it: "Our success is a combination of an early start, my technical background and an unending supply of smart and altruistic parents."What is surprising is that such   patently useful grassroots services have been relatively slow to take off, even in tech-savvy America. "I hear about other lists for parents but they are much smaller - at the level of a neighbourhood or a school," says Ogle. "There are for-profit efforts too that have mostly not worked out, although I continue to hear about these."So, does the UK offer anything as useful and well-run as Berkeley Parents Network? No - but there are encouraging signs.Netmums.com, for instance, bills itself as a "local network by mums for mums" and hosts local sites around the country that include forums such as Meet a Mum and Buy and Sell. Some are more trafficked than others. When I looked up my area in south-east London it had only one posting listed under Childcare, two items for sale in the Nearly New listing and a mere handful of email exchanges from mothers wanting to meet up. However, the Bristol section is very active. And the Harrow and Hillingdon section, where the site has its roots, has 5,000 members and its discussion boards are buzzing.BPN demonstrates how "nappy valley" neighbourhoods can exploit the web to help create dynamic and mutually supportive communities. Clearly these online tribes can go some way to replacing the extended families of past generations. When I move to the west coast and am looking for a soccer club for my football-mad nine-year-old, I'll know who to call.
It's high stakes time in the Hollywood vs Grokster case - the legal battle which could kill filesharing and, say observers, technological innovation everywhere. But if you were worried that the judges sitting on the hearing might not know enough about technology to realise the complexity of the case -New York Timessays that even the "least technically minded of the justices" is taking on the subject with vigour.Justice David H. Souter asked Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., the lawyer arguing for the Hollywood studios and the recording industry, to envision "a guy sitting in his garage inventing the iPod.""I know perfectly well that I can buy a CD and put it on my iPod," Justice Souter said. "But I also know if I can get music without buying it, I'm going to do so." Since that possibility was so obvious, he continued: "How do we give the developer the confidence to go ahead? On your theory, why isn't a foregone conclusion from the outset that the iPod inventor is going to lose his shirt?"That David Souter, the least technically minded of the justices, who still drafts his opinions by hand on a legal pad, could even invite a dialogue about iPods, much less suggest that he could be tempted to engage in illegal file sharing, was an indication of how this confrontation of powerful interests had engaged the court.So what does this mean? The NYT is hedging its bets - "But by the end of the lively argument, any prediction about what the court will actually decide appeared perilous". And nobody else is ready to plump for one side or the other. It's a case of wait-and-see.
If, like me, you're spending more time in World of Warcraft's Azeroth than is strictly advisable - anyone else see question marks above the heads of staff in their local? - then you'll appreciate the latestFlintlocke strip. For those yet to succumb to WoW's charms then check outthese definitions. Apparently WoW is, "a game that manages by some divine power to completely waste your life and lets you have fun while doing so". Philistines.
On a roll here...According toABC News Online, a Shanghai online gamer has killed a fellow player because the victim stole his virtual sword, sold it and kept the 462.57 resulting from the sale. Before taking matters into his own hands, the accused man had approached the police for support but was told that the property didn't exist, and therefore there was nothing the law could do about it.I do feel odd about posting this after the lastblog, but I feel it differs from the GTA issue on two counts: 1. The crime in real life had nothing to do with violence in the game. The victim "borrowed" the item from the accused and then went off and sold it. This isn't cool in real life either. 2. The item has real value in the real world.The legal quagmire!While China is a massive market for massively multiplayer online games, there are no laws protecting virtual property. There havebeenprecedentsin that and other regions to suggest that online items and avatars may be protected in the future, but thus far any convictions or rewards relating to the theft of virtual property have been as a result of crafty intellectual property and identity theft arguments.Some expect this to change. From the article:"The armour and swords in games should be deemed as private property as players have to spend money and time for them," said Wang Zongyu, an associate law professor at Beijing's Renmin University of China."As Western player investment begins toriseto unexpected and surprising levels, attention is cautiously being paid to what role virtual stuff plays in real life courtrooms. The first State of Play conferenceprogrammefeatures some of the papers presented on this topic.The tongues atTerra Novawill be wagging over this one. Can't wait to read the conversation.
SCi Entertainment, the computer game company vying for control of rival group Eidos, confirmed yesterday that it had received sufficient shareholder backing to block a competing takeover bid.SCi said just over 26% of Eidos investors backed its &#163;76m offer for the company that created Lara Croft, the heroine of the Tomb Raider series. Elevation, a US private equity firm backed by U2's frontman Bono, lodged a &#163;71m bid last week that was recommended by the Eidos board. The Elevation offer was made by way of a scheme of arrangement, which needs the support of 75% of Eidos shareholders to go through.SCi announced yesterday that Merrill Lynch Investment Managers and Gartmore Investment, which between them own 6.5% of Eidos, had given their backing to its bid.After those pledges, 26.3% of Eidos shareholders now support SCi, with 24.6% giving irrevocable support, even if a higher offer comes in. Schroders, the largest shareholder in Eidos, last week pledged 20% support for the SCi bid.Elevation was not available for comment yesterday but its offer allows the threshold of shareholder backing to drop to a simple majority, or 50.1% of investor support. SCi is confident that it will win more votes from shareholders this week.SCi made the announcement as its senior management, led by its chief executive, Jane Cavanagh, met an Eidos board committee to argue its case for a takeover. Ms Cavanagh was joined by the finance director, Rob Murphy, and Bill Ennis, sales and marketing director, at SCi's south London offices.SCi's all-share offer is against the instant get-out of Elevation's all-cash bid. It also sees &#163;14m in cost-savings, mostly through cutting corporate costs such as Eidos's Nasdaq listing. Eidos's chief executive, Mike McGarvey, who attended yesterday's meeting with SCi management, would lose his job under the SCi plans.SCi and Eidos declined to comment on the bids.
Well, ifit wasn't an issuein the last U.S. Presidential election (somehow being eclipsed by gay marriage), it looks like Hillary Clinton has started the politicising of video game violence in time to approach the 2008 festivities. The Democratic Senator hasspoken outagainst Grand Theft Auto in particular, focussing on the "prostitute problem" which has beleaguered video game proponents since the first player completedthatmission in the back ofthattaxi.As a great article onGGAexplains,"Is it me or do critics focus way too much on killing hookers in Grand Theft Auto? It's like when parents try to ban "Huckleberry Finn" because of certain colloquial. Critics are ignoring the context. I could be wrong, but I think it's the Supreme Court case of Miller v. California (1973) in which the court ruled that you must view the medium as a whole for its artistic, literary, or scientific merits rather than judging specifics scenes. I know that applies to obscenity and pornography, but work with me here. Lawyers want to ban games based on specific scenes of violence, not the game as a whole. Therefore, critics should be trying to criticize the game in its entirety, and not what amounts to a rather minor feature of the game.Full texthere.According toJoystiq, in response to the various outcries against its content Rockstar North are adding contraception to a players' inventory and will arm the digital ladies of the night with their own arsenal in the next iteration of the series. However, there's a significantly deeper issue here. If a traditionally "liberal" politician is decrying the interactive form of media entertainment, will this result in a suspension of any of the funds the National Science Foundation, the Department of Defence, the Department of Education and other U.S. Government bodies are willing to put into the development of games? Who's going to draw the line between a video game that is worthwhile and something that isn't?While many complain that the U.K. government is threatening to impose a nanny state, I'm sure glad to live in a country where the politicians arerealisticabout gaming entertainment, and appreciate that adult-rated games are for grown-ups. Well, most everyone. I won't mention that terrible event on Richard and Judy...You can read Clinton's full speechhere.
Do not call your child Firiona Vie Ayers. She will not thank you. She will go directly to the Deed Poll.Please. Don't do this to your child.ViaJoystiq.
It was not the sort of call that Devon and Cornwall police's control room expected to receive at 3.30am yesterday.A man from Australia was on the line saying he was witnessing a break-in on the seafront at Exmouth - more than 12,000 miles away.Andrew Pritchard was surfing the internet at his home and watching the webcams trained on the seafront.When he witnessed what he thought was a break-in at a kiosk he decided to phone the control room.Police officers were dispatched to the scene, but found it was a domestic inci dent between two people and no crime had been committed.Sergeant Alan Mobbs, a spokesman for the force, welcomed the phone call. He said: "He saw something that he thought was suspicious and it is behaviour we are encouraging people to ring us for."Exmouth has its own websitewww.exmouthcam.co.uk. It is a private company not run by the police or council. He was browsing the site and reported what he saw."Mr Pritchard said he logged on to the site because it gave live coverage instead of a series of still images updated every few seconds.Broadband technology had only been introduced to his rural home at Boorowa, New South Wales, last week and he was still experimenting with it when he spotted a car pull up near the beachfront kiosk and two people get out.He used the internet to find the number of local police and dialled the control room to report what he had seen.Mr Pritchard said: "It was dark and raining and I was just about to log off when I saw a car come along and pull over. Two guys got out and ran toward the kiosk and it looked as if they were trying out the shutters."It looked pretty much like a robbery to me, so I did a search on Exmouth police and came up with a phone number."
Here'sa really interesting entry on Watercoolergames.org comparing Mizuguchi's lovely PSP puzzler Lumines with clinical intelligence tests."As I was playing Lumines puzzle mode today, I realized that it is almost exactly like the WAIS block diagrams. The player has to reconstruct a pattern using a finite number of fixed shapes. But the game adds another dimension, the ability -- and sometimes the necessity -- to clear certain blocks in order to create the final pattern. Unlike other puzzle games like Tetris and Zuma and Cubis, Lumines patterns are removed when the player forms squares, and they're only removed when a cursor passes over the proper part of the field -- not automatically..."Read the whole thing - it's easily the most intriguing response to PSP I've seen so far.
Another quick mobile story. Samsung has redesigned its interesting V500 handset - the one with the swivelling display that can be viewed in both widescreen and portrait formats - to be slimmer and more powerful. The V600 (see what they did there) boasts a super fast MSM 6500 CPU for an 'enhanced gaming experience', and comes with two horizontal mode games and three vertical mode games.Korean manufacturers seem extremely keen to experiment when it comes to courting the entertainment-minded phone user. LG'sSV360is another offbeat example.
Legendary Id coder John Carmack has revealed that he is developing a mobile phone game. A recent entry on hisbloghailed the possibilities offered by the cellphone format and mentions his Java side-project, DoomRPG - enticingly described as, "sort of Bard's Tale meets Doom"."Step based smooth sliding/turning tile movement and combat works out well for the phone input buttons, and exploring a 3D world through the cell phone window is pretty neat. We talked to Jamdat about the business side of things, and hired Fountainhead Entertainment to turn my proof-of-concept demo and game plans into a full-featured game," he explains.Sounds like an intriguing concept - sort of Dungeon Master, but on your phone. You see,everyoneis jumping on the mobile gaming bandwagon. Soon it'll be Mizuguchi or Kojima or Spector. Next stop, credibility.
Just yesterday I was strolling along whistling along to "Once in a Lifetime" by Talking Heads (definitely in my top 10 tracks of all time) and this morning I discovered thatDavid Byrnehas launched hisown internet radio station:A friend who relocated to California from NY said she missed hearing all the odd variety of music that was played around the office here. "I miss hearing what you all are listening to," she wrote. This "radio" is my response. It will stream for a few hours and then it will recycle. Maybe it will run longer in the future. The artists played here are respectful of one another and gunplay is forbidden.There's an interview with La Byrne on the ever-superlativeBoing Boing, where he talks a little bit about how he feels about p2p downloaders ("I don't see much money from record sales anway, so I don't really care how people are getting it") but also what we can expect to hear on his station:Basically, whatever I'm listening to. I'll update it every couple of weeks. People sometimes ask me what I'm listening to, and I'll reel off a list of records. About halfway through the list, their eyes usually glaze over, and it's apparent they've never heard of the artists. So I thought -- well, let's make this easy. If people have any curiosity, let's make that stuff available, let people see for themselves what they think.
Our Great Leader (that's prime minister Tony Blair for our international readers) is set to continue his electoral push to improve technology resources in the UK. The FT takes on the storyhere:Following the announcement by Gordon Brown, chancellor, in this month's Budget that he would be making more money available for school information technology investments, Mr Blair will detail how every secondary school will be able to offer all children access to computers at home by September 2006. The strategy will also reform existing tax breaks to encourage businesses to make it easier for lower-paid employees to use computers in their homes.The digital plans build on the prime minister's 1995 promise - two years before Labour swept to power - to link every school, college, hospital and library to the "information superhighway". Mr Blair is likely to say that since that pledge, the use of information technology has been transformed. Every school is now connected to the internet and every school will have broadband by 2006.There are different opinions on quite what "the digital divide" means, and how much use it is to hand out technology everywhere. Andnot everyone's surewhether computers are that useful in education.But a technologically literate population is surely a long-term benefit to the country.
Sony has been foundguiltyof infringingImmersion Corp'spatents for their Dual Shock systems and may have to pay $90.7 million smackers to the digital touch technology company after losing the initial battle and a subsequent appeal.Sales of Dual Shock controllers are under threat of suspension pending the outcome of the next appeal. Canny consumers can still get hold of the hardware in question until the final result is in, as the Judge presiding over the case has stayed the judgement pending further decisions. Some assume guilt in advance; according toEngadget, a Sony spokesperson has spread word that the organisation intends to license Immersion's products in the future.Microsoft have already gone through the legal hurdles with the San Jose-based company. They settled with the company in 2002 by handing over $23 million for rumble licenses and a 10% share in the organsation. Nintendo has also settled out of court with Immersion and currently licenses their patent for "haptic" products.
Analogue television will be banished from a corner of Wales tonight as the government passes a milestone in its quest to install digital TV in every British home.The villages of Ferryside and Llansteffan in Carmarthenshire are the unlikely vanguard in the campaign to switch off the analogue TV signal and replace it with digital by 2012. The analogue transmission to 460 homes will be switched off tonight, leaving Berlin, in Germany, and the two Welsh villages as the only areas in Europe with digital-only TV signals.Lessons learned from the trial will be factored into government preparations to convert the rest of the UK. Officials from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, and the Department of Trade and Industry, joint co-ordinators of the project, said the trial has been a success so far."People have been more open to change than perhaps we have given them credit for in rural areas," said Stella Thomas, one of the project team members.A survey of the 1,200-strong population of Ferryside and Llansteffan has found that 98% of respondents want to switch to digital permanently. A provisional timetable for the UK-wide switchover to digital has earmarked ITV's Border region, which covers south-west Scotland and Cumbria, as the first to lose its analogue signal in 2008.Laurence Harrison, director of consumer electronics at Intellect, a trade body for electronics manufacturers that has participated in the trial, said converting the 11m analogue homes in the UK remained a daunting prospect. Thousands of villages and cities will not receive the kind of hands-on support as they have in Ferryside and Llansteffan."We have got three years until we start to switch over. It's about how much work we can do ... so that the amount of support does not have to be at that level," Mr Harrison said.
Two more institutional shareholders in Eidos have given their backing to SCi Entertainment's &#163;76m takeover bid for the computer games company behind the Tomb Raider series.Their support is enough to allow the SCi management, led by chief executive Jane Cavanagh, to meet the Eidos board today with growing confidence of blocking a rival bid for the company.Eidos has already recommended a &#163;71m bid by US venture capitalists Elevation Partners. But the US group, which includes U2 frontman Bono, has structured its offer as a scheme of arrangement, which means SCi can block Elevation if it can garner the support of 25% of the Eidos shareholder base.Schroders, the largest shareholder in Eidos, has given irrevocable support to the SCi offer, representing 20% of Eidos's shares. The new shareholders will bring SCi close to breaching the 25% threshold required to shut out the Elevation bid, which requires 75% support from shareholders.Elevation declined to comment yesterday but its offer can be restructured so that the backing of a majority of Eidos shareholders will be enough to let the deal go through. Its bid is all-cash, while SCi's is all-share, giving shareholders in Eidos a choice between a quick get-out or deciding that the SCi route offers the best way to get value out of a business that has lurched from one profit warning to another.The meeting between SCi and Eidos executives will take place at SCi's offices in Battersea, London, this afternoon. Ms Cavanagh is expected to be accompanied by finance director Rob Murphy and sales and marketing director Bill Ennis.Eidos representatives are expected to include chief executive Mike McGarvey and a number of non-executive directors, who will decide   whether to alter the board's recommendation of the Elevation offer and back the SCi bid. John van Kuffeler, non-executive chairman of Eidos, is on holiday but will join the meeting via a telephone link.The Eidos board members are expected to question SCi's ability to manage the acquisition of a company that has five times as many staff: Eidos employs about 700 people against the bidder's 139. SCi has earmarked savings of &#163;14m from the deal, of which about 90% will be generated by cutting corporate costs such as an expensive Nasdaq listing. Mr McGarvey and his executive team are expected to be removed from the payroll.Further integration issues surround the companies' differing business models. SCi outsources the development of most of its games, which include the Great Escape and the Italian Job, while Eidos employs about 400 developers directly. Critics of the Eidos business model, including SCi, have argued that in-house production has led to deadlines being missed, which has in turn led to revenue shortfalls and a sequence of profit warnings.SCi is expected to point to the success of its own in-house development company, Pivotal Games, as the template for running Eidos's production line. Pivotal operates like an outsource partner, with its staff offered bonuses to meet production deadlines.SCi said last week that it would raise &#163;60m to help Eidos invest more in games development and put its designers under less pressure to rush out titles.While SCi has a larger market value than Eidos - its shares are worth &#163;98m in total against &#163;86m for Eidos - it generates significantly lower revenues. SCi turnover last year was &#163;31m, compared with &#163;134m for Eidos. However, SCi made a pre-tax profit of &#163;4.5m last year against a pre-tax loss of &#163;2m at its rival.
A young internet entrepreneur from London is launching a legal battle against Apple Computer to try to overturn a ruling on the ownership of a website address.Benjamin Cohen, 22, is applying to the high court for a judicial review of his dispute with Apple over the address itunes.co.uk. Mr Cohen registered the name in November 2000. He says he bought it after failing to register tunes.co.uk, which he wanted to use to redirect internet users to his site, CyberBritain.Mr Cohen says Apple's lawyers, Chicago-based Baker &amp; McKenzie, contacted him on November 5 and demanded he surrender the itunes.co.uk name. Letters were exchanged and at one point, he says, they offered him $5,000 (&#163;2,680) for the address. Negotiations collapsed when he insisted it was worth at least &#163;50,000."That's quite a miserly amount really," said Mr Cohen, who now uses the itunes.co.uk address to forward visitors to his online shopping venture, QuickQuid.com."As soon as we said that &#91;we wanted &#163;50,000&#93;, that was it," Mr Cohen said. "Their lawyers broke off communication."The dispute was referred last year to Nominet, the registry for UK internet names.This month Nominet declared the disputed name should be handed over to Apple. But Mr Cohen is determined to fight on. A former millionaire, he set up the community website SoJewish.com when he was 15, but was forced to scale back his operations after the dotcom crash.He said he was asking the high court for a judicial review because "we feel that the procedure that Nominet utilise to settle disputes is unfair and biased towards big business at the expense of legitimate small British companies". Mr Cohen said he would apply to the high court today or tomorrow."It's a matter of principle now. I paid for it &#91;the domain name&#93; and if Apple had contacted me nicely without lawyers we would have sold it to them."Nominet and Apple Computer could not be contacted yesterday.
Two technology companies join London's secondary Aim market next month: a Canadian firm that specialises in digital security systems and an Oldham-based producer of environmental control systems for the drugs industry.Visual Defence, which has its headquarters in Canada but also has offices in Israel, is looking to raise &#163;20m in a flotation expected to value the business at about &#163;72m.The company is yet another spin-out from Emblaze, the London-listed technology firm that has already produced media technology company Adamind, which floated on Aim last month, and internet TV group Orca Interactive, which joined Aim in October.Emblaze owns just under   half of Visual Defence and will not be selling any of its stake in the flotation, which is expected to make a multi-millionaire of the company's chief executive, Oved Tal.Visual Defence produces audio-visual security systems that can be hooked up either to existing phone lines or run over wireless networks. Its technology allows customers to monitor offices, factories or public spaces using a variety of instruments including cameras, microphones, infra-red sensors and swipe-card doorways.The company is raising cash through a placing organised by KBC Peel Hunt to fund its continued expansion.Market research specialists Datamonitor estimates that the global security market is worth $42bn (&#163;22.5bn) with the audio-visual component of   security spending set to increase by more than 50% a year to $7.4bn by 2007.Existing customers of Visual Defence include Toronto and Zurich airports as well as the US national guard and Esso.Meanwhile, Oldham-based Vindon Healthcare is due to come to Aim next month to raise &#163;300,000 in a flotation organised by WH Ireland set to value the business at &#163;7.8m.The company, which started life in 1967 as a maker of laboratory ovens, designs and manufactures environmental control products. It produces everything from blood banks and fridges to rooms where temperature, light and humidity can all be controlled in order to provide the perfect environment for the development of drugs. Last year the firm made a pre-tax profit of &#163;758,000 .
TheEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival(formerly known as the EIGF) has launched its website, complete with a list of the 2005conference sessionsfor industry and other interested parties. Inspiring contention, this year's lineup includes "Mobile Games Aren't Going Anywhere" (Keith - rebuttal??), "Interactive Narrative - Have We Lost the Plot?" and "I Need A Hero," a call to arms for the broader entertainment industry to come up with a character to topple the throne-hogging Lara Croft. Some of the top international names in gaming have jumped at the chance to come over for the August event, although I'd be kicked off the steering committee if I said too much. Keep an eye on the website for details.Meanwhile, at the consumer end of the spectrum there is a plethora of events taking place, including the exceedingly successfulGo Play Gamesexhibition, which offers Joe and Jane punter the opportunity to play with new releases, games in progress and technology of the future. Furthermore, after last year's immense success, theGame Screeningsare back. They're a bit like the Director's Commentary on a DVD. Last year we welcomed Ian Livingstone to the stage to talk about the genesis of both the Tomb Raider and the Hitman series, and Maxis General Manager Neil Young to chat through The Sims 2. Beyond the luminaries who're presenting a screening this year, I'm also putting together a session on Machinima.A call for machinima submissions will be posted shortly.
Sony's been fine a whopping $90m and ordered to stop PlayStation sales in the US after apparently infringing a patent. Here'sCNN's take (from Reuters):Sony's game unit said on Monday it was ordered by a U.S. court to pay about $90 million in damages and to halt game machine sales in the United States in a patent infringement case against Immersion Corp.Sony Computer Entertainment said it disagreed with the decision by a federal district court in California and would appeal to a higher court.SCE said it will continue U.S. sales as the suspension order, which covers PlayStation and PlayStation 2 consoles, two game controllers and 47 software titles, will not go into effect before the appeal and because Sony will be paying compulsory licence fees to Immersion, an SCE spokeswoman said.The argument revolves around the technology used to make PS controllers vibrate - which Immersion say it invented, and Sony is using without permission.The decision this weekend was confirmation of a jury ruling made last year.
Jeff Bezos has always taken the long view so, in 2001, when the analysts were panicking and traditional retailers were crowing about the dive in the Amazon share price from a high of $110 to $11 (&#163;57 to &#163;6), he was the first to point out that not only had the value of the shares increased tenfold since 1997 but the real growth was yet to come.The fundamental optimism that underpinned his enthusiasm was his insight that successful e-commerce is basically about trading real estate for technology. More often than not, real estate gets more expensive every year, while technology gets cheaper.When Amazon began trading in July 1995, Bezos gambled that while traditional retailers would need to continually invest millions in rent, rates and infrastructure to support a network of stores, he could create equivalent scale by pouring those millions into software, logistics and customer service.When he made this pitch, it was a very big bet. But, 10 years on, his business supports nearly 50 million active online shoppers from only six North American and three international warehouses and sales have grown from $148m in 1997 to a projected $8bn in 2005.By selling online, Amazon not only has infinite shelf-space, but needs to carry significantly less inventory than other retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Tesco, to offer limitless choice. So while Amazon was building a business which mirrored Wal-Mart's operational scale and Tesco's customer focus, it did so at a much lower cost. But perhaps the most valuable asset that Amazon has created is its relationship with its 50 million shoppers - more than four times the number that Tesco has. This knowledge is not limited to purchase information but includes hundreds of millions of customer ratings and reviews, which form the basis of its powerful recommendations to buy.The average Amazon shopper spends $148 per year, but this has grown every year - not just by introducing new categories as Tesco has done, but by serving as a platform for others. Amazon is helping retailers with significant investments in bricks and mortar to leverage their infrastructure by operating back-end services for brands such as Waterstones, Toys R Us and Target, plus individuals and small traders who want to sell goods through its marketplace. Each step in this direction shifts Amazon's emphasis from the Wal-Mart style of "everything under my roof" to the eBay style of helping customers to discover what want to buy.With its newly minted Yellow Pages service, Amazon has extended this model. The service is still in test mode, but, like recent moves by Google, AOL and Yahoo! into the local advertising markets, its impact will not just be felt by media owners who are already under attack from eBay and others in the classified advertising market. Now that the internet giants are starting to play the Yellow Pages game, the likes of Yell need to start worrying.Amazon's service offers enhanced business listings, including the now standard maps and contact details on offer elsewhere. It also has a cool feature which lets you place a call to a local business simply by clicking a button on the screen and entering your phone number - you are then automatically connected. But Amazon is most proud of the way it has brought traditional Yellow Pages to life by showing street views of millions of local businesses in 10 big US cities. In classic Bezos style, Amazon has created a system that combines digital cameras and GPS location systems, and equipped vehicles to capture images of buildings and geotag them with location information. Apparently, it has only taken a few months to capture over 20m images, while it took photographers years to assemble the images used by France Telecom's Pages Jaunes.The strangest thing about all of this is that as Amazon and the internet giants continue to grow, they profit most as they develop services which leverage their scale and customer bases to enhance the economic viability of sole traders and small business owners. Google has shown, with its AdWords model, the power and profitability of helping small businesses to afford advertising to a global audience and eBay has created a marketplace that supports over $34bn of transactions - can Amazon now revive the high street by sending it some of its 50 million shoppers?&#183;Saul Klein is the co-founder and CEO of Videoisland.com. His weblog can be reached viawww.saul.klein.name
The online betting exchange Betfair is understood to have appointed investment bankers to consider a potential stock market flotation that could land its two founders with windfalls of up to &#163;100m.The business, which unlike a traditional bookmaker does not take bets but matches up punters looking to gamble, was founded by Andrew Black and Edward Wray, former City workers.After five years, the pair are thought to be considering ways to release their investment and are reported to have   hired the investment bank NM Rothschild to advise them.Speculation about a flotation has been swirling since Sir Bob Horton, the former BP boss, was appointed chairman last May. The appointment of the Yahoo! executive Fru Hazlitt as a non-executive director has sparked the latest round of talk.The company would not comment yesterday but the rumours are surfacing as a number of online gambling firms, such as VIP Management Services, Event Data Correlation and PartyGaming, are considering ways to come to the market. Mr Black and Mr   Wray own about 15% each of Betfair, which does not have a large venture capitalist backer.Betting exchanges such as Betfair allow gamblers to bet on losers as well as winners. This has led to criticism that it could facilitate betting scams.Conscious of this, Betfair has tried to improve its image by working with sporting bodies and arguing that, unlike traditional bookies such as Ladbrokes, William Hill, Coral, Stanley Racing and the Tote, it holds information on all of its customers. It also ran an advertising campaign a year ago to argue that it was fighting to eradicate corruption in racing.
It is difficult to know exactly what's happening on the ground in Zimbabwe in advance of Thursday's elections because of repressive tactics employed by the government. A new blogSokwaneleis bravely trying to fill the gap with postings from some of the hot spots  so far mainly Harrare and Bulawayo. It is not all bad news.
If Morgan, iconic maker of brain-rattling sports cars for the chubby-and-clubby classes, was to have a motto it would be: 'If it ain't broke, don't fix it' - in Latin, of course. In 1936, the first Morgan rolled out on to the streets of Malvern and, well, that's still the one they make today.That's not strictly true, but in 70 years of continuous production, Morgan has worked hard to resist the urge to modernise, finding ingenious ways to incorporate new technology into its original shapes. The multi-louvered bonnet, running boards, leather straps and frog-eyed headlamps are the epitome of the classic British sports car. But behind the antique facade, the cars now feature ABS, side-impact bars, and some even have radios. And, as if to prove that these are vehicles which straddle the decades, the wings of the legendary Morgan emblem look just like Beckham's ghastly new shirt-collar tattoo.There are four models: 4/4, 4/4+, Roadster and the cross-eyed Aero 8. Prices start at &#163;22,278 and head up to &#163;58,500. All the cars are made in the family-owned and run factory in Malvern, which employs 150 craftsmen. Last year, it turned out 560 cars - the most ever. Each takes 230 hours to build, and the infamous waiting list is now down to a 'manageable' 12 months.The cars are ash-framed. This means they start out as a crate of drilled and shaped lumps of wood. Glue, hammers, screws... If assembling a flat-pack Ikea DVD rack fills you with horror, then this is the stuff of nightmares.'Ash is used because it's so flexible,' explains Morgan's director Matthew Parkin. 'It does incredibly well in crash tests. The floor is a square of marine ply,' he adds. 'It lasts for ages and costs &#163;15 to replace.'It reminds me of the pram-wheel karts I used to dream of building as a Beano-mad boy. Sitting on blocks among the shavings is the frame of a 1947 car which is being restored. It is indistinguishable from the 2005 frames being built alongside it. 'Nobody ever scraps a Morgan,' says Matthew, as we watch a man bend a bonnet panel using nothing more advanced than a mangle.From here, though, the trad story changes. A hi-tech aluminium chassis is bolted on and a brutish V6 Ford engine strapped on. Body parts are air-poured aluminium; suspension is a unique, rubber-free system...Finally, time for a blast. The Roadster's exhaust rumbles, pedal-springs squeak, Perspex windows rattle... The huge, vented engine stretches into the distance, its bonnet strap straining like Charles Clarke's belt to contain any embarrassing displays of internal combustion. The seat transmits every rut straight into your backside (maybe the rubber-free suspension isn't such a good idea). It's Toad of Toad Hall, the scourge of the open road. I've never felt so exhilarated - or terrified. It's not so much driving as horizontal bungee jumping.As Morgan gears up for the 21st century, it's showing no sign of losing any momentum. The marque already sells 60 per cent of its cars in Europe, and America is now firmly on the horizon. So, out with the new - and in with the old.Braking newsTo celebrate the 70th anniversary of the driving test, Privilege Insurance confirmed what most of us already feared. They asked 1,500 motorists questions from the Highway Code - and only 15 got them all right...
"Amazon.com Inc has one potentially big advantage over its rival online retailers: It knows things about you that you may not know yourself," reportsAP. But what starts as just another Amazon article gets more interesting lower down:More recently, the Seattle-based virtual retailer has launched a Web search engine, calledA9, that can remember everything you've ever searched for  and the site reserves the right to share that information with its retailing arm.Amazon also funds a Web site called43 Things. It seeks to link people with similar goals, such as getting out of debt.
"The SLEEPTRACKER watch is unique in that while it tells you the time and has a built-in alarm like every other digital watch, this one actually monitors your sleep and wakes you at the moment that your body would best adjust from moving from a sleeping state to being awake," reportsGear Live.
It could be time to throw away the expensive skin treatments for something altogether more enjoyable - playing video games could help you look younger.Gamers have long been seen as couch potatoes, but some experts believe the exaggerated facial expressions made during a gaming session may help reduce the signs of ageing."The face has muscles which need to be exercised, just like any other part of your body," said Lynne Robinson, a pilates expert who has worked with the likes of Liz Hurley and Hugh Grant."Anything which exercises your face - working the muscles you don't normally use - has to be a good thing. It loosens everything up, and really just keeps your face looking good and natural."Grinning, grimacing and gurning are all part and parcel of the gaming experience, as players run through a variety of expressions while concentrating on their television screens - or commiserating with friends after giving them a virtual thrashing."If you watch people play video games, they do pull some really silly faces," said Ms Robinson. "With good suncare, sensible skincare and facial exercises players may keep looking young and stay away from the Botox."Computer gaming is already being advocated for use in schools to help interest wayward pupils, and a recent study suggested that hospitalised children encouraged to play computer games experienced less discomfort when having painful dressings changed.
