Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The always interesting Watercoolergames.org hasposteda little story aboutBoot the Bigot, a whack-a-mole-type Flash game created by the Human Rights Campaign. The target of this simple satircal exercise is Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, who, according to Watercooler, 'has recently been derided for his public statements against homosexuality and sexual privacy'. Although to be fair, hedoeshave an excellent name - perhaps more befitting of a professional wrestler or hard-nosed private eye. Later in the post, Ian Bogost complains,"It's too bad that legislators and policy organizations continue to believe that games have so little potential to represent actual political processes."That's as true in the UK as it is in the States - as far as I can remember (that's my way of saying 'the following statement could well be riddled with inaccuracies') the last example of a political party attempting to engage the British electorate 'through computers' was aLiberal Party mobile applicationthat let you re-assign the government's five billion Iraq War spend in other areas such as health and education. Elsewhere, you may haveread about, the interestingCyber-Budgetgame commissioned by French budget minister, Jean-François Copé, to teach his countrymen a difficult lesson about balancing the books.More commonly, games are used as a means of political or anti-corporate protest - Watercoolergames.org'shuge list of political gamesis jammed with hit-and-miss examples.With the Labour party currently unable to engage with the public via traditional media, you'd think they'd be jumping at the chance to find new channels ofindoctrinationdiscourse. In all honesty, how can we be expected to understand the troubles John Reid is going through until they are presented to us in the form of 'Sim Home Office'?
Activision has revealed some 'concept art' and new gameplay 'details' from its Tony Hawk's Project 8 title. Due out on PS3 this Autumn, the skating sim promises, "ultra-realistic graphics, enhanced physics and extremely responsive controls" - publishers of next-gen games arereallygoing to have to find new and interesting ways of saying this stuff.Anyway, once you wade through the generic hype slime you get to some chat about '3D body scans of pro athletes' and 'motion captured skateboard tricks'. After that, actual information about some of the game's new modes and features:- Filmer and Photo Goals - On the way to #1 pro-skater status, players must trick through photo shoot locations, or follow a filmer with a video camera and complete his instructions while keeping up with him.- "Picture-in-a-Picture" - Player can watch gameplay unfold on the main screen while observing the action on film in a superimposed video box.- "Movable Ramps and Rails throughout the city" - Place ramps and rails to set up amazing lines and/or gain access to secret spots.- "Impress the Locals" - For the first time ever, players must impress in-game citizens and pedestrians to build up respect. The pedestrians watch players perform tricks, laugh at brutal bails and punch players in the gut for knocking into them.Hmm, so it's pretty much Tony Hawk's Pro Skating business as usual - i.e. free-roaming vert fun with sub-quest extras - but now souped-up with better graphics and physics. There's mention of a 'ragdoll bail mode' which allows you to minimise or maximise damage from failed tricks - that could be fun. The ability to place ramps sounds interesting, too, but the whole 'respect' thing is getting tired - I thought last year's wretched posse of gangsta shooters/racers killedthatwhole concept off.It's early days yet, but there's no mention of support for the PS3 controller's tilt mechanism or online gaming.
For those who like to commemorate the pagan festivals with big demonstrations of pyrotechnics, but live in a city where that sort of thing isn't generally allowed, this summer solstice you have the option to passively watch embers fly on Druid TV or take part in a midsummer fire festival in the enormously popular online game World of Warcraft.From the release:A time of ancient magic and tradition, the Midsummer Fire Festival is a time of joyous celebration which begins on the longest day of the year. Gathered around the great fires built at this special time of the year, revelers pass on tales of the elemental spirits and once forgotten magic. A celebration of flame, it is rumoured that adventurers who are willing to brave the hardships and dangers of distant lands may learn to harness the power of the flames...Tolkien-talk aside, the fire-festival flames will be lit across Azeroth (WoW's world) from today until 5th July. AsGreg mentioned yesterday, you can dance around maypoles, partake in special fire festival quests and an end-of-festival fireworks display.Here's to keeping those ancient traditions alive.We've covered other seasonal activities in virtual worldshere.
Six of the world's leading mobile phone companies have clubbed together to avoid a repeat of the &pound;100bn bill that dogged the introduction of 3G services as they prepare to launch the next generation of fast wireless broadband.The emergence of this powerful group - which will lobby governments, regulators and the rest of the industry to make sure that 4G, as it is being nicknamed, is not as expensive to introduce as its predecessor - comes as the mobile phone industry looks to broadband internet access as a new way to make money.Yesterday O2, owned by Telefonica, spent &pound;50m buying up the residential internet service provider Be Broadband. The deal will enable O2 to start offering converged mobile and fixed-line services. Vodafone is deciding how it will be able to offer similar services.But many within the industry believe that buying up a fixed-line network is only a stop-gap measure and the future is mobile broadband. "We have had no customers say they are interested in convergence," said Jim Hyde, head of T-Mobile's UK business. "The convergence strategy seems to be a defensive strategy. The major mobile phone companies are scared that the fixed-line operators are coming after their business."Yesterday BT showed how anxious it is to muscle in on this new converged world with a Total package offering interactive TV, videophoning and other integrated home media services. Its service pulls together video on demand, voice-over-internet phone calls and wireless broadband. But it will not compete with rivals on price, keeping prices at current levels.T-Mobile yesterday announced it will be launching an upgrade to its existing equipment that will make its 3G network four times faster. From the start of next month it will sell data cards for laptops that can use a technology called HSDPA, with handsets that can access the new network coming later in the year.In an attempt to beat T-Mobile to market, Vodafone yesterday announced it would launch a similar service in five UK cities from tomorrow. The T-Mobile service will cost &pound;17 a month for up to one gigabyte of web surfing and the Vodafone version is pitched at &pound;25 for a quarter of the capacity.But these offerings are just the tip of the iceberg. The industry is working on the specifications for 4G, a super-fast mobile broadband technology that T-Mobile's chief technology officer Hamid Akhavan said yesterday will see wireless broadband reach "parity" with its fixed-line counterpart in terms of speed by the end of the decade. With speeds of 20MB a second there is no need to have a fixed-line broadband connection.But the industry is concerned that the next wave of wireless broadband could be scuppered by governments looking to make billions from licensing spectrum and technology companies looking to tie up intellectual property rights. Vodafone, T-Mobile, Orange, KPN, DoCoMo and China Mobile held an invitation-only meeting in Frankfurt two months ago that led to the creation of the Next Generation Mobile Network (NGMN) Forum.The NGMN Forum, which is to be incorporated in London, will lobby regulators to allow operators to use their existing spectrum to run the super-fast wireless broadband. This will necessitate a renegotiation of the GSM licences awarded - for free - back in the early 1990s as well as the 3G licences that in the UK cost &pound;22.5bn in spring 2000. All told the investment in buying 3G licences and putting up masts is estimated at over &pound;100bn.The 3G tariffHow much the mobile companies paid for 3G licences in the UKVodafone:&pound;5.96bnHutchison Whampoa/Telesystem International Wireless (now 3):&pound;4.4bnOrange:&pound;4.09bnBT:&pound;4.03bnOne2One (now T-Mobile):&pound;4bn
ModelRenault Megane Sport Hatch 2.0 165 TurboPriceFrom &pound;13,250Topspeed 137mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.3 secsConsumption36.7mpg (combined)CO2184 g/km (road tax band E)At the wheelGabby LoganOn the stereoThe FeelingEn route forRio de JaneiroThey'd rather walkTerry VenablesYou will want, I'm sure, to be brought straight up to speed with the paint colour changes affecting the incoming range of Renault Megane models, so let me waste no time in bringing you that information.Beginning with the lighter shades, there is bad news for gunmetal, which has been replaced by hologram grey. On a more positive note, though, Nordic green is now available on the coupe-cabriolet models, but hessian, I'm afraid, is no more. It's been axed in favour of quartz. From now on, if you want a hessian Megane you'll have to cover it with a sack. Meanwhile Ottoman blue is out, its place taken by extreme blue - which is like blue, only extreme.The fact is, of course, the Megane hatchback would probably manage to look an attractive proposition even in goose waste brown or herniated purple (both as yet unavailable). I'd go so far as to say a Megane hatch could travel down the road in a matt coating of mashed banana and still draw a covetous glance or two.The Megane was the car with which Renault pretty much singlehandedly woke up a snoozing hatchback sector. While all the dynamic designers and blue-sky thinkers had gravitated towards the SUV department, or were squeezing their brains to come up with ever more malleable family wagons with internal bike racks and fold-out summer houses, the ancient art of hatchback-building had suffered a precipitous decline, leaving only a joyless amalgam of inseparable lump-alikes and blob-u-wants, each one categorisable according to how much it did or didn't resemble a VW Golf.Renault shook things up by producing a hatchback in which the better part of the design budget had clearly gone into resculpting the rear end, producing an unusually curvaceous back window, wrapped tight around a self-consciously plump and pert boot lid.I don't know whether Renault was cannily ahead of the wave here, or whether it merely lucked out. But in an age much given to low-slung jeans, pan-generational adoption of the "builder's crease" look, and long and surprisingly academic debates about the relative merits of rears belonging to Kylie and Beyonc&eacute;, a car whose prime and unashamed asset was allegedly its "shakeable ass" did indeed look inspired.Renault, in short, gave us the boot as booty, and a grateful and amused Europe responded by buying Meganes in millions. The idea of the car as a penis substitute is familiar to the point of cliche. But the French company was surely among the very first to explore the possibility of the car as a bottom substitute.Accordingly, in the latest incarnation of the Megane hatch, you may note one or two stylish tightenings at the front end: a bigger Renault badge on the nose, and some new light clusters, giving the car a slightly more narrow-eyed, piercing stare. But the all-important signature bum-shape remains pretty much untouched because - well, why mess with a winning arse?What's new is the addition of rear-parking sensors, meaning you can "shake that ass" into a parking space without denting it against some lardy Citro&euml;n or other. You also get hands-free entry, with Renault's innovative Renaultcard system, and a special chunky handbrake lever, making life sweet for anyone who wants to believe that they are, in fact, piloting a jumbo jet.The major adjustments are all inside, where Renault has worked hard to introduce a slightly greater feeling of comfort and desirability by building the interior out of slightly pricier plastic and by lending the dials on the dash a cool white glow. And what do you know? It works, or at least it represents a step forward from the old and cold Renault interiors. In the past, it was possible to own a Renault and still feel it was rented. The new Megane is altogether more personable.I tried the three-door Megane Sport Hatch, or mild thrill-seeker's Megane, with a highly unnecessary turbo-charged two-litre engine. This is not quite the equivalent of fixing a rocket to a cardboard box, but it does guarantee that your Megane will fly about the place like a slot car in pursuit of a slot. Oh, and it was silver, by the way - or possibly liquid arrowhead. I forgot to check.True exhaust-heads and cornering freaks should probably queue for the limited-edition Megane Renaultsport 225, designed in tribute to the Renault formula one team, which is currently creaming the opposition - a car so hot-headed it has black alloys. The Renaultsport comes in extreme blue only. Would your bum look big in this Megane, or any other? Obviously not.
"The Seattle-based company Tuesday previewed a set of new software tools that aims to give developers a simpler way to design robots and to create and test programs that operate a wide range of machines -- from toys to floor sweepers to those used in factory production lines.'We believe this is a key part of the future of computing,' said Microsoft Robotics Group general manager Tandy Trower, who called robots the next evolution of the personal computer," reportsReuters.The beta of Microsoft Robotics Studio is now available as a free download from Microsoft Robotics athttp://msdn.microsoft.com/robotics. There's alsoan interview with the teamon Channel 9, and ateam blogThepress releaseadds:Microsoft's support for advanced robotics was also in evidence at RoboBusiness when Carnegie Mellon University announced plans for a Center for Robotics Innovation. Established with funding and support from the Microsoft Robotics Group, the center will operate a Web site,http://www.cir.ri.cmu.edu, for hobbyists, academics and commercial companies to share robotics ideas, technology and software. The new center will open by late 2006.
We've always enjoyedWippitentrepreneur Paul Myers's approach to the business of music sales online: not taking himself too seriously (though he's serious about money), and realising that ju-jitsu is better than bombast.And so we received Wippit's latest email with a grin:It's not easy selling music online. Profit margins are slither-thin [he may have meant sliver]and those of us who are in it for the music are often sidelined in favour of companies who use music downloads to added a little sparkle to otherwise mundane products, not excluding soft drinks.In November 2005 MyCokeMusic was in fourth place in the UK market just behind Wippit according to xtn Data. Two years ago, before the launch of the Apple music store it was in the number one spot. And now sadly, has passed over to the other side.We mourn MyCokeMusic. It was yet another site that made us look good. Hampered by high pricing and DRM'd WMA files that famously timed out inexplicably, MyCoke's initial success caused our sales to jump as we acquired customers of theirs that jumped ship once they realised their files were not going to play on their MP3 players and after the initial free download with a can of coke they were asked to pay much more per track than we charge. We were happy to sit in their slipstream and pick up their deserters.Yup, mycokemusic will close its doors finally on July 31, though there will be no new sales from now. And what happens to the tracks that people bought or downloaded from it - you know, the DRM'd WMAs? They ought to work. And to think that mycokemusic wasonce the biggest download service in Europe. Before iTunes arrived, you know.Coming as it does after therecent demise of Tiscali's Jukebox service, which only lasted from April 2006 (offering peer-to-peer streaming of songs), mycokemusic's closure shows that the iTunes stranglehold is beginning, slowly, slowly, but ever so irresistibly, to weed out those which can survive and those which can't. Rather as Apple is doing to digital content player makers - though it's been a couple of months since any of those abandoned ship. (Perhaps they're waiting to see whetherCreative's lawsuit aiming to stop iPod imports to the USwill stick before throwing in their towels.)
Let's be honest. Unless THQ were planning a wrestling MMO calledWorld of Sportthenewsthat they are not considering a massively multiplayer game can only be good. Kids games and WWE may make money but they won't appeal to MMO players - although Destroy All Humans online might work. When asked in an investors meeting why the company were not in the MMO market CEO Brian Farrell said the timing wasn't right."Right now that product is World of Warcraft, so the idea would be to time something for when that product is going to be on its downward slope. To come out with something competitive now I think would be misguided for anyone, including THQ."More WoW news today with the announcement of the Midsummer Fire Festival in the game. Much like the Valentines and Christmas events it will give players a chance to try something different, in this case dancing around ribbon poles and watching fireworks. Yes,Maypole dancingfinally enters the world of videogames.
The latestUK chartsare in and confirm what we already knew. Namely that the beautiful game is the only show in town. The charts make happy reading for any publisher who has released a footy game in the last six months. Most of them seem to be in this week's Top Ten, with Champ and Football Manager making topical re-entries. The tedious FIFA is the biggest seller but Eidos will be pleased that Hitman and Tomb Raider are still doing the business even if sales across the board are suffering a summer lull. And then there is Sensible Soccer. I'vereviewedit and loved it - especially multiplayer - but there has been somecontroversyabout the game. Yes, the keepers can be erratic while the omission of Scotland/Wales and Eire is bizarre. And yes, the reverting tactics are an annoyance. But the game survives these issues by retaining enough of Sensi's pick up and play philosophy - and satisfying ball thuds - to make for highly enjoyable play. Sensi creator Jon Hare makes aresponse here- and I'll chase him for an interview - but if you've played it let me know your thoughts below. Oh, and here are the charts.1. FIFA World Cup Germany 2006 (1)2. Hitman: Blood Money (2)3. Tomb Raider: Legend (3)4. Sensible Soccer 2006 (5)5. Moto GP 06 (4)6. Animal Crossing: Wild World (7)7. Championship Manager 2006 (RE)8. Football Manager 2006 (RE)9. Half Life 2: Episode One (6)10. Nintendogs: Dalmatian &amp; Friends (NE)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Caveat: this is a purely speculative post.Phew, with that done, I'd like to propose that digital distribution is the next massive innovation to hit the computer games industry and, if the leaders of the businessthink it's going to take off in the next few years, we should be in for quite an exciting ride.A couple of weeks ago, Sony's Ken Kutaragiannouncedthat (some of) the online services on their next generation PS3 console will be free. In the same breath, he also suggested that consumers will be perfectly happy with purchasing their products via secure online portals - with no need for pesky packaging - within the next one to two years.I'veproposedin the pastthat this may herald a new and valuable outlet for independent game developers. What stands in their way, however, are the tools to create compatible software for each system.The announcement that the price of PS2 development toolshave been slashed by 1/3, making the resources used to create the current generation console's products more accessible to non-studio developers, has therefore become - suddenly - rather more exciting.Primarily, it's great news for the potential library of products available on Sony's PS3: if the console is, in fact, backwards compatible, creations made using the PS2 kits can be distributed via the next generation's "online" services. This potentially means more innovation, and therefore more elements to add to the rapidly-expandingGame Innovation Database!We're still yet to hear from Nintendo and Microsoft on their plans for independent game support (though there's beenspeculation), but conceivably each of the big three hardware manufacturers could provide the portals through which new and exciting products are released. Certainly Microsoft's Xbox360 -with its accessible programming language and its existing backwards compatibility - could support independent products if it similarly dropped the price of first-generation dev tools?Am I just being idealistic here?
Esquire.com has entered into the familiar 'state-of-videogame-journalism' fray withan articleasking why there is no Lester Bangs or Pauline Kael of videogame writing. A familar pack of pundits (is there a correct collective term for pundits?) is assembled to try and explain. Steven Johnson, author of Everything Bad is Good For You, tries to pin the blame on a lack of narrative cohesion in game design - i.e. there are no stories or characters so deeper criticism is impossible.No, that's not it.I prefer the response from Henry Jenkins, professor of comparative media at MIT and the author of 'From Barbie to Mortal Kombat: Gender and Computer Games' - a landmark work in videogame academia (which, incidentally, quoted one of my Edge features then mis-credited it to Next Gen magazine. The chump). He says:"Aesthetic criticism exists in this industry, but only as arguments among gaming scholars and game creators. And the gaming industry suffers because of that. There is a very conservative element to gaming because absolutely everything is built around consumerism. Game designers are asking themselves questions about how a game should look and what it should do, but not about what the game is supposed to mean."Well, this is interesting, but not really correct either. Pauline Kael was just as sharp and provocative writing about formulaic Hollywood trash as she was discussing the works of Fellini. But what he says about games lackingmeaningis accurate. You could perhaps force a range of nihilistic philosophies onto the GTA series, but you can be certain such considerations never came up in the game design briefing. Even indie games lack meaning. Mutant Storm is great, but it's not a daring, low-budget exploration of the faultlines in contemporary society.In place of meaning, games have easter eggs. In place of themes, hidden extras. It is the actualisation of depth.There is no sub-text. Just sub-bosses.
iDon't iDonkey -- published in today's GuardianYou may well have seen SanDisk'siDont.comsite, which pokes fun at sheep-like iPod users and the Apple's Orwellian iTatorship. (It was onEngadgetabout a month ago.) Today, the campaign got roughly half a page in our Media Guardian section (Something to soothe my brand neurosis), which I mention for one of Naresh Ramchandani comments:It's a knocking campaign and the way it knocks is nicely finessed. Like all websites, iDon't.com is a piece of editorial and the Advertising Standards Authority -- quick to clamp down on commercial claims that denigrate rival brands -- does not regulate editorial content (The iDont.com website is not, in itself, an advertisement.)And as he points out, the site doesn't actually plug the SanDisk product, just links to independent reviews atCNetandAnything But iPod.Since Media Guardian is standard reading in UK media circles, I wonder how many campaigns that could prompt....
While most retailers are still merely offering prospective PS3 puchasers the chance to sign up for a newsletter and/or email alerts, Play.com hasjumped right inand is 'selling' the machine for £549.99, complete with three launch titles - Formula One, Singstar and Warhawk.Of course, there are a few provisos. The site stresses that, "due to an expected European shortage of the PS3, we are unable to guarantee delivery of your PS3 before Christmas." Oh and don't get too attached to those specific games either: "game titles in this package may be changed, subject to availability," offers the online store, backing slowly away from its own deal.Better get used to these wallet-busting bundles, though. Most stores will want to make the most out of their limited hardware allocations by squeezing as much of an investment out of desperate early adopters as possible. What? You didn't want two unofficial GameKraze Super Force joypads, a copy of Pro Champion Soccer and a PS3 car sticker with your console? Oh shut up and give us the £650!
Like most Southampton fans I've got painful memories ofAgustin "Tin Man" Delgado, the Ecuadorian striker who is scoring at the World Cup but could only manage 15 appearances in three injury plagued seasons with Saints. A scrappy goal in a 3-2 home win against Arsenal - happy days - was the highlight. But what caught my eyeherewas the revelation from sadly missed manager Gordon Strachan that Champ Manager played a key role in his decision to buy Delgado."Whenever I was thinking of buying a player for Southampton I'd check out his stats on Championship Manager to see if he was any good. It usually worked ...until I bought Agustin Delgado."Is he joking? Probably, but it does make you wonder how many real managers use the game to help them. And if they do, have they moved on toFootball Manager?
O2 says it's the first UK operator to launch Windows Live Mail. From O2's press release:Keith Dewar, Head of Products at O2: "Consumers' appetite for communication via mobile email has been steadily growing and so we are very pleased to be the first operator to bring Windows Live Mail to our customers. Indeed, our own i-mail service, which is available on i-mode, has clearly shown that if it is as easy to use as text, consumers will embrace mobile to internet communications and vice versa. This is the first of a range of mobile email services we are planning to offer, which willgive consumers access to their existing email"(my emphasis added)Comment:Windows Live Mailwill (probably, eventually) replace HotMail -- but Microsoft does let you keep the same HotMail address.There's also a (beta) desktop version of Windows Live Mail that will read your Gmail and Yahoo mail too....
Now that Google has established the word "beta" to mean "more or less finished but we won't guarantee reliability or be responsible for the bugs," the stage is set for others to launch alpha code to a wider audience, not just the developer's colleagues and friends.Blogris an example.In this case, Blogr says it's usingTwoday, the "the open-source, feature-rich, industry-proven blog-hosting software," andHelma.Amazingly,Blogr's own blogcontains no posts at all.... However,Sreejithhas put up a sample athttp://iwonder.blogr.com/with pages for photos and videos.
DX Gaming has tested a bunch of games console to seehow much power they consumewhen plugged in and when playing particular games. No surprise that the Xbox 360 is an energy hog, but there's plenty to ponder in the details....
TheGoogle Blogoscopedblog has produced a list of search words that return results with some sites censored, from abreast to zebra. Here. for example, are the words beginning with H:hair, halt, halves, hamper, handout, happen, harm, harmonica, hatred, have, health, heartfelt, hearth, heated, heavenly, heir, help, heroic, herself, hesitation, highlight, himself, hinder, hollow, homage, honours, hopeful, horrific, hound, humorous, hundred, hunt, hurdle, hurryHow the Chinese state's interests are advanced by making Google censor harmonica-related sites escapes me....This just coveres the top 10 hits. As the site says: "Also note that Google censors sites, not words; if the list would be expanded to show not the top 10 but e.g. the top 100 sites for a particular search, the list of self-censored results would be even longer."
found atEngadget. Don't miss the second pic.
How cool isthis?As reported last week by Keith, the folks at USAopoly have released a Nintendo version of the capitalism-gone-mad boardgame Monopoly, a combination of two perennial favourites in planet Krotoski.Head to theofficial sitefor photos galore. It will be available from July 2006. From their description:The Nintendo Collector's edition comes complete with 6 collectible pewter tokens featuring Mario's Cap, Link's Iron Boots, Donkey Kong's Barrel, Hylian Shield, Koopa Shell and NES Controller. Rules include a 60 minute speed play option for a shorter game with the same amount of fun. Now you can buy, sell and trade your favorite Nintendo characters for a whole new game-playing experience. From everyone's favorite red-capped plumber to barrel-tossing Donkey Kong to bounty hunter Samus Aran, they're all up for grabs in this exciting fun-filled adventure. Are you game?If Nintendo's not your cup of board-tea, here are a few alternatives based upon digital brethren which may whet your appetite for dice:Doom: The BoardgameIn Doom: The Boardgame, demonic invaders have broken through from another dimension into the Union Aerospace Corporation's Mars base. Marines have been deployed to the base to protect UAC personnel and destroy the invaders. Up to three players will take the roles of heavily armed and highly trained marines, while one player will control the legion of demonic invaders. In the game, the marine players explore the claustrophobic rooms and corridors of the Mars base, attacking monsters, picking up new weapons and equipment, and working together to complete specific mission objectives.Milton Bradley's Pac ManI had this one. It's an elaborate set-up with marbles, giant plastic Pac-people and tubular ghosts.ViaGGDB:Pac-Man's goal is simple: devour all of the pellets in each maze while avoiding the enemy ghosts: Pinky, Blinky, Inky and Clyde.That's all there was.CivilizationThe Civilization board depicts areas around the Mediterranean Sea. The board is divided into many regions. Each player starts with a single population token, representing 7,000 people, and grows and expands his empire over the course of turns. Each player, of course, tries to build the greatest civilization.The Wikipedia entry also indicates that it typically takes up to 8 hours to play.Warcraft and Warcraft 2: The Board Game...this title is actually a somewhat a set of rules and units with a modular set of boards that reflects the computer version's varied terrain and maps.StarcraftIt features a large central game board depicting the Starcraft galaxy, as well as nine separate smaller boards that each represent a specific planet in the Starcraft universe. Players will control the familiar Terran, Protoss, or Zerg space and ground units in a bid for domination of these nine worlds. The combat system is fast and diceless, featuring an innovative mechanic that utilizes transparent plastic game cards. The game will feature dozens of beautifully sculpted plastic figures, dozens of cards, lots of high-quality cardboard tokens and markers, a large game board and several mini-boards, and all of the other great components that pack our epic-size games.Age of MythologyUnlike a computer conversion of a board game, Age of Mythology - The Boardgame does not seek to replicate the same experience in a different medium. It takes broad concepts from the computer game: resource gathering, city (or base) development, and the building and deployment of an army containing both mortal and mythological creatures. Even the concept of "god powers" is reflected in the game, as are different ages: Archaic, Classical, Heroic and Mythic. And the pressure of an RTS is abstracted into the design: just as a player cannot be everywhere and do everything all of the time in the computer game, there are limits to what can be accomplished in a game turn. The flow of the game also naturally moves along at a snappy (but thankfully, not frantically so) pace.More on computer games that have witnessed the offline treatment can be found at/..
Mary Jo Foley's Microsoft Watch site is usually interesting and well informed but we all drop the occasional clunker, andBill Gates' Legacy: Microsoft's Top 10 Flopsmust be one of her worst ever. Probably few people will argue about Bob being at No 1, but she's far too negative about "Tablet PC/Pen Computing/eBooks", all bundled together at No 3, and I really don't think Microsoft Money deserves to be No 5.However, she doesn't even mention some of the most obvious flops such as Mira portable displays (an almost completely pointless innovation) and WebTV, which is presumably bundled in with Microsoft TV at No 7.There have also been loads of less obvious products that came and went, such asCreative Writer. That wasn't really a bad program, but it didn't seem to sell, whereas Microsoft Money does.Another child oriented effort that bit the dust: theActimatestoy range, which started with Barney.Then there was a whole string of Microsoft CD-ROM programs, such asOz Clark's Wine Guide.Going back even further, there was Microsoft's globalMSXhome computer system. MSX was very successful in some countries, but it flopped in the USA.But I think the two biggest flops were actually COW and MAW.COW -- my name for it -- was a "character oriented Windows", and I'm told it appeared in the Tandy VIS (Video Information System) multimedia player, though I never actually saw one. What was officially calledModular Windowsseemed to be a text-based version of Windows 3.1. Imagine that ;-)MAW was Microsoft At Work. Scroll downAmy Wohl's excellent summaryfrom June 1993 and you will find that:Microsoft At Work is a software architecture which will allow providers of fax machines, copiers, printers, handheld devices (from PDA's to personal communicators to high-end pagers), telephone systems, network services, semiconductor chipsets, PC peripherals (like fax and fax/modem cards), and third party software to be able to easily access information and interconnect across communications environments. Microsoft At Work both enhances the usability of the products themselves, through better graphical user interfaces, and also provides connectability to Windows-based computers, printers, and other peripherals.Got Windows MAW on your fax machine? Thought not.I'm sure I've missed a few things, so feel free to add them to comments.Somebody with enough chutzpah and talent to run a site called Microsoft Watch -- a professional Ziff Davis site that charges subscribers, not some random blog -- really ought to know this stuff. Or research it before publishing something authoritatively called Microsoft's Top 10 Flops.
If you'd runthis searchysterday then you would have seen a spam site getting 5.5 billion results in Google. Today, it was down to only 2.1 billion, when I tried it. Click a few results, however, and you'll see it's pure spam.Google is riddled with this sort of rubbish, at least for some searches, andMonetizegives some idea how it's done (though things have changed several times since it was written).Check out this site: search of eiqz2q.org -- depending which datacentre you hit, you will see between 3.8 and 5.5 BILLION RESULTS. Even worse... the domain is EIGHTEEN DAYS OLD. That's right, in under 3 weeks, one person has managed to get one domain 5 billion pages indexed in Google. And they are ranking, too. That particular domain has an Alexa ranking of under 7,000. Another domain owned by the same person, t1ps2see.com, has between 1.7 and 2.4 billion indexed pages and an Alexa ranking of under 2,000... after 4 weeks. Coincidentally, the sites also have 3 blocks of Adsense ads on each page. I wonder how much that one person is earning per day with billions and billions of pages indexed and ranking?They are not real pages, of course: this is spam generated on the fly. But they certainly look like clickable results.For the record, it's now three years since I complained to Google's Craig Silverstein about this sort of junk result, and got a more-or-less blank look. And the problem is getting worse, as anyone who ventures beyond the first three hits must have noticed.Why is it too hard for a company with a zillion PhDs to notice? Don't Google employees use their own search engine?
It had to happen sometime. Even so, it comes as a shock to realise that Bill Gates will be stepping down from the company he co-founded with Paul Allen in 1975 and has dominated ever since. But we will notice the difference less than we would have done if he'd quit 10 years ago, because Microsoft has changed. So has the world around it - with the result that the company is now less important in the computing universe than it once was.First, the good news. He's leaving, Gates says, to concentrate of his charitable trust, which is the most effective foundation of its kind and which has to date been run with considerable panache by his (now elderly) father. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation does terrific work, on important global problems, with very little fuss. Starting from the core proposition that 'every human life has equal value', it focuses on improving health, reducing extreme poverty and increasing access to technology. This is serious and admirable stuff and the thought that Gates's drive, intelligence and determination will henceforth be focused on doing good rather than on screwing the competition is an attractive one.If Gates had stood down 10 years ago, the impact on Microsoft would have been traumatic, for two reasons: it was a smaller and more intimate organisation then, with fewer employees; and Gates's role in it was more dominant. For an astonishingly long time, Microsoft remained a corporate extension of its co-founder's personality - which meant that it was hyper-competitive, ruthless and totally indifferent to industry, government or public opinion.This was the corporate attitude that destroyed web-browser firm Netscape and a host of smaller companies, pressured computer manufacturers to exclude rival software from their machines and violated US anti-trust law. But it was unsustainable - even though Gates was publicly unrepentant after the anti-trust prosecution. His own dominance in the organisation was also becoming dysfunctional because he was in the loop for everything.So in the late Nineties a more grown-up management structure evolved. In 2000 Gates handed over the CEO role to Steve Ballmer - the friend and business-school dropout he had summoned to handle the management side of the fledgling company - and gave himself the role of chief software architect. Jim Allchin, a long-time Microsoft hardliner, was given responsibility for the Windows/Office range of products and Craig Mundie was promoted to run the non-Windows consumer side of the business.Until recently, this was the team that ran the company. The next big change was the recruitment of Ray Ozzie in 2005. Ozzie is a much-admired techie who worked on the first electronic spreadsheet, VisiCalc, then joined Lotus in 1983 to develop the impressive but poor-selling Lotus Symphony, an integrated program that combined word processing, spreadsheet, graphics, data management and communications capabilities. Ozzie then created Lotus Notes, which was very successful, and in 1997 founded Groove Networks, where he developed a system for supporting collaborative online working. In April last year, Microsoft bought Groove - for reasons that puzzled many in the industry.It transpired that it was Ozzie they were after. He was immediately named Microsoft's chief technical officer, and has now been designated Gates's successor as chief software architect. It has also been revealed that Ozzie will be joined at the top by Ballmer (who remains CEO), and Mundie, who is to become 'chief research and strategy officer' - which means he will be responsible for Microsoft's intellectual property and technology policy efforts.Microsoft's future now depends on how this team responds to the seismic changes taking place in the computing environment. The event that prompted Gates to drop out of Harvard and found the company with Paul Allen was the arrival of the first personal computer. Gates correctly predicted the PC would become a mainstream technology and wanted Microsoft to be at the heart of the revolution - hence his mantra of 'a computer on every desk and every one running Microsoft software'. So, from the outset, Microsoft was built and focused on the proposition that the PC was all that mattered.And indeed, for a long time, it was. That's why Microsoft initially missed the net in the early Nineties - Gates and Co simply failed to appreciate what was happening. In a way, his greatest achievement may have been turning the entire company round, in less than a year, to incorporate internet access into all its main products. It was like watching an Abrams tank turn on a sixpence.Despite that, the development of the internet has continued to outpace Microsoft's ability to cope with it. In recent years, the gap has accelerated with the spread of broadband and the rise of web services like Google. Almost imperceptibly, we have moved into an era where, as the saying goes, 'the network is the computer'. And Microsoft doesn't dominate the network - so its control of the PC may be a wasting asset.A standard way of illustrating this is to ask a group of business people how many of them use the open-source operating system Linux. In general, nobody will answer 'yes'. Then ask how many use Google, and all hands go up. 'Congratulations', you say, 'you're all users of Linux - that's what Google runs on'. It's a cheap joke, but it makes a profound point: users don't care what the system is: they just care about the service. That's the world that is now emerging, and it doesn't bode well for Microsoft.Worse still, the company can no longer turn on a sixpence. Although small by global standards (Microsoft only has 63,000 employees worldwide), it's showing all the signs of corporate middle age: slower reflexes, more layers of managerial treacle, lack of focus. The story of its attempt to bring Vista, the next version of Windows, to market is one of a company buckling under the strain of an unmanageably large problem. Vista is years behind schedule, and when it does eventually ship early next year, will be only a shadow of what was once envisaged.Seasoned observers like Dan Bricklin (the co-inventor of the spreadsheet) see tensions ahead between Ozzie (who understands the significance of web services and appreciates the importance of open source software) and Mundie (who has hitherto taken a more blinkered, combative stance on intellectual property, open source and other key issues).And of course there is still the great unresolved question, the elephant in the room at Thursday's press conference. Who will replace Ballmer when he decides that the time has come to spend more time with his money? Stay tuned: the Microsoft saga ain't over yet.Philanthropy is the all-consuming passionWith an endowment of over $25bn, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is the largest charitable foundation in the US. Established in 1994 under the direction of Gates's father, William H Gates Sr, it has so far spent more than $10bn.Gates's philanthropic mission is so vast it will take all his time to organise. So far, some funds have gone to social programmes in the US but more than half has gone to developing-world issues such as tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/Aids.The foundation is known for imposing tough performance targets. The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation is one of several Gates-backed initiatives that will continue to receive funding only if it can document that it is inoculating increasing numbers of poor African children against yellow fever, hepatitis B and other preventable diseases. Gates employs a team of auditors to ensure targets are met. The foundation's major ambition is to fund the development of an HIV vaccine. But the International Aids Vaccine Initiative only gives money to vaccine makers if they agree to make the vaccine affordable in poor countries.Gates says he prefers to focus on vaccination rather than treatment, in part because the economics of disease prevention are similar to those of software development. Like computer programs, vaccines require huge upfront investment but, once developed, are fairly easy and cheap to produce and distribute. Critics charge that the foundation isn't tough enough on drug companies and that some poor nations lose out because they are simply not organised enough to meet the organisation's strict guidelines.Gates's biggest grant to any one country is for Aids prevention in India. Some $200m has been earmarked for a drive that includes a chain of truck-stop clinics where prostitutes and their clients are encouraged to practice safe sex. With nearly 3 million prostitutes and 6 million long-distance truckers, India is considered to be on the cusp of an epidemic to rival that of Africa.Gates's decision to spend his time on running his foundation is broadly welcomed. Vartan Gregorian, president of philanthropic organisation the Carnegie Corporation, says Gates has always understood, in an old-fashioned way, that with wealth comes social responsibility. 'There are people who deal with symptoms; somebody is poor, you give money. That's charity,' he says. 'Philanthropy is to solve problems through investment and planning, not just through generosity.'Class of '781. Bob O'RearA mathematician and astrophysicist who was present in Mission Control when Neil Armstrong walked on the moon, O'Rear was Microsoft's chief mathematician. He left in 1993 to become a cattle rancher in Texas. He is estimated to be worth a nine-figure sum.2. Steve Wood and (10) Marla WoodThe husband and wife were the first of the 11 founders in the picture to leave the company when, in 1980, Marla led a sex-discrimination lawsuit (subsequently settled) against Microsoft. Steve went on to run cellphone data services firm Wireless Services Corp until 2004.3. Bob WallaceA counter-cultural free spirit for whom it is believed Microsoft became too corporate. Wallace combined his interest in computers with research into psychedelic drugs and the reduction of their harmful after-effects on users. He left in 1983 to form his own software firm, Quicksoft, and died in 2002 aged 53.4. Jim LaneAs a developer writing software for Intel microprocessors, Lane became a central figure in forging the Windows-on-Intel ('Wintel') tie-up that now dominates the personal computer market. He left in 1985, having reportedly run out of enthusiasm, and set up his own software firm.5. Bob GreenbergBeing a Microsoft pioneer is only one of Greenberg's claims to fame; his family were the force behind the Cabbage Patch Kids soft-toy phenomenon of the 1980s. Greenberg worked for Microsoft from 1977 to 1981, on the Basic programming language, and went on to create software for golf courses.6. Marc McDonaldThe firm's first employee after it was incorporated, McDonald was another who left (in 1984) because of his dislike of growing 'corporatisation'. The company he worked for, Design Intelligence, was subsequently acquired by Microsoft in late 1990s.7. Gordon LetwinHis long career at Microsoft ended in 1993, making him the last of the employees in the photograph to leave, apart from Gates. Letwin resigned to 'kick back with his wife' and became a philanthropist, taking an interest in environmental issues.8. Bill GatesSoon to resign from the chairmanship of Microsoft to focus on other interests, he is the richest man in the world.9. Andrea LewisShe was Microsoft's first 'technical writer' - the person who produces the manuals and documentation that accompany software products. She left the firm in 1983 to write fiction and pursue a career in journalism. She lives in Seattle.11. Paul AllenMicrosoft's co-founder, Allen was diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease in 1983 and stepped down while he successfully fought the disease. He remained a member of the board until 2000. Now the sixth-richest man in the world, according to Forbes, he has wide-ranging philanthropic, investment and sporting interests.
What links George W Bush, Christina Aguilera, Adolf Hitler, sex - and, from last Friday, Tony Blair?The answer is that the online encyclopedia, Wikipedia, has deemed that they are part of a growing number of subjects in need of protection from cyber vandals.The giant internet database, which boasts an 'anyone can edit' policy, decided that the 11-page entry on the Prime Minister needed to be shielded after a wave of online assaults from contributors wishing to embellish his biography - many in highly imaginary, not to mention damaging, ways.Wikipedia aims to offer free knowledge to everybody on the planet. But its strength - that anyone, anywhere, can fiddle with the prose - is, according to some sceptics, becoming a weakness.Along with massive expansion - it is now the web's third most popular news and information source and contains almost 4 million entries - there have been increased opportunities for vandalism and growing disputes over what should be said, forcing those behind the project to protect more and more subjects.Alison Wheeler, an editor and chief executive of Wikimedia UK, a division of the Wikipedia holding company, said the restriction was a necessary tool for quality control. 'We've had an increase in the level of vandalism on [Blair's] entry. It's mostly quite offensive stuff, such as someone adding in as fact that Tony Blair is a liar. Others are simply stupid - mildly amusing, perhaps - such as that Tony Blair spilt popcorn down his pyjamas last night.' Wheeler said more people seemed to be vandalising Blair's entry since a restriction was recently placed on George Bush's site.Earlier this year Wikipedia was the subject of media interest after a retired US journalist discovered insinuations in his Wikipedia biography that he had been involved in the assassinations of John and Robert Kennedy.Jimmy Wales, Wikipedia's founder, dismissed the suggestion that the tighter controls undermined its democratic principles. 'Protection as a policy has existed for years,' he said yesterday. 'Semi-protection was devised as a softer, more open approach. Rather than full protection, which means no one can edit, we now increasingly use semi-protection.' To add to or edit information on semi-protected sites, users must be registered for at least four days.The 'cooling-off' period, explains Alison Wheeler, would make all but the most determined vandals retreat. Once the assaults have died down, she said the semi-protected page would be reset to 'anyone can edit'.Topics in need of care and protectionSelected Wikipedia articles have been placed by site administrators under restrictions to protect them from vandalism or editing wars. Most articles are only temporarily protected.Protected articlesCannot be edited:&#183;2004 United States voting controversies, Ohio&#183;Cuba&#183;Islamophobia&#183;Elitism&#183;Kosovo&#183;George W Bush&#183;Christina Aguilera&#183;Human rights in the People's Republic of China&#183;Military budget of the People's Republic of China&#183;Messianic Judaism&#183;Islam and anti-SemitismSemi-protected articlesUsers can edit only if they have been registered with the site for at least four days:&#183;Tony Blair&#183;Michael Jackson&#183;God&#183;Emo&#183;Shakespeare&#183;John Wayne&#183;Ku Klux Klan&#183;Christianity&#183;11 September, 2001&#183;Anarchism&#183;Sex&#183;Food&#183;Comfort women&#183;Mahatma Gandhi&#183;PlayStation 3&#183;Boston, Massachusetts
Richard Evans woke up one day and found he was turning into his dad. 'All the music that was thrown at me didn't sound as good anymore,' he recalls. 'I returned to the music I remembered as the best.'Evans, at 38 a member of the so-called Generation X, set up a website dedicated to the music he danced to as a youth in the Eighties. It was only a hobby. But he told his friends about it, and the word spread. It soon became apparent that Evans had tapped into a huge public appetite for nostalgia on the web.His site, remembertheeighties.com, specialises in following the careers of Eighties stars ranging 'from Bucks Fizz to Megadeath' who are still performing today, giving fans the chance to catch their latest concert or album. It now claims to be the world's most popular 'Eighties news resource' with more than one million hits per month, and distributes a newsletter to 18,000 people every week.The much chronicled revival of the decade's fashions and culture is reflected in a survey by remembertheeighties.com which asked 5,000 members what summed it up for them. The list of 40 was headed by the Rubik's Cube, the fiendish puzzle which challenged its owner to twist and turn blocks until the colours matched (or cheat by peeling off the stickers). Second came the once-fashionable legwarmers, and third was the arcade game Pac-Man - the pill-chomping sprite who was a world away from the technological wonders of the internet.Remembertheeighties.com is part of a boom in websites with a nostalgic glow. The members of Generation X, now in their thirties, have inverted the principle that the web belongs to forward-looking teens using sites such as MySpace to discover the next download hit. It is now possible to celebrate the sounds of the Sixties, Seventies and every other decade via the internet. But the Eighties is the most popular by far.Evans, from Swanage in Dorset, founded the site in 2002. 'It's been a phenomenon,' he said. 'I think I've tapped into a vein of people who look back and think it was better then. The Nineties is still too recent for people to feel nostalgia and those people are busy making their way and getting married. People from the Eighties have made our way, bought our homes, had our families and come back in a loop to having some time for music.'The websites dedicated to the decade of Thatcher, Dallas and mullets include Back 2 The Eighties, Club 80s, Dark Neon, Driko's 80s Music &amp; Nostalgia and The '80s Server. Among the first was In the 80s, launched by Charles Grosvenor in 1995 as a way to review Eighties compilation CDs. The site now covers music, films, TV, world events and fashions and fads and has half a million unique visitors per month. Grosvenor said: 'Nostalgia runs in a 20-25 year cycle or so. People tend to look fondly on what they were experiencing in popular culture during their teen years.'I love the new wave music of the early Eighties, it is the music from my childhood. It's fun to listen to, and is probably the last of the rock era music that can be danced to. That's what makes it special for me. I have sites for the Seventies and Nineties, but I don't spend as much time promoting those sites.'In fourth place in remembertheeighties.com's survey was the pop funk star Mark King, for his fondly remembered 'bass playing at chest height'. King, of Level 42, who hope to make the most of retro popularity by releasing a compilation album this week, said the Eighties was a natural progression, 'a product of what had gone before'.He explained: 'The Sixties had flower power, then the Seventies had disco and glam rock but also punk. You can understand how the New Romantics came out of it. Punk was just another fashion statement coming out of King's Road. Then we came with our high waistbands poncing around like Errol Flynn. Because we all looked like twats, it didn't matter.'Michael Murphy, chief executive of Friends Reunited, said the Eighties was the most popular era for school and university leavers: 'The school kids of the Eighties are very keen to keep track of what their peers are up to and let everyone know what's going on in their own lives.'&#183;Additional reporting byAli BeachThe top 40 crazes that made the decade:1 Rubik's Cube2 Legwarmers3 Pacman4 Mark King (Level 42) playing bass at chest height5 'Frankie Says' T-shirts6 Cabbage Patch Kids7 Rubber bracelets8 Neon clothes9 Shoulder pads10 Acid wash jeans11 New Romantics12 Walkman13 Hair gel14 'Choose Life' T-shirts15 Smash Hits16 Dallas17 Badges and pins18 Twelve-inch singles19 Swatch watches20 Mullet hair cuts21 Minishirts22 Power ballads23 The Breakfast Club24 Fishnets25 Dynasty26 Spandex27 Live Aid28 BMX29 Trivial Pursuit30 VHS31 Transformers32 Ray-Bans33 Boom boxes34 Crimpers35 My Little Pony36 Filofax37 Snoods38 Fluffy dice39 Culture Club40 SodaStream
The late injury to French striker Djibril Cisse has deprived TV viewers of seeing one of the world's hottest hair extremists in action. Instead, go totinyurl.com/fp3jxto relive football's horror hair moments over the years. If this has put you in the mood for coiffures from hell, then here are a few teazy-weazy places for you to enjoy:fiese-scheitel.deis where to head for pages of spectacularly wrong German hair; The Gallery Of Hair Tragedy (tinyurl.com/lgxru) features the best hair bands and hair moments in the bible; American woman Leila Cohoon is the proud proprietor of The Hair Museum (hairwork.com/leila); andhairarchives.comhas a charming page on hair helmets from 1962. If all this leaves you unable to visit a salon, save hundreds of pounds atflowbee.comby cutting your hair with a vacuum haircut system.
There's one thing I've written about over the past 25 years, to the point where I've tried to propagate it asSchofield's First Law of Computing. While it's never been acknowledged, as far as I know, it should be. What is says is:Never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out.It's a lesson I learned by having articles written in WordStar under CP/M, stored on 8in floppies, and texts written in EasyWriter on an Apple ][ with 5.25in floppies, and from friends dim enough to use Q&amp;A Write or whatever. Today I keep stuff in both rtf and txt format on CD-ROM, but it's a problem that's never going to go away.It's a lesson that Mark Pilgrim (like millions of others) has also learned the hard way, and that's one of the main reasons why he's finally given up on Apple, and has switched to Linux. He has now expanded on his decision (seeBye, Apple; Hello, Ubuntubelow) in a post calledJuggling oranges, which is a reply to a long and erudite postelsewhere. Pilgrim mentions:1983-1989Years of hacking on an Apple //e, writing programs in Applesoft BASIC, Apple Pascal, and 6502 assembly language. All for a platform that doesn't exist and can only be emulated with the help of ROMs which are illegal to redistribute.1990-1995Years of hacking on various Macs, including a Mac LC, Mac IIci, and PowerMac 8500. All targeted at OS 6 through 9, using Apple-specific toolkits and libraries. None run natively in OS X and therefore will not run on modern Intel Macs (or any other platform). They can only be emulated with the help of ROMs which, once again, are illegal to redistribute.2001-presentYears of creating content, most recently video content in iMovie. [cut] All editability is lost. All my iTunes ratings and playlists are lost. All my iPhoto tags and ratings are lost."The last straw," says Pilgrim, was when "Mail.app 2.0 helpfully auto-converted all my wonderful mbox files into Apple's shitty undocumented format" -- gratuitously screwing up his open format email.It took a lot of forethought on my part, not to mention actual time and effort, to convert all my disparate mail archives from all those different mail programs. I finally got everything into a single archive in an open, stable format... and just 3 short years later, Apple found a way to screw me one last time. It'll be the last time they get the chance.Pilgrim has also painfully rediscovered something else I've written about (for example, the Online cover storyDigital dark age looms, in 2003). Pilgrim says:There's an important lesson in here somewhere. Long-term data preservation is like long-term backup: a series of short-term formats, punctuated by a series of migrations.Having learned my lesson on the Apple ][, I've been careful never tostoredata in any Mac program, ever. Avoiding Apple's proprietary control-freakery has paid off through Mac OS on 68000 chips and Mac OS and OS X on PowerPC chips, and will no doubt pay off on Mac OS X on Intel chips. (Note: I don't store data in Microsoft formats either, unless you count rtf and avi -- both Microsoft inventions, but widely supported -- with the exception of Excel, which I rarely use. I recommend and support open formats, and avoid all DRM. I'm somewhat optimistic about XML.)Now, I'm not going to turn into a single-issue fanatic about this, like the stereotypical Mac fanboy waving Fitt's Law around. I'm by nature a hoarder, and I care about preserving my data. It was hard work to produce. You don't have to care about yours. Lots of people don't create any data that they care enough about even to make simple back-ups -- though if you are a company, of course, you are legally obliged to care very deeply.The points I'm making here are that it's a real issue, and it's one that needs forethought. As Schofield's First Law implies, and Pilgrim has demonstrated, it's a lot easier to get into trouble than it is to get out of it.
As the dust settled on Bill Gates' announcement that he planned to step down from day-to-day involvement with Microsoft, so the spotlight yesterday fell on Ray Ozzie, his successor as the company's chief software architect.At 50 years old, Mr Ozzie is a month younger than Mr Gates, and the two have been friends and rivals since the Silicon Valley boom of the 1980s. Mr Ozzie's most famous creation is Lotus Notes, the collaborative email and database program.It was this background - and his wider interests in collaborative working - which led the Seattle software giant to buy his company, Groove Networks, last year. At that point Mr Ozzie, who is said to be a shy and extremely technical man, became Microsoft's chief technology officer - a role that fed speculation that he was being groomed as Mr Gates' long-term replacement. Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's effusive chief executive, has since been reported as saying he had wanted to hire Mr Ozzie for the last 23 years.Mr Ozzie's influence is expected to push Microsoft further into highly developed web applications and knowledge sharing programs, areas where Microsoft is feeling the pressure from such companies as Google.Wall Street largely shrugged off Mr Gates' announcement. Microsoft shares were only 11 cents lower at $21.96 in early trading yesterday. That appeared partly to be the result of Mr Gates' insistence that he would still play a role at Microsoft as non-executive chairman, and partly perhaps because his priorities had already been shifting since he gave up the chief executive role at Microsoft in 2000.Mr Gates told staff that he intends to "transition out" of Microsoft by 2008 to devote more of his energies to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which hands out grants of more than $1bn annually, primarily to fight diseases such as Aids, polio and malaria. The foundation has assets of $29.5bn.Mr Ozzie will immediately assume the role of chief software architect and begin working with Mr Gates. Chief technical officer Craig Mundie will take the new title of chief research and strategy officer. In an interview with the Associated Press, Mr Ballmer said it was unrealistic to think that any one person could replace Mr Gates. "I don't think that's a realistic hypothesis," he said.Mr Gates described his decision as a "re-ordering of my priorities" and expressed confidence in the future of Microsoft.He said the world "has had a tendency to focus a disproportionate amount of attention on me", when in reality Microsoft was a company with a breadth of talent.
To read the past week's posts on a single page, clickhereIt was a week where eBay started a wki, AOL did a copy of Digg, and both Robert Scoble and Bill Gates started changing their jobs. Interesting topics include:How Google is killing the InternetInside the Apple iPod factoriesSony's two big mistakes
1Bill GatesCo-founder of the company alongside Paul Allen. He built Microsoft into the world's largest software company. Today he is the world's richest man, worth around $50bn. This week, he announced plans to give up the day-to-day running of the business by 2008 to focus on his family's charitable foundation, which combats diseases including polio, malaria and Aids. He will remain Microsoft's non-executive chairman.2Andrea LewisShe was hired as the company's first technical writer. She left in 1983 and became a freelance journalist and fiction writer. She now lives in Seattle with her husband and two children. She is said to be worth around $2m.3Marla WoodAn administrative assistant and book-keeper, she worked at Microsoft until 1980. She and husband Steve Wood became the first of the core group to leave after she filed a sex discrimination suit, which was settled out of court. The Woods are said to be worth $15m.4Paul AllenHe co-founded the company with Gates in 1975 and is today not far behind his former colleague on the annual Forbes rich list, ranked sixth last year with almost $23bn. He left his day job at Microsoft in 1983 to fight Hodgkins Disease but remained on the board until 2000. A canny investor, he built his wealth through investment vehicle Vulcan Ventures. He is chairman of cable TV company Charter Communications, and owns the Portland Trail Blazers basketball team and the Seattle Seahawks American football franchise.5 Bob O'RearOne of the most experienced of the early employees, he had advanced degrees in mathematics and astrophysics and had been in the control room at NASA during the first Moon landing. He joined as chief mathematician in 1977. He left in 1993 and now runs a cattle ranch in Texas. Said to be worth around $100m.6 Bob GreenbergHe worked at Microsoft between 1977 and 1981, developing the BASIC programming language. Left to launch the Cabbage Patch Dolls, a huge craze in the 1980s. Today, he develops software for golf courses. Reported to be worth $20m.7Marc McDonaldThe first employee hired in 1977 to work on BASIC, he left in 1984, expressing his frustration that the company had grown "too big". Rejoined in the late 1990s when Microsoft took over the company he was working for.8 Gordon LetwinHe stayed for longer than any of the original 11, apart from Gates. He left in 1993 to "kick back" with his wife. A software developer, he was chief architect of the OS/2 operating system. Said to be worth around $20m.9 Steve Wood, 53, one of the first of the early employees to leave in 1980 after his wife Marla filed a sex discrimination lawsuit. Wood held a string of jobs before founding mobile messaging group Wireless Services Corporation in 1996. They live in Washington State, estimated to be worth $15m.10 Bob Wallacejoined as a production manager and software designer in 1978. Quit in 1983 to start software company QuickSoft, which he later sold. Devoted much of his time and money to research in psychedelic drugs, partly through the Promind Foundation, which he founded in 1998. Died of pneumonia in 2002 age 53.11Jim LaneProject manager, he worked on software for Intel's microprocessors and developed the relationship between the two companies. Left in 1985 and was reported to say that Microsoft had "beat the enthusiasm out of me". He runs his own software company. Reported to be worth $20m.
MondayNintendo monopolyGaymer surveyNo brainerTuesdaySummer conferences!Quick indie twosomeVideogame no starsNo brainerWednesdayBack to basicsRetro Remakes competitionDragons Lair goes HDWright-Phillips turns out for XboxThursdayBluray delaysSex, brains and footyJapan Air Lines (hearts) DSFridayGood week for Nintendo, bad week for AtariTake 2 cancel controversial gameLive Anywhere: manage Xbox 360 downloads on your mobile!Weekend gaming anyone?
An interesting example of what a map mashup can be: the Gutenkarte site has anannotated map of the sites mentioned in HG Wells's War of the Worlds. (Hum the Jeff Lynne theme.. karaoke "the chances of anything coming from Mars... are a million to one he said..")It's quite an interesting experiment; don't zoom in, because the detail isn't there. Do click on the named towns and places, and you'll get a wiki-style extract from the book. You'll recall that the giant cylinders landed atHorsell Common. Yes, you already knew that, sure.Unfortunately (or not, you decide) the map doesn't go to a large enough scale to show Tom Cruise, even if he'd been in an English-based version of the film.Perhaps you're wonderingwhat Gutenkarte is?Gutenkarte is a geographic text browser, intended to help readers explore the spatial component of classic works of literature. Gutenkarte downloads public domain texts from Project Gutenberg, and then feeds them to MetaCarta's GeoParser API, which extracts and returns all the geographic locations it can find. Gutenkarte stores these locations in a database, along with citations into the text itself, and offers an interface where the book can be browsed by chapter, by place, or all at once on an interactive map. Ultimately, Gutenkarte will offer the ability to annotate and correct the places in the database, so that the community will be able construct and share rich geographic views of Project Gutenberg's enormous body of literary classics.So far it has various works by Dickens, Wells, Joseph Conrad (the horror!), Twain and Homer. (Thanks for the pointer toEd Parsonsof Ordnance Survey.)
Now here's a remarkable thing that the Macworld team has turned up in its lab tests. The black Macbooks, when compared to the top-end white versions (the latter, you'll recall, are£90 cheaper but have no other noticeable configuration differences), are actuallyslowerat a number of tasks than the mid-config white ones. (That is, if you leave the disk on the white model at 60GB, rather than upgrading to 80GB.)Huh? Yes,even the Macworld testers are confused:we saw small performance differences in many of the tests, with the edge going to the white model in most cases. Retesting leveled out a few tests (though I can't explain why), but still shows the white 2GHz model performing better than the black model, most notably in our Compressor MPEG-2 Encoding test and our iMovie test applying the Aged video effect to a clip.Since everything non-swappable is the same, they focussed on the hard drives. Sure enough, swapping them over produced a difference. So what's the difference? The white model (which is faster in the tests) uses a Seagate 60GB 5,400rpm drive, while the black model (mostly slower) uses a Fujitsu 80GB model rotating at the same speed.But even there it's not uniform:The weirdest results came from our iPhoto import test, which appears to be very hard drive sensitive. Surprisingly, the winner wasn't the Seagate 7200RPM drive, but the Fujitsu 5,400-rpm drives found in the black MacBook and 17-inch MacBook Pro. The white MacBook had a Seagate 5,400-rpm drive, which edged out the Fujitsu in zipping and unzipping large folders, but lagged far behind in the iPhoto test.What could it be? File cache size, latency, seek, any of those things?The top-level specs of these drives don't offer any explanation—both have 8MB caches and both run at 5,400-rpm. We installed, wiped, reinstalled, and moved the drives around trying to figure this one out, but the results always followed the drives.IOW, no. The Seagate is faster at most things, slower at a couple of others. Asone commenter observed, it shows that disk rotation speed "is about [as] accurate [a] measurement of throughput as MHz is to measure the speed of a CPU."Which still leaves the black MacBook looking like an even less good deal than it did before. Unless, of course, you like black..
The sun is shining, the World Cup is in full swing so, er, anyone actually planning to play any games this weekend? I imagine I'll be pulled back for one more go at Table Tennis, the only 360 game - unless Cider Raider ever gets the green light - that reminds me of youth club circa 1987. Do they still have youth clubs? Table Tennis is a great sim that makes up in multiplayer genius what it lacks in solitary thrills. Elsewhere I'll also be clocking up my daily Brain Train - my prefrontal cortex has never felt so loved. And I may dip into the vortex that is WoW once more. I've been sent one of thoseZboard keyboards- or geekboard as my wife has already christened it - and am tempted to see if helps my undead warlock survive a rogue attack for longer than 5 seconds.
This is a good story --I wrote it myself five years ago, and probably wasn't the first -- so I found the up-to-date version inBusiness 2.0particularly interesting, especially in its focus onCyworld. (It didn't take off until SK Telecom bought in 2003, a year after I was there, but we've coveredemail and Cyworldsince then.)The Business 2.0 story says:Cyworld, for example, is a social network owned by a subsidiary of SK Telecom, the country's largest wireless provider. To an American eye, the Cyworld service looks like a mixture of some of the hottest US properties: it's MySpace meets Flickr and Blogger and AIM and Second Life.Users have avatars that visit and can link to each other's "minihompy" - a miniature homepage that's actually a 3-D room containing a users' blog, photos, and virtual items for sale. Cyworld's digital garage sales include music, ringtones, clothes for your avatar and furnishings for your own minihompy.Cyworld has penetration rates that would make Rupert Murdoch, CEO of MySpace parent News Corp, green with envy: An astonishing 90% of South Koreans in their 20s use the service. Celebrities and politicians set up their own minihompies, and the way to get ahead in twentysomething Korean society is to found a popular Cyworld club, or chat room.There are also somefollow-up commentssurfaced on O'Reilly Radar.Will Cyworld work in the west? There's aUS version coming soon, following launches in Korea, China, Japan and Taiwan. It may not be long before we find out....
Software developer and blogger Joel Spolsky has written a delightful little piece onMy First BillG Review, back in the days when he was a program manager on Excel.Times have changed, of course. In his non-retirement speech yesterday, Gates said: "In the early days, I liked to review every line of code, to interview every job applicant. Today, our products include millions of lines of code, we hire thousands of people a year, I've had to lighten up in both of those areas."
Over on the Teamxbox.com forum, someone has kindlyposted photosfrom a Microsoft'sLive Anywherepresentation given atBrew 2006. The images show that Microsoft's cross-platform online initiative will allow users to access Xbox Live Marketplace from their mobiles and then remotely instruct their Xbox 360 to download demos!This is a fanastic idea. Imagine it: selecting desirable demos while you're on the bus only to find them ready and waiting on your machine by the time you get home. Of course, this will entail keeping your console switched on while you're out which won't please the eco crowd...The slides also suggest that Xbox 360 owners will be able to manage buddy lists and communicate with clan members as well as download mobile games.ViaDigg
It's almost the weekend! Get chatting.
The world's richest man Bill Gates is to end his day-to-day involvement in Microsoft in two years in order to spend more time giving his money away.The software billionaire, who is worth an estimated $50bn (&pound;27bn) announced last night that he intends to "transition out" of his hands-on role by 2008, although he will remain non-executive chairman of the company.His energy will be devoted to the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, which hands out grants of more than $1bn annually, predominantly to the fight against diseases such as polio, malaria as well as Aids."This was a hard decision for me," said Mr Gates. "I'm very lucky to have two passions that I feel are so important and so challenging." He added: "As I prepare for this change, I firmly believe the road ahead for Microsoft is as bright as ever."But as far as the company is concerned, his decision to take a back seat will represent the end of an era.Mr Gates, 50, set up the company in 1975 with his childhood friend Paul Allen, who quit the business six years ago. The pair steered Microsoft's Windows operating system to its dominant position in the software world. A new version, Vista, is due to be released by Christmas.Mr Gates, who receives more than 4m emails a day, will be replaced as Microsoft's chief software architect by Ray Ozzie, who is currently chief technical officer. Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, will be responsible for all day-to-day operations and for strategy."Bill and I are confident we've got a great team that can step up to fill his shoes and drive Microsoft innovation forward without missing a beat," said Mr Ballmer.Mr Ozzie and Mr Ballmer will begin working together on all software technical architecture in order to achieve what Mr Gates called a "smooth transition".At the same time, Microsoft's chief technical officer, Craig Mundie, will take up the title of chief research and strategy officer and will work with Mr Gates in those areas. Mr Gates added: "I remain fully committed and full time at Microsoft through June 2008 and will be working side by side with Ray and Craig to ensure that a smooth transition occurs." Microsoft announced the succession plan after the US markets closed. The company's shares slipped slightly in after-hours trading but analysts praised the company for providing plenty of notice rather than making the changes immediately.Although frequently attacked by business rivals for his aggressive tactics towards competitors, Mr Gates' re-invention as a benefactor has won him many friends. He received an honorary knighthood from the Queen last year and alongside Bono, Mr Gates and his wife were named as Time magazine's "persons of the year" in 2005 for making global debt reduction "sexy".His foundation has assets of $29.5bn. Some of the money funds scholarships and computers for disadvantaged students in America but the lion's share goes to healthcare in developing countries.The charity provides 90% of the global funding for the eradication of polio. It has made big contributions to international efforts to develop and administer vaccines for diphtheria, whooping cough, tuberculosis. His other activities include serving on an international panel advising Gordon Brown on the impact of globalisation. He recently prompted raised eyebrows by remarking that he wished he was not the world's richest man because of the level of "visibility" he is obliged to endure.From geek to benefactorFamed for his drab dress sense, monotone voice and thick glasses, Bill Gates is an unlikely companion for the U2 frontman, Bono. Yet the pair have forged a partnership, fronting campaigns for governments to step up aid to developing countries.Mr Gates's withdrawal from hands-on involvement at Microsoft will complete his transition from the world's richest computer geek to a global benefactor.The son of an attorney and a schoolteacher, Mr Gates was born in 1955 and grew up in a middle-class environment in Seattle, Washington. He attended the private Lakeside school, where he developed an interest in technology and began programming computers at the age of 13.As a student at Harvard University, Gates helped developed an early language for one of the first microcomputers, the MITS Altair.He founded Microsoft at the age of 20 with his childhood friend Paul Allen, and his peers are still very much in charge: Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, lived in the same hall at Harvard.Despite Gates's success, Microsoft's business practices have been the subject of frequent investigations by competition authorities. Google is the latest to complain, objecting that Microsoft is making its own search engine the default choice on its new Vista operating system.Andrew Clark
Gates, Mundie, Ozzie and BallmerBill Gates has announced that he will stepping down as Microsoft's chief software architect in another two years (July 2008), though he plans to continue as chairman "indefinitely" -- assuming the board of directors keeps electing him. In hisannouncement speech, he said: "I want to have that association [with Microsoft] for my entire life." Later, in the Q&amp;A, he confirmed: "I'm not leaving Microsoft."Gates will aslo remain Microsoft's largest shareholder, with 977,499,336 shares.However, Gates is going to shift his emphasis from working for Microsoft to giving his money away via the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation. Gates's day job as chief software architect will be taken over by chief technical officer Ray Ozzie, while his guidance of Microsoft's research and strategy efforts will go to chief technical officer Craig Mundie.The announcement is part of a long-term transition that started six years ago when Gates handed over the CEO job to Steve Ballmer.Gates is now 50, as is Ray Ozzie. Craig Mundie is 56.Microsoft has apress release, webcast and transcript of the announcement. There's also a very short interview with Gates and Ballmer on Microsoft'sChannel 9.Comment: This and similar moves since 2000 are really about managing perceptions of the transition of power without freaking out the stock market. It's hard to know how much will actually change at Microsoft, but probably not much*. The media has always -- as Gates has said repeatedly -- overestimated the amount of control he has, and a $40+ billion corporation with 70,000 staff has a momentum all its own. Although he won't be full time, Gates will still serve as a figurehead, and he will still be involved in "special projects".It would be a much bigger deal if Steve Ballmer was stepping down, which is what a lot of geeks would prefer. Gates is a nerd. Ballmer is a salesman and would probably have made a great high school football coach, neither of which appeals to geek sensibilities. But he's taken Microsoft sales from $25bn (2001) to $40bn (2005) and annual profits from $7.3bn to $12.3bn, almost doubling EPS. That sort of performance is not likely to get him fired.* The Wall Street Journal ishaving a voteon the question: How do you think Microsoft will fare after Gates's departure? So far the scores are 28% of the votes for better, 20% for worse and 52% for about the same.
Controversial GTA publisher Take 2 haveannouncedthat they're canning drug-dealing game Snow. FromMCV:Snow was a real-time strategy game that saw gamers advance from the ranks of marijuana smuggler to cocaine kingpin. Although the title hadn't yet attained the kind of notoriety boasted by many of Take 2's games, it would have been sure to create a media frenzy, particularly in the US.It is thought that Take 2 may have chosen to cancel the game following the controversy recently courted by the 'Hot Coffee' Grand Theft Auto scandal.The Hot Coffee kerfuffle wasrecently resolvedin the US courts, where a Federal Trade Commission ruling demanded that the publisher disclose all of the content on their discs or face up to US$11,000 fine for each game sold.But don't think they're going soft; they've still got a healthy relationship with GTA-makers Rockstar. After relaxing outside of the spotlight during the release frenzy of theirforthcomingtable tennis game, both developer and publisher are certain to hit the headlines again with the launch ofBully, a game destined to get up plenty of people's noses.
Still basking in the light of its triumphant E3 showing, the sunshine just won't end for Nintendo. Gamesindustry.biz hasreportedthat over 135,000 DS Lites have been sold in just two days following the launch of the newly sized handheld cutey in the States. This is almost double the first week figures from Japan, where 70,000 units disappeared from the shelves (not literally) in a five-day Lite frenzy. Sales of the dual-screen midget now stand at over two million in its home country.Also from Japan soared the excitingnewsthat New Super Mario Brothers has already shifted 1.2 million copies. In the most recent Japanese software sales charts DS titles now account for seven of the top ten games.Things aren't looking so rosy for Atari. The company has justrecordeda net loss of $67.1 million for the previous fiscal year. Bruno Bonnell, Atari's Chairman, CEO, and Chief Creative Officer pointed a wavering finger of blame at the industry's currently challenging climate:"A shortage of new hardware coupled with a softness in consumer demand for current generation games dramatically impacted results. In addition, titles such as The Matrix: Path of Neo and Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure performed below our expectations."As for the future? Bonnell had this to say:"The Atari brand has stood for innovation and pioneering spirit for more than 30 years. As Atari executes on its strategic objectives, we must recapture what made Atari an iconic brand. During fiscal 2007, we will focus our efforts on established franchises, new major motion picture licensed IP with significant marketing campaigns, online products and titles for portable devices."But hang on, isn't there a massive contradiction here? He talks about re-capturing the pioneering spirit of Atari, but then immediately spells out the company's plans to rely on "established franchises" and "new major motion picture licensed IP". Hardly the stuff of revolution.Indeed, let's have a quick glance through the company's pioneering line-up for 2007...Alone in the Dark - re-make Arthur and the Minimoys - movie license BattleZone - re-make Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi 2 - sequel DUNGEONS &amp; DRAGONS: Tactics - spin-off Earthworm Jim - re-make HOT PXL -new game!Neverwinter Nights 2 - sequel Super DBZ - sequel Test Drive Unlimited - sequelHardly pushing back the boundaries of interactive entertainment are they? It seems that Atari has locked itself into the narrow thinking that eventually saw off Acclaim - a reliance on c-list film tie-ins and relics from the company's own past. This is dated thinking. It is, to use an unavoidable football metaphor, a long-ball punted over the midfield of innovation and toward the striker of meek brand-reliance.Of course, Nintendo, too, is a great one for brand re-cycling - what Atari has to work out is why the latest Super Mario Brothers title excites the world, while the latest Battlezone re-make doesn't.
The government's &pound;20bn investment in new IT systems for the NHS in England could turn into a white elephant unless ministers work harder to involve doctors in developing it, parliament's spending watchdog will warn today. The National Audit Office is expected to say the scheme - the biggest civilian IT programme in the world - is two years behind schedule. But it has not run over budget like other jumbo computer schemes.The report is expected to criticise the government for not winning the support of the profession at an earlier stage. Sir John Bourn, head of the NAO, told the Commons public accounts committee in March that the NHS's Connecting for Health programme "has not won the hearts and minds of those who are being required to use it". He criticised the Department of Health for "failure to take the people in the NHS with the system".Lord Warner, the health minister, put the government's defence in place yesterday in readiness for the NAO report. He said trials of the NHS care records service would start early next year. The government would set up a taskforce of doctors to work out how the scheme can develop quickly into a national information network that could save lives. In an emergency, the records of a patient far from home could give doctors instant information. Lord Warner told a GPs' conference at the British Medical Association that the government planned a public information campaign to explain the scheme's benefits and implications. "We cannot carry on with the cumbersome, outdated and I would say sometimes dangerous paper-based system. It's critical we make the transition to electronic records - the sooner the better for patients and doctors alike," he said."I understand fully the concerns and reservations some doctors have about electronic records. We will fully consult with all professional interests and patients on the nature of the summary record and the confidentiality safeguards. But now is the time for leadership in this area and by that I mean clinical leadership as well."The cost of core contracts for equipment and software remains at &pound;6.2bn, the budget forecast when Tony Blair approved the investment three years ago. "There has been no cost overrun in the national programme," the NAO will say.It will advise ministers to come clean about much larger bills for the NHS to train staff and maintain the systems over the programme's first 10 years. The total is likely to be about &pound;20bn, the report will say. Patricia Hewitt, the health secretary, will say the extra billions amount to a diversion of money already being spent on staff and maintaining old, unsatisfactory equipment. She will maintain that the Connecting for Health programme will provide "safer, faster and more efficient healthcare for patients, giving them more choice and control over their care".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Can a football robot do the "Peter Crouch"?"The 10th annualRoboCup, being held in Bremen, will see more than 400 teams of robots dribbling, tackling and shooting in an effort to become world champions. Machines compete in 11 leagues including those designed for humanoid and four-legged robots," reportsBBC News.The organisers of the tournament hope that in 2050 the winners of the RoboCup will be able to beat the human World Cup champions."RoboCup 2006 is the first step towards a vision," said Minoru Asada, president of theRoboCup Federation.
A-list blogger and entrepreneurJason Calacanisis attempting to revive the once-mighty Netscape portal by relaunching it (here, in beta) as a copy ofDigg, a tech news aggregator.But this isn't one little start-up against another. Netscape is owned by AOL, which is part of the CNN Time Warner empire, so it's hard not to see this as a corporate media giant trying to step on a small Internet bugg.Indeed,AOL Copies Diggsoon appeared on the new Netscape and immediately attracted lots of diggs -- sorry, votes -- and the first comment said: "Isn't this the same thing Microsoft did to the Navigator. fate, it seems, is not without a sense of irony."One difference is that Niggscape isn't driven only by users submitting news stories and other users voting on them. It also has eight journalists or "anchors" who are "curating" the content and adding comments. It will be interesting to see if they can counter the sort of dive into mediocrity that has afflicted Digg since it became more popular than Slashdot.Another difference is that Niggscape is trying to cover a wide range of general topics -- the anchors are currently recommending stories on "sensitive scientologists" and Guantanamo. Digg, by contrast, is a geeky technology site, but that will soon change. A screen shot of the Digg 3 beta leaked toValleywag"reveals categories for Business and World News".Still, I wouldn't bet against Calacanis, given his success withWeblogs Inc(Engadget, Joystiq, TUAW etc), which he sold to the AOL/AIM/ICQ/CNN Time Warner conglomerate. He doesn't seem to have delegated the effort to the usual corporate underlings. For example, I naturally clicked a story calledJournalism is brokenonly to find that all seven comments consist of the word "test" posted by JasonCalacanis.According toThe New York Times story on the launch:At AOL, Mr Calacanis thinks of himself as a renegade. His own blog is frequently critical of AOL's bureaucracy and products. And he boasted that he had built the new Netscape outside the usual AOL procedures. Much of the work was done in a weeklong "code jam" when he assembled a dozen programmers in a suite at a luxury hotel overlooking the beach in Santa Monica, Calif."We have a smaller, quicker, lighter organization inside a bigger organization," he said.
Online shopping is so common among savvy web users that there is a danger of getting it out of proportion. At a recent morning conference at the Guardian some people, mainly women, said they did all their shopping online. The national statistics are more sobering: although online shopping is growing at 45% a year, according to IMRG Index, it will only represent 10% of retail sales later this year.It is a much smaller proportion of total spending because retail sales constitute only a quarter of consumer expenditure, which also includes utilities, housing costs and cars and other items. PayPal predicts that by 2010, there will be 25 million online shoppers but they will still account for less than 10% of all consumer spending.However, apart from online buyers there are also those who browse for bargains online before buying in the shops. This helps to explain how the internet has not only constrained inflation online but also in the real world, where retailers are under pressure to match lower web prices both here and abroad.There is one statistic that surprised me. According to Shopping.com (which eBay took over in August), less than 20% of "click-to-buy" purchases are for the lowest price available. Other factors such as branding, availability and security are also important. People might hesitate to pay &pound;100 more for a computer from John Lewis until the small print reveals an extra year in guarantee.I am buying a laptop to replace an ageing PC so I thought I would see if shopping comparison sites could help. They are among the pioneers of "user-generated content", a buzz phrase that usually describes how they make money out of aggregating reviews we have given them for free. The easiest place to start ishttp://paler.com/price_comparison.html, which lists more than 20 UK sites comparing the prices of all sorts of consumer goods. Or you can simply type a description of your product into a search engine. I had already decided to buy a laptop a colleague had recommended because it was almost the only one that met my criteria (very light, ultra-portable, long battery life with Wi-Fi). I found that merely to type Sony Vaio TX2HP/w into Google got me a fair selection based on its page ranking system.This gave more choices than Google's own comparison site Froogle, which hasn't proved very popular though it does give prominence to consumer ratings of stores. You can also find bargains in the sponsored links generated by a search. The big hitters are Kelkoo.co.uk (now owned by Yahoo), Shopzilla. co.uk, and Shopping.com, which is trying to establish its new brand name under eBay ownership.Shopping.com is the most sophisticated because it owns epinions.com, claimed to be the biggest bank of user reviews coupled with others from the technical press. It has nice features such as a split screen to match the specifications of two similar products but has fewer choices than other sites because it claims to "take the customer to the product they really want". It needs a bit of getting used to but the effort will be repaid. For some reason, it didn't have any user reviews of what I wanted to buy, only evaluations of shops and service.The online store I ended up buying from, CCL, didn't appear on any of the main sites to be selling my chosen product. Which may prove that word of mouth can still be a good way of buying. However, after they had deducted my money I learned it was out of stock and I am still awaiting dispatch, a sobering lesson in "buyer beware".Nevertheless, the web was very useful in comparing the specs and judging whether it was a bargain. The price I paid wasn't the lowest but it did have a 3G card thrown in. So, for what it's worth, I can join the 80% of people who don't pay the lowest price.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have been thoroughly spooked by stories of the potentially limited shelf-life of iBook hard drives, as I have 2,000 songs (6GB) in iTunes. What's the best way to back up these files? Yours in vague terror, Jamie MilneAll hard drives fail eventually, and even if they didn't, your PC could fail in a different way, or be stolen, so back-ups are essential. The obvious option is to burn audio CDs of the tracks, which also removes the iTunes copy protection. This is pretty secure, but takes time. You can also back up your songs to CD or DVD as data files:Apple offers step-by-step instructions, or see the account atOne Digital Life.It's quicker and more convenient to back up to an external USB or FireWire drive, trusting to luck that two hard drives don't fail at the same time. External drives are cheap - I just bought a 320GB model for £130.You could buy an iPod to provide a backup, and also provide music on the move. However, if your iBook fails, the iPod will not want to move your music back to what it will see as a different computer. There are ways round that, including the Backstage program fromWidgetfab.com; the free but Mac only Senuti (www.fadingred.org/senuti/); andCopyPod.Incidentally, the G3 iBook has a relatively poor record for reliability. A MacInTouch.com survey of more than 10,000 notebooks found that between 49% and 74% of G3 iBooks needed repairs, mainly due to motherboard problems. However, the G4 model has a much better record. You can check yours athttp://www.macintouch.com/reliability/laptops.html#results.
