O2, which has the exclusive rights to sell Apple's new iPhone 3GS in the UK, said by 1.30pm that it had sold more of the phones this year than it in the entire day of the previous model's launch last year.A spokeswoman for the company said that the sales total includes both the 3GS and older 3G model, which was released last year, but as the price of the 3G has not changed the difference is probably accounted for by sales of the 3GS.O2 said that some stores may sell out today, to be restocked at the weekend.According to the company, "We sold more iPhone 3G S devices in the first two hours than all handsets we'd normally sell in an average day."There are known to be more than a million iPhone users in the UK, according to data released by O2 in February, but the company would not say what proportion of today's buyers are upgrading from existing handsets, and what number are new buyers tempted by added items in the new phone, such as a built-in magnetometer (giving it a compass) and the ability to capture video.O2 did say that the number of customers in its stores was 10 times higher than an average day, and that the black iPhone model was outselling the white one by 3 to 1.Last yearmany customers reported problemsactivating their phones in stores, but O2 said that while those were widely reported they did not significantly slow its sales.The quicker sale today therefore suggests that the new 3GS model has succeeded in attracting buyers."We are likely to sell out of some variants in a number of stores within the next few hours, with more stock being shipped over the weekend," said a spokeswoman. "Our online shop saw a 150% increase in online traffic in the first two hours."More than half the iPhone customers have already downloaded the new iPhone OS 3.0 software, which is free for them, and enables the iPhone 3G to send picture messages and lets owners cut and paste text between different applications.The new software also gives the phone the capability to act as a mobile "dongle" to connect a computer to the internet on the move, though O2 is charging around £15 per month for that capability. The standard iPhone has "unlimited" data downloads, but O2 - and other carriers selling the iPhone - are treating the use as a dongle as a separate application.Howeverthe Guardian has establshed that this can be circumventedby a simple technical measure. O2 has warned that it will disconnect anyone it discovers doing that, though it would not say how it would identify them.• This article was amended on 22 June 2009. The original included owners of the original iPhone among those able to download and then use the functions produced by the iPhone OS 3.0 software. This is not the case, and has been corrected.
Owners of the new iPhone 3GS handset and the iPhone 3G can circumvent extra monthly charges for using the handsets as a broadband "dongle" using a simple technical workaround, the Guardian has established.The discovery could cause problems for O2, which has the monopoly on iPhone sales in the UK, and which has reported high interest in the new 3GS, which went on sale this morning.In the UK, for instance, O2's tethering addition - a "bolt-on" which allows iPhone owners to turn their handsets into a wireless modem that will get a computer online - costs an extra £14.68 per month for up to 3GB of downloaded data, in addition to the existing monthly contract for the iPhone itself, which allows "unlimited" data downloads. Thatbrought protests from iPhone owners in the UKwho had expected their unlimited contracts would be extended to include the use of the phone as a dongle, which Apple has enabled in its iPhone 3.0 software, released on Wednesday evening.However visitors tobenm.at– an iPhone and iPod touch enthusiasts' website – can download a profile that instantly activates the tethering system free of charge.One journalist known to the Guardian downloaded and installed the profile to an iPhone 3G handset and confirmed that it takes just seconds to download, installs instantly and works flawlessly. Connected to a PC, it allowed the use of the iPhone as a "tethered modem", or dongle, with typical mobile broadband connection speeds, of up to around 1.4Mbits per second.User feedback posted on the BenM website suggests that the hack works with on iPhones registered with networks worldwide, including AT&amp;T in the US – a carrier that doesn't currently offer a paid tethering option to its iPhone customers.In the UK, the iPhone is available only on O2, and the network was unequivocal in its response to questions about the workaround.An O2 spokesperson told Guardian Technology: "Any use of [the tethering] feature without the purchase of the bolt-on is specifically prohibited under our terms of service. Under those terms we reserve the right to charge customers making modem use of their iPhone or disconnect them."However, when pressed as to whether or not the company would actually charge or disconnect offending users, the spokesperson said that decisions would be made on a "case-by-case basis". The spokesperson would not specify precisely how O2 would detect and distinguish tethered and non-tethered data use.Ben Miller, the owner of the BenM website, insists that his work isn't a hack that alters the functionality of the iPhone, but merely uses publicly available information and tools to enable its "tethering" system. He said that the profile he created adds the carrier's access point name (APN) and password to the iPhone.He used Apple's iPhone Configuration Utility to create an XML file which is then "pushed" to the handsets of iPhone users who download the profile from the BenM website.The iPhone Configuration Utility is available as a free download from the Apple website, while carrier APNs and passwords are widely published online (the relevant details for O2's APN are on O2's site). Anyone with sufficient technical knowledge could therefore create a tethering profile and push it to their iPhone.Miller also questions O2's claim that it would be able to detect abusers: "Most data looks the same, though peer-to-peer and voice over IP applications like Skype could be detectable because they go through different gateways."Apple was asked to comment on this ability to unlock the iPhone tethering facility for free. It has not responded at the time of publication.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The landmark American filesharing case ofJammie Thomascame to a close yesterday, with aguilty verdict and a whopping fine of almost $2mgiven to the 32-year-old mother of two. Thomas was being retried since the first trial was overturned on appeal thanks to legal errors regarding the instructions given to the jury. This time: she was found liable for wilful copyright infringement and fined $80,000 for each of 24 songs she shared online through Kazaa. Ouch.&bull; AfteriPhonehackersfound a way to hack together laptop tethering,O2hasrespondedby saying it will punish anyone who breaks its terms and conditions by disconnecting them, according toTechRadar.&bull; Ah, the weekend. What would we do without you? Carry on into next week, I suppose. But we don't have to! We can kick back and watch silly stuff on the internet instead: silly stuff like thiscompilation of people in TV and film getting hit by buses. It's NSFW, but the sort of thing that usually has me screaming at the TV for being just so... stupid.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The genetic testing startup founded by the wife of Google billionaire Sergey Brin has received a further $2.6m investment from the internet giant.In documents filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Google said it had increased its shareholding in23andMe, the DNA decoding company started by Anne Wojcicki, who married Brin in 2007. The latest investment comes on top of $3.9m that Google put into the company two years ago.The company has been hotly-tipped as one of a new wave of genetic testing outfits, which offer paying customers the chance to decode parts of their genome - with the aim of revealing certain genetic anomalies or predispositions.Customers send in a sample of their DNA -often collected at so-called "spit parties"- which is then analysed and reviewed for certain genetic predispositions.Although the accuracy of the results has beencalled into question- with one leading scientist last weeksaying intepretations were highly variable between different companies- the vendors say they are merely offering a lifestyle service, rather than a medical service.However, Google's continuing investments in 23andMe are likely to raise questions of a conflict of interest among the company's shareholders, particularly since the Californian technology giant is using its money to back a personal project that benefits the family of Brin - who has a personal fortune estimated at $12bn.Brin has already pumped significant sums of his own into 23andMe, including $10m used to finance some of the company's debt - but part of Google's investments have been used to repay loans he made to his wife's company.Although the Brin has remained relatively quiet on the subject of 23andMe, last year hebroke his silenceto say that a 23andMe test had revealed he is genetically predisposed to Parkinson's Disease - a condition that has drastically affected the life of his mother since she was diagnosed 10 years ago.Brin, who is 35, said the test results had convinced him to pump money into further research into Parkinson's.(ends)
The prospect of unruly employees saying inappropriate things online has become a constant concern for many companies, with dozens of cases of finding themselves in trouble after comments made on the web.Now the authorities in one American city have gone a step further, however: by asking for employees to hand over the details of their online lives.Officials in the city ofBozeman, Montana, have come in for criticism after it emerged that they have been forcing job applicants to reveal login details to websites and social networks as part of the vetting process.Anyone applying for a job with the city - including everyone from police officers to cleaners - is required to undergo a series of background checks, that require applicants to give out details of their usernames and passwords for a variety of websites."Please list any and all current personal or business websites, web pages or memberships on any internet-based chatrooms, social clubs or forums," reads the form, adding that these include "Facebook, Google, Yahoo, YouTube.com, MySpace etc".Not only does the form request notification of membership on these sites, but also includes spaces for applicants to fill in their usernames and login details.A spokesman for the city of Bozeman - which is home to around 27,000 people and lies around 90 miles north of Yellowstone Park - said that the local government respected people's privacy, but needed to check that applicants were of the "highest moral character"."We have positions ranging from fire and police, which require people of high integrity for those positions, all the way down to the lifeguards and the folks that work in city hall here," city attorney Greg Sullivantold local news station CBS 27. "So we do those types of investigations to make sure the people that we hire have the highest moral character and are a good fit for the city."Legal experts have questioned whether the waiver is in contradiction with the state constitution and federal law, which guarantee privacy and freedom from unreasonable searches.It appears that the Bozeman case is a drastic overreaction to problems involving workers' online habits.A wide range of companies have banned the use of social networking websites during working hours, while others have been stung by employees leaving comments, messages or even videos online that reflect badly on their organisation.Last year13 employees of Virgin Atlantic in Britain were sackedafter posting messages to Facebook that referred to passengers as "chavs".The comments included jokes that the airline's planes were full of cockroaches and made comments about faulty engines, bringin gthe company into disrepute: something Virgin bosses took.And earlier this year takeaway pizza chain Domino's wasforced to making a public apologyafter two employees in North Carolina posted a video on YouTube of them indulging in unsanitary activities with customers' food.The videos - which featured one employee picking his nose and sneezing on a pizza - resulted in the duo being fired and Domino's president Patrick Doyle making a personal apology on television and online."There is nothing more important or sacred to us than our customer's trust, and we're examining all of our hiring practices to make sure people like this don't make it into our stores,"said Patrick Doyle, president of Domino's USA.
Steve Jobs' other company is entering the Windows netbook market with the Disney Netpal, aimed at children aged 6-12. It will have an 8.9 inch screen and will be available in Princess Pink or Magic Blue.DigiTimes in Taiwansays the XP-based Netpal "is durable with a reinforced mechanical design, while offering a unique Disney user interface". Two models -- one with a 16GB solid state drive, one with a 160GB hard drive -- will be sold via Toys R Us, Amazon and other retailers at a suggested $349.99.The Netpal should be available in the US in the summer, and might reach Europe towards the end of the year.There's a mostly-untapped kids market for netbooks, and there's at least a potential market for branded netbooks -- we've already seen Hello Kitty, for example. How many units they might shift in a depressed economy is another matter.AsThe Wall Street Journalhas pointed out:In 2004, Disney introduced a children's desktop PC that was bright blue with a monitor framed by a mouse-ears silhouette.The Disney Dream Desk PC, which was priced at about $900, with the monitor, didn't gain much traction. The Disney branding on the netbook is more subtle.The netbook is part of a raft of new devices from Disney Consumer Products, which is also launching its first camcorders and MP3 players for kids, a $129 "Ultimate Buzz Lightyear robot that responds to voice commands and plays laser tag, a Wii-like Zippity TV-game system for preschoolers, and a next-generation digital still camera whose body twists to let kids take close-ups of themselves," reportsTWICE.
It's been slightly overlooked amid all the fuss surrounding 'Digital Britain', but videogame trade association,TIGA, announced an interesting new initiative on Monday. Designed to ensure the UK games community remains competitive in these difficult times, Play Together, "[focuses] on fostering innovation, collaboration and communication between UK video game companies and with other creative industries such as music and film."What does that mean in practice? Well, TIGA, together withNESTA(the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts) is going to oversee two new concepts for developers. From the press release:• Industry Sharing:  an innovative service that enables UK developers to share employees. Available staff can be shared with other UK developers on a flexible basis, allow developers to quickly upsize or downscale their teams, a common industry difficulty, using local area or UK wide talent.• Creative Industry Switch: a forum designed to enable videogame developers to collaborate with creative people from other industries, such as TV, film, music and animation, as media technologies continue to converge.Of course, both of these are happening to a certain extent right now. Throughout the UK there are communicative clusters of development studios - Leamington, Newcastle, Cambridge - and I've heard about staff being lent from one company to another if specific skills are required. And we're already witnessing the collaboration between game artists and movie CGI experts, though these relationships tend to be based around high-profile movie tie-ins like King Kong and the forthcoming Avatar. I've also met lots of art and scriptwriting staff in the games industry who've come from movie studios.But through the TIGA program, the whole thing will be codified, developers will be able to sign up, then search for the staff they need. And it makes sense for both parties: developer A gets, say, an experienced physics programmer for a vital month, while developer B is effectively training its employee in new systems and development environments. And if the staff member was at the end of a project, they'd only be sitting there twiddling their thumbs anyway.On Monday, TIGA held an event at Westminster to announce its plans, as well as to get pertinent members of the videogame and movie communities together. There's a video of the event and its aimshere. Veteran movie producer and NESTA chairman David Puttnam is backing this move toward combining the UK creative industries, and I'm hoping to talk to him soon about his involvement.It sounds like backroom industry stuff, but it's important. Going forward into the recession, TIGA sees these initiatives as vital components of a healthy viable British games industry. The association seems confident about its chances of squeezing tax breaks from the government, but publishers need to be proactive too. Every little helps, as they say.
Here are a few of our specially-selected links from around the web.• The Effects of Prosocial Video Games on Prosocial Behaviors: International Evidence From Correlational, Longitudinal, and Experimental Studies ( Gentile et al. 35 (6): 752, Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin) &gt;&gt;psp.sagepub.com• Obama Names Video Games as Health Concern in Speech to A.M.A. (US Pres has never been a big fan) &gt;&gt;gamepolitics.com• LICENSING International Expo (Calling all characters!) &gt;&gt;licensingexpo.com• IndieCade @ E3 Roundup (all the indies featured at the AAA event) &gt;&gt;indiegames.com• MPs Creating Parliamentary Group For UK Industry &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• Games' Growth Outpaces Other Entertainment, To Reach $21.6 Billion By 2013 (in the USA) &gt;&gt;gamasutra.com• May 2009: Survey of iPhone Developers &gt;&gt;t-machine.orgAs always, you can get our picks fromdelicious.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
One of the more interesting titles on show at the recent E3 show wasAfrikafor the PS3. Afrika's beautiful safari setting and peaceful photography gameplay was in stark contrast to the sea of sci-fi shooters and hack'n slash combat on display elsewhere. This probably explains why the game has failed to find a European publisher despite being released in Japan a couple of years ago. Taking photos of giraffes or hippos is not likely to drag your average gamer away from Modern Warfare 2. But surely there has to be space in the console release list for something a little different?At least the game is now finally beingreleased in the US.  Natsume have picked up the game, describing Afrika's non-violent action and nature-orientated gameplay as being a great fit for the publisher. But what about you? Should Afrika get released in Europe? If so would PS3 owners fancy going on a virtual safari? Or should publishers just stick to the same old genres (shooter, sports etc)?
&bull; European regulators could bring in tighter rules on what informationsocial networking services can share with each other. According to theFinancial Times, an advisory group to the European Commission has recommended tough data protection rules that could scupper the plans of companies like Facebook and Google to let developers hook into their services.&bull; The excitement over low-cost personal genetic testing could be misplaced, says one leading expert. Francis Collins, former head of the National Human Genome Research Institute in America, says that three leading genomics companies gavehighly variable analyses of the diseases he could be at risk of developing. His remarks were reported in theMIT Technology Review.&bull; Today's Technology Guardian is stuffed full. Aninterview with Google co-founder Sergey Brin; how thetechnology behind hot tubscould be a key to renewable electricity; and we look at notorious hacker DVD Jon'slatest venture, DoubleTwist. All yours with today's Guardian for just 90p, plus you canread it online here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
American intelligence agencies have been accused of spying on the emails of millions of Americans, including those of former president Bill Clinton.In the latest in a series of intelligence scandals to hit Washington, details of a secretive email surveillance scheme are beginning to come to light - with fresh allegations reportedin the New York Times.The Times quotes one anonymous NSA analyst who claims that electronic messages sent to and from American citizens, and says that the former president - whose wife is now the country's secretary of state - was among those targeted by the sweep.The database system, called Pinwale, is used by America's National Security Agency to intercept and examine huge volumes of email passing through American telecommunications networks.The NSA has confirmed that Pinwale exists, although it will not comment on the latest allegations or give further details on how the system operates.The head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which has been investigating the unauthorised surveillance claims for several years, reacted to the news of Pinwale system by suggesting that nothing illegal had taken place.The news is just the latest in a long series of revelations about the extent to which America's security agencies are keeping track of ordinary people, including the controversy overwarrantless wiretaps.However Californian Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, said she had previously investigated Pinwale and believed itdid not violate the law."We asked the questions. We were assured it was not correct," Feinstein told a Judiciary Committee hearing. "I've gone over this chapter and verse. I do not believe that any content is reviewed in this program."That stance is a sharp contrast with four years ago, when Feinstein told the Senate said that she had a "very heavy heart" after learning that intelligence services had acted in contravention of laws that she had helped pass.In 2005 it emerged that President Bush had bypassed the usual process of court approval for wiretaps, encouraging NSA officials to conduct wiretaps at his command.Accused of abusing his powers, Bush later claimed it was his "constitutional responsibility" - but while Congress strongly objected, the controversy ended last year with acompromisethat effectively approved his actions and gave immunity to American telecoms companies for their role in aiding the NSA."Ordinary Americans' most private emails have been and still are being intercepted in bulk and then stored in secret NSA databases, without probable cause," said Kevin Bankston, a lawyer with the campaign group Electronic Frontier Foundation.The organisation, which is suing the government over the illegal interception of communications, said systems like Pinwale were exactly what it intended to stop."One of the remedies we're asking for in that case is the destruction of the domestic communications and records that the NSA has been illegally hoarding in databases like Pinwale."While some of the most high-profile episodes of covert government surveillance have taken place in America, it is far from alone in monitoring the activities of its citizens.Indeed, the prevalence of internet communication has encouraged governments and intelligence agencies around the world to focus. In the last week China has beenforced to drop plansto make it mandatory to install surveillance software on every PC in the country, while the Iranian authorities have clamped down on internet communications in the wake of its disputed elections.The UK government, meanwhile, intends to create a series of databaseskeeping track of every phone call, email and text message in Britain.Earlier this year eavesdropping agency GCHQdenied that it is building its own equivalent to Pinwale, after reports that the agency had already been allocated £1bn to build a system to monitor all internet use in the UK.The news in America, however, comes just weeks after President Obamasaid he would create a new office for cybersecurity- closely linked to the NSA - while vowing not to endanger people's privacy."Our pursuit of cybersecurity will not - I repeat, will not include- monitoring private sector networks or Internet traffic," he said. "We will preserve and protect the personal privacy and civil liberties that we cherish as Americans."
I use a 17 in Dell ultrasharp LCD screen, which has very good definition and allows me to read text comfortably for long periods. However, I need to be able to read two documents side by side.Alan PikeThere are two issues with displaying things on an LCD screen: the size of the screen and the number of pixels it displays. The screen size is somewhat independent of the resolution, and a 1,600 x 900 LCD might be as small as 16in or as large as 21in. Both will show exactly the same thing, but you'll get smaller text on the smaller monitor. It depends on how much space you have available, and how close you are to the screen.In your case, it's probably best to work out how many pixels you need. An A4 document takes up about 800 x 900 pixels, so to read two documents side by side, you'd want an LCD screen with a native resolution of roughly 1,600 x 900 pixels. This is common on 20in widescreens. However, you should consider going up to 1,680 x 1,050 pixels, which is more likely to be a 22in screen. This would be more comfortable for reading two A4 documents side by side.Although you can use the Display Properties applet in Windows to vary the number of pixels displayed, LCDs usually work well only at their native resolution. Other features include response speed, brightness, and contrast ratio. Some LCDs also have built-in speakers.Check that your graphics card and graphics driver are capable of doing what you need: the maximum supported resolution should be given in the specification. Displaying more pixels needs a faster graphics processor and more graphics memory, especially when using 32-bit colour. However, these ­factors are generally of more concern to gamers.You will also need to connect the monitor to your PC. LCDs often come with more than one port, and can include a DVI digital port, HDMI (which handles protected content) and VGA, the old analogue standard. A newer feature is the provision of a display port, which is a cheaper substitute for HDMI.Finally, in the days when big sharp LCD screens were very expensive, I'd probably have suggested that you bought a second 17in ultrasharp Dell LCD and used them side by side. This is not too complicated to set up if your PC has more than one output port, or you could buy a graphics card that supports two monitors. Microsoft has a useful introductory article:Two monitors are better than one. Big LCD screens are now so cheap that this is not such an attractive option.Backchat: Jim Turner says: "My 17in Dell laptop runs at 1440 x 900 and will easily display two A4 documents with 10-point type."
When I use my laptop in the kitchen, the wireless connection is always broken when I start the microwave. If I reset the network ­adaptor, it works again.Dave NullMicrowave ovens use radiation in the same waveband as Wi-Fi connections, remote control cars and many other devices. It's certainly possible for the very strong microwave signal to leak far enough to disturb relatively weak Wi-Fi transmissions, but I wouldn't have thought it would have any impact beyond about 3 metres (since radiation follows the inverse square law). It might help if you change the Wi-Fi channel as the microwave oven's frequency will be closer to some than to others. It might also help if you could use 802.11n as this is more resistant to interference. However, if you are getting a strong effect, you should probably have your microwave oven checked for radiation leaks.An article at TxTureckons you can do your own check by unplugging the oven, putting a mobile phone inside, and calling it. If the oven is really radiation proof, the phone shouldn't ring. I have no idea if this works. The traditional solution is to use an RF radiation detector.Backchat: Michael Sanders says: "He needs to get his microwave checked NOW, as this is dangerous. If the microwave is faulty he should get rid of it. If the oven isn't leaking then there is a problem with the power supply."
The government has chosen one of the country's least-excluded individuals to lead its drive to get all Britons online. Dotcom pioneer Martha Lane Fox will next week take up a two-year assignment as "champion for digital inclusion".The 36-year-old Oxford graduate, businesswoman and philanthropist cheerfully admits to being a newcomer to the debate on inclusion. However her first instinct is to focus on the "very poor" rather than tackle the whole range of exclusion. Strategies for tackling the problem are probably already out there, she says: "We need real action as opposed to more research."The idea of appointing a champion emerged last year in the first national strategy for ending the digital divide. The idea was to appoint someone who could be identified with one of the three main excluded groups: elderly people, those with disabilities, and the poor. However the search was bedevilled by a lack of candidates and later by political upheavals.Lane Fox will be backed by a taskforce of experts, including disability campaigner Kevin Carey, Tom Wright of Help the Aged and Helen Milner, head of UK Online Centres. Best known as one of the founders of Lastminute.com, Lane Fox says a car accident five years ago helped her "see technology from a different perspective". She has also become aware of the "flipside" through her Antigone Foundation, which funds charities working in healthcare and education.As the government's digital champion, she says her main strength will be an ability to "give digital inclusion projects a voice in places where they might not otherwise be heard". Those places include the top of the government: a consultation on the strategy published earlier this year found that the champion "must have the power and authority to enforce any changes that are necessary to ensure digital inclusion of the most vulnerable groups is delivered".Lane Fox says she is ready to start banging on ministers' desks - although one problem may be identifying which minister's to tackle. Britain's first and so far only cabinet minister for digital inclusion, Paul Murphy, left government in this month's reshuffle. The portfolio seems to have passed to Lord (Stephen) Carter of Barnes, but he is due to leave the government later this summer. Meanwhile, a list of 13 objectives for the new Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, makes no explicit mention of digital inclusion.
It's another of my sporadic assaults on the Java and iPhone gaming scenes, this time featuring four excellent recent releases and a selection of recommended titles from my friends atPocket Gamer...Circuit Strike.One(Publisher:Chillingo. Developer:H.Grenade Games. Platform: iPhone)Representing a highly stylised collision between Wipeout, Tron and Asteroids, Circuit Strike.One is a multi-directional shooter, set within a mainframe computer. Your job is to 'hack' your way through the security systems and destroy the data cores on every level. The central processor sends out wave after wave of AI programs to stop you, and when you blast an incoming craft you build up a bullet time meter which lets you shoot your foes in handy slow-mo.Movement is based around a realistic inertia system, so the lightest screen taps are required to pilot your virtual craft through the map. It's tricky at first, until you start to pick up the touchscreen subtly necessary to swing your ship through 360 degrees while taking out multiple incoming missiles.The visual style is the real attraction here, boasting a neon vector look, apparently influenced as much by William Gibson's concept of the Matrix as it is by Geometry Wars. Whatever, it's beautiful to look at, especially as the screen gets cluttered with enemies, missiles and circuit board environs. The audio is awesome too, layering everything from old skool modem ticks and whistles to electro beats. It won't win awards for gameplay originality, but iPhone fanatics will absolutely adore Circuit Strike.One's abundance of retro-futuristic charm.Bejewelled Twist(Publisher:Popcap. Developer: in-house. Platform: Java phones)I'm really late with this but if you still haven't sampled PopCap's latest spin on the billion-selling (that may be aslightexaggeration) Bejeled blueprint, it's definitely worth a look. Once again, you're looking to clear the screen of coloured gems by matching three or more of the same colour. This time, however, instead of switching just two gems around in each move, you get to manouver the curser over four and then rotate them to create new groupings.It's a subtle addition, but it opens up the tactical possibilities to an extraordinary degree, forcing you to think simultenously in four different directions, and allowing you to really pile on the points with some juicy combos. In addition, there are multiple power-ups including flame gems, which take out a few surrounding stones, or the much more powerful (and tricky to earn) Fruit gems, which remove everything of the same colour. Learning how to maximize each move to get the most colour combinations possible with each rotation is the skill of the game, and those who dismiss Bejeweled as a fluffy casual title are completely underestimating the challenge. This is, as it always was, engrossing and beautifully designed handheld fare.Go! Go! Rescue Squad(Publisher:Connect2Media. Developer: in-house. Platform: Java, iPhone)I've mentioned this delightfully cute little puzzler before, but it's just been released on iPhone which is a good enough excuse to draw your attention to it once again. Go! Go! Rescue Squad is a classic British 2D puzzler, managing to combine elements of Lemmings and Worms into a genuinely tricky and engaging experience. You control a team of fire fighters who must rescue victims from a series of deadly infernos. Individual fires can be put out by picking up and lobbing extinguishers at them – which is a simple act via the touchscreen interface, although aiming can be tricky, especially if you get the lobbing icon to close too your own character, confusing the system and making for a frustrating fiddly few minutes of precise finger jabbing.Terrified civilians can also be chucked around the screen to get them to exit points, or to pass them to another member of your team, who you can then take control of to continue the rescue effort. Each puzzle requires you to work out exactly how your men, and the people you're there to save can be moved around the screen to avoid anyone getting stuck in an area with no ladders or escape doors. As with Lemmings, there's lots of forward planning, but impulsive acts can be scrubbed thanks to the game's generous rewind system.It's another challenging, pleasantly conceived title, with great level design that invites and usually rewards creative thinking.Brain Exercise with Dr. Kawashima(Publisher:Namco. Developer:Gamelion. Platform; Java, iPhone)Namco's iPhone rendering of the well-trodden brain training genre is familiar, yet slickly designed and as involving as ever. Players can chose to take on a daily selection of brain-improving puzzles, or opt for off-piste challenges whenever they feel the need. There's also a sudoku sim to unlock, adding to the impulse gaming possibilities.The selection of tasks, naturally taking in logic, memory, arithmetic and so on, are nicely presented and challenging, especially with the time gauge zooming down at the right of the screen. At anytime you can check out your profile, which provides a graph of your progress over the weeks, plus other data - it's also possible to upload your results to an online scoreboard.If you haven't got anything similar on DS or mobile, this is neat and tidy addition to the brain training craze is an absolute must. Incidentally, the developer, Gamelion, is currently working on an interesting WiiWare platform adventure namedFurry Legends, which looks a little like Loco Roco, but with a more 3D visual feel.Pocket Gamer recommendsEvery month I ask Pocket Gamer's Jon Mundy to give us the site's favourite mobile, iPhone and Android titles. Here's the June selection...The Sims 3 (Java/iPhone)"Whether it's kicking over your neighbour's rubbish bin or breaking in and watching them sleep, the scope for mischief in Sims 3 is immense."Peggle (iPhone)"All you do is fire a ball into a field of pins and watch it bounce around. So why can't I stop playing the thing?"Puzzle Bobble Evolution (Java)"Here's another game about aiming and firing balls, but this time it's all about precision. An excellent revision of an arcade classic."Ragdoll Blaster (iPhone)"This charming slice of physics-oriented gameplay has you firing ragdolls at a target. It's all rendered in a brilliant sketch-book style, too."TowerMadness (iPhone)"One of the fresher tower defence games on the App Store, TowerMadness tasks you with defending your sheep from an alien invasion."
Once upon a time, I recommended Streamload, which was an online media site – or, as we'd now say, cloud computing service. The idea was you uploaded your movies, MP3 files and photos so you could stream them to wherever you happened to be. It was fast and cheap: you got 10GB and then 25GB of space for nothing, and monthly subscribers had unlimited storage space for peanuts. How could you lose?Things didn't work out. Streamload changed its software a couple of times, making it dramatically worse. As a cloud user, you have no choice about this; the service provider can do whatever it likes. Then Streamload moved to a different platform and turned into MediaMax, and a lot of Streamload users lost access to lots of data. (It seems the engineers accidentally deleted half the data, and not all of it could be recovered.) There was an online petition but, ultimately,users found that they were simply powerless.MediaMax then decided to close down, giving users a limited amount of time to retrieve whatever they hadn't backed up. Alternatively, they might be able to move it to a paying service, TheLinkUp, with social networking features. That didn't work out either. One of the investors, Charlie Jackson, left a comment on TechCrunch to say that:"MediaMax/TheLinkUp … ran out of money, and not having a viable business anymore, had to shut down."If you'd been uploading 1-2GB a month to Streamload/MediaMax over, say, five years, you could have lost between 60GB and 120GB of data. You would have been much better off spending your $5 or $10 a month on CD-Rs and an external hard drive.All of which reminded me of the problems we had with centralised mainframes. They were also a pain because IT staff could change your applications without asking, and sometimes you couldn't get at your data because the comms links were down, your logon had mysteriously failed, or they'd accidentally deleted it (aka "moved it offline"). Tough. That was why so many people were keen to adopt personal computers when they started to appear in the late 1970s. It was like replacing an inflexible, dysfunctional rail service with your own car, and learning to drive was fun.However, if you still think cloud computing is a panacea, rememberSchofield's first law of computing, which says: never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out. With a cloud-based system you should really be able to shift your gigabytes or terabytes of data to another service without downloading it all, reformatting and ­re-uploading. Good luck with that.I was discussing this problem with Russian-born Serguei Beloussov, the chief executive of Parallels, a company that makes most of its money from cloud-computing software. He said ­people used banks because there were laws and standards that allowed you to move your money easily from one to another. The cloud doesn't have similar laws and standards for moving data.It's important because most cloud-computing companies will go bust, just the same as mainframe computer companies, minicomputer companies and PC suppliers went bust. And, if you're not careful, they're going to take your data down with them.Beloussov likes Amazon but says Google and Microsoft are scary, particularly Google, because "Google is trying to be the ultimate cloud computer" and doesn't work with partners. Well, if someone else has all your data in their cloud, Google might not be able to search it."Google is like an ultimate evil empire," says Beloussov. "They say 'Don't be evil'. What if they decide to be evil and they have all of your data on an unregulated Google server?" The answer: you'll do what Google, Microsoft or your cloud vendor says. If you're not careful, you won't have a choice.
Forget expensive high-tech silver bullets such as nuclear fusion and carbon capture and storage; the solution to climate change lies in the humble electric immersion heater that sits in the hot water tank under your stairs. That's the view of Dr Mark Barrett, senior researcher at the UCL Energy Institute, who will present his analysis at a meeting in the House of Commonson 18 June .A tank with an immersion heater may be just an oversized kettle, but there are thought to be around 19m in Britain's homes, which collectively have the ­capacity to store huge amounts of energy as hot water. And this could be key to achieving an almost wholly renewable electricity supply.Dr Barrett says the heaters could be switched on and off rapidly to compensate for the erratic output of wind turbines and solar panels, each heater controlled by a gadget that responds to signals sent through the electricity grid – a system used since the second world war. "Everybody is always looking for a shiny new silver-bullet solution" says Dr Barrett, "but this idea is cheap, safe, and based on technology that's been around for decades".Tea-time troublesRenewables are a problem for the grid, as currently configured, because supply has to match unfettered demand minute-by-minute. In Britain power consumption ranges between about 20GW and 60GW (gigawatts) depending on season and time of day. But unlike coal- and gas-fired power stations, wind turbines and solar panels are "non-dispatchable", meaning they cannot be cranked up at a moment's notice during half-time in the cup final if the nation is gasping for tea. This limits the proportion of renewables that can be absorbed into the grid – although the level of that ceiling is hotly debated.But renewables are only a problem when demand is taken as the given. If demand could be actively managed as well, a far greater proportion of renewables could be absorbed, slashing carbon emissions and raising energy security. And that's where the immersion heaters come in.Dr Barrett explains that 19m domestic tanks, each fitted with a standard 3kW (kilowatt) immersion heater, would provide over 55GW of potentially flexible demand, which could be adjusted to suit the output of renewable generators. The immersion controller would ensure the water temperature stays above a set minimum – so the house would never be without a hot shower – but within a range of 45C-65C the grid would be in control. Along with hot-water storage in commercial buildings, this would provide balancing capacity greater than peak consumption today, and is a key feature of the computer model Dr Barrett has devised to investigate how Britain could best achieve a high proportion of renewable power.The model assumes a massive increase in wind and solar capacity; smaller amounts of wave, tidal and hydro; expanded interconnectors to France; and increased electricity storage such as the Dinorwig pumped storage facility in Wales. Existing fossil fuel stations are "mothballed" for use only as a last resort. Using a range of hourly demand forecasts and weather data, the model has shown Britain could on average generate 95% of its electricity consumption from renewables.In this system, hot-water storage is crucial for balancing supply and demand: when renewable generation exceeds demand, the surplus is exported to the continent, and used to recharge electrical storage and hot water tanks; when demand exceeds renewable generation, the shortfall is made up by turning off water heaters, drawing on electricity storage and imports, and firing up old fossil fuel stations.Dr Barrett claims the immersion heaters could be controlled using a system called ripple control, where high-frequency pulses are sent through the mains and received by a device on each water heater that turns power off and on as required. The system has been used for decades in New Zealand, where the grid company can now reduce peak demand by about 13%, and so defer expensive investments in new power stations. In Florida, where the local power company has struggled to cope with demand caused by a 50-year housing boom, 700,000 customers receive a monthly rebate for handing over control of their hot water heaters, and the utility has avoided building a 1GW power station as a result. In South Africa, ripple control is being introduced to prevent a repeat of the rolling blackouts that crippled the country last year.Peak practiceExperts warn balancing the entire grid in real time is massively more complicated than occasionally reducing peak demand, and question whether ripple control could do the job. Dr Graeme Bathurst, technical director of the Manchester-based grid consultancy TNEI, says that different numbers of water heaters would need to be turned on and off every minute of the day, yet a traditional ripple-control system – which only transmits instructions, and cannot receive information from water tanks – would not know how much flexible capacity was available at any moment, nor how many heaters to control. "There is massive potential in heat storage, and this concept is eminently achievable," says Bathurst, "but I think it will need a more intelligent system to make it work".Dr Barrett argues that the aggregate heat demand of 20m households would be fairly predictable, but concedes that a modern interactive system would be better. He says it is vital the new "smart meters" the government plans to install in every home by 2020 should be capable of controlling hot-water storage. "But this isn't rocket science," says Dr Barrett. "It is quite clear we can go hell for leather installing renewables because we can deal with intermittency using heat storage."• David Strahan is the author ofThe Last Oil Shock: A Survival Guide to the Imminent Extinction of Petroleum Man
Ordnance Survey has a new challenger: a privately owned company that aims to provide local authorities and private companies with large-scale topographic mapping and an address database for British cities, created entirely separately of the government-owned agency.UKMap, set up by The GeoInformation Group, has a ­five-year plan to map more than 500 towns and cities covering all UK urban areas with a population of more than 10,000, which would cover roughly 24,000 sq km in the UK. Its first products will be available from ­September. The company says that it will aim to keep its costs equal to or below those of Ordnance Survey for maps at a given scale and for a particular use.UKMap is captured at 1:1000 scale, and includes 3D information about ­buildings, road detail such as pavements, lane markings, pedestrian crossings and speed bumps. "The technology changes of the past few years have made the creation of UKMap not only technically feasible but commercially viable," said Seppe ­Cassettari, chief executive of The ­GeoInformation Group.Ed Parsons, former chief technology officer at OS and now in charge of mapping at Google UK – who also knows the founders of UKMaps personally – commented that the focus on specific cities "is a sound economic move reflecting the realities of the potential market … Key for many potential users will be more flexible licensing terms than offered by the OS, in particular a clear definition of derived data rights." Derived data is that created with reference to another piece of intellectual property, such as a map; OS has been strict about preventing the re-use of data plotted on OS maps, for example to create mashups on Google Maps.UKMap is not free, and is not being produced by a government-owned agency. But its arrival means there are now three organisations vying to produce maps of the UK: Ordnance Survey, which derives roughly half its income from licences by taxpayer-funded organisations; OpenStreetMap, a volunteer effort using advances in GPS technology to create a "wikimap" used by some local authorities (and by the Guardian for its Open Platform offering); and now The GeoInformation Group. That is a challenge at once to the OS's commercial model and to its free or low-cost OpenSpace API, putting huge pressure on the "trading fund" model to which it moved in April 1999.UKMaps' effectiveness in winning ­customers may determine how OS develops – which could have long-term implications not just for free data, but for mapping in the UK generally.•Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog
The Cool-er and the BeBook are a pair of e-readers with much in common beyond the eccentric formatting of their names. Each is built around an e-paper screen, which gives you text comfortably readable at odd angles and in direct sunlight, without the glare that can tire you out reading a normal screen, but with a noticeable blink every time it updates. Each has a plastic casing that makes it lighter but also slightly thicker than the metal-cased Sony Reader – probably the most heavily supported device of this sort in the UK. Each handles a good range of basic file types: text, PDF, Adobe's epub ebook format. From there, however, things diverge.The Cool-er has created significant chatter for its style – lighter than its rivals, eight case colour options, a single stark control on the front; the phrase used is "an iPod for books". Close up, it looks less stunning: the case is a somewhat flimsy-feeling metal-effect plastic, perhaps one of the least cool materials available to gadget manufacturers, with big, ugly logos front and back. And that single control – actually four directional buttons and a central one – has its drawbacks. Navigating an interface on e-paper can be sluggish at the best of times. When you have to scroll through menus click by click, it's worse. There are additional buttons on the sides for some options – call up main menu, flip page from portrait to landscape, volume controls. But to change text size you have to burrow down to the bottom of a menu labelled font family. The handy and unusual power to choose between justified and left-aligned text is hiding, even less logically, under status option. You can sort your books by file name, file type or date, but seemingly not by book title or author, and options for skipping through a long list are limited.The Cool-er has a dedicated online bookshop offering more than 300,000 titles at a straight 25% off list price, and is said to support epub files with DRM enabled, the format about which British publishers are most enthusiastic. In practice, this may not allow you to range as far as you'd expect from the dedicated store – my two attempts to make it work with epub-formatted books from Waterstone's failed. The selection at coolerbooks.co.uk, while wide, is far from comprehensive, and tilts American – it might be wise to have a browse there before shelling out for a Cool-er.The BeBook, available in any colour so long as it's charcoal-grey, is marginally heavier and wider than the Cool-er, although its screen size is much the same. With 13 buttons on the front, it gains in usability what it loses in elegance: you can skip through the menus with ease, text resizes with a single click, and there are two sets of page-turning buttons, for comfort left- or right-handed. Epub is supported, but not the DRM-friendly encrypted version – instead you are offered support for MobiPocket, a format with a significant following among PDA users. MyBeBook.com also offers a big pile of free public-domain books – mainly Project Gutenberg etexts, from my browsing – in PDFs nicely sized for the BeBook screen. Unless you are a die-hard MobiPocket fan, however, there's little to make it a compelling offer at the current £249 UK price tag. The Cool-er, by way of contrast, is £189 – and the Sony Reader, with its slimmer, more solid metal case, a much more sensible interface, and the backing of Waterstone's, is £199 in some places. Until Amazon manages to bring the Kindle over here – if it ever does – the Sony remains the one to beat.Pros:Cool-er has many options to&nbsp;customise text; BeBook has MobiPocket supportCons:Cool-er has a clunky interface; BeBook UK price is too highcoolreaders.com  mybebook.com
The bigger pictureI use a 17 in Dell ultrasharp LCD screen, which has very good definition and allows me to read text comfortably for long periods. However, I need to be able to read two documents side by side.Alan PikeJS:There are two issues with displaying things on an LCD screen: the size of the screen and the number of pixels it displays. The screen size is somewhat independent of the resolution, and a 1,600 x 900 LCD might be as small as 16in or as large as 21in. Both will show exactly the same thing, but you'll get smaller text on the smaller monitor. It depends on how much space you have available, and how close you are to the screen.In your case, it's probably best to work out how many pixels you need. An A4 document takes up about 800 x 900 pixels, so to read two documents side by side, you'd want an LCD screen with a native resolution of roughly 1,600 x 900 pixels. This is common on 20in widescreens. However, you should consider going up to 1,680 x 1,050 pixels, which is more likely to be a 22in screen. This would be more comfortable for reading two A4 documents side by side. Although you can use the Display Properties applet in Windows to vary the number of pixels displayed, LCDs usually work well only at their native resolution. Other features include response speed, brightness, and contrast ratio. Some LCDs also have built-in speakers.Check that your graphics card and graphics driver are capable of doing what you need: the maximum supported resolution should be given in the specification. Displaying more pixels needs a faster graphics processor and more graphics memory, especially when using 32-bit colour. However, these ­factors are generally of more concern to gamers. You will also need to connect the monitor to your PC. LCDs often come with more than one port, and can include a DVI digital port, HDMI (which handles protected content) and VGA, the old analogue standard. A newer feature is the provision of a display port, which is a cheaper substitute for HDMI.Finally, in the days when big sharp LCD screens were very expensive, I'd probably have suggested that you bought a second 17in ultrasharp Dell LCD and used them side by side. This is not too complicated to set up if your PC has more than one output port, or you could buy a graphics card that supports two monitors. Microsoft has a useful introductory article,"Two monitors are better than one. Big LCD screens are now so cheap that this is not such an attractive option.Microwave interferenceWhen I use my laptop in the kitchen, the wireless connection is always broken when I start the microwave. If I reset the network ­adaptor, it works again.Dave NullJS:Microwave ovens use radiation in the same waveband as Wi-Fi connections, remote control cars and many other devices. It's certainly possible for the very strong microwave signal to leak far enough to disturb relatively weak Wi-Fi transmissions, but I wouldn't have thought it would have any impact beyond about 3 metres (since radiation follows the inverse square law). It might help if you change the Wi-Fi channel as the microwave oven's frequency will be closer to some than to others. It might also help if you could use 802.11n as this is more resistant to interference. However, if you are getting a strong effect, you should probably have your microwave oven checked for radiation leaks.An article at TxTureckons you can do your own check by unplugging the oven, putting a mobile phone inside, and calling it. If the oven is really radiation proof, the phone shouldn't ring. I have no idea if this works. The traditional solution is to use an RF radiation detector.Setting default emailerWhen I try to email photos from My Pictures (and when using other Office&nbsp;applications), my PC opens ­Outlook whereas I prefer to use ­Outlook&nbsp;Express. How do I configure it&nbsp;so that Outlook Express is the default&nbsp;emailer?David HoadleyJS:One way to set the default email program in Windows XP is to go to the Control Panel and run the applet called Internet Options. Click the Programs tab and, next to Email, pick whichever program you want from the drop-down list. Click OK to exit. Vista users have a different Control Panel applet called Set your default programs.Backchat• Ray Stephens wanted an MP3 player that plays tracks from iTunes without the DRM (digital rights management). On the Ask Jack blog, Webweasel pointed out that if he has already bought tracks with DRM, his iTunes account will have the option "to upgrade them to higher quality (unlocked) AAC files for 20p per track (or thereabouts). This would be preferable to the alternative method which is to burn them to an audio CD (using iTunes) and re-rip them as MP3s and involves a certain ­degradation of sound quality."
At the end of this week iPhone fans will have the chance to buy one of Apple'snew 3GS handsets, but today those who don't want to fork out for a new phone can download the software - the iPhone operating system 3.0 - instead.Despite the false rumour -regrettably propagated by me- that the release was being delayed (and, man, am I sorry for jumping the gun and spreading that piece of misinformation) the iPhone 3.0 software is now out and reports are starting to come in of people using it in the wild. Be careful, though: our ownAleks Krotoskisays attempting the update bricked her phone.But enough caveats, what does it actually do?You can look through some of the details inour handy gallery, but the basics include multimedia messaging, cut and paste, push notifications and an enhanced development kit that opens more of the device to programmers.Useful updates, all - but it's interesting that they arein the software. You can buy a 3GS on Friday, and get the added power, but you'll get be able to do pretty much everything it can by downloading a free bit of kit from Apple.That's a point put forward by America's pre-eminent gadget reviewer,Walt Mossberg from the Wall Street Journal, who says that although "power users will crave the new model's much-better performance, battery life, storage and other features" that most of the improvements are available to everyone:Current iPhone owners can get an improved product by merely sticking with their existing phones and upgrading to the feature-laden new operating systemSome advances are held back for the 3GS: video recording, voice control, digital compass. But the changes that are important to most people are not exclusive to the new handset - which begs the question of whether people will be willing to pay thehigher prices charged by O2.(Arguments that O2 is treating its customers poorly are only likely to increase after the news that American network AT&amp;T isslashing the price of an upgradefor existing subscribers)Pay double the price and you get a handset with more punch - but the fundamental stuff is just the same. Will you be sticking with the less expensive 3G model?
Shoppers at Apple's flagship store in the heart of San Francisco were treated to a surprise last week - not an appearance by Steve Jobs, or even the new iPhone, but a strange advert that appeared on the side of the building.Promising "the cure for iPhone envy", the ad offered shoppers the chance to get "your iTunes library on any device. In seconds."For most, teasing Apple on its home turf could be a solitary, fleeting moment of fame. But doubleTwist, the company behind the stunt, is no stranger to controversy.The Californian startup boasts one of the world's most notorious hackers among its founders, the Norwegian whiz-kid Jon Lech Johansen. Better known as DVD Jon, he cracked the movie industry's anti-piracy codes in 1999, enabling anybody to copy DVDs straight onto their computer. This put him at the top of Hollywood's most-wanted list and in 2002 (aged just 19) he went on trial in Oslo.In the end, Johansen was found not guilty of computer crime, but it is clear that he's not yet finished thumbing his nose at the establishment."I suppose our two biggest competitors are Apple on the one hand and Microsoft on the other," says Monique Farantzos, the former physicist who co-founded doubleTwist with Johansen. "What we're building is a neutral platform that works with any device or content."Transfer policyThe company's premise is straightforward: that you should be able to take your music, videos and other files and transfer them easily between any of the vast array of gadgets on sale today - iPods, mobile phones, digital cameras, laptops and games consoles.Right now, they suggest, people get frustrated and confused by software that either locks them in to one provider or just doesn't work across different gadgets."iTunes is pretty good at what it does, but from a consumer perspective it doesn't do everything," says Johansen, when we meet at the company's small, chaotic offices. "If you have anything you've downloaded from the net, iTunes doesn't support it. That's where we come in."The software is heavily based around Johansen's work breaking down a variety of copy-protection systems - as well as breaking the DVD encryption (known as DeCSS), he was the first to reverse-engineer Apple's Fairplay digital rights mechanism.Although it might seem a niche market, the company is betting that people want to be able to make better use of their technology. And it's an idea that has drawn in big backers: doubleTwist has raised $10m in funding from a variety of investors, including the former Disney chief Michael Ovitz, the Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing and the venture capital groups Northzone and Index.In fact, the investors have been so enthusiastic that it was they who initially convinced the company to get started - plucking Johansen and Farantzos out of their technology consulting business to join Silicon Valley's startup scene."Index Ventures seduced us," says Farantzos. "We met some of their other companies and looked at what they did - and then they convinced us to go into software." Since then, their moves have read like something from the Official Web 2.0 Strategy Guide: build a popular company first and then try to make money later."We believe that, with a very powerful free application, you can layer on top of it with various products and services that people will buy," says Farantzos. That includes adding more media to the service - movie trailers, podcast support and backup systems that help people keep copies of their media library in the cloud. Plus they intend to make plenty of deals along the way to make doubleTwist the media-management software of choice for all sorts of devices.Although the company won't say how many times its software has been downloaded, the duo claim to be in negotiations with a number of mobile phone companies and networks to have doubleTwist software shipped with new handsets (allowing people to move their iPod libraries over). Expanding in this way is not cheap, says Farantzos, who confirms they are looking at ambitious expansion plans that will burn through their most recent $5m investment within a couple of years. "We're going to keep on investing. It's better to spend during a recession," she says. "You can make advances while other people are slowing down."At ease with the establishmentBut wouldn't most companies quake at dealing with someone with DVD Jon's reputation for rubbing the establishment up the wrong way?"We haven't had any problems so far: it's only been a benefit, it's opened doors for us," says Johansen. "When I think about the great software companies, they were started by hackers." True: but for every great hacker-turned-entrepreneur success story, there are also many failures. One that springs to mind is Napster - another industry-threatening technology whose teenage founder, Shawn Fanning, fell foul of the establishment.While Fanning has made a moderate success of his post-Napster enterprises (the digital download system Snocap and the gaming service Rupture) it has been far from the stellar career that many predicted in the late 1990s. Turning infamy into profit is not easy for anyone. However, the experienced investor Fred Destin, a partner with Atlas Ventures, says that having a bit of history can still be a bonus for entrepreneurs - and not just because it gives them notoriety.He is not linked to doubleTwist, but believes that sometimes the best entrepreneurs are those who walk the legal tightrope."We back disruption," Destin told the Guardian. "Very often technology evolves faster than the legal framework, and hence we can find ourselves on the wrong side of the law." He points to the example of the video site DailyMotion, where he is a board member, which has faced a number of court cases in its native France."Creating jurisprudence or getting laws changed is part of how we bring about change; so it's not illogical for us to sometimes find ourselves, or our companies, in court." Whichever side of the hacker story doubleTwist falls, it is still clear that Johansen still thrills from getting one over on the big boys.Every time a new device or a fresh version of some copy-protection mechanism is released, the 25-year-old and his team concentrate on cracking it, usually succeeding within a few minutes."You have to hold a bit of that maverick streak in you, both as an entrepreneur and a venture capitalist," says Destin.
Given the reaction to Sir Alan Sugar's elevation to the peerage, and to a somewhat nebulous role in Lord Vold … Mandelson's Department for Business and Nearly Everything Else, it's just as well that Sir Tim Berners-Lee – at the time of writing, not ennobled – doesn't have a TV show. Not even one teaching us to do ­semantic web analysis. (Though it could be a late-night hit, rather like those programmes with Ian McNaught-Davis about the BBC Micro back in the 1980s.)That means Sir Tim does have a slightly better chance of inveigling himself into the machinery of government, where Gordon Brown has tasked him with getting government-collected data into more accessible forms, and hence available to more of us.If successful, Sir Tim could have a far more dramatic effect on our daily lives than Sir Alan, whose task – if I've understood it correctly – seems to be to drive around the country stirring up small businesses, perhaps by making them wash lots of cars while Margaret Mountford looks skywards.Sir Tim nailed his colours to the mastin a riveting talk to the TED series earlier this year, where he built onHans Rosling's already thrilling work at Gapminder(Uncovering global inequalities through innovative statistics, 11 January 2007, ) to emphasise the value of getting data out there into the hands of people who can think of useful, innovative, imaginative things to do with it; he got the audience to chant "Raw data now! Raw data now!"It worked for MPs' expenses. It could work for so much other data: just let us get our hands on it.The announcement last week was swallowed up in a long Brown address to parliament about reforms of MPs' expenses (they'll go on the internet – heavliy redacted, we're guessing) which does show that gradually, the message about making our data available to us – as we've been pushing with the Free Our Data campaign, augmented by Adrian Short's related Mash The State campaign (which focuses on local government)– is getting through.Brown's announcement drew an enthusiastic response from Tom Watson, the recently departed cabinet office minister: "To get the PM giving his personal endorsement and Sir Tim ensuring the establishment of interoperable standards will ensure that this important part of the country's future will advance at a much quicker pace. I'm ­absolutely delighted and hope they start with Ordnance ­Survey." Well, we can hope.Our Freedom of Information Act request to OS, asking that it explain its peculiarly convenient study affirming its slight rejig of its ­financial model, must be replied to by 23 June. We're on tenterhooks.Jack Straw also says he's looking to push freedom of information to include organisations that get government money – which might include various "agencies" that have an arm's-length relationship with government but collect essential data we could all use. That would be welcome, and Sir Tim might look, for ­example, at the Environment Agency, which has used its agency status to swerve away from the suggestion that its data should be accessible as a public good.There's a definite change of attitude within the civil service to making data available. And it will be interesting to see how much more weight is given in the new scheme of things to the Office for Public ­Sector Information (OPSI), led by Carol Tullo, ably evangelised by John Sheridan, and reporting to Natalie Ceeney at National Archives. If Sir Tim wants a suggestion for his agenda, talking to those three people should be right at the top of his list.Such as the one that emerged fromSir Tim's chat with the BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones. Sir Tim pointed to a mashup of bicycle accidents using statistics from the Department of Transport. Except someone – not me – then pointed out in the comments that the mashup must breach Ordnance Survey's rules on "derived data" (data plotted on an OS map re-plotted on a non-OS map). What a tangled web we have woven, indeed.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk
Many media organisations, ranging from blogs to newspapers, recently reported a story about a small microwave oven that could allegedly be powered as a laptop computer attachment. The physical implausibility of the tale – as told – went widely unremarked, which is a revealing lesson in incentives.One standard for attaching a device to a computer is universal serial bus (USB). This provides for supplying appliances with a small amount of power. There are various gadgets, such as lights or fans, which take advantage of USB power. These often don't have much to do with computing, but they can be nice accessories, especially when travelling with a laptop.So when a press releaseproclaimed the ability of the Beanzawaveto make "favourite hot snacks ... by just plugging the microwave into the USB port", the legend of the USB-powered microwave was served up. This idea would appeal to gadget lovers and business travellers, which was precisely the ­correct demographic to ensure that it would be written about extensively.But anyone who had even a passing technical familiarity with the systems involved should know it couldn't be true. And that doesn't require being a professor, merely some basic critical thinking. Ordinary microwave ovens can consume 1,100W. USB might supply up to 2.5W. Even without knowing the latter number specifically, it's easy to realise a USB port supplies a comparatively tiny amount of power, given the typical limitations of what peripherals can run just from USB power. The scales simply don't match, by two orders of magnitude.Upon inquiry, Gordon Andrews, the technologist behind the device, clarified: "The USB port is used for control purposes only. [The] oven is powered by appropriate-sized lithium-ion batteries, which can be mains supplied and/or recharged ... I assure you we have sufficient power to effectively heat small type hand-snack food products."Yet the simplistic version – USB microwaves! – was echoed extensively, with little correction. While it's easy to dismiss the matter as a tempest in a beanpot, the process sheds light on some deep issues of media evolution.In tracing the epidemiology of the story (patient zero being the press release), I was struck by how, time after time in sites that had comments, someone would point out the problems with energy requirements. But, contrary to evangelists who might claim those comments as proof of the superiority of their hobbyhorse (whether blogs, crowds, commenting, or the internet in general), the corrections were essentially ineffectual. Relatively few people plough through such discussions, as it's tedious and time-consuming to separate any wisdom from ranting. And while the website owners had the ability to update what they had posted, there was no incentive to do so.This isn't about bloggers v journalists.A major early vector of inaccuracy here was a story in the Daily Mail. Rather, it's a case study of how the supposed new ecosystem of journalism isn't developing the better correction mechanisms that are often predicted (if not outright assumed despite all the evidence to the contrary). Knowledgeable writers trying to debunk widely echoed material are simply shouting to the wind if they do notreceive the notice of a gatekeeper (http.One of the rhetorical tricks of hucksters is to confuse and conflate the possibility of something occurring with its probability. You could win the ­lottery – but you almost certainly won't. It is long past time that hand-waving about how things might happen was replaced by awareness of what does.There's an old joke: in heaven the police are British, the mechanics German, the cooks French, the lovers Italian, and the Swiss organise it. In hell the police are German, the mechanics French, the cooks British, the lovers Swiss, and the Italians organise it. An internet version might be: in theory, topic experts would supply our information, social networks would connect us for common humanity, and Google would organise it for authority. In practice, we get our information from the most attention-driven sites, social networks bundle us for marketing, and Google organises it for ad sales.As more new media promoters and consultants advocate an overall online journalistic model focused on gathering links and search-engine traffic, and then attempting to monetise page views by advertising, it's worth keeping in mind that such a system corrosively values popularity over accuracy.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Archos enters mini-PC marketThe French media-player company is introducing a range of PCs including a netbook and a Culv-based notebook.Net worthThe Internet Advertising Bureau (IAB) has published a study highlighting the value of the internet to American jobs.You'll be phishedA YouGov survey says 88% of UK web users can't spot phishing sites.Vanity, fairGoogle and Facebook are offering "vanity addresses" based on real names. SocialToo is doing it too.Tiny locationFirebox says the Ecco GPS Keychain is the world's smallest GPS device.Get in the zoneIn Europe, Sony is launching vidzone to deliver music videos to its PS3 console.Tags in commonFed up with inconsistency, Yahoo and others are promoting Common Tag, an open format for the semantic web.Sync more stuffSyncables' software sees data synced between Windows, Mac and Linux PCs via cables, Wi-Fi or USB memory sticks.iPhone standThe Crabble is a small fold-up stand to support an iPhone so you don't have to hold it to view content.
When Valve announced an imminent sequel to last year's popular zombie blaster, Left 4 Dead, it surely expected an excited response in PC gaming ­circles. What it got was a livid backlash from a section of the series' fanbase, leading to the creation of anonline boycott sitethat claims around 27,000 signatures. The organisers of the revolt argue that the sequel, planned for release in November, is coming out too soon, that it will "split the community" and that it will lead to the abandonment of support for the ­original. Valve has released an official denial assuring ­gamers that it will ­continue to release add-ons and updates for the first title. The parties have reached an impasse.Valve is discovering that "hardcore" gamers are unlike other consumers. Not only are they passionate, they're conspiratorial – and connected. Through online multiplayer servers, clans, guilds, and forums, they have built vast virtual ­communities that are quick to act aggressively and in unison. EA discovered this last year when it sought to implement a digital rights management (DRM) system in game releases such as Spore and Mass Effect, which would have required online authentication of each game every 10 days. A group of consumers filed a class-action lawsuit against EA alleging that the SecuROM copy-protection technology at the heart of the system was effectively spyware. EA backed down and made cuts to its DRM implementation, but 'hardcore' gamers, who have always despised EA for its treatment of games development as a money-making venture (the swines), remain indignant.These sorts of issues are going to become more common as the traditional demarcations between consumer and supplier dissolve. These days, most game creators come from the gaming community and feel a strong bond with their customers. Indeed, with most titles selling themselves on their multiplayer functionality, building and engaging with an active user base is a vital element. Community managers, once considered rather junior administrators,  have become important semi-official spokespeople for major studios. At the same time, most game releases are proceeded by public beta testing or playable demos, so fan communities are acting as extremely useful – and free – QA testers. Then you've got user-generated content. Valve has recruited many staff from the modding community, who've contributed to the success of the company with titles like Counter Strike and Day of Defeat, both of which originated as fan projects. So consumers are now developers too.This is the problem. Although 27,000 people represents a drop in the sales ocean for Valve (Left 4 Dead shifted over 2.5m copies), it's probable that this enraged enclave represents some of the company's most ardent fans. These are the guys who populate the game severs at all hours, who publicise new add-ons, who feed the major game news sites and fuel the global network of vociferous gaming blogs desperate for controversy. And now, with PS3's virtual society, Home, and the Xbox 360 implementations of social media, the major console manufacturers are building for their own consumers, the apparatus for mass protest. Community is chaos, and as Valve has discovered, you can never be too sure which way the wind will blow when the butterfly beats its wings.
Don't worry if it takes a moment to make up your mind: the internet certainly thinks you should. Two weeks ago the relaunch of Microsoft's Live Search service as Bing.com came not just with a new name, but a new purpose too: this was not simply a traditional search engine like Google but, said Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer, a "decision engine".Fine words – and prescient, it seems, given that another website describing itself in that way launched this week: the New York-based Hunch.com, which has its own spin on the world of online decision-making. Where Bing – despite its chest-puffery – offers decisions based largely on a Googlesque list of search results, Hunch finds out more about you before it answers your query. Arrive on the site and you'll be asked a series of questions that help it work out what sort of person you are – and what results you will want.It's a crossbreed of the popular "which X are you?" online quiz, and a sequence of flow diagrams that get you from an intended action to a result. Start with "Which Coen brothers movie do you want to watch?", for example, and you're led through questions like "do you like George Clooney?" and "comedy or drama?", before answering.It's like speed dating by algorithm, even if the method is a little simple at the moment (five questions to pick one film from the Coen's 13-strong oeuvre seems like overkill). The team behind Hunch has good credentials – formed by a team of computer scientists from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology – but it's getting an extra boost thanks to the previous activities of another founder, Caterina Fake, who co-founded Flickr in 2004.In keeping with Flickr's user-friendly interface, Hunch is a well-designed, smooth ride that leads users through the process in a straightforward, charming way. It's got some impressive stats already, boasting over 2,400 questions and 50,000 possible outcomes that ­harness users' collective intelligence.That's just the beginning, though: the system is built to get smarter as more people use it, choosing matches for your tastes from an increasing pool of individuals. The idea is to build up the ­precision over time, pinpointing your tastes much sooner and predicting what you might want to know much faster.If it becomes popular, the result should be something like Last.fm, but for anything – a clever mathematical matchmaker that provides a postmodern update of Amazon's "people who bought this item also looked at this" recommendation system.As with all sites reliant on users to create the material, long-term success or failure will depend on how many ­people start using Hunch. However, given that the financial climate is reminiscent of concrete – tough, grey and utterly depressing – helping confused ­consumers make decisions could be a useful selling point.
It was Rupert Murdoch who summed up success in the digital age when he said: "Big will not beat small any more - it will be the fast beating the slow." That might be inspiring for startups, but in the process-laden, corporate environment, how can big companies keep their edge by moving quickly and lightly? This has become something of an obsession for Google watchers, who have seen the college research project develop into a multi-billion-dollar phenomenon, stretching from mobile software and blogging to social networking and the ubiquitous search. How does a company with 20,000 staff manage to keep innovating?Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder, thinks size should help. "It's important for people to realise that you should benefit from the scale - if you're not benefiting then you're doing something wrong, and might as well break up into lots of little things. Instead of having our employees in large buildings, we could have several thousand houses each with a garage - there's nothing stopping us from doing that. But the fact is that as we scale, we should be able to take advantage of that. Look at how many colleagues can you talk about a specific issue with, and how can you take advantage of a piece of infrastructure that the company already has."Google's infrastructure - and those enviable facilities - are much reported, from the lavish, free canteen and commuter shuttles to the infinity pool at the Mountain View headquarters. The Sydney office has equally fine trimmings, with lava lamps and great views, which may or may not have contributed to the birth of its most recent tech toy, the communications tool Wave. Tapping several sweet spots in web development, Wave aggregates real-time Twitter-esque instant messaging with email, wiki-based collaboration features and social networking.Wave of confidenceBrin doesn't get his hands dirty with quite as many of Google's tech projects as he'd like, so he says he's "trying to take time to do more of that". But when Lars and Jens Rasmussen came to him with the idea for Wave, it was their track record that gave him confidence in the project. The pair joined Google with the acquisition of their mapping startup Where 2 Technologies in October 2004; that grew into the first incarnation of Google Maps."We have been gradually embracing the idea that once you're successful, we give you much more latitude," says Brin. "Somebody who has a success under their belt has really demonstrated accomplishment and in that case we will give them generally more liberty. When they came and proposed this idea they said, 'We want to do something new and revolutionary, but we're not even going to tell you what it is. And we want to go back to Australia, hire a bunch of people and just work on it.' That was a crazy proposal," Brin says, and not one many businesses would have supported. "But, having seen their success with Maps, I felt that it actually was pretty reasonable." It was two years ago that Brin agreed to support the project, and the full version of Wave will be released later this year.Google was one firm rumoured to be looking at acquiring Twitter, and the two are known to be talking about a possible real-time search collaboration. But despite the real-time elements of Wave, the project was conceived before Twitter had achieved momentum. Brin says the team wasn't aware of Twitter at the beginning, but wanted to create something timeless. "The very first demo that they showed me had, for example, character-by-character typing, which actually made me nostalgic because the old Linux systems all did that with Talk."Mainstream manifestoAs well as organisational structure and the track record of engineers, Brin talks about intuition around projects that might translate to something more mainstream. "That essentially takes taste, I would call it, and a certain kind of intuition. People may or may not have that kind of intuition - that's why for something like Wave the prior success on a mass consumer scale is what gave me confidence that these guys can do that again in another field."With that $131bn market value, Google is in an unusually powerful financial and strategic position to give its engineers this kind of latitude. The downturn has barely dented Google's research and development budget, which was reduced to $641m (&pound;392m) for the first quarter of this year from $673m in 2008. Around 36% of its staff work in R&amp;D in total, and the entire 2008 R&amp;D budget was a staggering $2.79bn.Despite appearing to suffer mildly from the economic climate, Brin has previously said that tough times bring out the best of the Valley because when there's too much money around, "you get a lot of noise mixed in with the real innovation and entrepreneurship".Companies can traditionally buy in innovative products, as happened with Where 2, or develop in-house. The most well-known Google initiative for encouraging innovation in-house is its "20% time" strategy, which has almost become an innovation clich&eacute;. The idea that 80% of an engineer's time is spent on the day job and 20% pursuing a personal project is a mathematician's solution to innovation, Brin says. Some staff secretly admit their 20% time is spent catching up with the day job, but the firm insists the strategy has led to Google News, Gmail and the mighty AdSense system, among other things.New prioritiesWhat could established media companies learn from Google's approach to innovation? Given the perfect storm of economic meltdown and once-in-a-generation collapse of their business model, innovation may well have slipped off the priority list for old media. Perhaps it is time to rephrase the challenge, says Brin. "Any conversation I have about innovation starts with the ultimate goal - in this case what the reader is trying to accomplish, and what would make that better. Somebody reading up on the news wants to be kept up to date, and quickly." News sites offer some useful content, but there's a lot of duplication. "I don't have a solution for you - I'm just saying that I think posing the problem correctly is perhaps more important than defining the solution. People want to have good, engaging, high-quality information about things going on right now in the world."In-house, Google uses a project database and an ideas mailing list to manage new projects. While noting ideas on the mailing list is important, it is less significant than the project database, says Brin, which lists weekly updates on who is working on what, their goals, progress and links to documentation. That distinction has to be instilled in the company culture."It's important not to overstate the benefits of ideas," he says. "Quite frankly, I know it's kind of a romantic notion that you're just going to have this one brilliant idea and then everything is going to be great. But the fact is that coming up with an idea is the least important part of creating something great. It has to be the right idea and have good taste, but the execution and delivery are what's key."
Since Donkey Kong barrelled its way into arcades in 1981, allowing gamers to "jump" a character across gaps and over obstacles for the first time, the platformer has often been regarded as the quintessential videogame format. No matter your gender, age or attention span, there's nothing that can quite match the simple pleasure of successfully guiding a small sprite from one side of a screen to another.While gaming has taken huge technological strides since the 1980s, a platform game, at its finest, is the sort of simple fun that never ages. While the graphics may seem rustic, a game like Donkey Kong is a design classic, and it's difficult to argue that LittleBigPlanet, a platform game that made a splash last year, is any more enjoyable a gaming experience. It's certainly hard to envisage it being played by anyone in 30 years' time – especially tothis obsessive degree.So, while we're all fresh from the gaudy thrills and spills of E3, I invite you to cast your mind back to simpler times, where controllers were boxy and uncomfortable, and you had to blow on game cartridges several times just to get them to load. Here are five notable examples I've picked – feel free to add your own below the line. Fans of a certain smug blue hedgehog may wish to look away ...1: Earthworm Jim – Sega Mega Drive, 1994Perhaps something of an odd choice this – Earthworm Jim was neither particularly commercially successful, nor innovative in terms of its gameplay fundamentals. But what Earthworm Jim had more than any other platform game of the time was imagination and wit. With a few notable exceptions (Toejam &amp; Earl, anyone?) computer games in the early 90s were more often than not dry, humourless affairs.  Game dialogue was often rushed or poorly translated, and game programmers, working under tight deadlines, probably felt that raising a chuckle from the player was the least of their concerns. The first level was not simply about getting to the final screen, but about launching a cow into the stratosphere (a cow that would turn up later in spectacular fashion). There's not much laughter in my childhood gaming memories (multiplayer games in particular could only be undertaken with an ferocious, red-faced intensity) and the little that there was should be cherished.2: Chuckie Egg – ZX Spectrum/BBC Micro, 1983. PlayablehereA deeply nostalgic choice  – probably, aside from a regrettable experience with a Game &amp; Watch, my first gaming experience, and in Britain particular, a game often claimed as having help popularise the platformer genre. You control a small yellow man with a hat. You have to collect eggs and bird feed. You have to avoid ostriches. And you mustn't ask why. That's all there is to it. No princesses or robots or angry simians – just simple fun and some strangely soothing sound effects. The first time I found out that the giant caged bird would escape and chase you in later levels was the first time I really knew that more of my life would be spent sat a controller's cord length away from the TV than partaking in any sport, hobby or social activity.3: Megaman 2 – Nintendo Entertainment System, 1988A well-designed and varied platformer, this makes the list mainly for itsfantastic soundtrack. Veteran 8-bit composer Yoshihiro Sakaguchi along with Takashi Tateishi and Manami Matsumae managed to create a series of memorable tunes that actually managed to augment the enjoyment of the game – made all the more impressive when compared to the humdrum efforts of the average NES release which would have you reaching for the mute button. Capcom's sound team managed to squeeze the most out of the Nintendo's basic sound system, and many of the stages' themes are still listened to today. A brief scour of YouTube and you'll even find modern musicians inspired to remix these old songs – this Jay-ZDirt Off Your Shoulder remixis particularly impressive.4: Castlevania,  Symphony of the Night – Playstation, 1997One of the last great home-console 2D platformers, Symphony of the Night rejuvenated the ailing Castelvania series and showed that, despite the Playstation's capability for 3D graphics, there was still a place for a well made 2D platformer in the system's catalogue. A huge, immersive experience, the game is now considered a cult classic, collector's editions of the original game often sell on eBay for close to £100. Plus, you get to fight Death. There aren't many games with the cojones to include Death as a character.5: Super Mario Brothers 3 – Nintendo Entertainment System, 1988One of the legendary Shigeru Miyamoto's finest achievements, Mario 3 was the NES's crowning glory. Released just a year before the SNES came to our shores in the UK, Mario's last 8-bit outing was the first to fully make the most of the system's potential. The graphics, sound and gameplay were all significant improvements on the dismal Super Mario Bros 2, but what made Mario 3 so memorable was the imagination of the designers. At different points Mario could become part racoon and fly across the screen, swim in a frog suit – and the sheer variety of the game's eight worlds, chock full of secrets and mini games, mean it stands not just as the finest Mario, but possibly the finest platformer ever made.
San Francisco has played home to plenty of sporting drama over the years: Joe Montana's winning final-minute pass in 1981's American football NFC championship final or the earthquake that struck during the middle of baseball's World Series in 1989.Last weekend the city once again played host to a high-stakes spectacle, albeit of a slightly different tone, when thousands of spectators and competitors turned out to witness the annual RoboGames.The event, which has been running for six years,&nbsp;has become the world's largest open robotics competition and has turned into an annual pilgrimage for the most dedicated robotics enthusiasts."I've been interested in robotics my entire life so, getting here, there's a lot to see," said 19-year-old Chris Farrell, from Maine, a former gold-medal winner. Chris and his father, Rob, a systems engineer, form the team, Farrell Robotics."It's new every year – there's usually a new technology that will emerge here and you don't see it in other parts of the world for a couple of years."David Calkins, the president of the Robotics Society of America and the event's founder, says the show is an example of "knowledge and building just for its own sake".San Francisco's Fort Mason centre thronged with spectators of all stripes: young engineers, seasoned veterans and streams of excited children scurrying around to take in the many games, events and displays.RoboGames encourages everybody to take part, from professionals to the garage fanatics.But, despite the wide range of machines on display, including robots dedicated to art, speed, music and sport, the real attraction was the arena: a high-tech caged fighting ring – surrounded by bulletproof glass – reminiscent of the TV series Robot Wars, which ran on British TV for five years.To the cheering of spectators, the competitors – who had come from as far afield as India, Australia and Egypt – sent their robots to battle; spinning, smashing, bludgeoning and slicing each other until only the wreckage remained.The mob was baying for the sound of crunching metal and was duly rewarded with a series of spectacular battles, including one bout in which a robot weighing more than 200lbs was picked up and thrown over the barriers – a first for the competition.While the ring resounded with the noise of battle, the workshop area behind the arena showcased the remains of the robots that had failed to emerge victorious.Although more than 60 teams competed, not one could strip the title from the reigning superheavyweight champion, Ziggy, a 340lb (155kg) monster from Canada with a flipping arm so powerful that it canthrow washing machines into the air."It's been frenetic," said competitor Eduardo Von Ristow, a member of the team Riobotz from Brazil."We brought 12 robots from 150 grams to 250lbs (113kg); we've got four sumo robots; an autonomous fighting robot. I think I've slept six hours since Wednesday."Despite the passion exhibited by the crowd and the bittersweet grimaces on the faces of those who saw their creations ground to pieces, many competitors say that the event is not purely for the sport.Ristow said his team, which comes from the Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, also works on robotics for mining companies and nuclear power plants. Plenty of the innovations developed for the RoboGames end up making their way back into civil projects as a result."It's a really good exchange. Here you meet a lot of crazy fellows who know a lot of stuff," he said. "We chat a lot and exchange experience, exchange techniques and that's really interesting."Many of the teams return several years in a row, fine-tuning their techniques and coming up with new ideas for their robots.Rob Farrell, of the Farrell Robotics team, said that learning was an important part of the games – and that he hoped one day to apply what he had learnt in order to turn his hobby into a fully fledged enterprise."We do it for fun," he said. "I think we're also building it, eventually, into a business and it's a great learning experience."On the floor, meanwhile, some first-time attendees were getting their own taste of proceedings."I hope it happens again," said Canner Mefe, who was displaying her own robot – theFlu Virus, an eight-legged walker built with friend Tracy Jacobs and based on the designs ofartist Theo Jansen. "I loved the sphere robots, and a lot of the firefighting robots are really cool."
Spirit of the age ... Weston-Super-Mare lido in 1937. Would you set a videogame here? (Photograph: St Andrews University Library)The Digital Britain report - yes,that thingwhichthis morning's Guardian leaderdescribed as "this big, bland policy stew" - shows that the hard work and lobbying by the British games industry - which we noted last year - has had some impact.So the executive summary notes:Creative content is not restricted to the traditional analogue industries of the performing arts, film and broadcasting. Other countries such as Canada extend the model of cultural tax relief beyond the film industry to the interactive and online worlds. CGI, electronic games and simulation also have a significant role in Britain's digital content ecology and in our international competitiveness. Each of these has the same capability as the more traditional sectors, such as film, to engage us and reflect our cultural particularism. They may in future have a cultural relevance to rival that of film.In future? That's an interesting one to argue. Certainly, games that are turned into films don't have much in the way of good precedents - from Bob Hoskins in Super Mario Brothers onwards - but it would be good to compare spending on films (cinema ticket takings, rather than total receipts which are inflated by stuff like popcorn and fizzy drinks) plus DVDs to the spending on games in the UK. That's economic relevance.(Funny how film gets justified on "cultural relevance" while games, which one suspects don't get much of an outing in Lord Carter's living room, have to chug along on economic grounds.)But the report also contains the fascinating sentence in its executive summary (point No.49 if you've got one to hand) that: "The Government has therefore committed to work with the industry to collect and review the evidence for a tax relief to promote the sustainable production for online or physical sale of culturally British video games.Culturally British. We suspect we know what they mean - games companies based in the UK - but what if it's not? What if they actually mean something like, for example and completely hypothetically, Grand Theft Auto: Weston-super-Mare?Or Left 4 Dead: The Light Brigade?Come on, what would you suggest as a "culturally British" computer game that we could offer to Lord Carter?
PoliticiansDon Foster, culture spokesman, Liberal Democrats:"Maintaining the strength and independence of the BBC is vital. Top slicing, in whatever language, sets a precedent that undermines that independence. What guarantees can we have that future governments will not take more money from the licence fee to fund their pet projects, especially when they are unhappy with what the BBC is doing?"The plans for rolling out next generation broadband are a step in the right direction but rural areas may face a wait of nearly a decade to see the benefits. The idea of paying for it with a levy on fixed lines is broadly welcome, however, the government must consider exemptions for pensioners and other less well-off people."Michael Russell, Scottish culture minister:"This is a missed opportunity for the UK government to declare its support for public service broadcasting in Scotland.  The decision not to endorse a digital network is particularly disappointing given that the need for a choice of public service broadcasting in Scotland was recognised in both the interim Digital Britain report and in Ofcom's recent review of public service broadcasting."Since responsibility for broadcasting currently resides at Westminster, responsibility for funding a digital network lies squarely with the UK government. The money is there; the UK government just needs to recognise the gravity of the situation."I wrote to the new UK culture secretary Ben Bradshaw last week to highlight the requirement for short-term support for local news provision on channel three, but today's leaked announcement on funding of local news on STV does not address the clear demand from Scottish viewers for more, and better, public service broadcasting. The Scottish government will continue to press the UK government on this issue and to secure the deal, a new Scottish digital network, that reflects the importance of this issue to the people of Scotland."Media and telecoms companiesIan Livingston, chief executive of BT:"BT agrees with the government that next generation broadband will be important to the country's economic future, and we will continue to play a leading role in strengthening the UK's leadership in communications. It is important that the government finds ways to encourage investment in superfast broadband, particularly in the parts of the country where the economics currently do not work. The report recognises this, and Lord Carter should be praised for offering a creative solution."BT is alone in having an open network that hundreds of other companies can, and do, access, so we are well placed to be at the heart of the government's plans. Funding should only be available to companies that are prepared to open their networks to others to ensure that UK retains the most competitive telecoms sector in the world."Sly Bailey, chief executive, Trinity Mirror:"The Ofcom review process [in OFT decisions over future media company mergers] could be a clever answer to a difficult problem … the new Local Media Assessment appears to be a step in the right direction."Not before time, the Audit Commission are to look at the travesty of local councils using taxpayers' money to masquerade as, and compete directly with, local newspapers. This must be tackled with a sense of urgency."In addition, we are keen to understand the proposed independently funded news consortia and, as the pilots are expected to take place in our areas of strength, we will continue the exploratory talks we are already having with potential partners."Carolyn McCall, chief executive, Guardian Media Group, publisher of MediaGuardian.co.uk:"GMG welcomes elements of the final Digital Britain report, such as the commitment to universal broadband access and backing for independently funded news consortia. We're especially encouraged by the acknowledgement of the negative effects of online aggregators on content creators, and of the need for the BBC Trust to be vigilant in overseeing the expansionary activities of the BBC."The government has, for the first time, recognised the hugely important issue of online aggregators' impact on the provision of quality content, and the need for collective action to address the problem, however, there is a long way to go before this will be resolved, and we look forward to engaging with all relevant parties to work towards a fair exchange of value between content providers and aggregators."There remain causes for concern. Any joint venture between Channel 4 and BBC Worldwide would need to be subject to close scrutiny and clear limits if it were to avoid damaging plurality in the market. Our concern is that whatever entity emerges will seek to expand aggressively online – at the expense of existing commercial players."John Hardie, ITN chief executive:"The continued supply of high-quality, impartial regional news is central to a pluralistic environment and the proposals set out the mechanisms to ensure viewers retain this much-valued choice of sources and opinions."Those who are shielded from commercial realities should not be allowed to delay this funding intervention and risk damage to these crucial services."A spokeswoman for the Scottish media company STV:"Overall, this is a positive report that recognises the important role strong, relevant home-grown production plays in this multiplatform digital age. We are delighted that Scotland has been selected to run one of the three pilot channel 3 news services in the UK."We are pleased that the government supports the case for granting STV Productions the same benefits as independent producers, which would certainly help fast-track the development of a vibrant creative cluster in Scotland and create jobs in a key growth sector."A spokeswoman for the Welsh language broadcaster S4C:"S4C has been an active participant in the Digital Britain project to date and will carefully consider today's report in order to make a full assessment of its implications.&nbsp;The&nbsp;impact of Digital Britain on future news provision and children's programming is of particular interest given S4C's prominent role in these areas.&nbsp;We will continue to engage with Digital Britain with the clear aim of ensuring the future of public service broadcasting in Wales."Trade unions and industry trade bodiesJeremy Dear, general secretary, National Union of Journalists:"Top-slicing of the BBC licence fee would undermine the corporation's independence and put quality broadcasting at risk … Sharing the licence fee with other organisations is the start of a slippery slope towards the politicisation of the BBC … The government has said it will consider other options and that is exactly what it must do. We can't allow the BBC to become a political football."The NUJ has consistently argued that ownership rules are still hugely important so we're very pleased pressures from media owners for them to be weakened have been resisted."John McVay, chief executive of Pact, the independent producers' trade body:"Pact has been a lead voice in the children's campaign over the last three years and we welcome the government's recommendation regarding Channel 4."We will be closely monitoring developments to ensure that it does lead to a genuine commitment to children's content, as well as exploring the potential for children's programming to be included in any contestable funding."Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the BPI, the UK music industry trade body:"Evidence shows that the government's 'write and then sue' approach won't work and government appears to be anticipating its failure by lining up backstop powers for Ofcom to introduce technical measures later. This digital dithering puts thousands of jobs at risk in a creative sector that the government recognises as the driver of the digital economy."Music companies are in the forefront of developing new digital services for consumers … but that innovation needs to be balanced with meaningful action to deal with persistent freeloaders."Stewart Till, chairman of the UK Film Council:"The final Digital Britain report represents a major step forward. For the first time, there is a clear commitment from government to pass legislation giving a strengthened regulator the powers to force ISPs to take action against egregious and illegal piracy. We welcome its ambition but feel that, if these targets are to be met, tough deterrence schemes will need to be implemented to ensure that higher broadband speeds do not lead to a colossal increase in illegal file-sharing."This is an extremely thoughtful report that focuses on the big issues but which also sheds a welcome spotlight on a broad range of very important areas of media policy. We welcome Lord Carter's desire to unlock orphan works, his recognition that digital switchover for cinemas is a pressing policy issue, and his awareness of the ongoing achievements of the UK Film Council's screen heritage and film education strategies."Ian Twinn, public affairs director of ISBA, the UK advertisers' trade body:"It will be for others to comment on the details affecting the media, the cost to telephone line subscribers of the new levy and the crackdown on file sharing. Advertisers, however, will note with some satisfaction the limiting of the BBC's access to ever more taxpayers' money, which enables it to outmanoeuvre other commercially funded media."We look forward to the results of the continuing discussions between Channel 4 and the BBC."And the setting of a date of 2015 for completing digital national radio switch over will be a boost to planning for this advertiser-significant media."Lavinia Carey, British Video Association director general:"The government is right to place increased responsibility on ISPs to protect online content as by working together with content providers, ISPs will make it harder for persistent file sharers to operate without rights owners resorting to immediate legal action."Skillset chief executive Dinah Caine:"It is vital that the UK is in a position to fully develop world-class media content and exploit the dramatic shift to digital technology. Today's Digital Britain report is a very welcome step in this direction. We must make sure that we are in a position to seize opportunities and do not get left behind in the fast-changing media landscape."The report sets out an overall framework and will undoubtedly be a major boost for the development of the creative sector. In this increasingly digital age, jobs can quickly be filled across the globe. We must make sure the most skilled-up digital workforce, as well as the best technology, is in place to be able to compete. One cannot happen without the other. The UK must become a magnet for digital talent."As set out in Digital Britain, Skillset very much looks forward to building on the already excellent relationship we have with Channel 4 by working with them closely around diversity."Spokesman for Alliance Against Intellectual PropertyTheft:"The alliance welcomes the announcement that the role of ISPs in combating illegal peer-to-peer filesharing is to be entrenched in legislation.&nbsp;"However, we remain disappointed that this role is to be initially limited to the sending of notification letters, leaving&nbsp;mass litigation by industry as the only other next step."Given the numerous non-mandated technical measures which could&nbsp;be implemented&nbsp;easily and effectively,&nbsp;on those who, despite warnings,&nbsp;continue to infringe, we believe the legislation should include provisions for this to take place immediately, leaving legal action as a last resort."Mike Rawlinson, director general of Elspa, the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers' Association:"The government has made absolutely the right decision for child safety. By choosing PEGI as the single classification system [for videogames] in the UK, British children will now get the best possible protection when playing videogames either on a console or on the internet. Parents can be assured that they will have access to clear, uniform ratings on games and an accurate understanding of game content."Baroness Shephard, president of the Video Standards Council:"The government has today taken a major step to improve child safety, online and offline, in the video games sector. VSC is the leading PEGI authority, rating all videogames aged 12 and above in 30 countries. By making PEGI legally enforceable in the UK, the government has shown that it is determined to protect children, help parents make informed decisions and deliver consistency in games ratings."
Selling a videogame rated 12 or over to an underage buyer will become illegal under new rules to be introduced in the wake of the Digital Britain report, while the classification of games is to be taken away from the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) as the UK adopts a Pan-European standard to protect young gamers.Having entirely missed the videogames industry out of his interim report in January, Lord Carter also announced that the government will "work with the industry to collect and review the evidence for a tax relief to promote the sustainable production for online or physical sale of culturally British videogames".The British games industryhas warned in the pastthat talent is being lured away to other countries, most notably Canada, by lucrative tax breaks.The games industry ­contributes more than £1bn to the UK's gross domestic product, more than the film industry, which receives support in the form of tax breaks.In the Digital Britain report, Lord Carter warned that UK games development is predicted to drop gradually down the world rankings. In 2009, on its current trajectory, the UK is expected to fall to 5th behind Canada and, for the first time, South Korea.Lord Carter's Digital Britain report includes plans to introduce the PEGI or Pan-European Game Information system, already used in many EU states, as the sole method of classifying videogames. It will replace the current hybrid system – which results in games with both a BBFC and PEGI stamp – under which the BBFC only had to classify games that depicted "gross violence or sexual content" while all other games were classified on a voluntary basis.Now, the Video Standards Council will take over age rating and all games will have to be classified. Any developer who makes a false declaration about a game's content could face a fine of €500,000 (£425,000). The VSC will be able to ban games it believes are inappropriate for the UK market,The new syastem will consist of five age categories and a series of pictorial boxes, describing content such as bad language and violence. The current PEGI ratings are 3, 7, 12, 16 and 18. The 12 rating, for instance, allows violence of a slightly more graphic nature than would be found in, say, Tom &amp; Jerry cartoons, but only towards fantasy characters. They can also include non-graphic violence towards human-looking characters or recognisable animals.The 12 rating also covers videogames that show nudity of a slightly graphic nature but any bad language in this category must be mild and fall short of sexual expletives.The new ratings system follows a consultation last year and draws on the work of Professor Tanya Byron in her report Safer Children in a Digital World. It will make it illegal to sell games suitable for children aged 12 and older to underage children."We will now work with PEGI and the VSC to agree exactly what the new symbols will look like and how they will work in the UK market, to ensure they provide the clarity and safeguards that are needed," explained creative industries minister Siôn Simon. "The UK already has a robust system of classification for films and DVDs run by the BBFC. The new system of games classification will match those high standards as this important market continues to evolve."Professor Byron added: "In my review to government I identified the need to improve the videogames classification system. I identified some fundamental criteria including making games suitable for 12-year-olds and above subject to statutory control. I also said the system had to have child safety at its heart and have the ability to adapt to future challenges. All these criteria are important for ensuring that parents have the tools they need to make informed choices and keep their children safe."The PEGI system has been strengthened since my review and the government has consulted widely on each of my suggested criteria. I support the government's decision to combine the PEGI system with UK statutory oversight."
It's 13 years since Opera first hit the browser scene, but while the Norwegian software company has some dedicated fans it has never made great inroads on its rivals.It's made plenty of attempts to shake things up in the past - and many of its innovations have been adopted by others - but after a lot of effort, Opera's claim to fame might be as the browser thatgot Microsoft to ditch Internet Explorer in Europeafter a complaintback in 2007.On Tuesday, however, the company launched a new product that it thinks can get it back in the game: a new system calledUnitethatit says"reinvents the web".Opera Unite turns any computer into both a client and a server, allowing it to interact with and serve content to other computers directly across the Web, without the need for third-party servers.Opera Unite makes serving data as simple and easy as browsing the Web. For consumers, Opera Unite services give greater control of private data and make it easy to share data with any device equipped with a modern Web browser.The launch created a lot of chatter online and on some mailing lists I frequent - and while it certainly sounds interesting, I'll admit I remained fairly confused by what Opera was suggesting. Added to that, if you're not suspicious whenever somebody lays claim to reinventinganything, then there's something wrong with you.So what is Opera Unite? And does it stack up to its claims?Essentially it allows you to share information on your computer through the browser. After doing some initial setup, you can use your browser as a window to any information on your machine: want to share a video with your friend? Just point to it. Want to stick a photograph onto your website? Just link to the version on your PC.Hardened geeks can think of it as an easy-to-create web server that you control through Opera, allowing you to share documents, files, folders and media online without needing to go through any other service.The point, says Opera, is that this gets rid of the need for all of the media sharing websites people use - and it makes all of us the cloud. No need to stick your photos on Flickr, your videos on YouTube or your life on Facebook. You've got control, unmediated by social networks or other websites.I have a few issues with that claim, not least whether ordinary folk will be happy to leave their computers running the whole time - and their browsers open - to let people see their files.However, even that's nothing compared to the worries of open source activistChris Messina, whohas written a detailed argumentabout why Unite isn't what it says. Essentially, he argues that it's not decentralised, because everything goes through Opera's proxies (Update:this is the case only if your router does not supportuPnP); it's not free because it's not open source; and it doesn't give you control because the links live at a subdomain of Opera's website (like "files.bobbiejohnson.operaunite.com").He also points out the question of legality - no surprise, given Tuesday'snews about filesharing. Opera's End User License Agreement contains the get-out clause that attempts to get around the fact that a significant percentage of data shared on the service could break the law."You agree not to use Opera Unite to upload, transfer or otherwise make available files, images, code, materials, or other information or content that is obscene, vulgar, hateful, threatening, or that violates any laws or third-party rights, hereunder but not limited to third-party intellectual property rights"Given that all your data passes through Opera's web proxy, it's a trivial task for them to remove the link if it turns out you don't own the rights to share it (or if somebody files a spurious takedown notice). Destroys the point a little, doesn't it?All this may be moot, however, because even though Unite looks like a groundbreaking service, the crucial factor is not whether it is powerful or not. It's whether it is something that people actually want.Geeks have a tendency to believe that they are always on the leading edge: that whatever they are doing today is what everybody else will be doing in five years. In many cases that's true, of course, even when the pattern follows, the actual nature ofhowpeople do it can change significantly.In the early days of blogging, for example, people usually hosted their own software on their own webspace. In the end it was hosted services like Blogger and MySpace that really turned online diaries into a mainstream activity.Similarly, smartphones have been around for years, but it was only the iPhone - which swapped out the complexity that was the hallmark of powerful handsets - that really started to break the market open. It strikes me that Unite, at best, falls into this category: a system that neither pleases the hardcore users who already operate their own server space and ordinary people who have never touched on the idea.And, it's sad to say, we've been over this ground too many times with Opera. They introduced BitTorrent support; browser gestures; a nice mobile version ... but after 13 years on the web it still has less than 1% of the browser market because it's unable to make these innovations count with ordinary internet users.That's why Unite isn't Opera reinventing the web - just following the same trajectory we've seen it follow for more than a decade.
Although most of the attention on the recentDigital Britainreport has been (ironically) on the implications for the less-interactive media, there are two issues raised that affect the games industry in particular in Lord Carter's review.First, and one which will please developer champions TIGA, there is some suggestion that the UK Government will support a tax breaks system like the ones already in place in Canada and South Korea. If it comes to pass, implementing such a scheme will  create a support infrastructure for a British industry that continues to descend down worldwide development rankings. Two years ago, the UK was the third largest creator of gaming output in the world. Now it sits in 4th place, behind Canada and marginally ahead of South Korea. The concern is that without tax breaks, British game talent, considered some of the most creative, best-trained and highly skilled in the world, will continue to be tempted by the packages offered at foreign development studios.While the tax breaks are only alluded to in the Digital Britain document, many insiders are cautiously celebrating the possibility of implementation.Second, and more controversially, theGovernment has chosen to back the PEGI systemof self-regulation rather than the homegrown, government-affiliated, top-down BBFC's. Along debatehas been raging behind the scenes for several years between the two regulation bodies, and many in the industry will welcome the decision. Although less well-recognised in the UK, the PEGI scheme is a pan-European, independent opt-in facility backed by 28 countries.BBFC have not responded well.More Digital Britain coverage from The Guardian ishere.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Update:Somebody has a sense of humour: since publishing this post, it's emerged that the shuttle launch has beenpostponed.&bull; The fight between Apple and Palm carries on, just as theiPhone 3.0 software gets released. One of the tricks the Palm Pre has up its sleeve is that itcan pretend to be an iPod- therefore allowing people to carry on using iTunes to manage their media. But that pleasant surprise for switchers may not last long, after aa signal from Applethat "it does not provide support for, or test for compatibility wit, non-Apple digital media players". A warning to Palm?Daring Fireball'sJohn Grubercertainly thinks so.&bull; Remember last week, when theJapanese were sending a defunct orbiter crashing into the moon? Turns out they're not the only ones. Nasa is getting ready to launch a probe that willsend a rocket booster into the lunar surface, "triggering a six mile high explosion that scientists hope will confirm the presence of water" according toSiliconValley.com&bull; You, like most people, may rememberWeird Al Yankovicfor his series of Michael Jackson spoof songs in the 80s or, more recently Chamillionaire parody White &amp; Nerdy. his latest effort,Craigslist- done in the style of the Doors - might not be a classic. But give the man his dues; he's been doing this schtick for 25 years now and he's still poking fun.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The internet is a brilliant machine for spreading information. Data shoots across the network at the speed of light, passing from one node to another. It's unmotivated by fear or repression or greed, and can shine a torch into the darkest corners to help bring what was hidden to the world.The uprising in Iran has been a perfect case in point - despite state censorship, the suppression of journalists and the shutdown of communications - the story has been covered from almost every angle: and the internet -as I've written before this week- has played a vital part in getting the information out.(Some of the public nature of the information has been sparked in part, it seems,by the surprisingly robust design of Twitterand the fact that instant messaging services from Google, Microsoft and AOLhave been turned off in Iranas part of US sanctions. Would an uprising have commanded so much of the internet's attention if conversations were happening privately, between Iranians, in Farsi?)Today, however, I can't help but sense a change in mood. Four days after the election, there is more information than ever: but the result isn't clarity. Instead it seems the confusion on all sides is snowballing, and even sensible voices are beginning to let their fears reign.Earlier todayBoingBoing- the legendary blog that's home to Guardian columnistCory Doctorow- suddenly began having problems. With the downtime coming not long after the site posteda cyber war guide for the Iran elections, people's thoughts immediatelyturned to sabotage.Similarly,early reportssuggested a denial of service attack had hit the site of Andrew Sullivan, one of the pioneers of political blogging who has been doing fantastic work collating information on the elections and their aftermath. Sullivan himselfspread the message, saying that the team at the Atlantic (his publication) "is struggling to keep the site up despite what seems to be a digital attack".In fact, in both these cases, it wasn't that the sites were under attack: they were merely submerged under a tidal wave of real users desperate to know what's happening. In Sullivan's casea "surge in Iran-related traffic put a strain on our servers", while BoingBoing's Joel Johnson later said"it's not a DDoS".It's no surprise that people make mistakes: we all do it, and individually, the errors are totally understandable. It's easy to get caught up in events. After cyberwar skirmishes inGeorgiaandEstonia, it's obvious why people fear the worst.But if there is ever a subject that demanded clear heads, then the sort of fast-moving, life-changing situation in Iran is precisely it. This isn't a game of pass-the-parcel, and getting caught up in the hysteria only serves to make the truth harder to uncover.That's why it's hard when a cascade of messages on Twitter about fooling the censors is quickly followed byanothersaying the first message was false; it's why we should be waiting for evidence before calling sabotage; and it's why amid the tumult of real-time data it's important to take a step back, and breathe deeply.Sullivan's colleague Marc Ambinder suggests that the way to treat isto behave like a CIA analyst. The BBC's head of global news, Richard Sambrook, saysa combination of intelligence, scepticism and knowledgehelps separate the signal from the noise. They're right, to an extent, but they also ignore the important human imperative at work here - which isn't just to know what's going on: it's that by spreading information, people become participants in the story and not just observers.This is, perhaps, the great advantage of the social web and it's biggest problem.Photograph: Getty ImagesThe ability to feel connected to a story that is happening thousands of miles away draws in thousands who pass on information, forward emails and retweet messages. Without being able to join in the process, it is a story about somebody else. By being part of the machine that spreads information, it becomes a story that is, at least partially,about us.And so the act of participation becomes more important than the information that is being shared. Mobs are not alwayssmart.(Journalist Tom Watsonsuggests that part of this is an attempt by western millennial-generation web-heads to identify with what's happening in Iran. He may be right).I'm not suggesting we don't share data or pass on information. We would be worse off without it, and it is all part of the process of adapting to our greatest invention. It's an inevitable change in a world where we rely on the important newsto find us.But we each play a role in that development, however small. And while, in the words of legendary technofrontiersmanStewart Brandinformation wants to be free - there are also some moments when it's just as important that it tries to be right.
Until he suggests a new tax to help pay for broadband for all, Lord Carter follows almost exactly the template of his interim Digital Britain report earlier this year. But no solution is found for many issues he raised in January: BBC/Channel 4 is still work in progress, the corporation's licence fee will probably be top-sliced but is open to more consultation, and there is no plan to change local media ownership rules.Broadband for allThe report gives more details about how the government aims to provide universal access to a minimum 2Mb broadband connection, the so-called Universal Service Commitment. Part of the budget will come from money left over from the BBC's fund to help people switch to digital TV by 2012, with private partners and public sector bodies among other sources of funding.An estimated 2.75m homes, about 11% of UK households, today have no access to a connection at this speed. The report says 1.5m households might get access to next-generation broadband as a result of the commitment. For Carter 2Mb was a "technological minimum wage". He adds: "We are not specifying a ceiling, we are specifying a floor."ReactionJeremy Hunt, the shadow culture secretary, welcomed the commitment to universal broadband, but said the report was a "digital dithering from a dated government".Broadband taxLandline users will pay £6 a year towards the rollout of superfast broadband, with the surplus from the BBC's digital switchover help scheme helping to meet the £200m annual cost of providing universal access.The government wants everyone to be able to receive broadband of at least 2Mbps by 2012 as it puts more public services online. It is anxious that remote or underserved parts of the country are not left behind when "next generation" broadband is built.A 50p a month charge on the UK's copper lines to help upgrade the fixed-line network, a project on which BT and Virgin Media have already embarked, will raise up to £175m a year to extend next-generation broadband to the "final third" of the country the market will not reach.Carter acknowledges that the levy will hit consumers already feeling the pinch. "How will the public react? We will find out," he said. "Our view as a government is that it's a good exercise of judgment."ReactionFor the Tories, Hunt says: "The cable revolution happened without a cable tax. The satellite revolution happened without a satellite tax. Everyone recognises that public investment may be necessary to reach more remote parts of the country - but simply slapping on an extra tax is an old economy solution to a new economy problem."David Lewis, managing director of Rutland Telecom, said: "The proposed 50p tax will generate much-needed funds to deliver 'final third' next generation broadband by 2017."BBC licence feeThe government will use part of the BBC licence fee to fund universal broadband access and ITV regional news services. Culture secretary Ben Bradshaw confirmed plans to use the £130m annual "digital switchover surplus" for universal broadband. A "small part" of this money would fund three ITV regional news pilots in Scotland, Wales and one English region by 2013. Bradshaw said that once the licence fee settlement is up for renewal after 2013, the government would consult on sharing a "small part" of the annual £3.4bn.ReactionSir Michael Lyons, chairman of the BBC Trust, said: "The licence fee must not become a slush fund to be dipped into at will, leading to spiralling demands on licence fee payers to help fund the political or commercial concerns of the day. This would lead to the licence fee being seen as another form of general taxation. The trust will not sit quietly by and watch this happen."PiracyBritish Internet Service Providers must cut illegal filesharing on their networks by 70% within a year, under powers to be given to the communications regulator, Ofcom. The government will empower Ofcom to demand that ISPs collect data about alleged infringers of online rights by downloading or uploading content without permission, and notify them their conduct is unlawful. Persistent infringers could see their details passed to rights-holders,music and film companies,but also games and software companies, which could sue in court. In extreme cases, offenders could see bans from access to certain sites, and throttling of their internet speed and capacity. Consultation means it could take some time for the proposals to be implemented.ReactionOrange said it would be willing to maintain records of those "most frequently accused" of infringement, "but we would not agree to funding this process ourselves … we do not believe that Orange and the vast majority of our law-abiding customers should be required to subsidise rights-holders' actions." UK Music, which speaks for the music industry, including artists, musicians and record labels, said the proposals would not succeed in achieving such a cut, and called for immediate action. Chief executive Feargal Sharkey said: "Our members cannot continue to innovate and invest in the shadow of an illegal peer-to-peer ecosystem. We need the cooperation of all ISPs."Channel 4Channel 4 will not be forced into a merger with Five, but will get financial help from the government to create a joint venture with BBC Worldwide, the corporation's commercial arm. The report sees Channel 4 playing a key role in tackling the crisis in children's television, potentially aided by licence fee money. Channel 4 must change its remit, partly to underwrite "a solid commitment to children's content, with priority given to older children - the area of greatest market failure". There will be consultation on creating a "contained contestable element" of the licence fee after 2013. This fund, about 3.5% of the fee, would be created by carrying forward the £130m-a-year now ringfenced for digital switchover help. The funding pot, controlled by an "independent and transparent body", is being aimed at regional news and homegrown children's programming.The broadcaster's board is being asked to come forward with proposals to update its remit, by the end of July, with a greater focus on multimedia output and partnerships of the kind already being struck by its 4IP online services. This does not come near to addressing the minimum Channel 4 funding gap of £30m a year Ofcom's own research suggested needed filling.ReactionChannel 4 chairman Luke Johnson said: "The government shares our vision of Channel 4 as a key public service innovator in the emerging fully digital environment. Our ability to deliver our remit in future depends on strengthening and updating our financial model."Dawn Airey, Five's chief executive and chairman, said: "A political fudge is being proposed and the transparency, accountability, competition and state aid issues that it raises will be closely monitored by the industry."Local media ownershipThe Office of Fair Trading, after a review timed to coincide with the digital report, concludes that reform of rules governing mergers in local media is unnecessary. The system was sufficiently "robust and flexible" and no legislative change was required. Regional newspaper companies had been lobbying intensively for change, forming the Local Media Alliance to submit their case to the OFT. The government said it would ask the National Audit Office to assess the impact of council-run publications on regional newspapers.ReactionSly Bailey, chief executive, Trinity Mirror, said: "The Digital Britain report has recognised a number of the serious issues facing the survival of local media. We have consistently argued that a change in primary legislation is not necessary to address these issues … So the Ofcom review process could be a clever answer to a difficult problem."Analogue radioAll the national radio stations and many local services will stop broadcasting on analogue by the end of 2015, according to ambitious switch-off targets unveiled by the government. A "digital radio upgrade" would see services on national and local digital audio broadcasting (DAB) multiplexes stop broadcasting on analogue. Vacated FM spectrum will be filled by a new tier of ultra-local radio of small local commercial and community stations. Radio stations currently broadcasting on medium wave will upgrade to DAB.The switchover will be announced two years in advance and not until digital accounts for 50% of all radio listening. The government hopes this target can be met by the end of 2013.  All new car radios sold in the UK by the end of 2013 should be digital.ReactionAndrew Harrison, chief executive of commercial radio trade body, the RadioCentre, said: "On first inspection, we are encouraged that Digital Britain sets out a clear roadmap for our industry's future."
A new 50p per month broadband tax is to be levied on every home and business with a phone line under government plans to raise up to £1.5bn to pay for the next generation of internet connections.In his flagship Digital Britain report published today, communications minister Lord Carter also set himself on a collision course with the BBC with plans to divert money from the licence fee to fund a £200m investment in bringing existing broadband services to everyone in the country by 2012.Beyond that date, he wants to continue to raid the licence fee to pay for regional news and children's programming, which broadcasters are cutting back on amid the collapse in television advertising.The BBC Trust chairman, Sir Michael Lyons, hit back at the plan, warning that the broadcaster's governing body "will not sit quietly by and watch this happen"."The licence fee must not become a slush fund to be dipped into at will, leading to spiralling demands on licence fee payers to help fund the political or commercial concerns of the day," he said. "This would lead to the licence fee being seen as another form of general taxation."Carter stressed he is not advocating a reduction in the BBC's licence fee, but he wants some cash, which it currently receives to help people switch to digital TV, to be set aside for local news, and in future possibly also children's programmes. The National Audit Office believes the corporation could be sitting on a £250m surplus from the digital switchover fund."The case is made to make available public funding for the provision of news in the nations and regions," said Carter. "It is our view that we have a funding mechanism for public content – it is called the TV licence fee."Lord Carter's 238-page report covers everything from combating internet piracy to setting a 2015 date for the switch to digital radio. Alongside the plan to get existing broadband – at 2Mb per second – to everyone in the UK by 2012, Carter took many in the industry by surprise by proposing the new 50p-a-month tax on all phone lines. That will raise between £150m and £175m a year which the government will make available to companies such as BT which want to push the next generation of internet networks, allowing consumers to download music in seconds and movies in a minute, to 90% of the UK population by 2017.Mirroring Gordon Brown's recent appointment of Alan Sugar as enterprise champion, Carter also announced the appointment of Martha Lane Fox, one of the founders of travel site Lastminute.com, as his "champion for digital inclusion", charged with persuading the 30% of households who are not online to get broadband access.But the report was immediately attacked by shadow culture secretary Jeremy Hunt as "a colossal disappointment" and "digital dithering" as it will result in yet more discussions over the summer. "Where in all this is a single action?" he asked. "But there is one area in which this report has excelled itself: consultations. This is surely government of the management consultants, for the management consultants, by the management consultants."The film and music industries also reacted angrily to what they saw as Carter's half-hearted attempt to clamp down on people who illegally share copyrighted material over the internet. The report proposes forcing all internet service providers to send letters to customers they believe are illegally downloading copyrighted content. But it will then be up to the media companies to take legal action against illegal downloaders through the courts. If that does not work, internet users could have their broadband connections slowed down or access to particular websites blocked after a year, although this is also up for further consultation.Recent research has shown that more than two-thirds of internet users would ignore warning letters, and with more than 6 million internet users in Britain regularly downloading illegally copied music and films, the media industry believes so-called "technical measures", such as ­slowing down broadband connections, should be introduced before the courts system is clogged up with thousands of lawsuits.Lavinia Carey, chair of Respect for Film and director general of the British Video Association, said: "As an alternative to legal action we advocate a more effective and proportionate approach, namely the prompt implementation of technical measures or 'road humps' for persistent infringers in order to make life difficult for them to continue to access content illicitly, while still enabling them to access other services such as email, banking and shopping sites."
For years I've watched governments make grand plans relating to technology. And for years I've watched those plans fall by the wayside, as the challenge of getting technology to behave according to some sort of legislative programme proves like the proverbial herding of cats.It's not surprising. After all, the government is in charge of pretty much everything in our schools and hospitals, but those still carry the ability to disappoint. Now try it with technology, where even the companies that are at its forefront can be befuddled in a matter of months – think of Microsoft's lurches in 1995 as it tried to adjust to the arrival of the internet and a nascent rival called Netscape, and its similar (unsuccessful) attempt to readjust to the arrival of Google in 1999 – and you'll see why an organisation that relies on pieces of paper written and considered by lawyers (most MPs are) is not going to be able to catch up with the internet, where new ways of breaking existing laws (copyright, usually) are discovered all the time.Which brings us to Lord Carter's brave but ultimately doomed attempts to cut the amount of filesharing in Britain by 70%. It's not a bad idea. In truth, it's an extremely good idea. Illegal filesharing of games, music, films and commercial software does hurt companies: downloading such products with no intention of paying their creator (or their creator's distributor) is parasitism, pure and simple; and it's exploited bycriminal gangswho, for example, create the pirated DVDs you see being hawked on streets.But people, even those who want to pay for products, are frequently frustrated by issues such as licensing which seems to them opaque: if the US can see the latest series of Battlestar Galactica or Lost, why can't British viewers see it as the same time? If a band releases an album in one territory, what is there on the internet to stop it crossing to another? Answer: with filesharing, they can. And so a trade which principally benefits ISPs (to whom people turn for reliable, fast connections) is born and thrives. Because you can be sure that if we were all still on 56Kbps dialup connections, filesharing would not be the problem it is. Filesharing on dialup is a form of masochism.The trouble then is, what measures do you take against it? Lord Carter's recommendations read, at best, as circumlocutious. "The Government is therefore consulting on a proposal to legislate to give Ofcom a duty to take steps aimed at reducing copyright infringement," the report says. Wow. That's six steps between the report and the outcome: consult, propose, legislate, give duty, take steps, reduce. And in the meantime, the ferocious file swapping will continue.Even worse is the series of measures being proposedifOfcom fails in its allotted task – which will iniitally be carried out by an evanescent "trade body" that Lord Carter "hopes" will coalesce from ISPs and rights holders, usually as miscible as oil and water. The rights body will create a code of practice – probably including a register of persistent offenders, whose details might (in the right circumstances) be passed on to the rights holders, for prosecution.And if Ofcom doesn't manage that 70% reduction? Oh, my, then thewholeBritish internet has to go andsit on the naughty step. For yes, the government will ask Ofcom to implement its "backstop" powers – which will allow them to throttle offenders' bandwidth, cap their capacity, block URLs, block certain protocols (such as port 58,621, used by the Bittorrent protocol), and implement content filtering (though I'm not clear how that differs from blocking URLs).To which one can only say: didn't you know that they already do all these things? BT implements "traffic shaping", as do other ISPs. TheIWF-Wikipedia debacleshowed that content is filtered all the time. Many people have ISPs that, despite offering "unlimited" broadband, limit how much data you can download for free in a month; and speeds – oh, the complaints people have about download speeds advertised versus experienced.But the reality of this all is thatit isn't going to happen. Look at Lord Carter's first three steps: a consultation to a proposal to legislate. Assume the consultation takes place at top speed: might be done by the autumn. Assume the proposal wings its way through government: ready by February. Now find a time to implement it before the unavoidable May election: in Parliament, that's highly unlikely, and any legislation in train when Parliament is dissolved goes all the way back to square one, to sit in the queue of hopeful things to get done.The Tories didsignal that they approved of the moves on filesharing, but seem as unimpressed with the report as many other people.It's a pity, because Lord Carter's heart is in the right place. But the fate of this idea was sealed long ago. The opening of chapter four of the Digital Britain report – the one that deals with the thorny question of how content creators should expect the government to help them, as the internet destroys their business models – contains a quote from Charles Leadbeater who notes that media companies used to be like boulders on a beach: few in number, hard to get there. But now, Leadbeater notes, there are more and more pebbles – small organisations or even user-generated content – which threaten to overwhelm and bury those boulders.It's a good metaphor. And the government, which has in effect said it will pass on the challenge of cutting illegal filesharing to Ofcom, would do well to bear this in mind: in that scenario, filesharing is diamond dust. It threatens to scrub those boulders away to nothing; and it's almost impossible to destroy, except by burning the whole thing.But you can add this one to the government reports on technologies it doesn't own where it's not going to work out like it says. That's the reality of technology: it's indifferent to policy because it's the outcome of so many peoples' bottom-up choices, not top-down implementation.
MySpace is slashing 30% of its staff and closing offices as it attempts to recover lost momentum.The social networking site, which is owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, has been struggling in the face of Facebook's success: last week the Guardian reported that MySpace wasconsidering the shut down of officesacross America and Europe, as senior executives sought to regain the upper hand aftertraffic to the social networking site had slumped.As a result of such pressures, the company confirmed today that it will cut 420 jobs across its offices in the United States, in what newly-installed chief executive Owen Van Natta called a "necessary" manoeuvre."Simply put, our staffing levels were bloated and hindered our ability to be an efficient and nimble team-oriented company," said Van Natta in a statement. "I understand that these changes are painful for many. They are also necessary for the long-term health and culture of MySpace. Our intent is to return to an environment of innovation that is centered on our user and our product."The company, which employs around 1,600 people worldwide, will be slimming down to around 1,000 employees in the United States in the hope that it can recover some of the buzz that helped it become the world's most popular social network in 2005 - leading to a surprise deal with Rupert Murdoch worth $580m.However the site's fortunes have slipped, as advertising revenues have fallen and the company's$900m ad deal with Googleis due to come to a close.Two months ago Van Natta - the former chief operating officer of Facebook - wasbrought in to replaceMySpace co-founder Chris DeWolfe in the company's top job. Tom Anderson, who also helped start the site, wasremoved from his job as presidentas part of a reshuffle orchestrated by the new head of News Corp's digital businesses, former AOL boss Jonathan Miller."MySpace grew too big considering the realities of today's marketplace," said Miller. "I believe this restructuring will help MySpace operate much more effectively both structurally and financially moving forward. I am confident in MySpace's next phase under the leadership of Owen and his team."Today's announcement only covers jobs in the US, although the Guardian understands that offices in France, Italy and Spain are likely to close.A spokeswoman for MySpace said that the cuts only covered domestic US jobs, and that the company was not making any comment on international positions for the time being.
The robots have taken over the asylum here in Guardian Towers, and joining Aleks Krotoski to fight the onslaught of Skynet, Metal Mickey and Wall-E are our fearless podcasters, Jemima Kiss and Bobbie Johnson – who is reporting from the Mecca of Mech, last weekend's RoboGames android Olympics in San Francisco.Closer to home, we're hearing fromSpoonfed, the latest listings service to offer personalised social planning for London's time-rich.Plus there's your blog comments too – and we want your questions for our next Startup Surgery.  It's next week, and is on the subject of Intellectual Property.  Our lawyer will field your queries, just leave them below, or tweet@guardiantwand we'll pick them up.Note- There's a bit of swearing right at the end.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The communications minister Lord Carter has reiterated his support for a series of joint-venture partnerships between the BBC's commercial arm, BBC Worldwide, and Channel 4 – but has ruled out a private sector solution or a direct Government subsidy to fund a projected £150m funding gap.Carter's Digital Britain report said that a fully-blown merger between the two organisations had been ruled out because a straight asset transfer from the BBC to Channel 4 would have "significant competition implications" .That means executives from Channel 4 and Worldwide will continue discussions about greater co-operation with no immediate final solution to Channel 4's financial difficulties in sight.The report also raised the prospect of alternative solutions emerging, but did not go into detail. "Alternatives to the joint ventures with BBC Worldwide have also emerged over recent months: the board of C4 is right to explore whether those make commercial sense," it said.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The crisis in children's television could be eased by Channel 4, potentially aided by contestable funding provided by the BBC licence fee, the Digital Britain White Paper recommended today.Digital Britain said Channel 4 must make changes in its remit, partly to underwrite "a solid commitment to children's content, with priority given to older children - the area of greatest market failure".The report added that a consultation will be launched into creating a "contained contestable element" of the BBC's licence fee after 2013.This fund, about 3.5% of the licence fee, would effectively be made by carrying forward the approximate £130m-a-year sum that had been ringfenced for the digital switchover help scheme.Digital Britain proposes that an early priority for the fund, which would be managed by an "arm's-length body", would be to fund independently financed news consortia that would deliver commercial sector regional and local TV news services after ITV's anticipated withdrawal by 2012.As well as being aimed at regional news provision, the £130m contestable funding pot – which will be controlled by an "independent and transparent body" – is also being aimed at boosting homegrown children's programming.Channel 4 is being seen as one of the main beneficiaries of the money for children's programmes after being told to broadcast more shows aimed at those aged over 10.The broadcaster's board is being asked to come forward with proposals to update its remit, by the end of July, with a greater focus on online, multimedia output in line with Digital Britain's modernisation agenda, and partnerships of the kind already being successfully struck by its 4IP online services.However, this does not come near to addressing the minimum Channel 4 funding gap of £30m a year Ofcom's own research had suggested needed filling, or help arrest the trend of declining expertise in UK children's programming.Hopes for emergency help,  tax relief, or access to a contestable fund, on a par with Lord Carter's subsidy proposals for nations, regional and local news, are downplayed, if not dashed.Channel 4 has failed to win any government support for a direct cash subsidy, extra borrowing or help in kind. The broadcaster is faced with solving its financial problems by striking a partnership deal with BBC Worldwide, the preferred government solution, or other methods.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Winners•Consumers without broadband:Around 11% of the UK's households do not have access to 2Mbps broadband. Of these estimated 2.75m homes, 1.5m may get access to next-generation broadband.•Regional news viewers:"A small amount" of the £130m so-called digital surplus will fund ITV regional news pilots in Scotland, Wales and one English region between now and 2013. Post 2013, funding for independently financed news consortia which will deliver local TV services will come from a new "contained contestable element" of the licence fee.•Music industry:ISPs will have to gather data on alleged filesharers and notify them that their actions are illegal. Persistant offenders could also see bans on access to certain sites, and slowing of their internet speeds.•DAB:all national radio stations will be upgraded to digital by 2015. DAB must also be upgraded so that it is comparable to current FM coverage, reaches 90% of all the population and all major roads.•Ofcom:the regulator will see an extension in its powers.•Martha Lane Fox: will become the government's new web inclusion champion. Whatever that is.Losers•The BBC:the licence fee used to fund projects beyond the BBC. The so-called digital surplus of around £130m a year will be used to fund broadband, ITV local news pilots and children's programming. A consultation will be launched into creating a "contained constestable element" of the licence fee post 2013, of about 3.5% of the licence fee (currently roughly equal to the £130m figure).•Consumers with a fixed phone line:a new 50p-a-month levy will be charged to pay for universal broadband.•ISPs:will have to cut illegal filesharing on their networks by 70% within a year and bear the brunt of the workload of gathering information on filesharers.•Channel 4:no word on a deal with BBC Worldwide, no word on other funding.•Illegal filesharers:promises of a crackdown including measures such as blocking sites and slowing speed of connection.
The Office of Fair Trading has concluded that large-scale reform of the rules governing mergers in local media is unnecessary.Following a review of the rules governing the regional sector, timed to coincide with publication of the Digital Britain report today, the OFT found the current system was sufficiently "robust and flexible" and no legislative change was necessary.The ruling comes despite intense lobbying from the regional newspaper companies, which saw the UK's leading publishers form the Local Media Alliance to submit its case for change to the OFT.The OFT said that the existing regime was sufficiently flexible and evidence-based to respond to changing market conditions.However, the OFT proposed that it would formally seek Ofcom's view in future newspaper merger cases, given its specific sector knowledge in the UK.A further fillip to the regional press came as the government revealed in today's Digital Britain report that it would ask the National Audit Office to assess the impact of council run publications on regional newspapers and make recommendations for best practice and if restraints should be placed on local authorities in this field."Competition between publishers is important, not just for providing quality, cost-effective content to readers, but also to ensure that the most efficient, customer-focused, dynamic players take advantage of the structural and cyclical challenges that lie ahead," said John Fingleton, the OFT chief executive."The current merger regime came into force in 2003, and we are confident that it is fit for the needs of the media sector in the 21st century."If there are significant transactions that publishers or others are keen to pursue, we will review them on their merits, taking into account the impact on customers and the realities of the marketplace."The OFT review of media ownership rules was launched at the behest of the communications minister, Lord Carter, following the publication of his interim Digital Britain report earlier this year.The Local Media Alliance, a body made up of the chief executives of Trinity Mirror, Johnston Press, Newsquest, Northcliffe Media, Guardian Media Group – which publishes MediaGuardian.co.uk – Archant and DC Thomson, submitted its own ideas to the OFT review.It had advocated a "modernisation" of the current system of ownership rules, arguing that the creation of publishing organisations with greater local scale would be the most effective way to protect the viability of local newspapers and maintain plurality of editorial voice without damaging local advertising markets.This led to the National Union of Journalists warning that the UK's regional press will go into a "spiral of decline" if the government scrapped rules restricting mergers among the large newspaper groups.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
