Nest’s smart thermostat and smoke alarm products persuadedGoogle to buy it for $3.2bnin January 2014. Now the company seems to be planning a move into a new area: home audio.Arecruitment ad on Nest’s website– first spotted byTechCrunch– is seeking a “highly technical Head of Audio to lead the development of Nest Audio across hardware and software, present and future”.Whoever gets the job will “lead the Nest Audio team, including acoustics, audio electronics, audio SW [software], audio test and validation for all Nest Products”, according to the advertisement.Related:Father of the iPod adopts the household thermostat and smoke alarmThey will also be expected to build an audio team within the company, and to “develop an audio roadmap for Nest products, including HW [hardware] and SW, that can support delightful user experiences and innovative features”.Nest’s founder and chief executive, Tony Fadell, is hardly a newcomer to the world of digital music and audio hardware.The former Apple executive has been dubbedthe “father of the iPod”for his involvement from the early development stages of that company’s pioneering music player.Now, it seems his new company is looking to provide competition for Sonos and other manufacturers of connected hi-fis, with the “SW” in the job ad more likely to refer to apps for controlling music than to a new streaming service given Google has two: Google Play All Access and YouTube Music Key.Google has already experimented with audio hardware. In 2012 it unveiled the sphere-shapedNexus Q device, capable of streaming music and video controlled by an Android device.It never went on sale commercially, but earlier this year Google announced a technology calledGoogle Castto stream music to a range of audio speakers and – via its Chromecast dongle – a range of other home devices.Now Nest has its own audio ambitions, with Sonos likely to be the main rival in its sights. That company isexpected to record sales of $1bnfor its connected audio hardware this year, and recently raised $130m of funding to continue expanding. Google’s deep pockets could make Nest a formidable competitor.
Banning online anonymity systems such as Tor in Britain is neither practical nor acceptable, according to the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology.The opinion from Post, which provides independent analysis of public policy issues related to science and technology, is offered in a new paper about thedarknet and online anonymity.The prime minister warned last year of the rise of the darknet as he announced measures to remove “digital hiding places for child abusers”.Tor is the most popular anonymous online system with some 2.5m users daily and a “very small fraction” of their activity is accounted for by hidden websites described as Tor Hidden Services (THS). They are denoted by a .onion suffix rather than .co.uk or .com.Related:What is Tor? A beginner's guide to the privacy tool“Computer experts argue that any legislative attempt to preclude THS from being available in the UK over Tor would be technologically infeasible,” Post states.The paper also counters the view that the darknet is solely a hotbed of activity for paedophiles, criminals and terrorists and points out that it can be used for positive purposes such as whistleblowing, anonymous activism and journalism.It also points out that victims of digital abuse such as cyber-stalking have used Tor to protect their personal security and privacy.‘Increasingly used by paedophiles’David Cameron said last yearthat the darknet was “increasingly used by paedophiles to view sickening images”.But according to the paper, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Command (CEOP) of the UK National Crime Agency says that Tor hidden services plays “only a minor role in the online viewing and distribution of indecent images of children”.It adds: “According to CEOP, Tor is less popular among offenders because it decreases the speed at which images can be downloaded.”Post admits that THS may create criminal communities, where immoral behaviour and crimes are discussed openly. Adding that: “identifying criminals using Tor is time-consuming and it requires a high degree of skill.”
If Ministry of Sound boss Lohan Presencer had his way, there would be no free option for streaming music services such as Spotify, Deezer and Rdio - or YouTube for that matter.Related:Ministry of Sound sues Spotify for copyright infringementDespite havingsettled his company’s lawsuit with Spotifyover playlist copyright infringement, Presencer remains a combative opponent of free streaming services – a point he made forcefully during arecent Mobile World Congress debate with representatives from Deezer and Rdio.“My beef continually over the last few years has been with the free aspect, the freemium model. I just can’t see how that is sustainable or supportable. The argument goes that by making a free ad-funded service available, you give the pirates an alternative. I just don’t buy it,” said Presencer.“I think what you do is you take casual consumers of music and you turn them from purchasers into noshers, into browsers, into snackers. They don’t have to engage in the subscription model. The reality of some of the bigger streaming services is that 75% of their user base are free, which has a horrific impact on the music industry and its ability to invest in talent going forward.”Presencer also attacked streaming services for being beholden to their investors rather than musicians and rights holders.Ministry of Sound boss Lohan PresencerPhotograph: PR“Your objective is to grow your user base, to tell a story such that you can IPO or you can sell, and you can exit, and you can put money back in the pockets of your investors. You are not the ones who are investing in developing talent. You are not the ones who are signing artists,” he said.“And our artists and investment – our creative community – is contracting daily, as a result of the free services that are out there and giving music away, with the objective of you achieving some sort of exit at the end.”Presencer’s criticism came at a time when the viability of free, on-demand streaming services is under increasing scrutiny within the music industry. Lucian Grainge, head of the largest major label Universal Music,said recentlythat this model “is not something that is particularly sustainable in the long-term”.Deezer’s Europe vice-president Gerrit Schumann and Rdio’s head of business development Chris Burton made their cases for the defence.“I’m not going after people who are willing to pay today, and I’m gonna stop them from paying. That’s not our intention. We’re looking at a new way of consuming music, and obviously I have to get people excited about a new product,” said Schumann during the MWC panel.“A lot of people are not willing to pay for music, but they’re engaged with it, and that’s the first point. We see a lot of people coming to us who don’t buy CDs any more. They haven’t for about 20 years. But now, they go in the freemium funnel, or they get a free trial. It’s easy, it’s on mobile, and they start paying for music again. It’s that simple.”Meanwhile, Burton warned that Rdio spent four years as a subscription-only service finding it “very difficult” to persuade people to sign up. He said that if the music industry turned away from freemium it would be “extremely difficult” to keep increasing revenues.Unrest over free streaming was at the heart of Spotify’s dispute with Taylor Swift in 2014, when she pulled her music off the service in protest at the company’s refusal to allow her to make it available only to paying subscribers.Related:The future of music sales is here. So how CAN the artists make it pay?Spotify chief executiveDaniel Ek wrote in a blog post at the timethat its free tier had been a crucial factor in his company’s $2bn of royalty payments to music rightsholders. “More than 80% of our subscribers started as free users. If you take away only one thing, it should be this: No free, no paid, no $2bn,” wrote Ek.Presencer’s ears remain deaf to such an argument. “We need to switch off free across the board. We need to switch off free … and we need to come up with clever alternative payment mechanisms that allow people to snack, that allow them to pay as they go, that allow them to pay through micro-payments,” he said at MWC.“The reality is that on-demand music is a consumption medium, and giving it away for free just kills the industry.”And YouTube? Presencer wants the music industry to exert more pressure on that service too. “YouTube has been the elephant in the room for many years. As an industry we openly, and somewhat naively, embraced it and Vevo as promotional platforms,” he said after the event.“Clearly when content is available on demand that shifts from promotion to consumption. For a whole generation that has grown up with YouTube, it’s the primary destination for listening to music. No strategy for addressing the pernicious nature of legal free music is complete without putting YouTube behind some sort of pay mechanic. I fear it may be too late, but as an industry we owe it to ourselves to try.”
There is trouble on the virtual terraces of the best-selling Fifa video game series. Fans have reacted with fury to changes announced by developer EA Sports, which will radically alter the game’s popular Ultimate Team feature.For many, the eBay-style open-auction transfer market that underpinned the mode’s gameplay – which involves building a “deck” of player trading cards into a fantasy team – was one of its biggest pulls. Bagging an in-form player at a bargain price, usually by purchasing their card at 2am when fewer participants are online, led to moments of punch-the-air euphoria. With some Harry-Redknapp-style wheeler and dealing the purchase could be immediately flipped back onto the market with a higher starting price – a much faster way of acquiring in-game currency than actually playing matches. And the faster you made coins, the quicker the world’s best players could be secured for your fantasy line-up.However, fans will no longer be able to adopt this approach, as EA has removed entirely open auctions. Every item in the game is now available in “Buy It Now” format, with its value must be set within a pre-determined, EA-defined price range.[Update:It is still possible to offer cards up for auction, so long as they’re within EA’s pre-defined price range.]EA has claimed there are several reasons for the move. “To help FUT gamers understand the value of the players in their club,” is the first listed in yesterday’s announcement. It goes on: “To make high-rated players more attainable for all FUT gamers and ensure a level playing field”.However, many within the millions-strong Fifa community believe EA’s prime motivation for the change is in its third explanation: “to further restrict illegitimate coin transfers on the transfer market”. Many players sell in-game currency via auction sites like eBay, breaking EA’s rules. However, the move effectively eliminates the tense, but legitimate, “player-flipping” gameplay many enjoyed. Now, the only means of improving a team is either to plough hours into playing matches, or invest real money in Fifa Points, which can then be turned into currency within the game.“EA just basically re-confirmed any doubts that we may have had about their incompetence,” wrote one Fifa fan on the game’s official forum. “I don’t see how this will help so late into the season.” Another added: “EA might have [intended] to curb the rampant inflation and bring some unattainable cards back into the market, but all they’ve done is make it worse. Earlier, only the £15m+ players were out of the market… now even the mid-ranged players (like Suarez and Robben) have become extinct, as they are auto-bought [at] the max range price. The only ones on the market for more than a minute are the ones still extremely heavily priced, but put up before the price cap.”On Twitter the reaction was even more furious, with hundreds weighing in on the US publisher, and coining the hashtag #RIPFUT. One user, Adam Hayes, even went so far as to complain to the President himself: “@barackobama they have broken fifa 15 please fix it#Obamacare”.For balance, it’s important to state that EA’s hand has been forced somewhat by the growing number of prevalent Fifa-playing Youtubers who use their videos to promote sites offering to exchange Fifa currency for real money, at a fraction of the in-game cost. It’s the workaround being used by these YouTube stars that the company is trying to eliminate.The transaction behind illegitimate coin pruchases is relatively simple. A Fifa purchaser could amass 5,000,000 FIFA coins through clever manipulation of the transfer market over an extended period. The player could then agree to sell the haul to an online purchaser for £19.99. The purchaser sends the agreed sum via Paypal for “unspecified goods and services”, and then lists a FUT card with next-to-no-value – a League Two team’s away kit, for instance – on the in-game market for a Buy It Now price of £5,000,000. The rest of the world scoffs at such ridiculous pricing for something near worthless, leaving it free for the coin-seller to purchase. The two-way transaction is complete. And EA hasn’t seen a dime.Now consider that hundreds of such transactions are occurring on a daily basis, and it’s easy to understand why the company has a real problem on its hands, and was forced to take some action to block the scenario once and for all.It’s nonetheless fair to wonder whether EA has gone too far in the opposite direction. Would retaining the auction system with an upper, but not lower, limit for each card not have achieved an identical result? The upside lost on critics of this move is that many cards have come down in price since the switch was made, exactly as promised. For instance, any Crystal Palace fans biding their time to purchase an in-form Yannick Bolasie card may have been unable to stretch to the 90-100,000 coins he’s been selling for over the last month or so. Now he’s suddenly much more affordable, ranging between 17-25,000 coins. That great news for new purchasers, but less wonderful for Palace fans who may have purchased the card last week when it was going for around 86,000 coins.Related:Fifa 15 review – not flawless, but still the bestNot only that, but other users are reporting success in working the transfer market as if nothing had changed – FIFA forumite “CandyRat” gives an example of purchasing a classic Dennis Bergkamp card on Xbox One for 4,852,000 coins, then immediately flipping and selling him for a BIN price of 5,499,000 a mere six minutes later. The general rule with gaming communities is, if there’s a way to scam the system, they’ll find it.Has EA broken Ultimate Team, then? Once the social media rage has died down, the consensus will likely be “not quite”. But has it dampened the thrill of purchasing Rob Green at a knockdown price once the rest of the world has turned in for the night? Unequivocally.
Apple signalled its move into the luxury goods space with the introduction of its Edition collection of smartwatches on Tuesday. The most expensive of the three tiers of Apple Watchwill set you back at least $10,000 in the US and £8,000 in the UK.A recent New Yorker profile of Apple’s chief designer,Jonathan Ive, revealed that there were discussions over whether the company could keep being a brand for everyonewith the introduction of a product line targeted at such a rich demographic.One group certainly excluded by that high price point will be one that is closer than most to the products Apple creates: the assembly workers hired by Foxconn in its Chinese plants.Each Apple Watch from the Edition collection comes in an 18-karat gold case. The most expensive will market for $17,000 in the US.Photograph: Eric Risberg/APBased on an interview by China Daily with a worker there last year,the monthly base wage at the company is 2,500 yuan(£265) – 30,000 yuan (£3,180) a year.One of the assembly employees hoping to buy an Apple Watch Edition from China would have to pay at least 74,800 yuan ($11,496). On their basic salary it would take 910 days – spending nothing on anything else including income tax – to bring home the amount needed to afford the watch. New releases of the Apple Watch would probably have launched by then.Apple chief executive Tim Cook, utilising his $1.75m basic pay, would need just over 48 hours to get one from a US store.Expansion in China isthought to be central to Apple’s ambitions. This view wasreinforced by the hiring of Angela Ahrendts, previously at luxury brand Burberry, who helped oversee the brand’s expansion in Asia.However, the Edition collection costs even more in China than it does in the US.With the exception of the UK, Chinese consumers will have to pay more than those in every other market where the Apple Watch Edition is available. Just over the border in the special administrative region of Hong Kong, the cheapest Watch will cost $1,789 less.The example of the Foxconn worker here is not that isolated, the Edition collection will be even less affordable for the average Chinese employee than it already is for the average worker elsewhere.The basic Edition Apple Watch is worth 145.7% of the current Chinese GDP per capita (economic output per member of the population). That’s a pretty huge anomaly compared to other countries considered target markets. The next highest proportion is 32.5% in neighbouring Japan.One person who might struggle to buy an Edition watch is Chinese president Xi Jinping. Compared to most other world leaders, his yearly salary of $22,300 pales in comparison. Hong Kong’s chief executive Leung Chun-ying brings home 26 times that – $575,595 –according to Quartz.Using that data, we can work out that of all the top politicians in the nine markets where the Apple Watch is available, Xi would have to wait the most days – 196 – before he could wrap a shiny piece of the Edition collection round his wrist.European leaders François Hollande and David Cameron would both have to wait about 21 days – a few more than regional partner Angela Merkel. Meanwhile, Hong Kong’s Leung could afford one in just under a week.Different styles of the new Apple Watch Sport.Photograph: Martyn Landi/PATherearecheaper Apple Watches available. You can get the Sport edition –with its fluoroelastomer strap– for $349 in the US and for £299 in the UK.Nevertheless, with the introduction of the Edition collection, Apple’s biggest bet is moving into the luxury goods space – the prize: becominga $1tn company.Nine reasons only a tool would buy the apple watchHow the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyWall Street’s reaction to the Apple Watch? It will sell millions – but meh ...
This week, the Guardian is co-organising a news game jam at theRezzedPC gaming festival in London. Small teams of coders and designers will be given a selection of recent stories from the newspaper, and will then have 48 hours to create games based around the article they choose. The best entries will be made available via the Guardian site.The idea of a “news game” is not, in fact, new. Since the mid-nineties, when web plug-ins like Flash made it possible to produce quick, cheap games then distribute them online, developers have been creating interactive news experiments. Italian studioMolleindustriawas a pioneer, launching the fast food satire McDonald’s Game and oil business expose Oiligarchy, while US developerPersuasive Gameshas tackled subjects like mass food production (Bacteria Salad) and airport customs (Airport Insecurity).Charities, museums and galleries have all explored the potential of games as a potent medium for engagement and instruction. TheWellcome Trusthas been working with game developers for years, developing titles to explore bioscience issues, while Cancer Research is the latest organisation to use gamers as a resource via its titleReverse the Odds, which tasks players with analysing real-life cancer cells.In the mainstream press, however, we’re yet to see the concept of “interactive journalism” develop beyond the provision of quizzes and polls, explorable data apps, and big multimedia experiments like the Guardian’s own Firestorm. Games as a news delivery mechanism hardly figure.Related:Firestorm: The story of the bushfire at DunalleyPartly of course, there are huge ethical concerns. Although the medium has matured greatly over the past five years, there is still a cognitive backlash against the idea of “playing” with real-life stories in which people may have been killed or injured. Speaking about this issue ina Guardian feature two years ago, Persuasive Games co-founder Ian Bogost said, “Without a set of examples that move players to be affected by non-fiction games, and without more widely published and read criticism about why such games are useful, its no wonder [newspaper readers] find themselves unsure and afraid. That may change over time, but we need more games to make it happen.”But so far there haven’t been many more games, and that’s maybe as much to do with cost and development resources as it is to do with ethics. Even low-budget games, built using cheap tools like Unity3D or Game Maker can take a long time to plan, implement and develop – if they are treated as high-end, high-polish interactive projects. Slowly thatishappening: Al Jazeera has itsAJ+mobile app which treats story media as a selection of cards which can be “stacked” by the user into their own custom-built stories; and last November, the Dutch newspaper Volkskrant released its own simulation game Refugee Republic, exploring the realities of life in a refugee camp.“We’re really starting to see momentum in this area now, and it’s very exciting,” says Tomas Rawlings, whose Bristol studioAuroch Digitalhas produced news games like NarcoGuerra and Endgame: Syria. “I was pleased to the see The Guardian publishing a newsgame on immigration, plus BuzzFeed says they are going to be investing $50m into casual games – I hope we’ll see some of that going into news games. The new rise in VR technology has also [led to] projects that try to bringa far-way conflict to lifein front of you.”Related:The refugee challenge: can you break into Fortress Europe? - interactiveThese are major endeavours though. Instead, inspiration for the future growth of the news game concept may well come from the game jam or hackday scene, where small teams compete to build playable prototypes over a weekend. They’re rough, they’re buggy, but they often provide the basis for interesting interactive experiences that can be iterated on later. Which is why we’re running the experiment at Rezzed.There’s already a burgeoning news game hack scene. Last year in Cologne, development studio The Good Evil ran Europe’s firstnews game hackathon, where representatives from several major media companies, including the Guardian and Germany’s Deutsche Welle and The Suddeutsche Zeitung, took part making small games based around topical issues.Related:Newsgame hackathon: can we make a game with no coding experience?In February, Dutch workshop and hackspace organiserHackastoryran a similar event in Amsterdam, again drawing in major European media companies to produce quick news game concepts. The results includedBe The President Today, which gives players in control of Azerbaijan andNews Brickswhich, like AJ+, reduces stories into separate searchable components which can be structured and unlocked by readers.“The internet, social media, mobile and wearable technology are changing the way we tell stories,” says Hackastory co-founder Albertine Piels. “Digital storytelling doesn’t have a tradition yet compared to film making and newspapers, so we need to work together with different skills: developers, gamers and designers. We also believe in learning by making. We shouldn’t talk as much about it, but just start doing it. In our accelerating world, we need to experiment more.”According to Hackastory’s Nienke Huitenga, it’s likely interactive journalism will evolve to consist of two streams: fast, reactive games, and longer form experiences. “We like big, feature film-like stories like Serial, because we recognise them from other media like film, tv and radio,” she says. “Therefore we understand how to ‘love it’”. Hackastory is already working on its next jam, with theInteractive Factual Labin Leuven, Belgium, which runs from 2-3 May.The news game experiment at Rezzed could be the first time the concept has ever been explored at a major gaming festival. It will be fascinating to see how young game developers, rather than major media corporations, approach the problem of presenting current affairs as an interactive experience. But, as Albertine Piels argued, there’s only one way to find out, and that’s to do it.
Strong stories or visions of the future stick around. The 1920s sci-fi fantasy of a jetpack commute still pops up in discussions about the future of technology, not to mention as an option on the Citymapper travel app. By co-opting or creating new visions of the future, it seems possible to influence the development of new products and services - from consumer tech to urban infrastructure. A new generation of African artists is taking over the mantle of Afrofuturist arts from a US-centred crowd. They could bring a welcome change to how technology is developed in the region, as well as a challenge to the dominance of imported plans for urban development.Last Thursday’s London gig fromFantasmawas sweaty and boisterous. It was also very different from the remix of Joy Division’s She’s Lost Control that brought front man Spoek Mathambo to the attention of a global audience a couple of years ago. Fantasma is a group of South African musicians with different backgrounds. Guitarist Bhekisenzo Cele started the gig with three of his own songs, introducing the traditional Zulu maskandi music that they went on to mix with shangaan electro, hiphop, punk, electronica and everything in between.The gig had a buzz about it. But the performance was from a new collective trying things out; it wasn’t as genre-smashing as expected. And expectations ride high for Spoek. In 2011, he titled a collection from his back catalogue ‘Beyond Afrofuturism’. He took on, at least in name, a whole Afro-American cultural movement: embodied by musicians like Sun Ra, George Clinton and Drexciya. A previouspost on this blog by Chardine Taylor-Stonedescribes the roots of Afrofuturism in science fiction that centres on space travel and human enhancement. But she goes on to say: “Afrofuturism also goes beyond spaceships, androids and aliens, and encompasses African mythology and cosmology with an aim to connect those from across the Black Diaspora to their forgotten African ancestry.” Spoek shares whathe calls a cultural lineagewith this movement. But he is not Afro-American. He also shares a cultural lineage with the sounds of South African musicians he grew up listening to.This heritage puts a lot of weight on Spoek’s shoulders. He is challenging whatEmma Dabiri has called”a space for black people to write ourselves into speculative pasts and futures, to reimagine our identities beyond and before human history and form”. He is bringing the surreal reimagining of 20th Century technology up against very real local musical cultures with well-defined identities. In his documentary,Future Sounds of Mzansi, Spoek explores the past and future of the role of electronic music in South African popular culture. There is a burgeoning scene with new local genres and dance trends taking off all the time.There is an opportunity in this connection with South African daily life. George Clinton’s Afrofuturism provided identity and history where it was missing. As South African digital artist and theoristTegan Bristow puts it: “Afrofuturism is a critical engagement with technology and the power ideals of ‘the other’.” There are contemporary projects that continue to do this beautifully: Cristina de Middel’sAfronaut photograph seriesreimagines the 1964 Zambian space programme. But Fantasma could mark the beginning of a movement that not just dreams about alternative kinds of technology, but makes it happen.Technology by the people, for the peopleOther forms of art are taking an increasingly activist role in the future of technology.Lydia Nicholas’s descriptionof the relationship between Douglas Adam’s fictional Hitchhiker’s Guide and the real life development of the iPad shows how science fiction can effortlessly influence the development of new technology.The science fiction collection Lagos 2060 isa more purposeful intervention. Published in 2013, it speculates about what it will be like to live in Lagos 100 years after Nigeria gained independence from the UK. It was born out of a creative writing workshop initiated by DADA books in Lagos. Foundation director of DADA, Ayodele Arigbabu, described the collection and other similar video and visual art work (in an email): “Far more than aesthetic indulgence, these renditions are a calibration of the changes deemed necessary in today’s political, technical and cultural infrastructure.”Speculative design began as a means of imagining future, and often far-fetched, products and services. These designers aim to provoke debate about radically different futures. UK-based international leaders in this field, Tony Dunne and Fiona Raby, argue in their recent bookSpeculative Everythingthat if we speculate more, and about everything in our lives, reality will become more malleable. They say that the ideas freed by speculative design increase the odds of achieving desirable futures.This has rung true for revolutionary inventors, from Nikola Tesla to the South Africa-born Elon Musk. Strong visions of the future have played a part in the irrational persistence needed to push through transformative technological change: whether that is the development of alternating current or PayPal. Stories help entrepreneurs through adversity and convince others to collaborate with them, whether or not their is a rational reason why a product or service will succeed.How can musicians like Spoek, designers like Dunne &amp; Raby and the Lagos writers combine the large-scale critical engagement of Afrofuturism with the dogged determination of Musk to make something happen?One answer might come from initiatives like theAMPION Venture Bus Africa. The AMPION bus travels around the continent, picking up aspiring entrepreneurs to work with international startup and early-stage investment experts on the bus. Last year, AMPION helped create 30 new ventures in 15 African countries in industries from healthcare to agriculture. But this is a small, temporary group. How do we develop a more ongoing public debate about the future? And if so, what are the tools that will help this happen? Can professional futurists, whose job is to find different ways to explore the future, play a role?Futurists to the rescue?Gaston Berger was the Senegalese founder of the academic journal Prospectiv in 1957. To many, he was the first futurist, or at least one of the first people to describe themselves as one. He founded promotes the practice of playing out the human consequences of today’s action. This is about avoiding a fatalistic approach to the future: about being proactive and provoking change, as much as anticipating it.Berger’s early work spawned a generation, and then another and another, of professional futurists. They work in different ways and different places. Some are in government, enticing and frightening politicians with the prospect of a different transport system, healthcare sector or national security regime. Some are consultants to large companies, offering advice on the way that trends like 3D printing or flying robots will change their sector.An article from 1996does a good job of summarising the principles of this movement: don’t act like an ostrich and ignore the future by putting your head in the sand; don’t act like a fireman and just respond to threats to your future; and don’t focus just on insurance against for the future.We need more than firemenHeeding the second of these three warnings: if you decide to only engage with the future when it looks like a fire needs putting out, you run the risk of acting only in response to a world created by other people’s vision of the future.In 1992, South Africa was in the middle negotiations to end apartheid. At the same time a group of political and academic leaders from across the country developed a series of possible future scenarios for the nation, publishing them in national newspapers. They called the four scenarios thethe Mont Fleur visions: the Flight of the Flamingos promised an alternative future of inclusive democracy and growth. The Ostrich, Lame Duck and Icarus futures were damaged birds. In 2009, these futures were updated. But they did not lead to an ongoing campaign, and so had less of an effect on South Africa’s future than they might have otherwise. (Although the online community andlibraryavailable via Foresight for Development have gone some way to changing this.)What happens otherwiseCities offer some of the most stark examples of what can happen when lack of long-term vision is missing from political leadership. Keller Easterling’sExtrastatecraft: The Power of Infrastructure Spacestudies the way that new economic zones in cities around the world are part of a new dynamic of power - where global architecture practices and multinational firms have more say over design than residents of the city. Easterling emphasises how infrastructure is not just a physical constraint, it is also the hidden rules that structure urban life. As power over this infrastructure moves beyond even the city or national government, little opportunity remains for citizens to play a role in developing the rules that govern their own urban ecology.Right now, this power play for the future of cities via infrastructure planning is explicit in Africa. Vanessa Watson hascollected fantastical architectural plans, which range from a Google US consulting arm’s redesign for Kigali in Rwanda to the Eko Atlantic coastal extension of Lagos engineered by Middle East consultancy Dar Al-Handasah. Most potent in this planning is the strong continuity with colonial planning for these cities. Watsoncalls them(33.59 minutes) “new emerging urban fantasies that mimic western cities with their glass box towers, tuscan villas and gated villages”. But she also notes that the proliferation of these images in city plans are less about catching up with the West than with the hypermodernism of the East. These have become an accepted local aspiration, and risk drowning out alternative visions for the future of these cities.This kind of globally-empowered futurism can leave other ideas about the future in the margins, hidden in corners both physically and politically. These form the silent ‘collective unglamorous’, asAsh Amin from Cambridge University calls it. Inan interview, he compare the unglamourous to the air we breath:...noticed only when it begins to choke, when something goes wrong in the atmosphere. The unglamorous consists of all those things in the city that we take very little note of, but which are absolutely essential for our lives and our identities.The pervasive collective acts like the firemen of urban futurism. It only responds in a crisis. There needs to be a more vibrant voice for this collective - afuturist for the everydaythat can stand up to the urban dreams of extrastatecraft.Softening infrastructure is part of the solutionThomas Aquilina, an Architecture researcher also at Cambridge, travelled roughly the African Longitude 30°E line in 2012 and 2013. He collected thousands of images from six African cities. The images follow the life of recycled materials, and illustrate the importance of the informal material economy. In Johannesburg, for example, he documents how an ironing-board frame was used as a vending stand and later attached to a makeshift cart for steering. Inhis summary of his trip, he concludes:Established structures and their respective functions were outstripped by another kind of operating and making use of the city. Neighbourhoods were based on an extended and congested social network, and their urban footprints continue to expand... These cities become critical subjects, not as a process of accelerated urbanisation, but examples of a radically different way of being in the city.This detailed description gives voice to the collective unglamorous. It is a starting place for the much needed futurist of the everyday city.At the same time, I have started to use the term soft infrastructure to describe potential developments in technology that will allow more people to have power over the changes to the infrastructure around them. There is technology in development that could dynamise existing structures by, for example,generating energy from paving stones. There are other new technologies that have few applications just yet, but which might find that “the street finds its own use for things” (from Burning Chrome by sci-fi author William Gibson). Mesh networks of sensors and phonescan use any nearby connectionto send messages without the need for centralised communication systems. There is a competition forthe first airborne robot to solve freight problemsby carrying 20kgs around Mount Kenya. Compared to current energy, communication and transport infrastructure, the developments offer an infrastructure that more of us could own and shape.The promise of Afrofuturism in the cityIncreasing interest in African culture from the V&amp;A in London and the British Council’s strong local networks make it easier for me to engage directly with these exciting developments from the UK: to ask what can London learn from new cultural movements in Johannesburg and Lagos.But I am wary of simplifying this situation bya warningfrom Matthew Gandy at UCL: “To treat the city as a living art installation, or compare it to the neutral space of a research laboratory, is both to de-historicize and to depoliticize its experience.”I’d love to see a new initiative that doesn’t neglect this complexity, but pushes forward towards a more everyday activism aimed at owning the future of the cities we live in. This would learn from the mass appeal of cultural movements like Afrofuturism, take on the knowledge and international clout of the Foresight for Development programme, delivered with the entrepreneurial audacity of the Ampion Venture Bus Africa and Thomas Aquilina’s attention to detail.It’s time to challenge William Gibson’s overused quote: “the future is already here — it’s just not very evenly distributed.” Sometimes when people use this phrase they seem to imply that Silicon Valley (or London’s Silicon Roundabout) know what the future will hold and the rest of us will follow. Let’s start to replace this with the Nigerian proverb: “the earth moves at different speeds depending on who you are.” This phrase picks out how differently and how personally technology becomes part of our lives. Gibson’s instinct that technology finds it’s life on the street is right, but sometimes it feels like he assume too much about which street on which continent.***This is unapologetically connected toFutureFest, the festival Nesta (where I work) is holding this weekend in London Bridge. These thoughts represent the ideas that piqued my interest while curating talks and exhibits based on the thought experiment of a future African city-superpower. George Clinton, Spoek Mathambo, Tegan Bristow and Fabian-Carlos Guhl (from Ampion Venture Bus) will be speaking during the weekend. Thomas Aquilina is displaying photographs from his trip and the architects of the Lagos 2060 project will take part in a debate on whether their fiction can lead to a different kind of future. Many thanks toLynsey Smith,Kathleen StokesandCher Potterfor their pointers along the way.
More than half of the UK population will be regularly using tablet computers in 2015, up from a third in 2013, but the growth is set to slow “dramatically” in the coming years according to research firm eMarketer.The company’slatest predictions for the UK tablet marketclaim that 32.8 million Brits will be using a tablet at least once a month in 2015, representing 51% of the population – and 64.1% of internet users.By 2019, eMarketer expects those figures to have risen to 40.2 million people: 59.8% of the population and 73.6% of internet users.“The country’s tablet market is reaching a point in its maturity curve that signals a slowdown in user growth,” said analyst Bill Fisher. “Such a slowdown in the rate of penetration suggests that most of those who want a tablet likely already have one, with more sales than ever likely to be replacements.”eMarketer also expects Apple’s iPad to account for 16.7 million of in-use tablets for the UK in 2015, giving it a 51% market share. It predicts that this will fall to 44.9% by 2019 due to continued competition from companies including Samsung and Amazon.eMarketer’s predictions for tablet usage in the UK.Photograph: PREven so, that’s a shift fromthe same firm’s prediction in April 2014that iPad would account for 49% of British tablet users in 2014, falling to 46% in 2015.eMarketer is far from the only firm predicting a slowdown in the tablet market.Gartner has described global tablet shipments in 2014– note, a different metric to the active users referred to by eMarketer – as a “collapse” and “alarming”.Apple chief executive Tim Cook was also asked about a tablet slowdown after his company revealed a 17.7% year-on-year decline in iPad sales in the final quarter of 2014, and pointed to people upgrading tablets less often than they do smartphones as one factor.“The upgrade cycle is longer. It’s longer than an iPhone, probably between an iPhone and a PC,”Cook told analysts in January. “There is probably some level of cannibalisation that’s going on with the Mac on one side and the Phone on the other.”
The woman at the center of alandmark $16m Silicon Valley sex discrimination casesaid she was suing her former venture capital employer for such a large amount because only an eight-figure settlement would “hit their radar” and force change in the west coast technology scene’s “boys’ club”.Ellen Pao, who was fired by prestigious venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers after she complained about sexual discrimination, told jurors in a San Francisco court that she had “gone through every possible internal process I thought I could go through” to try and raise her concerns with the firm’s management.In one email to Kleiner Perkins’ partners, she asked them to “imagine your wife or daughter in my position”.Related:Silicon Valley is cool and powerful. But where are the women?“I wanted an even playing field for women at the firm,” she said. “I wanted to have an environment where people who complained about problems related to discrimination or to other issues would be heard and that the firm would do something about it.”She said that after an internal Kleiner Perkins investigation found that she had not suffered discrimination, she was ignored by superiors and excluded from important meetings, dinners and corporate jet flights. “It was extremely difficult and very uncomfortable,” Pao, who is now interim chief executive of social news site Reddit, said.Among Pao’s claims was the allegation that she, and other women, were excluded from an important Kleiner Perkins dinner with former US vice-president Al Gore because they would “kill the buzz”.“It was said that if there were women there, the conversation would be tempered and it was because women kill the buzz,” Pao said on the stand on Monday. The organiser of the dinner, Chi-Hua Chien, denied saying women would “kill the buzz”, but conceded that the dinner was a male-only affair.At the time of the dinner, Pao lived in the same building as Gore. Pao said she bumped into the chief executive of Flipboard, the social network aggregator, outside the building and had to tell him that she wouldn’t be able to go to the dinner. “It was pretty humiliating,” she said. “I had to explain to them that I wouldn’t be attending, and it was because I wasn’t a man.”Kleiner Perkins disputes her claims, and argues that she lacked the interpersonal skills to succeed in the company and that she is adequately compensated at Reddit.The trial, being heard at the superior court in San Francisco, has all of Silicon Valley gripped. Kleiner Perkins is among the most prestigious venture capital companies in technology and counts Amazon, Google and Uber among its investments.In earlier testimony Alan Exelrod, Pao’s attorney, argued that Kleiner Perkins systematically discriminated against women. In opening statements he said the company had existed for about 40 years when Pao was let go and had only promoted one woman from junior partner to senior partner in that time.Exelrod contrasted Pao’s evaluations with those of male colleagues. She was described as having “poor interpersonal skills” and “her own agenda” while male colleagues, who were promoted, were evaluated as “quite tough”, “arrogant” and “blunt and overbearing”.Related:Silicon valley is more Flintstones than Jetsons when it comes to women | Elena FavilliThe case is not about sexual harassment. However, Pao has said she was given a book of erotic poetry and nude sketches by a senior partner at the firm. She also claims another male employee interfered with her work after she ended an affair with him.Pao’s testimony follows that of John Doerr, billionaire senior partner at Kleiner Perkins, who testified that he had tried to save Pao’s career at the firm after criticism from colleagues. Pao worked as Doerr’s chief of staff when she joined the company.In a performance review filed with the court, Doerr said Pao had been dismissive of peers who did not meet her expectations and needed to improve her interpersonal skills. He otherwise praised her performance in her first year as his chief of staff.In court Doerr said he had provided Pao with two coaches to improve her presentation skills, but the training failed to pay off. “Ellen is very talented,” he told the court. “I felt that she ought to have another shot.”According to Doerr, 20% of partners at Kleiner Perkins are women, a far higher percentage than its peers according to a recent study released by Babson College in Massachusetts. According to that study, released last year, the total number of female partners in venture capital firms has declined significantly since 1999, dropping to 6% from 10%.
The Wikimedia Foundation, Amnesty International and a host of civil rights groups sued the National Security Agency and the US Department of Justice on Tuesday challenging the mass surveillance programme uncovered by whistleblower Edward Snowden.“We’re filing suit today on behalf of our readers and editors everywhere,” said Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia, in a statement onWikimedia’s blog.“Surveillance erodes the original promise of the internet: an open space for collaboration and experimentation, and a place free from fear.”According tothe lawsuit, the NSA’s mass surveillance of internet traffic in the United States violates the US constitution’s first amendment, which protects freedom of speech and association, and the fourth amendment, which protects against unreasonable search and seizure.Filed by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) in the US district court in Maryland the suit names the attorney general, Eric Holder, director of intelligence, James Clapper and NSA director, Michael Rogers, as well as their respective offices.The lawsuit challenges the “suspicionless seizure and searching of internet traffic” by the NSA in the US that it says is done by “tapping directly into the internet backbone inside the United States – the network of high-capacity cables, switches, and routers that today carry vast numbers of Americans’ communications with each other and with the rest of the world.”The NSA’s so-called “Upstream” surveillance scheme –first revealed by the Guardianand the Washington Post – is designed to capture communications with “non-US persons” to acquire foreign intelligence information. But in the course of this surveillance, “the NSA is seizing Americans’ communications en masse”, says the court filing.The suit, also backed by Human Rights Watch, writers’ group PEN, the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, argues the NSA’s actions impede their constitutional right to “exchange information in confidence, free from warrantless government monitoring” and exceeds the authority given to the government bodies by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.“PEN’s research shows that fears surrounding NSA surveillance have driven writers in both the US and abroad to curtail what they write, in every medium from emails to novels to social media,” said Suzanne Nossel, executive director of PEN American Center. “Upstream and other NSA programs that comb through private correspondence are fueling widespread self-censorship, eroding the foundations of privacy and confidentiality necessary for free expression to flourish.”“By tapping the backbone of the internet, the NSA is straining the backbone of democracy,” Lila Tretikov, executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation wrote in ablog post.“Wikipedia is founded on the freedoms of expression, inquiry, and information. By violating our users’ privacy, the NSA is threatening the intellectual freedom that is central to people’s ability to create and understand knowledge.”ACLU, PEN and others have previously challenged the NSA’s warrantless wiretapping programme. The supreme court dismissed that case, Clapper v Amnesty, in February 2013, months before Snowden’s revelation. The justices rejected the case in a 5-4 vote on grounds that the plaintiffs had failed to prove that they had been subject to spying and were “based too much on speculation”.
A Vine starwho reportedly made £2,000 per secondfrom his posts claims he has been hacked, with all of his videos deleted from his account.Ben Phillips, who has has 1.3m followers on the platform which allows users to upload six-second clips, told the Guardian: “It’s like losing photo albums in a house fire.”Phillips, from Bridgend in South Wales, is hoping Vine can restore his posts. Just a year ago, he was working in his mum’s shoe shop – now, he can be paid as much as £12,000 to feature products in his Vines.An Instagram video by Ben Phillips. Source:BenPhillipsUK/Instagram“I’m really not bothered about the business, it’s about the memories from the last year. I know it’s the internet, but those Vines represent a journey over the last year. We’re just hoping they’re recoverable.”After he was profiled byBuzzFeedandNewsbeatlast week about being able to make a living from Vine, his account appears to have been hacked.Phillips told the Guardian he first noticed something was wrong on Sunday. He said: “I had a couple of followers messaging me, asking me where a Vine had gone and I thought – what Vine? What’s this?IMPORTANT!! My vine has been hacked@vine@vinehelpplease contact me to restore asap please.....pic.twitter.com/YNFuVpoWQI&mdash; Ben Phillips (@BenPhillipsUK)March 8, 2015“Then I looked and they’d all been deleted, every single one. I don’t know how hacking works, but I found it really weird because they’d even gone and deleted my profile picture.”Im sure@vine@vinehelpwill get us back online and all vines restored 🙏😅&mdash; Ben Phillips (@BenPhillipsUK)March 10, 2015The 22-year-old said he has contacted Vine to ask for help, but may well have to start all over again if the problem can’t be resolved. The Guardian has contacted Vine to ask for their take on the situation – we have yet to receive a response.His Vine stardom began after he started making Vines with his then-girlfriend’s three-year-old son Harley, who featured in a Ford advert Phillips was paid £12,000 to make.A Vine by Ben Phillips for Ford Europe. Source: Ford Europe/VineAfter he and Harley’s mother broke up, he rebranded and began making Vines on his own. He has also branched out to other social networks, including Facebook, where his page has reached 500,000 likes. His videos feature him playing pranks on people in and around Cardiff.If Vine isn’t able to recover the videos, Phillips has said he may upload 10 of his favourites and start all over again. He added: “But right now, I don’t want to touch it until I know for sure we can’t get the posts back.”Vine has become the home to numerous social media stars who are adept at creating witty content in just six seconds, and often branch out to Snapchat and other platforms like YouTube . Many of Vine’s biggest stars have been approached by brands to create short advertorial clips.
It’s difficult to know what the defining news moment of 2015 has been so far: theconsecrationof the first female bishop in the UK? The explosive Westminster cash-for-accessscandal? Patricia Arquette’s inspiring call for equality in her Oscarsspeech?Or yesterday’s announcement of theApple Watchfrom company chief executive Tim Cook. #ICYMI (in case you missed it), themost valuable companyin the worldannouncedthe specs and models of its timepiece – and a newMacBook– at a ceremony that included a lot of whoops and clapping from middle-aged white men, and a video of supermodel Christy Turlington Burnstrainingfor a half marathon in Africa.So is the Apple Watch worth a purchase in any of its guises? Here’s why I’m not too impressed, and why you shouldn’t be either.1. ‘If you’re an email junkie, you can read full emails’Said Cook, excitedly, as though the idea of us being able to access phishing scams, PR requests, political party propaganda and long-ago subscribed-to newsletters 24/7 wasa good thing.One of the rudest things a person can do is check their phone over dinner. Soon to be usurped by checking one’s Apple Watch over dinner.2. Embracing a two-tier health systemThere is no doubt that the Health angle of the Apple Watch is very impressive. The company has worked with the likes of theUniversity of Oxfordto create health monitoringapps, including for breast cancer, cardiovascular disease and Parkinson’s disease.This means that as the Tories privatise the NHS and Obamacare faces an uncertain future and we all crumble into dust, those of us able to afford the Apple Watch and newer model iPhones will be kicking back with a resting heart rate of 50, while spamming social media with our 10k run PBs. Sorry about the rest of you.Here are the#Healthapps available on the#AppleWatch, changing healthcare.http://t.co/NoRyF58QZ0#AppleLiveEventpic.twitter.com/xEnePlbQbh&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)March 9, 20153. Apple Pay = flash spendthriftsWe envision a future in whichApple Paybecomes the new American Express Black. All of us currently feel a little James Bond about our contactless debit cards (right?), but imagine a world in which Apple Pay allows for limitless transactions; a sea of Christian Greys flashing their wrists at waiters and pointing it at bell-boys.If Christian Grey was wearing the Apple Watch.Photograph: YouTube screengrab4. $17,000 (£13,500) for a gold watch is absurdI’m just gonna throw this out there: anybody who is considering purchasing a $17,000 (or £13,500 in the UK) solid gold watch – don’t. First of all, spending what could be the deposit on a flat, or a whole car, on a timepiece is ridiculous. But if youmust, at least go for a brand with a little class and heritage.Or, I dunno, just go toFriezeand buy an original artwork. Culture, innit.The gold edition of the Apple Watch. In a word: flash.Photograph: Apple5. The Internet of Things is turning us into robotsPretty soon, every single thing in our lives will be connected – this concept is known as theInternet of Things, which is annoying in itself.But with the forward march of Apple Watch and other products – and their integration with literally everything – we’ll soon be living in a world in which going back to someone’s flat at the end of an evening will result in them discussing how they control their underfloor heating with just the swipe of a watch face. Great.6. There is a Mickey Mouse edition watch faceI used to have a Lion King watch when I was at school. I was seven. Any adult who orders a Mickey Mouse Apple Watch is a tool. Worse, anybody who buys a $350 (£230) watch for their child, is also a tool.Kids are muddy and messy and roll around and spill things and break things and lose things. No point to this Mickey Mouse watch face, then.The Mickey Mouse face for the Apple Watch.Photograph: Apple7. Shazam integrationNow the type of people who can’t sit through a movie without providing a running commentary, or listen to a song without either Googling it or Shazam-ing it can run wild without even reaching for their pocket.Shazamis a service that allows users to instantly call up the title and details of a song by recording a snippet of it on a phone. With a special app for the Apple Watch, the use of Shazam will become a lot of more frequent. Imagine a sporadically romantic moment ruined as your newbaecalls up his watch to identify Mazzy Star’sFade Into Youplaying in the restaurant. Aw.8. Probably contributing to dodgy economicsApple Watch is the company’smost environmentally friendlyproduct. But there are still some concerns over theconditionsof the factories where Apple’s products are made, and the lack of benefit to theAmerican economy. Do you really wanna be another cog in the great evil capitalist machine? Are we all just abandoning our morals for shiny things? (Yes.)9. All the other things you could be buyingJust, for example, things that would make you look much cooler than having the cheapest model Apple Watch: a sharpAquascutum suit, this cute J Crewdress, afirst edition Bill Clinton,Wimbledon tickets… I mean, pretty much anything.The plus point, however, to owning a new Apple Watch? It’s very good at telling the time. Yup.
Why spy? That’s the several-million pound question, in the wake of the Snowden revelations. Why would the US continue to wiretap its entire population, given that the only “terrorism” they caught with it wasa single attempt to send a small amount of money to Al Shabab?One obvious answer is: because they can. Spying is cheap, and cheaper every day. Many people have compared NSA/GCHQ mass spying to the surveillance programme of East Germany’s notorious Stasi, but the differences between the NSA and the Stasi are more interesting than the similarities.The most important difference is size. The Stasi employed one snitch for every 50 or 60 people it watched. We can’t be sure of the size of the entire Five Eyes global surveillance workforce, but there are only about 1.4 million Americans with Top Secret clearance, and many of them don’t work at or for the NSA, which means that the number is smaller than that (the other Five Eyes states have much smaller workforces than the US). This million-ish person workforce keeps six or seven billion people under surveillance – a ratio approaching 1:10,000. What’s more, the US has only (“only”!) quadrupled its surveillance budget since the end of the Cold War: tooling up to give the spies their toys wasn’t all that expensive, compared to the number of lives that gear lets them pry into.IT has been responsible for a 2-3 order of magnitude productivity gain in surveillance efficiency. The Stasi used an army to surveil a nation; the NSA uses a battalion to surveil a planet.Spying, especially domestic spying, is an aspect of what the Santa Fe Institute economist Samuel Bowles callsguard labour: work that is done to stabilise property relationships, especially the property belonging to the rich.The amount a state needs to expend on guard labour is a function of how much legitimacy the state holds in its population’s reckoning. A state whose population mainly views the system as fair needs to do less coercion to attain stability. People who believe that they are well-served by the status quo will not work to upset it. States whose populations view the system as illegitimate need to spend more on guard labour.It’s easy to see this at work: Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, China and North Korea spend disproportionate sums on guard labour. Highly redistributive Nordic states with strong labour laws, steeply progressive taxation and tenant protection spend less on guard labour. They attain social stability through the carrot of social programmes, not the stick of guard labour.InCapital in the 21st Century, Thomas Piketty uses the wealth disparity on the eve of the French Revolution as a touchstone for the moment at which the perception of the state’s illegitimacy goes to infinity, when even emptying the treasury for guard labour will not keep the guillotine at bay. Piketty is trying to convince global elites (or at least the policymakers beholden to them) that it’s cheaper to submit to a redistributive 1% annual global wealth tax than it is to buy the guards to sustain our present wealth disparity.There’s an implied max/min problem here: the intersection of a curve representing the amount of wealth you need to spend on guards to maintain stability in the presence of a widening rich/poor gap and the amount you can save on guards by creating social mobility through education, health, and social welfare is the point at which you should stop paying for cops and start paying for hospitals and schools.This implies that productivity gains in guard labour will make wider wealth gaps sustainable. When coercion gets cheaper, the point at which it makes “economic sense” to allow social mobility moves further along the curve. The evidence for this is in the thing mass surveillance does best, which is not catching terrorists, but disrupting legitimate political opposition, from Occupy to the RCMP’sclassification of “anti-petroleum” activists as a threat to national security.Technology also brings productivity gains to social programmes. Basic sanitation, green revolution crops, cheap material production, and access to vaccines and mobile internet devices allow states to lift the desperately poor into a more sustainable existence for less than ever, affording stability to wealth gaps that might have invoked the guillotine in previous centuries. The mobile phone is important to this story, since it’s both a means of raising quality of life – through access to information and markets – and keeping its users under close, cheap surveillance.The neoliberal answer to this is: so what? If the rich can be richer than ever without the poor having to starve, doesn’t that mean that the system is working? Boris Johnson’sbig cornflakeshave been sorted to the top of the packet, and have produced so much efficiency that everyone is better off for it, just as market theory predicts.Even if you think that hereditary dynasties and extreme wealth for the few and hereditary, extreme poverty for the many is morally fine, the reality is that extreme wealth concentration distorts policy. We want policy to reflect the best available evidence, but when legislators are drawn from, and beholden to, a tiny ruling elite, they can only make evidence-based policy to the extent that the evidence doesn’t inconvenience rich people.It’s obvious that excluding 52% of the population from public life is bad for the economy in Saudi Arabia. It’s obvious that Canada, a country characterised by huge wilderness and resource-extraction, is in terrible danger from climate change and that it’s madness for its oil-backed Tory government to dismantle its world-class climate and environment science infrastructure, literallysetting fire to the archives.It’s obvious that the finance sector is corrupt to the highest levels, and that the City is the heart of a vast criminal enterprise. It’s obvious that homeopathy is bunk, even if Prince Charles likes it.And so on. A state that is beholden to a small number of people is also beholden to that elite’s sacred cows. It is incompatible with evidence-based policy.Why spy? Because it’s cheaper than playing fair. Our networks have given the edge to the elites, and unless we seize the means of information, we are headed for a long age of IT-powered feudalism, where property is the exclusive domain of the super-rich, where your surveillance-supercharged Internet of Things treats you as a tenant-farmer of your life, subject to a licence agreement instead of a constitution.
Here is what you need to know about the Apple Watch – no more, no less:Prices start at £299, with the mid-tier “Watch” version costing between £479 and £949 depending on the strap, and the high-end “Edition” will start at a mere £8,000...It is available in two sizes: 38mm and 42mmFaces and straps can be customised to suit the user’s personal tastePre-orders open on 10 April and the device goes on sale on 24 April in the UK, US, Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong and JapanBattery life is claimed to be 18 hoursUsers can make and receive calls, get emails and notifications, pay for goods or services using Apple Pay, talk to Siri and manage photosHealth and fitness applications are a major selling point – and it can remind you to take screen breaksWatch appsfrom the likes of Twitter, Shazam, Uber and Instagram have been announced and a flood of others are expected in the coming daysYou don’t fancy spending several hundred pounds on the Apple Watch? Here are some other smartwatches to consider:Sony Smartwatch 3(£189).The closest rival to the Apple Watch Sport. A square-screened device running Android Wear software, with GPS built in, three-day battery life, and a waterproof design. Lacks a heart rate monitor.Motorola Moto 360(£200).One of relatively few smartwatches with a round screen, this is the most attractive Android Wear device and has a heart rate monitor, but like the Apple Watch must be charged daily. Changeable straps.Pebble Time(£119).More than 67,000 people have so far pre-ordered this smartwatch on Kickstarter, with its week-long battery life its main selling point.Samsung Gear S(£270).The Gear S can be used as a standalone mobile phone for texting, calling and web browsing, although it needs a separate mobile contract. The Guardian only gave it two out of five stars.LG G Watch R(£200).Another round-screened Android Wear device, this is chunky but its battery lasts for two days, and it’s also waterproof.And if you are more concerned with looking good than looking like Dick Tracy, there are plenty offitness bands:Jawbone Up24– boasts two weeks battery life, sleep tracking, vibration activity reminders, but no heart rate monitor.Misfit Shine/Flash– six months battery life and sleep tracking, general activity.Intel Basis Peak– constant heart rate monitoring, is waterproof and connects to an Android or iPhone.Garmin Forerunner 910– triathlon watch with ability to record distance/speed and stroke while swimming, for instance.Adidas miCoach smartRun– “more like a personal coach on your wrist than a simple activity tracker”.
The CIA led sophisticated intelligence agency efforts to undermine the encryption used in Apple phones, as well as insert secret surveillance back doors into apps, top-secret documentspublished by the Interceptonline news site have revealed.The newly disclosed documents from the National Security Agency’s internal systems show surveillance methods were presented at its secret annual conference, known as the “jamboree”.The most serious of the various attacks disclosed at the event was the creation of a dummy version of Apple’s development software Xcode, which is used by developers to create apps for iOS devices.The modified version of Xcode would allow the CIA, NSA or other agencies to insert surveillance backdoors into any app created using the compromised development software. The revelation has already provoked a strong backlash among security researchers on Twitter and elsewhere, and is likely to prompt security audits among Apple developers.The latest revelations of sustained hacking efforts against Apple devices are set to further strain already difficult relations between the technology company and the US government.Apple had previously been a partner in the Prism programme, in effect a legal backdoor to obtain user information by the NSA and its allies, but in the wake of the Snowden revelations it has stepped up efforts to protect user privacy, including introducing end-to-end encryption on iMessages.Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple,warned Barack Obama in public remarksthis month that history had shown “sacrificing our right to privacy can have dire consequences”.Other efforts showcased at the intelligence agency jamboree included a means of introducing keylogger software – which records and transmits every stroke a compromised user types – into systems through Apple’s software update tool on its laptop and desktop computers.Analysts were also exploring a sophisticated approach to breaking encryption on individual devices using the activity pattern of its processor while it is encrypting data, known as a “side channel” attack, as part of a bid to gain further access to the core software the devices run.The presentation notesrevealed by the Intercept suggested that at the time of the presentation in March 2012 the technique had not yet been successful in extracting the key.US academics and security researchers have questioned the legality of the CIA’s efforts to attack Apple’s security.“If US products are OK to target, that’s news to me,” Matthew Green of the Information Security Institute at John Hopkins University told the Intercept.“Tearing apart the products of US manufacturers and potentially putting back doors in software distributed by unknowing developers all seems to be going a bit beyond ‘targeting bad guys’. It may be a means to an end, but it’s a hell of a means.”The exploits revealed by the Intercept are the latest in a long list of stories disclosing intelligence agency activities against Apple and its platforms.In January 2014, the Guardian discloseda variety of exploits being used by the UK intelligence agency GCHQ and the NSA against mobile phones.These included bids to extract personal information from data transmitted by apps including Angry Birds, as well as a range of capabilities to activate remotely the microphone on iPhones and Android devices – a project codenamed Nosey Smurf.TheGuardian also disclosedthis year that GCHQ had been engaged in hacking software and hardware widely used in the west, including Cisco routers and Kaspersky antivirus software,
The internet might have lost it over Apple’s £13,500 [$17,000] smartwatch on Monday. Wall Street’s reaction so far? Meh.The world’s most valuable company released details of its long-awaited Apple Watch at an event in Cupertino, California. The new smartwatch “can be an incredibly rich and integral part of your life”, said chief executive Tim Cook, outlining how the device can track health stats, be used to make calls and has a host of other features.It was another kind of “incredibly rich” that caught the most attention at the event. While the base model Apple Watch will cost $349, the mid-range watch goes for $500-$700 and the rose-gold version costs $17,000 – more than someone in the US on minimum wage makes in a year. “That might have been a mistake,” said Forrester analyst James McQuivey. “It made it sound like something from Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous.”In general, analysts were more worried about how many watches Apple can sell in total rather than the price of the limited-edition model. So far the smartwatch has failed to go mainstream, but McQuivey said Apple was in a position to change that and would undoubtably become the market leader in smartwatch technology. Wall Street, though, didn’t seem to care: shares in the company ended the day up 0.43% at $127.14, after dipping during Cook’s presentation. On Tuesday morning, as US stock markets were rattled by the rise of the dollar, Apple shares had fallen 1.3%.“It’s going to be a successful product for Apple,” said Colin Gillis, technology analyst at BGC Partners. “They are going to sell millions of them. But even then they will be less than 10% of revenues and an even smaller percentage of profits. This is still the iPhone company.”The iPhone accounted for 68.61% of Apple’s revenues in the first quarter of 2015, according to analystStatista.Unlike the iPhone, the smartwatch will not benefit from the sizeable discounts that mobile carriers attach to smartphones. Those discounts have helped Apple build a business that has sold 700m iPhones – 75m of them in the last quarter.Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight, said the watch was a “huge bet for Apple and arguably the riskiest move they have made because if you look at the pricing, it’s a big ask for consumers. It’s very different from a phone, where you can get a contract and pay for it on a monthly basis.”Wood said the watch was likely to sell millions in the first wave. “Honestly, if it only told the time, it would sell millions; that’s how desirable Apple products are. The challenge for Apple is how do you drive demand after the first wave of the Apple fanboys who will buy it at any cost.”He said the products stood out because of the apps available, but that the hardware was little different from what was already available from other smartwatch manufacturers.McQuivey predicts tens of millions of smartwatches will have been sold by the end of 2016 and maybe hundreds of millions by the end of 2018, but he doubts that the products will prove as popular as the iPad, which reinvigorated a moribund market for tablet computers. He said that while Apple would likely emerge as the category leader, he had “a hunch that a lot of these [devices] will be cheaper models”.Apple released three versions of the watch: Sport, Watch and Watch Edition, aimed at different price points. McQuivey said that the move was necessary because Apple needed to make sure it appealed to as broad a range of consumers as possible. “Because this is worn on the body, this is a product that is more about personal identity. It’s about who you are,” he said.One Apple rival, Pebble,took to Twitter on Mondayto highlight the high cost of the top-end watch: “Four figures?! Whoa.” But Wood warned that if the product failed to catch on, it would likely be bad for rivals too. “If Apple Watch doesn’t fly, it’s not just bad for Apple – it’s going to set the whole wearables category back for potentially years,” he said.Read more Guardian coverage on the Apple Watch.
“But I knew that youWith your heart beatingAnd your eyes shiningWould be dreaming of meLying with youOn a Tuesday morning.”The Pogues, Tuesday Morning
Apple has launched its most expensive and aspirational product, announcing an internet-connected smartwatch that will cost as much as £13,500 [$17,000].Searching for a new product to diversify from its smartphones and computers, the company’s first smartwatch will go on sale on 24 April, with cheaper versions starting at £299 [$349]. It will initially be sold in the UK, US, Australia, China and Japan, chief executive Tim Cook revealed at an event in San Francisco.The Apple Watch needs to connect to an iPhone via Bluetooth, and then show texts and notifications from the wearer’s smartphone indicating and answering incoming calls, and can run a range of specially developed apps. BMW has developed an app that allows its car owners to open their cars with the watch, while United Airlines passengers can use it to check into their flight.Apple is also making health features a key selling point, with the device able to track its wearer’s heart rate and physical activity throughout the day, and remind them to get up and walk around if they have been sitting down for an extended period.Many of the Apple Watch’s features were shown off during its original unveiling in September 2014, but the company had not specified a launch date or detailed pricing. The smartwatch will be available in three versions – Sport, Watch and Edition – and a choice of two sizes: 38mm and 42mm. Sport will start at £230 [$349], while the cost of a mid-tier Watch will range from £365 [$549] to £730 [$1,099] depending on the size and strap choice.The high-end “Edition” model with an 18-carat gold case and sapphire screen will cost upwards of £8,000 [$10,000], with only limited numbers available. The top of the range price rises to £13,500 [$17,000].As predicted, the Apple Watch’s battery will need to be recharged every night. “During a typical day you can expect 18 hours, so that works for most people I think,” said Cook, adding that the company will rely on the large community of app developers to help it convince potential buyers. “You’re going to be surprised at all the things the watch can do when we unleash that community,” said Cook.Industry analysts expect the Apple Watch to be a success, although sales estimates to the end of 2015 vary from 8m and 40m.“The Apple Watch is the catalyst to ignite the global smartwatch market,” said Neil Mawston of research firm Strategy Analytics, which is predicting that Apple will ship 15.4m Apple Watches by the end of 2015. However, he warned that the device still faces challenges. “Apple Watch’s hardware design is arguably less attractive than some rival models such as the Huawei Watch, battery life may not be as long as many traditional wristwatch owners are used to, and Apple’s premium pricing may be challenging for mass-market consumers,” said Mawston.Cathy Boyle, senior mobile analyst at research firm eMarketer, said that the wearable technology market needs “a magic product to spark adoption” and suggested that Apple is best placed to provide it. “But smartphones already offer a convenient way to check the time, access the web and apps, and increasingly pay for products.”“So, to succeed with a smart watch, Apple needs to create a compelling use case for the device, a feature set that offers far more than simply saving consumers the few seconds it takes to pull a smartphone out of a pocket or purse.”The smartwatch market has so far failed to catch fire. Recent research from Ipsos Mori suggested that while 44% of British people have heard of the devices, only 2% of those people actually owned one.Apple has several competitors in the market, including devices from manufacturers Samsung, LG and Sony that run Google’s Android Wear software. Other rivals include US firm Pebble, which has taken more than $17m of pre-orders on crowdfunding website Kickstarter for its new Pebble Time smartwatch.The event also saw Apple unveil a new MacBook laptop computer, and an exclusive partnership with HBO to launch that company’s standalone TV and film streaming service HBO Now, which will be a rival to Netflix. Apple also launched an initiative called ResearchKit, which will provide apps to help patients share data on conditions including breast cancer, asthma, Parkinson’s disease, diabetes and cardiovascular disease with medical researchers.Apple Watch - the rivalsSony Smartwatch 3 (£189).A square-screened device running Android Wear software, with GPS built in, three-day battery life, and a waterproof design.Pebble Time (£119).More than 67,000 people have so far pre-ordered this smartwatch on Kickstarter, with its week-long battery life its main selling point.Samsung Gear S (£270).The Gear S can be used as a standalone mobile phone for texting, calling and web browsing, although it needs a separate mobile contract.Motorola Moto 360 (£200).One of relatively few smartwatches with a round screen, this is the most attractive Android Wear device, but like the Apple Watch must be charged daily.LG G Watch R (£200).Another round-screened Android Wear device, this is chunky but its battery lasts for two days, and it’s also waterproof.
I think I am in love with Dorian fromDragon Age: Inquisition. Which puts me in a worse-than-usual fix. No woman ever stood a chance with Dorian fromDragon Age. And he’s a fictional character in an entirely made-up game universe. Fucksticks.Enormous and immediate apologies to Wendy Cope for that, but when you descend to stealing someone else’s love poetry to express how you’re feeling about a videogame character, you know you’re in trouble.Dragon Age: Inquisition, released at Christmas for PS4, Xbox One and PC, is rapidly gaining a reputation among fangirls everywhere not so much for its richly imagined game world and its enjoyable battle mechanics but for its romance and sex elements.Yes, there is sex. You don’t see everything, you’re not controlling the character while they’re shagging, but you can, as it were, get yourself into a position where some of the characters want to have sex with you. And then you can be left in very little doubt that that is indeed what’s happened. Dorian, for example (who is a gay character, hence the many-layered impossibility of my love) strips off to adopt a rather Kim-Kardashian-esque posedisplaying his, um, assets. Then there’s a character called Iron Bull who is a Qunari (that means he has horns). If you choose to pursue a relationship with him – which you can do playing either sex – it all gets distinctly BDSM, including a scene in which you discuss safe words.I find all of this marvellously hopeful, in several ways.Dragon Ageis well-known as being progressive and forward-thinking in its gender and sexual politics; for one thing, you’re as likely to come across a monument to a female hero as a male one while journeying across the land in search of Fade Rifts to close. As one does. But they’ve managed to create a sort of feminist, gender-blind utopia in the sexuality of the game by the simple expedient of, for the most part, not varying “how the sex is treated” whether you’re playing a woman or a man, an elf, a dwarf or a human. Just “not being treated differently” is, in fact, a treat; a few brief hours in a world where sexism just doesn’t exist.I wonder also if part of what’s lovely about it for me is that, even though you can playDragon Ageas a female character, you’ll always be doing the romancing in a “male style”. That is: no one ever hits on you without you having made yourself obviously open to that, no one makes sleazy insinuations about how your sexual relationships got you that job as Inquisitor, no one comments on your sexual attractiveness if you’re not actually, you know, boning them. Of course, it’s a pretty idealised version of the “male role” in sexual encounters too, since hardly anyone ever laughs in your face for flirting with them; they tend to be into you if they’re not actually celibate or totally not-oriented-your-way and if they happen not to be attracted to you they mostly seem more sorrowful about it and disappointed in themselves than anything else.Dorian and his... ‘assets’Looking ahead, it seems pretty clear that people are inevitably going to use the kind of virtual or augmented reality technologyI discussed last monthto make porn. Well, since the first person ever scratched an image on to a piece of reindeer bone, people have been using all available technologies to make porn.Prostitution’s been going on for years inSecond Lifeand as well-rendered characters become easier to create, and motion-sensing technology becomes more advanced, it’s only going to get easier.Indie developer Robert Yang has already made a short game for Windows and the LeapMotion controller entitledHurt Me Plenty. It’s a motion-controlled game about “consent, kink, and spanking the hell out of this dude”.I am tremendously cheered by this, to be honest, and not just because of the feminist possibilities of gender-bending interactive erotica. Porn exists. It’s not going away. It’s very popular. And while it’s pretty easy to find out whether the people who grew the bananas you’re eating (actual bananas, mind out of the gutter please) were treated well and paid fairly for their work, there’s yet to be a Fairtrade or ethical production stamp for pornography.In the absence of a simple, agreed way to find out whether people in live-action porn were beaten up, given drugs, had their drugs withheld, were lied to or coerced into appearing on those oh-so-easy-to-Google movies, virtual reality might mean we finally get some certifiably ethical porn. And if you figure out how to make that VR technology work with Dorian fromDragon Age, call me.
Apple has launched a new smaller MacBook with a larger 12in retina screen that’s just 13.1mm thick.The new 12in MacBook is thinner and lighter than the previous 11in MacBook Air, but has a new larger and retina-quality screen, marking the first change to the laptop line-up since 2010.Cook said: “Every year for the last decade, the Mac has outgrown the industry. And if you look at notebooks the numbers are even more telling. But the definition of portability has changed in the last several years, and so we challenged ourselves to reinvent the notebook.”Phil Schiller, vice-president of worldwide marketing, added that the device was “the most extreme and efficient notebook we have ever created”. The device weighs just 2lbs, and is 24% thinner than the old Macbook Air, at 13.1mm – even though the company is retaining the “Air” moniker for the older, larger model, which gains a faster processor alongside the MacBook Pro.The new machines will also be the first Apple laptops to use the new reversibleUSB type-C ports, which are much slimmer than the standard USB ports, but the cable can be plugged in either way up.The single port can support USB, but also VGA, HDMI, DisplayPort and power. Apple has also replaced its “MagSafe” magnetic charging port and removed the Thunderbolt port, leaving the device with just a single port, used for both charging and input/output. Instead, the company envisages owners use Wi-Fi and Bluetooth to get data in and out.Related:Apple Watch apps: the lowdownThe new laptop’s retina display uses less energy at the same brightness than previous displays, according to Schiller. But despite the screen, the computer is the first from Apple to feature no fan for active cooling, instead using a motherboard 67% smaller than the previous model’s to both save space and reduce heat.Apple design chief Jony Ive said the company took “an extreme approach to miniaturisation. A fundamental goal was the need to remove vents, fans and any moving parts, allowing it to operate in complete silence.”The space saved by the motherboard is used for batteries, leading to the devices quoted battery life of “all day”; figures of nine hours for wireless web surfing and 10 hours of movie playback were also given.Schiller also displayed the new keyboard and trackpad on the model, both of which feature significant upgrades from previous laptops. The keyboards use dome switches rather than older butterfly switches for a better typing feel, while the trackpad gains the ability to sense the pressure of a given touch. That feature, named “force click”, enables users to click harder for different results, such as accelerating a video, or looking up a word on Wikipedia.Like iPhones and iPads, the device comes in three colours: silver, gold and “space grey”. The tech specs start at a 1.1ghz processor, 8GB of RAM and 256GB of storage. It will ship on 10 April, with prices beginning at $1,299 and rising to $1,599 for a faster processor and more storage.The MacBook Air was firstlaunched in 2008pulled out of a manilla envelope by Apple co-founder Steve Jobs while on stage. It was the first of a line of super-slim and light laptops, which later became known as ultrabooks.The unibody 13in and 11in MacBook Airs were launched in 2010, updating the design and later becoming the cheapest models of Apple’s laptop line.The new MacBook joins the slimmer, redesigned 13in and 15in MacBook Pro with retina display, launched in 2012, and the recently updated iMac with 5k display.Apple Watch can be a games platform – and here’s whyHow the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyApple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brandApple Watch: what Jony Ive has said about it
Apple has released details of its Apple Watch, a new MacBook and an Apple TV partnership. Here’s all you need to know in about two minutes:Apple WatchApple Watch, featuring Mickey MousePhotograph: AppleThe home screen can be customised, even with Mickey Mouse.Phone callscan be answered on the watch, andnotificationsreceived.Digital Touchlets users share between Apple Watches things likefinger drawingsor theirheartbeats, in real time. The watch will prompt users tomove. It has aWorkoutapp.Christy Turlington Burnswilltrain for the London marathonwearing one. By talking toSiridirectly on the watch, users can carry out searches and set reminders.UberandShazamhave apps on the watch. There are apps to do things like open a garage door. The battery will last ‘all day’ – that’s18 hours.The watch comes intwo sizes(38mm and 42mm) and the aluminiumApple Watch Sportwill be available insilverandspace grey(the straps come in multiple colours) and it starts at$349. The stainless steelApple Watchhas lots of different straps including a link bracelet. It costs from$549to$1049. The 18ct goldApple Watch Editionstarts at$10,000.Pre-orders are from April 10.MacBookThe new MacBookPhotograph: AppleThere is a new MacBook, it’s even thinner than the old MacBook. Itweighs 2lb(0.9kg) and at it’s thickest point is13.1mm thin(24% thinner than the MacBook Air). It has a12” Retina displaywith 2304x1440 pixels. It hasone port, USB-C(that does power, USB, DisplayPort, HDMI, and VGA in one). It comes insilver,space greyandgold. It starts at $1299 for a 1.1GHz duel-core with 8GB of memory. The MacBook Pro and MacBook Air still exist and also get updates.Apple TVHBO NowPhotograph: AppleHBO is coming to Apple TV asHBO Now,for$14.99a month in the US.Game of Throneswill be on it. This wasexpected.iPhoneApple has now sold 700m. There’ll now be anApple Watch appon it.Apple Watch launch – liveHBO launches standalone streaming service as an Apple exclusiveApple releases new slimmer 12in MacBookApple Watch: available April 24 for between $349 and $10,000Apple Watch apps: the lowdownApple Watch: our readers predict the detailHow the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyApple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brandNine reasons only a tool would buy the Apple Watch
As any glossy magazine journalist knows, it is notoriously difficult to write lively copy about exquisite watches. Their bezels may be beautiful, their bracelets may be hewn from pure gold but none of these features – not even their intriguingly-named inner components (see: Rolex’s Parachrom Hairspring oscillator’) – are as compelling as the latest bag shape or trouser-length for most fashion editors.Apple’s luxury-edition Apple Watch, then, has had a huge head start over its competitors. Its fashion magazine debut was mega: in October, the supermodel Liu Wen appeared wearing an Apple Watch and a knitted Celine tunic on the front page of Chinese Vogue (circulation: 1.3m), in what must be the only example of a major cover star being upstaged by her timepiece.Indeed, Apple’s entire handling of the fashion press has been as faultless as Anna Wintour’s bob. Wintour was wooed, along with a handful of other top fashion editors, at an intimate launch event during last Paris Fashion Week. Apple’s recent 12-page advertorial in US Vogue also spoke to the fashion crowd in their own language, simply presenting chic pictures of beautifully-shot watches without clutter or explanation. In those pages – even without price tags – it was the gold watch that will be coveted by those who can afford it.First, the gold watch looks the sleekest and the most expensive – two properties that never really go out of style. Second, it would be easy to style with the jewellery that is on trend right now – the layers of delicate bracelets and stacked rings in mixed metals of gold, silver and rose gold that are fashion’s current favourite jewellery look – but also chunky enough to look assured if worn on its own. Third, it costs about the same as three Chanel 2.55 handbags – in other words it is so expensive that nobody but true high-rollers will be able to buy it, making it suitably exclusive and rare.Fashion people love the new – and the newest, most exciting watch of the moment is undoubtedly the Apple Watch. It may not have the heritage of old-school brands – it is not associated with James Bond or JFK or Elvis – but right now that doesn’t matter. This is the watch with fashion momentum.How the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyApple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brandApple Watch: what Jony Ive has said about it
7.22pmGMTSo, there we have it. While most of the Apple Watch features shown off tonight had already been seen at last year’s unveiling, the key news was about availability and pricing.Pre-orders start on 10 April, with the device going on sale on 24 April in nine countries: Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, the UK and US. In the UK, the cheapest model will start at £299, the mid-tier “Watch” version will range from £479 to £949 depending what strap you choose, and the high-end Edition will start at [cough] £8,000.Other news: some figures on the “all-day” battery life of the device. Apple CEO Tim Cook said it’ll run for 18 hours “across a range of activities”. And while a few apps – Shazam, Uber, Instagram – were shown off, expect a flood of news on other third-party Apple Watch apps in the coming days.For anyone that missed the event, consider reading through@guardiantech&#39;s honest and hilarious live tweets. Bravo.&mdash; Steve Cole (@stevencoleuk)March 9, 2015Updatedat 7.23pm GMT7.22pmGMTThe audience take a closer look at the Apple Watch designs.Photograph: AppleA belated celebration of International Women’s Day with a real actual vagina-owner on stage. Although she was a supermodelIf you’re staying in a W Hotel with its new room-key Apple Watch app, remember that “all-day” 18-hour battery life – ie don’t leave your room at 8am then go out on the razz past 2amTim Cook has been wanting to make phone calls on a watch since he was five years old. This is what we call a perfect career arcBest Jony Ive quote: “To maximise performance, we took an extreme approach to miniaturisation”. To which the only acceptable response is PARKLIFESlow-motion butterfly-mechanism typing is our new jamUpdatedat 7.42pm GMT7.18pmGMTWe say: The price of the steel edition proves that Apple is attempting to compete on a level with watchmakers, not smartwatch manufacturers such as Sony and Samsung. Whether that strategy will win out will be interesting to watch. Right now Apple has the most expensive smartwatch going and Google now looks like the budget end of the market.The new MacBook is incredibly thin and light, verging on the weight and thickness of tablets rather than computers. But that comes at the cost of connectivity.The USB-C connector could be revolutionary for ease of use but making people carry dongles around with them just to use existing kit may irritate users.Updatedat 7.41pm GMT6.47pmGMTNow I&#39;m just left wondering how many maternal health clinics in Tanzania could be funded for the price of a Gold Edition Apple Watch.&mdash; Leslie Hook (@lesliehook)March 9, 20156.47pmGMT@jemimakisswell the taste free oligarch market is seemingly growing.@girlonetrack&mdash; James Holloway (@JamesNonchalant)March 9, 20156.35pmGMTThe Apple Watch Edition – Apple’s 18-carat gold watch – will start at $10,000 with a selection of bands, including a solid gold one.Pre-orders for all the Apple Watch variants start on 10 April with the watch shipping and being in stores on 24 April in a selection of countries including the US and UK.Edition rises to $17,000...The Apple Watch launches 24 April.Photograph: AppleUpdatedat 6.47pm GMT6.32pmGMTCan we get the woman who was working in Africa back on stage whilst you show us your $10,000 gold watch please Tim?#AppleEvent&mdash; James O&#39;Malley (@Psythor)March 9, 20156.30pmGMTEqually for the stainless steel Apple Watch, Apple has altered the material.“Apple has customised the stainless steel to make it harder, removing impurities and making sure its lattice forms uniformly making the metal up to 80% harder and less susceptible to scratches,” said Ive.The stainless steel Apple Watch will start at $549 rising to $1,049 for the 38mm and $599 rising to $1,099 depending on strap.Apple Watch Sport starts at $349 for the 38mm case, $399 for 42mm case.6.29pmGMTWith 18 hours battery life, Apple Watch won&#39;t  deliver sleep tracking. Leaves room for other health bands#applewatch#smartwatch&mdash; Ian Fogg (@ianfogg42)March 9, 20156.29pmGMTAAPL stock price went up considerably during the Mac presentation, down during the Apple Watch bit... yup.pic.twitter.com/OuLToJrKjf&mdash; Stefan Boberg (@bionicbeagle)March 9, 20156.27pmGMTThe Apple Watch Sport will use a special alloy of aluminium.Jony Ive, Apple’s head of design, said that raw aluminium is combined with magnesium and zinc to create a metal that is 60% stronger than traditional aluminium alloy but at the same weight.6.23pmGMTThe Apple Watch will rely on the iPhone and an Apple Watch app on iOS 8.2, which is available for download today.“We’ve designed it with all-day battery life across a range of uses,” said Cook, adding that the watch will last around 18 hours and uses a magnetic charging cable.6.23pmGMTApple demoed a variety of third-party Apple Watch apps, including Shazam for recognising songs from the wrist, United Airlines app that displays a boarding pass on the wrist and a garage door opener – opening up the possibility for the Watch to be the centre of an Internet of Things set up through Apple’s Home Kit.6.21pmGMTUber driver Scott has a 5 star rating. That means he&#39;s only just started &amp; this is his first job.#AppleWatchEventpic.twitter.com/EJL3yqpJHx&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)March 9, 20156.20pmGMTApple Watch communicates with the iPhone over Wi-Fi and Bluetooth – unlike competitors such as Google’s Android Wear watches and the Pebble – meaning that the watch doesn’t need to be close to the smartphone to take a call on the wrist or access data services.6.20pmGMTTo pay for goods with the Apple Watch, double tapping the side button will bring up the credit card. A contactless touch will then pay for the goods on a compatible card reader in a store.The Watch will beep and vibrate to confirm the transaction. Apple Pay has been popular in the US since launch, where contactless credit cards weren’t widely in use. The situation might be different in the UK and elsewhere where contactless credit cards are common.6.16pmGMTA new MacBook, cheaper Apple TV and Apple Watch with WiFiApple has announced a new thin, light MacBook with retina screen, dropped the price of Apple TV to $69 and announced a new research initiative to share anonymised patient data with cancer and diabetes researchers. Its new Apple Watch includes wifi and the voice control tool Siri.Updatedat 6.20pm GMT6.12pmGMTSiri on the Apple Watch can do pretty much anything if can do on an iPhone, but it responds in text, not via voice according to the on-stage demos – a move those embarrassed by having a conversation with a gadget will be thankful for.6.10pmGMTApple WatchThere’ll be different faces, from traditional and digital faces to Mickey Mouse, with the ability to add the date, your next meeting and more than 20 other bits of informationIt will be able to respond to text messages and receive incoming calls. “I’ve been wanting to do this since I was five years old!” said CEO Tim CookAs well as reminding you when you’ve been siting too long, the watch will provide a weekly summary of your activity, and suggest a new goalTim Cook launches the Apple Watch.Photograph: AppleUpdatedat 6.28pm GMT6.08pmGMT&quot;please look at these poor african children cheering for christy turlington&#39;s apple watch&quot;&mdash; matt (@mattbuchanan)March 9, 20156.07pmGMTTurlington Burns explained that she switches bands depending on what she’s doing. The blue leather modern buckle for fashion, rubber band for sports.Apple hopes that Watch buyers will accessories their watches with different bands. Another large potential revenue stream.6.04pmGMTModel and health fanatic Christy Turlington Burns - did a half-marathon in Africa using an Apple Watch.Christy Turlington BurnsPhotograph: Apple“The Apple Watch is motivation, not just for training but for every day things,” Turlington Burns. “It tracked my time, pushed me harder and tracked my fitness.”Updatedat 6.27pm GMT6.02pmGMTThe Watch will send you activity summaries and suggest new targets every week, which is very similar to other fitness trackers such as the Jawbone UP.A workout app will also track more detailed statistics and suggest activities.With the Apple Watch users will be able to pay for goods using Apple Pay, talk to Siri, manage photos and get notifications – any you receive on an iPhone you can get on your wrist.The Apple Watch is an extension of the iPhone – almost anything you can do on your smartphone you can do on the wrist.Updatedat 6.11pm GMT6.01pmGMTApple is focused on new communication methods, something that can’t be done any other way using the sensors and the vibration feedback.“You can even send your heart beat – an incredibly intimate communication and a whole new way to communicate,” said Cook.Apple WatchPhotograph: AppleUpdatedat 6.06pm GMT6.00pmGMTAccurate to 15 minutes to the UTCFaces are customisable - add the date, meeting info, stopwatchTaptic messagingBuilt in speaker and microphone for taking calls on your wrist - a laDick TracyCan read full emails “if you’re an email junkie”Updatedat 6.11pm GMT5.56pmGMTCook takes to the stage to talk about the Apple Watch, which it announced last year but is due to ship in April. This is the product it hopes will take the company into the next era of computing – wearable technology.Apple WatchPhotograph: AppleCook: “The Apple Watch the most personal device we’ve ever created, but it has to be personal with the ability to customise it.”Updatedat 5.59pm GMT5.54pmGMTThe new MacBook starts at $1,299 with 256GB storage, shipping on April 10th.The MacBook Air sees processor and memory upgrades.MacBook Pro gains faster processors and memory, as well as one more hour of battery and the Force Touch trackpad.5.54pmGMTLive from#AppleWatchEventpic.twitter.com/IBVVsru8KW&mdash; Bill Corbett (@BillCorbett)March 9, 20155.52pmGMTJony Ive: &quot;To maximise performance, we took an extreme approach to miniaturisation”. PARKLIFE&mdash; Stuart Dredge (@stuartdredge)March 9, 20155.49pmGMTNew MacBook“Butterfly mechanism” keys promising more precise typingApple promises “all-day” battery life of up to 10 hours, or nine hours when on Wi-FiA new USB-C connectivity standard: you’ll use it for power, USB data transfer, and also VGA, HDMI and DisplayPort output. In other words: you’ll need new cables. Or new connectors for your old cablesRelated:Apple releases new slimmer 12in MacBookUpdatedat 6.12pm GMT5.46pmGMTThe new MacBook will need a variety of connectors to turn the USB-C port into what they need, which may not be popular. More dongles to carry around just to use your old kit.5.45pmGMTFanless and operates silently.Uses Intel Core M up to 1.3GHz with a turbo to 2.9GHzTerraced sheets of batteries – fits 35% more battery into the same space for “all day battery life”9 hours web, 10 hours movie playbackUSB-C - one port supports power, displays, USB etcThe new MacBookPressure sensitivePhotograph: AppleUpdatedat 6.19pm GMT5.43pmGMT#Appleadmits nobody is going to like its new product!http://t.co/NoRyF58QZ0pic.twitter.com/DgiqOhESAO&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)March 9, 20155.42pmGMTI wonder how much the “woo!” guy in the audience gets paid per Apple event.&mdash; Ben Bodien (@bbodien)March 9, 20155.39pmGMTApple’s launched a new Retina MacBook that super thin and light – a replacement for the current MacBook Air line.12in Retina Display - 2304x1440 resolution13.1mm thin - 24% thinner than the 11in MacBook Air2lbs in weightFull size keyboard - all new “butterfly” technologyUSB-C ports, but no regular USB portsAvailable ingoldas well as silverForce Touch Trackpad - force sensors rather than click mechanism that can detect a range of “force clicks”New gestures based on how hard you click“Taptic” feedback - the trackpad taps backCook: “I can’t even feel it, can you even see it?”Thinnest MacBook everPhotograph: AppleUpdatedat 5.48pm GMT5.37pmGMTTim Cook: &quot;When you&#39;re out in the wild you will see Macs everywhere&quot;.#AppleWatchEventhttp://t.co/NoRyF58QZ0pic.twitter.com/yDFEYQyAtf&mdash; Guardian Tech (@guardiantech)March 9, 20155.31pmGMTWe say: Health data is about to become the big topic in the privacy debate. There’s already a case in the Canadian courts where a personal trainer wants to use data from her Fitbit device in apersonal injury claim.The kind of data Apple is collecting will give a fascinating and frightening insight into people’s health. It will be interesting to see how they follow up on the promises of privacy that have just made.Updatedat 5.48pm GMT5.29pmGMTResearchKit• ResearchKit is Apple’s initiative to help patients share data on medical conditions with researchers• Breast cancer, asthma, Parkinson’s disease, diabetes and cardiovascular disease to be the first five apps• “There is nothing more sensitive than your medical data. You decide what apps you participate in, what research you participate in,” said Apple exec Jeff WilliamsUpdatedat 6.11pm GMT5.28pmGMTuse your phone to buy a lot of soda, use your phone to tell you you’re fat because you drink to much soda.#AppleWatchEvent&mdash; Jake Zukowski (@jakez)March 9, 20155.24pmGMTWilliams reinforced that the patient or user is in control of the data. If they don’t want to share the data they don’t have to, but the apps will provide handy support and research opportunities for a variety of medical fields.“For asthma, we worked on an app to see if it can help a patient use an app to manage their asthma,” said Williams. “Mount Sinai is giving away some bluetooth inhalers, and they’re swabbing surfaces to look for pathogens, and then the GPS from the iPhone will compare the spirometer data to the Pathogen map to look for the triggers for asthma.”Updatedat 5.36pm GMT5.24pmGMTApple has announced ResearchKit – an extension of HealthKit that lets researchers create apps. Apple’s been been working with Stanford, Oxford University and many others.“One of the biggest challenges researchers face is small sample sizes – recruiting subjects is difficult and you only get snapshots of data only,” said Jeff Williams, Apple’s senior vice president of operations. “We looked at these problems and saw a possibility to help.”Apple HealthPhotograph: AppleThe apps turn the iPhone into a diagnostic kit with simple to use tests using the screen, the sensors and the microphone record the data accurately and effortlessly. One example given was Parkinson’s disease tools, another diabetes that looks at behaviour and glucose levels. Cardio health and asthma were also mentioned.The apps also connect to other parts of the Apple Health ecosystem and can pull fitness and activity data from Apple Watch and other apps.Updatedat 5.36pm GMT5.22pmGMTCarPlay, HomeKit, HealthKit - all pillars to locking iPhone users into the ecosystem even further. Smart move by Apple.&mdash; Ben Wood (@benwood)March 9, 20155.16pmGMTApple Pay6 banks in the US at launch, now 2,500 banks supporting Apple PayThree months later, nearly 700,000 places that accept Apple Pay40,000 vending machines5.16pmGMT“Now every major car brand has committed to delivering CarPlay, with more than 40 new models of cars shipping with CarPlay, only a year after launch,” says Cook.5.13pmGMTApple TVApple has sold 25m units of its Apple TV set-top boxThe price is dropping from $99 to $69Alongside iOS devices, it will be able to stream HBO Now, the new subscription streaming service from the network behind Game of ThronesApple TV has become the “category leader with 25m units sold, but Cook wants to push it even harder – Apple’s reduced the cost to $69.Cook: “If you don’t have one yet, now’s the time.”HBO NOW is premiering in April.http://t.co/dR3DO0cwhD&mdash; HBO (@HBO)March 9, 2015Updatedat 6.12pm GMT5.13pmGMTKey Apple stats700m iPhones soldYear on year growth 49% (double industry average)iPhone top selling smartphone in the world99% customer satisfaction for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus700m iPhones soldPhotograph: AppleUpdatedat 5.41pm GMT5.10pmGMTApple has entered into a partnership with HBO, which will be streamed to Apple devices across the internet including the Apple TV.“We couldn’t be more proud to have Apple as our exclusive partner with HBO Now,” Richard Plepler, chief executive of HBO, who took to the stage with Cook.Apple HBO partnershipPhotograph: AppleThe new service launching in April in the US will cost $14.99 a month.Related:HBO launches standalone streaming service as an Apple exclusiveUpdatedat 6.20pm GMT5.08pmGMTCook talks up Apple’s roll out in China – six stores opened in the last few weeks with 21 open in total, and aiming to reach 60 soon. If anyone had any doubts about the market that’s most important going forward, China is it.Updatedat 5.11pm GMT5.03pmGMTTim Cook has taken to the stage, seemingly not phased by his 4.30am wake up.5.03pmGMTHere we go. A scene showing China – Apple’s big next market where it’s currently in a fight with both Samsung and local players including Xiaomi. Could China be the Apple Watch’s biggest market?Updatedat 5.10pm GMT4.58pmGMTWe’ve just switched up a gear. Latch byDisclosure featuring Sam Smith. People are starting to wake up a bit. The baseline is thumping.Updatedat 4.58pm GMT4.51pmGMTApple is pumping a bit of soft electro in the form of Sunlight by Kyte into the auditorium. What does it mean? That the beat always goes on, even if the Watch’s battery has run dry?Sunlight by KyteUpdatedat 4.52pm GMT4.38pmGMTApple fans, partners and analysts are gathering in convention centres in San Francisco and Berlin, with details of the company’s new Watch device due to be announced at 1700GMT.What do we know about the Apple Watch already? Quite a bit. But pricing - including a possibly rose gold deluxe edition - are to be announced. And maybe a MacBook Air retina or new Apple TV too.Our coverage so far:How the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyApple Watch: our readers predict the detailsApple Watch: what Jony Ive has said about itApple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brandApple Watch can be a games platform – and here’s why
For many Apple watchers, Monday’s launch of its new watch is a significant step in the effort to turn the company into a technology-based luxury brand.The strategy was signalled initially with the hiring of Angela Ahrendts from Burberry a year ago to transform Apple’s retail business. It has since been seen repeatedly in hiring from within the fashion and luxury-brand industries. But it will face its first new product test with the Apple Watch.Led by Apple design chief Sir Jonathan Ive, the 48-year-old British designer who is now effectively the face of the company after recent profiles in theNew Yorkerand USVogue, Apple is placing new emphasis on design and style appeal.While the last iPhones came in a range of three colours, according to reports there will be no less than six metal options for the watch – notably including two types of gold, 18-carat yellow and 18-carat rose. There will be six band designs, two face sizes and 11 face designs. Chief executive Tim Cook has said the product will “redefine what people expect from a watch”. Ive says it will be “a move away from what is traditionally understood as consumer electronics”.Ive hired industrial designer Marc Newson to work on the Apple Watch. An intimate of the fashion industry – his wife is Fendi and Victoria’s Secret stylist Charlotte Stockdale – Newson choreographed the initial unveiling of the product for fashion designers and editors during Paris fashion week last September.“The fashion industry has an enormous amount to offer in what we do in industrial design because fashion is fast, fashion has its finger on the pulse,”he toldWomen’s Wear Daily. “There are very few creative industries that work on that rhythm.”Apple has repeated that pattern since, throwing a celebrity-packed dinner in Paris hosted by Azzedine Alaïa, the couturier who has dressed women from Madonna to Carla Bruni and Michelle Obama. The technology company also invited fashion houses to submit designs for the face of the watch, the theory being that fashion followers will want to parade their preferences with technology as they might with shoes or handbags.Apple also hired former Yves Saint Laurent chief Paul Deneve as president of special projects and Nike’s former head of social media, Musa Tariq, as its digital marketing director.Sir Jonathan Ive: ‘Jon’s always wanted to do luxury.’Photograph: Rex FeaturesFurther emphasising Apple’s interdependence on fashion branding, the watch launch in Cupertino, California will be staged, as it was in September, by Gainsbury &amp; Whiting, the London-based design firm behind the Alexander McQueen show Savage Beauty at the Victoria and Albert Museum.Within the industry, technology’s growing relationship with fashion is seen as key to the acceptance of the new wearables. By some estimates, wearable technology could be worth $30bn (£20bn) in sales by 2018. Last year, Google teamed up with the inventor of the wrap dress, Diane von Furstenberg and fashion website Net-a-Porter for the launch of Google Glass. Chip maker Intel has launched several fashion-orientated initiatives.“Wearable technology products have to become objects of desire,” says Steve Holmes, vice-president of Intel’s new devices group.All this also means that China remains key to Apple’s strategy. The country is forecast to account for as much as half of global luxury goods sales by 2025. Apple’s staggering $18bn profit on $75bn of revenue reported in January came on the back of a 70% increase in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan compared with the same period a year ago. More than a fifth of its worldwide revenues – $16.1bn – came from that region alone, making Apple the top selling smartphone maker in China.Credit for Apple’s growth in Asia is given to Ahrendts, who placed growth in China – where Apple is subject to widespread black-market trade – one of her top three priorities. With a mandate to improve Apple’s shopping experience, Ahrendts is rumoured to have hired Sir Norman Foster to redesign the firm’s stores.Apple’s reach into fashion with the Watch, its first new tech category since Steve Jobs’s death, is no longer being dismissed as a novelty by traditional rivals. Experts predict that the Apple Watch will affect only the high end of the fashion-watch business, not the high-end luxury watch market. Still, there’s no doubt the traditional industry is watching closely. With retailers expecting first-year sales of 20m Apple Watches, Tag Heuer and Swatch Group – which owns Breguet, Blancpain and Omega – are looking to introduce their own smartwatches. Fearing the iWatch trademark Apple was registering was too close to the iSwatch name of its digital-display model, the Swiss group has taken steps against Apple in countries where Apple had registered the name.While Apple looks for an edge by focusing on classic design and style, other tech manufacturers will doubtless follow. How far Apple is prepared go in repositioning itself as a luxury technology brand will be on view in San Francisco and on live stream across the world. Clive Grinyer, a friend and former colleague of Ive’s,told theNew Yorker: “He’s always been a bit bling ... Jon’s always wanted to do luxury.”
Games are a remarkably agile medium – they can squeeze in anywhere. Whenever a new digital platform emerges, whether its a tablet, augmented reality headset or smart home security system, games are never far behind. Humans, like most animals, are natural players.With the gradual, lumbering rise of the smartwatch, however, games have so far played a limited role. The stores on the Pebble and Android Wear devices are mostly filled with fitness and convenience applications, which is sensible considering the form factor of these things: they’re small, they’re attached to you and they have accelerometers to track movement. Hence, dozens of gamified jogging apps.There are more games that don’t require running, of course, but so far they have been mostly restricted to simple ports of classics like Tetris, Pac-Man and Tamagotchi. According to Will Luton, designer of Pixel Miner, one of the most successful Pebble games so far, these are the wrong approaches: “Integrating heart rate and pedometers obtrusively into game loops or attempting to shrink down smartphone titles onto a smaller device may get some traction early on as players explore the device and it’s capabilities, but they won’t be sustainable.”Love it or hate it, when Apple enters a market, it brings with it an earthquake of hype and an accompanying tsunami of fresh developer interest. So how could things change with smartwatch games in the near future?Blipvert gamingPerhaps the future of smartwatch gaming is all about reducing the smartphone “snack-sized” approach even further. “The correct approach is to consider how the device is used and build from there,” says Luton. “Smart watches are high frequency, short session devices which have low precision controls. This means that interfaces have to be very simple, such as one touch or menu-based systems. If smartphone games are designed to be played whilst waiting for a coffee, smartwatch games should be designed to be played in an elevator ride.”There are historical precedences here. Nintendo’s old Game &amp; Watch titles – and indeed that whole generation of simple LCD games, from Grandstand’s Caveman to Mattel’s Dungeons and Dragons – were based around simple and amusing interactions, where form was as important as experience. Casio even made basic LCD game watches, as did Nelsonic, with its cute Zelda title. Smart watches could bring this back.Furthermore, the idea of five-second game collections, popularised in theBishi Bashiand Warioware titles, could prosper on a platform where more demanding experiences can’t jostle them out of the way.A virtue of simplicityIt could be that the limiting form factor and interface capabilities of smartwatches will be enough to spark new and unusual ideas. “One thing that game developers like is new modes of interaction and control,” says developer and researcher Michael Cook. “GDC ran their annual alt.ctrl workshop recently that’s all about new ways to interact with games. Apple’s already emphasising these minimalistic ways of communicating through the watch, like doodling on the screen, tapping another person’s wrist remotely, and so on.“The small screen and simple interactions also remind me of what Robin Baumgarten is doing in his game design experiments. Baumgarten’s latest creation isLine Wobbler, a game that you played on a single line of flashing lights. Designing games for really small platforms like a single dimension or a screen as small as a watch is a really cool challenge.”Social persistenceAnother idea is that smartwatch games could evolve into quick-session social experiences, allowing friends who meet up in the street to quickly and seamlessly swap data. “I do actually think there are some great possibilities for ‘persistent games’— games that you are playing all the time, alone or with friends,” says developerBennett Foddy. “For these games, the watch makes it possible to check in on your progress whenever you have an idle nanosecond, without starting an app or pulling out your phone. These might be games that are played by tapping the phone at certain times, or by being at certain locations: the depth won’t come from the software itself but from the way that it fits in with your everyday life.”This is already a feature of the Nintendo 3DS console. Its Street Pass app automatically collects simple details from other 3DS-owning passers-by, then lets you check out their messages and profiles when you have time. Street Pass also contains a number of mini-games that can only be competed through connection with other users.This could actually be used in a more complex way. “Developers will have to get better at placing more of the experience in the mind and less of it on screen,” says game developer Moo Yoo, who worked at Moshi Monsters creator Mind Candy until going independent. “I imagine a huge demand for highly interlinked social games and dynamically generated social narratives. You can take the example of a game like Farmville which gave context and a real-world meaning to gifting a virtual animal. A smartwatch game could be a system of proposals, acceptances, and rejections – either in a dating sim or a game of diplomacy.”Full contact gamingSmartphones have accelerometers so they sense movements, and they have wi-fi connectivity to allow multiplayer connection. Add these to a device that you can’t accidentally drop or throw across the room, and you have interesting possibilities for physical group-based games.“I love making digital games involving running around,” says experimental smartphone and tablet game designer Alistair Aitcheson, responsible for the likes of Greedy Bankers andTap Happy Sabotage. “The smartphone is physically attached to your body, so it’s perfect for tag-style games involving slapping each other’s wrists.”This sounds crazy, but it’s actually the basis of the excellent indie titleJohann Sebastian Joust, a multiplayer contact game that uses PlayStation Move motion controllers: participants have to try to jog or bash the controllers of their rivals, which removes them from the game. The winner is the player who survives the longest without being tagged. It’s enormous fun, but difficult for most people to experience, because most people don’t have eight PlayStation Move controllers; and with a smartphone version, they risk getting their handset belted across the room. But a smartwatch version would work brilliantly.“I’ve also always wanted to do something involving hidden information – where players see different things on their personal displays,” says Aitcheson, envisioning a sort of Murder in the Dark experience where players are fed different information about their roles in the game. “Delivering this through a phone can feel cumbersome and it slows the pace and focus of play. But with a watch, players can absorb new details just by glancing at their wrists, and can continue running around without having had to stop and think.”The second (or third?) screenAlien: Isolation – that motion tracker could be on your watch...Photograph: public domainAnother obvious use for the smartwatch will be as a second or even third screen for a console, PC or tablet title – either imparting personal information to the player while participating in the main game, or allowing them to take an element of that game with them wherever they go.“We have already seen a trend for games that connect out of the main screen, into the real world,” says Tomas Rawlings ofAuroch Digital, which has just launched its board game adaptation, Chainsaw Warrior. “Skylanders and Disney’s Infinity are good examples of this, and this device offers potentials here. Also with persistent games – either browser titles like Travian or MMOs like EVE Online – I can see lots of uses for getting information about events within the game world to the player, and for that always be accessible.“One area I’m interested is in how this might be used for board games. This form has been undergoing a renaissance in recent years as crowdfunding has connected players with creators. You can see the tentative steps in this area with games like One Night Ultimate Werewolf, which uses a companion app to assist the gameflow. Linking that app to a player and their movements adds lots of possibilities; think Cluedo played around the house or Hide and Seek 2.0...”Meanwhile, coder and web developer Adrian Smith sees the smartwatch fulfilling the role that science fiction movies always used it for; as an intimate extension to a wider computer network. “The most unique innovations will be augmentation, as a smartwatch is in essence an augmentation device,” he says. “For example, the player’s heart rate could changes the behaviour of an intelligent enemy in a larger PC horror game. Or the smartwatch could be a secondary screen or interface, for example the onscreen watch used in the N64 game Goldeneye could have been an actual watch.“In Alien Isolation, the watch could vibrate when the alien is detected on the scanner, or in a Halo title, you could have Cortana on your wrist, available to talk to throughout the game. There is also a hard to define emotional connection with smartwatches, which makes the platform ideal for personification.”Smartwatch games, then, may well have an interesting future beyond glorified fitness apps with points systems; it just requires developers to get to grips with the form factor and truly embrace its limitations and peculiarities. Perhaps the hype that will soon surround Apple’s entry to the market will be the boost those developers need.
Apple knows that a smartwatch is nothing without decent apps, which is why it brought high-profile third-party developers into a secret testing facility for the Apple Watch at its head quarters in Cupertino.Related:Apple announces $17k solid gold Apple Watch EditionRelated:Apple releases new 12in MacBook with larger retina displayRelated:Apple Watch: available April 24 for between $349 and $17,000Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook took to the stage in Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco to showcase some of the apps developers have been working on.Here are some examples of the apps that will be coming to the Apple Watch.TodoistA demo of the Todoist app.An easy to use to-do list app, Todoist supports list making, voice control and a host of other features, which take advantage of the shape of the screen and the digital crown on the Apple Watch.The Todoist app is an extension of the free Todoist iPhone app, which syncs with the cloud and allows collaborative to-do lists and productivity management. Todoist also has a version of the app for Google’s Android Wear smartwatches.ShazamThe watch can listen to music using an in-built microphone and correctly identify what’s playing – in this case, “Congregation” by Foo Fighters.Foo Fighters on the Apple Watch.Photograph: AppleBMWBMW i8 and i3 owners will be able to locate their cars, open the doors and see their charge level remotely direct from the watch. BMW has similar apps for the iPhone and Android, as well as Samsung’s Gear smartwatch, that can control the temperature of a the car and set up destinations for the satellite navigation.InstagramFacebook’s developed an Instagram app that connects via the iPhone app and notifies users of likes and comments on photos as well as pulling in a small feed of photos from the user’s Instagram timeline, and notifications when selected users post new photos.TwitterTwitter’s app will act as a notification extension to the iPhone Twitter app, allowing people to see new mentions and direct message alerts from their wrist.United AirlinesThe United Airlines app for the Apple Watch will tell users which gate to go to, the boarding time and display their boarding pass, pulling the information from the United iPhone app.UberThe Uber app on the Apple Watch.Photograph: AppleUber has an app that allows users to track their booked taxi and see how far away it is without having to take out their iPhone, notifying them of when it has arrived and is ready for them.MailboxEmail client Mailbox, which was recently bought by cloud storage service Dropbox, has an app that allows quick access to Gmail and other email services from the watch as an extension of the company’s popular iPhone app.NikeSports brand Nike, a long time partner of Apple since the days of the Nike + iPod, will have one of the first fitness apps available for the Apple Watch connecting to the Nike Fuel system as well as Apple’s Heath app. Nike recently discontinued its Nike FuelBand fitness tracker, and is relying on apps available for Samsung and Google’s smartwatches and now Apple’s.How the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyApple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brandApple Watch: what Jony Ive has said about itHBO launches standalone streaming service as an Apple exclusive
Apple has announced that its first smartwatch, the Apple Watch, will start at $349 for the smaller model and $399 for the larger, and be available to pre-order and preview in the US and Europe on April 10, and available to buy from April 24. The price of the watch rises to more than $10,000 for the solid gold Apple Watch edition.Chief executive Tim Cook took to the stage in at the Yerba Buena Center in San Francisco to demonstrate Apple’s first completely new product since the death of founder Steve Jobs.The Watch will act as a second screen for an iPhone, showing customisable watch faces, texts, calls and other notifications, as well as running widget-style apps powered by the smartphone connected over Bluetooth.It will be controlled by a dedicated iPhone app, that allows users to change settings, manage notifications and apps. Watch face options include a range of analogue and digital faces, as well as a licensed Micky Mouse face, where the cartoon character’s arms become the hands of the watch.Apple WatchPhotograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APWearers will be able to reply to messages via voice dictation or voice recording, or by using short canned responses that can be customised using the companion iPhone app. But Apple said that the watch will also enable new forms of communication between Apple Watch users, including the ability to remotely tap on a recipients wrist through the watch, and the ability to stream another user’s heart beat in vibrations on the watch.The back of the watch contains an optical heart rate monitor, which logs a user’s heart rate throughout the day and plugs directly into the company’s Health app. An accelerometer will also monitor activity, much like a fitness band, and remind users to get up and walk around if sat for an extended period of time.The watches fitness features were one of the three major functions of the watch cited by Apple CEO Tim Cook, who said that “in addition to being a beautiful object, the Apple watch is the most advanced timepiece ever created; it’s a revolutionary way to connect to others; and it’s a comprehensive health and fitness companion.“We make products that enhance people’s lives, and the Apple Watch carries that to a new level. [It] tracks your daily movement, and it even reminds you if you’ve been sitting too long.“It’s like having a coach on your wrist.”But Cook also highlighted the ability of developers to create their own apps for the watch – albeit currently only when subordinate to an iPhone app. “That is really just the beginning, because you will also learn that you can pay with apple pay, you can view your photos, and you can control your music. You can interface with Siri just using your watch, and, one of my favourites, you can receive notifications on Apple Watch… so you can keep track of your favourite sports teams, you can connect to social media, and you can keep track of the daily news right at the moment it happens.”The watch, thebrainchild of Apple’s chief designer Sir Jony Ive, is available in three separate versions and in two sizes, one with a 38mm case and one with a larger 42mm case; the larger size is $50 more for the base model. Neither will use industry standard watch straps, but Apple has many different straps and colours available allowing users a degree of customisability.Given the vast array of models, the full pricing for the watches is as follows:Apple Watch Sport, 38mm: $349Apple Watch Sport, 42mm: $399Sapphire and steel Apple Watch 38mm: $549 - $1049, “depending on your selection of watch band”Sapphire and steel Apple Watch 42mm: $599 - $1099Gold Apple Watch Edition: starts at $10,000The Apple Watch was first announced in September last year alongside two new larger iPhones, the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. The watch is designed to be paired with an iPhone, including older models as old as the iPhone 5.Similar to Google’s Android Wear smartwatches, the Apple Watch does not have phone capabilities, instead relying on the paired iPhone for an internet connection. Apple said that the watch will also rely on the iPhone for heavy processing duties for running apps reducing impact on battery life of the watch.Apple Watch is tethered to an iPhone via its Bluetooth connection.Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APMost competing smartwatches, including those from Samsung, will last over a day. Sony’s Android WearSmartwatch 3, for instance, can last three days of normal use before charging, while theSamsung Gear Slasts well over a day.Apple said that the watch will last a day per charge (specifically, “18 hours” of typical use) and so needs to be charged overnight using its magnetic charging cable.Cook demonstrated features of the Apple Watch, including its “Digital Crown” that acts like a jog dial for zooming and scrolling and the watch’s detection of gentle or forceful taps, which can trigger different actions.Cook also showed off a collection of apps from third parties, tapping Apple’s large developer community for killer features to convince customers that they need a smartwatch that is essentially an expensive accessory for a smartphone.Apple Watch can be a games platform – and here’s whyHow the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyApple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brandApple Watch: what Jony Ive has said about it
HBO is taking on Netflix with a standalone TV and film streaming service due to launch in early April – but for now it will be exclusive to Apple devices.Related:Apple Watch: available April 24 for between $349 and $17,000Related:Apple releases new 12in MacBook with larger retina displayRelated:Apple announces $17k solid gold Apple Watch EditionRelated:Apple unveils Apple Watch and new MacBook – in picturesHBO Now will cost $14.99 a month, and will be available for iOS devices as well as the Apple TV set-top box, providing access to shows like Game of Thrones and Veep.“We couldn’t be prouder that Apple is our exclusive partner at launch,” said HBO chief executive Richard Plepler, who announced the new service at Apple’s Spring Forward event in San Francisco.“You will have access to all our acclaimed original programming: past, present and future, as well as our unmatched lineup of Hollywood blockbusters. All you need to get HBO Now is a broadband connection and an Apple device.”Although long-anticipated, HBO Now is a significant moment in the US, where access to the company’s shows has traditionally required a cable TV contract. So-called cord-cutters will now be able to subscribe to it on a standalone basis.The news is not a surprise.Plepler announced plans to launch a service– although not the identify of its first partner – in October 2014.“In 2015, we will launch a stand-alone, over-the-top, HBO service in the United States. We will work with our current partners, and we will explore models with new partners,” he said.“All in, there are 80m homes that do not have HBO and we will use all means at our disposal to go after them.” The company has an existing app called HBO Go which is only available to cable TV customers.Alongside the announcement, Apple dropped the price of the Apple TV from $99 to $69. “We’ve sold over 25m units so far, and it’s got this very attractive entry-level price of $99,” said chief executive Tim Cook.“But today we would like to make it even more accessible for even more people so they can take advantage of this great new content ... So if you don’t have one yet, now’s the time.”Game of Thrones may well be a safer bet than U2; Cook has been playing a long game in TV and it may finally be paying off. As hadalready been reportedApple will be one of the launch partners for HBO Now, the new streaming service from the channel behind GoT, The Sopranos, Girls and more.Time Warner, HBO’s owner, had been reluctant to launch a service before for fear of angering the cable companies where HBO is a big draw. But the number of cord cutters is on the rise and TV is finally moving to meet them.Apple Watch can be a games platform – and here’s whyHow the Apple Watch could create a $1tn companyApple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brandWhat Jony Ive has said about the Apple Watch
As Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, prepares to reveal the few details not yet known about the Apple Watch – the price, the battery life, when it will hit the shops – some are already predicting a flop.It will weigh the company down, they argue, and the solid gold version aimed at the very rich will tarnish a brand that promises “affordable luxury”, turning it into the preserve of rich fashionistas who wouldn’t be seen dead with last season’s $2,000 handbag – or $5,000 smartwatch.“Apple needs a new product to reduce its reliance on one core product, the iPhone,” David Goldman, CNN’s technology editor, said in February. “It won’t find that with the Apple Watch.”At a mooted starting price of $350, he argues, it’s pricey – but not truly beautiful, uncompelling and, in any event, likely to be updated in a year.In fact, that $350 price tag makes it the cheapest new category Apple has ever introduced – the original iPod, in 2001, was $399. (There was the $299 Apple TV set-top box, but that was always something of an afterthought.)Related:Will the launch of the Apple Watch spark the next app goldrush?But the watch has also seen an intensive PR and marketing effort, including recent lengthy interviews with head designer (and Briton) Sir Jony Ive in theNew Yorkerand theFT’sHow To Spend It section (in which he murmurs that the watch is “clearly the most personal product we’ve ever made”), and a 12-page set of ads in the March edition of Vogue at an estimated cost of $2.2m.It connects to an iPhone, and displays – or taps your wrist with notifications from – apps about all sorts of things (sparking a new goldrush). It’s watch-like, but more of an extension to a phone. Doubters have focused on the battery life (about a day); enthusiasts on its potential to save you pulling your phone out of your pocket for maps or train times.The launch of the watch isn’t the first time Cook has faced doubters. In spring 2013 there werecalls for his headwhen Apple’s market capitalisation was $366bn, far below an earlier peak of $658bn in September 2012. Now it has passed $750bn, Cook is still in place, new products are on the way, and analysts are beginning to wonder: could Apple soon be worth $1tn? And how much of a part will the new watch play in that?Katy Huberty, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, suggests the shares could be worth $160 in a year’s time (on Friday they were at $126), which would value the company at $934bn.“Apple has the world’s most valuable technology platform,” she argues, with customers who are loyal and willing to pay more for its products and services than users of Google’s Android phones. “A strong platform becomes a virtuous circle, as many users buy multiple devices and more software and services, which in turn attracts more developers, merchants and partners.”Not only that, but Apple has plenty of room to expand into, she argues: its current products and services are useful for a third of most people’s day, but it could increase that to three-quarters by getting into TV and even cars. The latter, like the former, so far remains only rumour, but enough circumstantial evidence has appeared – such as hirings from a car battery company (which is suing) and word of an internal project – that analysts now think it’s only a matter of time.“I’ve read the rumours. I can’t comment on it,” Cook said when asked about an “Apple car” last week. However Steve Jobs would deny the existence of products right up to their unveiling; I saw him laugh at the idea of a phone in 2005.Despite the pundits, on Wall Street and in the industry it is hard to find anyone to agree that the watch could flop. James McQuivey of Forrester Research said last week that “20 million people in the US alone are inclined to buy something new from Apple, giving Apple an easy shot at converting 10 million people to buy one between the US and international markets. We stand by our initial assessment that 10m units sold by year-end is likely.” McQuivey sounds like a pessimist compared to Huberty, who forecasts 30m, and Robert Leitao of Braeburn Group, who suggests 40m by the end of the year. The most pessimistic is Gene Munster, a stock analyst at Piper Jaffray, who reckons 8m.The lowest of those numbers would dwarf the existing smartwatch market, where the biggest player, Pebble, has shipped just over 1m units in two years, and devices using Google’s “Android Wear” from companies including Samsung, Motorola and LG shipped just 720,000 in 2014. In all, 6.8m smartwatches shipped last year, according to research company Smartwatch Group, at an average price of $189, creating a market worth $1.3bn.Analysts estimate the Apple Watch should add about $10bn to the company’s revenues this year.Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APSimple maths suggests Apple will crash through that if it gets anywhere near the middle of analyst estimates of about 22m in the first year. Estimates are that the watch will add about $10bn in revenue, and an unknown amount of profit, during 2015.Neil Cybart, a former stock analyst at investment bank Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods, who has set up his own company, Above Avalon, to analyse Apple, says Huberty is one of the more bullish on it. “[Her] theory about Apple products serving user needs one-third of the day, but that it can increase to 75%, is maybe the most important takeaway from the note and I think it essentially describes Apple’s future,” he says.Apple has often faced critics, but time and again it has proved them wrong. When Steve Jobs launched the colourful iMac computer designed by Ive in May 1998, Apple was a deadbeat in the PC market, with about 3% sales share. The iMac helped revive it. When Jobs unveiled the iPod in October 2001, the first comment on a gadget site was that it had less storage than existing players, and no Wi-Fi connectivity, making it “lame”. More than 400m have been sold. Microsoft’s Steve Ballmer laughed at the iPhone in January 2007; Apple has trounced Microsoft in the mobile market. Though the iPad has seen sales begin to shrink, Apple is still by far the biggest vendor in that market, and now aims to sell the tablets to businesses through a deal with IBM. And in the final quarter of 2014 its iPhones outsold Samsung’s smartphone range, giving it a new high of 15% of all mobile phone sales.The real question is whether the watch can become an unstoppable money-maker like the iPhone rather than a shorter-term fizz like the iPad – which nevertheless generated $27.8bn in revenue in 2014.Ben Thompson, who runs his own Stratechery consultancy, thinks so: “The biggest initial benefit of the watch will be the addition of far more ‘small conveniences’ than most people expect (and, on the flip side, the removal of small annoyances),” he notes. Cybart points out that Apple has long been valued below other competitors based on its profits: it trades on a price-earnings ratio of about 10, compared to 17 for many tech companies. “The overall [stock] market has a market cap of $19tn, so finding $250bn is not an impossible task,” Cybart says. “There is nothing technically stopping it reaching $1tn.”
With just a few hours to go until Apple reveals the final secrets about its long-awaited watch, it’s time to tot up your predictions about just what we’re going to see.On Friday, we asked readers what they expected from today’s event in areas as diverse as pricing, products and the presence of Dr Dre – and while there was consensus on some questions, on others, it seems like the answer is still up in the air.‘The mid-tier steel watch will cost $500’Firstly, on pricing, there’s an overwhelming agreement that the mid-tier steel-and-sapphire Apple watch will be launched at around $500; 74% of you voted on that over the higher and lower tiers of $349 and $1000. That may prove to be wishful thinking ifthe predictionsof pundits such as blogger John Gruber are accurate, though. He argues that the addition of the fancy leather and steel bands to the mid-tier watch indicates a plan to sell them at a fair premium:“If it truly takes nine hours to cut the links for each band, and each one is polished by hand, and they’re mechanically complex (and they definitely are), this is not a $200 bracelet. I’m thinking it’s about $1000, judging by the description, and based on the prices for replacement stainless steel link bracelets from Rolex, Tudor, and Omega.”Related:Apple Watch: what Jony Ive has said about it‘The gold watch will cost $5,000’For the gold watch, there’s less consensus. The most popular option was $5,000, around the middle of analyst estimates, but 30% of readers thought it could be as much as $10,000, while 28% thought it could go as low as $1,000. While the company has patented a new production process which lets it make 18-karat gold withjust 28% the volume of gold needed in traditional alloys, $1,000 for a solid gold watch still seems on the low side. But hey, hope springs eternal.‘Apple won’t have a trade-in programme’Of course, part of the reason why the watch might have to be cheaper than other gold watches is that a Rolex doesn’t become obsolete a few years after it’s sold. Does Apple have a canny plan to deal with that? Not if our readers are right: well over half of you think that Apple’s plan for an upgrade is “when your watch gets old, you buy a new watch”. Against that, the next most popular option, with 24% of you agreeing, is that the company will run some sort of trade-in programme, letting you bring your old gold Apple watch in-store for big bucks off a new one.Related:Apple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brand‘The Apple Watch will have a battery life of one day’When it comes to the minutiae of the launch, there’s more consensus: you think the Watch will go on sale some time in April, with a quoted battery life of “a day”, and that Tim Cook’s most over-used buzzword will be some combination of “we think you’re going to love it”, “amazing” and “digital crown”. “We think you’re going to love its amazing digital crown”, perhaps?‘Expect new MacBook and Apple TV’But the watch isn’t all we’re expecting. The readers’ guesses are split evenly between the rest of the event being used to launch an update to the Apple TV and a new MacBook, with the rumoured large screen iPad a distant third.If it’s a new laptop, everyone expects a retina screen – despite rumours from 9to5Mac suggesting the opposite ​– while if it’s a new Apple TV, the vote is split 55%–45% in favour of the update including an Apple TV App Store.‘No Beats Music, no Angela Ahrendts’Don’t expect to hear much about Beats Music, if the wisdom of the crowds have got it right, nor to hear anything from Angela Ahrendts, the company’s head of retail, who was hired from Burberry. Despite her fashion expertise, two-thirds of you think she’ll be left out of the keynote – which could mean this is yet another Apple event where only men get to take the stage.Make your own predictions below ...
It’s A day. Or W day. Or AW day. Take your pick. And yes, the clock is ticking as we wait for Tim Cook to reveal just what the Apple Watch can do.In the meantime, Apple’s head of design Sir Jony Ivegave an interview to the Financial Times’ How To Spend It magazine in which he waxed lyrical about the Watch.Ive explains that for him a key difference between a watch and a phone is the effort involved in interacting with it:One of the things that struck me was how often I’d look at my watch and have to look again quite soon afterwards, because I hadn’t actually comprehended what the time was. If I had looked at something on my phone, because of the investment involved in taking it out of my pocket or my bag, I would certainly pay attention. I quite like this sense of almost being careless and just glancing.Ive also tells the FT that it is the intimacy of the watch that made it a logical product for Apple to turn its attention to. He says it is the most personal product the company has ever made and that Apple most significant contributions come in personal products.The Apple Watch was first unveiled in September 2014 by Tim Cook.Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APHe stresses that “while the watch is an extension of the phone’s functionality”, it’s also a new platform. But he is less than forthcoming on how many he thinks Apple will sell:I’m much more concerned about how we can make them as good as possible than how many we’ll sell. We’re brutally self-critical and go through countless iterations of each product.Ive also spoke about the Apple Watch in an interviewwith the New Yorkerin which he says that the first incarnation took just six weeks to design. However, he took a year to settle on the interchangeable watch straps, adding that most people are “OK to a degree with carrying an identical smartphone to millions of other people, but a watch needs to be more unique”.He also elaborated on the key functionality that differentiates a watch from a phone when it comes to notifications:This [a watch] isn’t obnoxious. This isn’t building a barrier between you and me. If I get a notification here, it will tap my wrist … I can casually look and see what’s going on.Ive also explains why the Apple Watch’s “digital crown” is positioned off to one side and closer to the screen than the back, rather than being symmetrical like a winding wheel on a traditional watch. He says this is because its function is different. To place it centrally would be “literally referencing what’s happened in the past”, but “the information about what it does is then wrong”.And for those wondering why the watch face is a round-cornered rectangle, rather than a simple circle one might expect from Apple’s design studio, Ive explains:When a huge part of the function is lists,a circle doesn’t make any sense.The Apple Watch is launched on Monday 9 March.•Apple Watch launch signals firm’s transformation into luxury goods brand
HUGH BOYESCyber security lead at the Institution of Engineering and TechnologySome would ask if any software system can be truly hack-proof. The bigchallenge will be how do you maintain the software in a state where it’s secure throughout its life. We’re already looking at 100m lines of code, and that’s for a car where the driver is still very much in control. We’ll probably be looking at [code that is] an order of magnitude larger for something that’s driverless. That’s an awful lot to get right. In cars on the road today there’s been a big push to have mobile broadband connecting into the entertainment console, but that console doesn’t really need to be connected to control systems like the brakes and the steering. So there are some logical steps that can be taken to try to reduce risk, reduce the chance of someone hacking in externally.COUNCILLOR DENISE HYLANDLeader of the Royal Borough of GreenwichAll the trials, including the GATEway trial in Greenwich, are examining how driverless vehicles might be used in an everyday environment and what is needed to make that happen safely. Ensuring driverless transport networks are resilient to hacking and other security vulnerabilities is a clear aim for us and, given the constant evolution of digital systems, security against hacking is something we will continue to review as we learn more about how the technology might work in reality. We are confident that the Greenwich consortium, which includes experts in cyber security, is well placed to examine these issues.ANDREW MARTINProfessor of Systems Security, Oxford UniversityNothing is hack-proof – everything is a trade-off between how much you want to invest in protecting it, and how much your adversary wants to invest in breaking it. As far as anyone knows, the number of people who want to do malicious damage to cars is very low, and the number of highly malicious people with the means to do such a thing is very low indeed. Unless hackers can find a way to hack your car and turn a profit, they won’t be interested. To get an MoT certificate, autonomous vehicles are going to need very careful safety analysis. That doesn’t mean they won’t be hackable, but it does mean there will be lots of failsafes in place. I expect to see more attention paid to their security within the expert community. There’s much more prospect of malicious activity on all the other things that are getting connected to the internet.JONATHAN BROSSARD“White Hat” hacker and director of Toucan SystemsIn terms of connecting them remotely, in cars on the move you basically do that over GSM, 3G, 4G phone networks and we don’t know how to [make this secure] properly. It is so easy to break the communication of phones. Software is a minimal part of it. Fundamental network protocols are so bad that, whatever software you write on top of it, is going to be garbage. I wouldn’t be dramatic and say there’s nothing we can do, but I would say it’s like trying to build a huge dinosaur using weak bricks. However, the people who are stepping in on driverless cars are the major players – like Google, which has the best security team in the world. From a technical perspective, driving a car from the internet is not very difficult to achieve. The reason I’m not too concerned is because I don’t think my kind wants to kill me.JEFF WILLIAMSCTO and founder of Contrast SecurityThe software in cars is, for the most part, only accidentally secure. Most automobile systems aren’t connected together, it’s just a bunch of loosely connected gear. Many systems are “air-gapped” from each other and most can only be accessed through physical connections and very near-range transmission but we are rapidly turning the car into a computer on wheels. We’ll see the air gaps go away as the systems on the car get connected. Driverless vehicles have considerably more software than regular old cars. And that software is directly connected to the most important systems of the automobile – steering, brakes, lights, horn, transmission. So the attack surface of these driverless vehicles is considerable, and surely someone will find a way to hack it. I just hope it’s a responsible security researcher and not a malicious psychopath.
“There are about 7,000 characters on screen, all moving in real-time with real-time lighting, real-time shadows, and all controllable by tapping on them and saying where you want them to go. It feels like an epic movie battle, but it is over in 30 to 60 seconds...”Dawn of Titans is a long way from FarmVille and the other casual games that made Zynga the first giant of the social games industry, but didn’t stop it being overtaken by the publishers of games such as Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans.The company’s new game is the work of UK-based NaturalMotion, the developerZynga bought for £317m in January 2014, following its previous mobile hits Clumsy Ninja and CSR Racing.Related:Zynga has lost 63% of its players. Is NaturalMotion the answer?It is an ambitious attempt to marry epic warfare-waging with quick, casual gameplay mechanics, to pass what NaturalMotion chief Torsten Reil calls “the Starbucks line test” of mobile gameplay.Sorry, the what? “It’s a really important metric for us,” he says. “You need to be able to start and finish a session while you’re waiting for your macchiato to arrive. It’s a huge challenge with these big battles, but I’m really happy we’ve managed to solve it.”NaturalMotion is one of the firms that sits between the console and mobile parts of the games industry. Although its own games have been focused on mobile in recent years, its engine technology has been used for the Grand Theft Auto series among other console games.Although that technology shined in the floppy-bodied physics of Clumsy Ninja, Dawn of Titans looks like being an even better showcase, charging players with expanding their kingdoms, raising armies and sending them into battle complete with the massive titan monsters that give the game its name.“The appeal needs to be blockbuster appeal. That’s really important to us: anyone who goes to a big Hollywood movie should also like this kind of game,” says Reil, in answer to a question about whether Dawn of Titans is for hardcore or mainstream gamers.“That’s how we position it. We do expect quite a lot of people who are hardcore players to really like the game, as you can go really deep: the PvP [player-vs-player] can be as competitive as you like. But you can also play occasionally and still enjoy it.”The titans will be key characters in Dawn of Titans.The risk with a game like Dawn of Titans, with its particle effects in the clouds and real-time waterfalls and lighting effects, is that it ends up being more about the graphics than the gameplay. Reil says NaturalMotion has been working hard to avoid that.“We’re not doing it because we want to be part of some kind of graphics arms race. We want to do something special for the audience and wow them. That’s quite different to the console industry, where it was a graphics arms race,” he says.“People would talk in public about particular shaders and frame rates. We don’t do that. If you look at a Pixar movie, the technical background to those films is immense, but the audience shouldn’t care about that. They should care about the characters being believable and the world being rich.”NaturalMotion has been trying to find the line between ease of use and deeper military strategy in Dawn of Titans. One example is the option to tell every single unit before a battle where you want them to go, versus a “Starbucks button” option to give them automatic orders.Once battles are underway, fast thinking will be key. “You might see your militia being lured away from a particular point by a troop unit that’s coming up, so you can tell them to stand their ground. Those kinds of inputs really make a difference,” says Reil.“We wanted skill to matter, not to a point where only the skilful can enjoy and play the game, but to a point where it makes a difference. That happens during the battles. So it’s not about paying to win and throwing as many troops in as possible.”Paying to win? That’s a sensitive topic around freemium games, with Dawn of Titans making its money from in-app purchases. While players will be able to buy new titans and decorative upgrades, Reil says the game will not be unfairly weighted in favour of those who pay.“People who do a bit of thinking have a bit of an advantage. We don’t monetise that. When we released CSR Racing, we got quite a bit of feedback: ‘You need to pinch the audience early to monetise them’. We felt that’s not the right thing to do,” he says.“Quite a few games are aggressive about monetising early on, and that backfires. To monetise a game, it works much better to retain people with a world that they buy into, and then become prepared to pay if there are certain areas they’re interested in.”Related:The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014Dawn of Titans will be released for iOS and Android, with a pipeline of new titans and other features planned not just for months ahead, but years. That is based on NaturalMotion’s experience with CSR Racing, released in 2012 but still going strong on the app stores, with new features and cars added regularly.“It’s now had 120 million downloads,” says Reil. “We realised last year just after the acquisition that the ceiling of the game going down slowly in revenues was something that we could change.”Dawn of Titans will be soft-launched in the near future, with a global release to follow later in the year. If it catches on, given the huge money being made by mobile games like Clash of Clans and Game of War, it could make that £317m acquisition look like a bargain.Not that Reil is thinking in those terms: “Honestly, the way we started was ‘wouldn’t it be cool if we could recreate the epic battle scenes we saw in movies on an iPad?’. It hasn’t been done before, so it’s a real technical challenge, and a design challenge too.”He adds: “What we didn’t do is look back at games with similar mechanics on PC or console, and try to translate that to mobile. It was very much trying to turn the blockbuster movie approach into an action-strategy game that everyone can play.”
Independent music company Bandcamp has hit a new milestone: $100m (£66m) of payments to artists for music and merchandise sold through its site since its launch in 2008.The US-based company helps musicians set up their own online stores, and since November 2014 has also beenenabling them to run their own subscription servicesfor their keenest fans.“Fans give artists $3.5m every month on the site, and buy more than 16,000 records a day, which works out to about one every five seconds, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year,”wrote chief executive Ethan Diamond in a blog post.Sales on Bandcamp were up 30% in the past 12 months when the industry was down 11%, he added: “We see this growth as proof that if you give fans easy ways to directly support the artists they love, they’ll take you up on it every time.”Related:Bandcamp to help musicians launch their own subscription servicesBandcamp’s growth as a source of income for independent musicians has accelerated in recent years. At the start of 2012, it generated $12.6m for its artist clients, with December 2012the first month when payments exceeded $1m.By November 2013, the company reached the $50m milestone for payments, at which pointDiamond predictedthat “that dollar amount is set to double in the next 18 months, and maybe a touch sooner”.The company takes a 15% cut of the income musicians earn from selling music, merchandise and subscriptions on its site, with this dropping to 10% once they reach $5,000 in total sales.Cellist Zöe Keating, who wasrecently in the news due to a dispute with YouTube, is one of the most prominent Bandcamp users. In February 2014 she said thatshe earned $25,575 from the site in 2013- not far behind the $38,195 she earned from Apple’s iTunes store.Other high-profile musicians using Bandcamp includeThom Yorke,Courtney Barnett,Sufjan Stevens,Sleater-KinneyandSleaford Mods. The company has also introduced features for independent labels to maintain profiles on its site, includingSub PopandNinja Tune.
After a two-year legal battle, journalist Oliver Hotham and Automattic, owners of blogging service Wordpress.com, have emerged victorious against an attempt to use an American copyright law to shut down criticism of a short-lived pressure group call “Straight Pride UK”.The win, in a Californian district court, sets a rare precedent against attempts to use the the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to take content offline.The act includes a provision that requires web hosts to remove user-generated content if they are notified that it infringes a third-party’s copyright - or face being held liable for the infringement.But these DMCA takedown notifications are often abused to force big platform holders to remove content for reasons unrelated to copyright, as Hotham learned in 2013, when he was a student journalist.In August that year, he posted an interview on his Wordpress blog with Nick Steiner, press officer for an anti-gay group called “Straight Pride UK”. In the interview, Steiner expressed his group’s support for homophobic policies enacted in Russia and a number of African nations, and praised Putin’s crackdown on LGBT rights.But shortly after Hotham published the interview, he received a message from Straight Pride UK warning him to take down the piece within the week, or the group would use a DMCA takedown to force him to do so.While both Hotham and Straight Pride UK were based in Britain, Hotham’s American hosts were subject to the law. However, a DMCA takedown notice requires copyright to have been infringed - something that had not happened because Hotham had merely published an interview.Peter Sidorove, the head of Straight Pride UK’s Moscow-based sister organisation Straight Forward, told the Guardian in August that the interview, sent over in a document titled “Press Release”, was never intended to be published.‘Censorship using the DMCA’“Straight Pride UK thought as he was a student that we would add fun to it, dress it up and make him feel like a reporter by adding ‘press release’ to the document. This document also had a notice saying that it was not to be reproduced without consent,” Sidorove said.But after the group served Automattic with a DCMA notice in an effort to force the company to take down Hotham’s blogpost, Automatticvowed to fight the takedown, calling the notice “censorship using the DMCA”.In November 2013,it sued Straight Pride UKsaying that “while there are no legal consequences (like fines) under the DMCA for copyright abusers, there is a provision that allows victims of censorship (and their web hosts) to bring legal action against those who submit fraudulent DMCA notices”.Following Automattic’s legal victory against the group, activists hope that more web hosts will be emboldened to fight back against malicious takedown notices. Parker Higgins, of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said: “Wordpress going to bat was really unusual, and this could encourage others.”The firm was awarded $22,264 in legal fees and $1,860 for time spent working on the case, which should also go some way to encouraging others to fight similar cases, Higgins added.But neither Automattic nor Hotham, who was awarded $960 for his work and time, have much hope of being paid the money. Since August 2013, Straight Pride UK seems to have disappeared from the face of the Earth. The group’s website has been taken down, and messages to an email address that was its only point of contact are not being answered.‘Sets the precedent’Automattic said: “We tried to track down Nick Steiner, but didn’t succeed. We’re disappointed by that and by the fact that he’ll probably never pay the judgment. So DMCA abuse may go unpunished this time. But we’re hearted that our case makes some good new law for future cases. There’s very little case law in this area, and previously no case law about what damages were available if a plaintiff were to win. It’s important here that the court held that we could recover attorneys’ fees and costs of suit, which were by far the biggest piece of damages.”“This case also sets the precedent that Automattic will stand up for our users, and fight back against DMCA abuse. Hopefully that, along with the rule that victims can collect damages (especially costly attorney’s fees) may cause future DMCA abusers to think twice before they pull the same stunt.”Hotham said the outcome was “really pleasant”. “It’s great to have made the impact now. I realised we were going to win when I heard that Automattic had hired this big California law firm, and when it was clear that the law was overwhelming on our side, of course. It’s been something I’ve put the back of my mind, so it was great to see it happen this week”.As for Steiner, Hotham says: “As far as I know I’m not sure he even exists, or even that ‘Straight Pride UK’ was ever anything more than a few bloggers. I doubt I’ll hear from them now.”
There’s something disturbing about seeing an old and much-beloved videogame character in a new redesign. Like seeing the movie version of a book you loved, it reveals how much of the character you had imagined, and how other people’s vision of them was very different.My version of Guybrush Threepwood, will always be the cheerful pixelated chap inMonkey Island 2,with a toothy grin, cheery demeanour, pirate coat and messy hair. That’s all I ever needed to know. I didn’t want to wonder whether he was attractive or not, whether he was stubbly or shaven, or what colour his eyes were. I didn’t even like it when the pixelated cutscenes showed him in higher resolution. But videogame art becomes more sophisticated every year, and – just like TV viewers having to deal with the first colour TV, and then high-definition – we can’t leave as much to the imagination any more. It’s a shame in a way that we think of this as “progress”. Sure, it’s nice to see a recreation of renaissance Florence in high-resolution detail inAssassin’s Creed. But, as Scott McCloud notes in his bookUnderstanding Comics, simpler cartoon imagery can be more universal: “The more cartoony a face … the more people it could be said to describe.”This means that more high-resolution characters are likely to be more alienating. Once Guybrush had stubble, a lantern jaw and a recognisably male silhouette, it was more obvious he wasn’t meant to be me. And videogames, more than any other medium, rely on the identification between player and the character you’re playing on screen, so the disconnect is even more disturbing than in a movie or novel. It might be partly for this reason that games are increasingly allowing players to design their own characters. After all, if the hero of the game you’re playing is you, there’s nothing more troubling than looking into the screen and not recognising your own face. So perhaps the ultimate conclusion of these high-def characters will be that I can be all of them: Naomi Threepwood, Naomi of Persia, Naomio the Plumber. Now there’s a thought to give you nightmares.
If we’re losing the war against cybercrime, then should we take off the gloves and strike back electronically against hackers?As banks reel from another major hacking revelation, a former US director of intelligence has joined some of them in advocating for online counterstrikes against cybercriminals.In February, security firm Kasperskydetailed a direct hack against 100 banks, in a co-ordinated heist worth up to $1bn. This follows growing sentiment among banks, expressed privately, that they should be allowed to hack back against the cybercriminals penetrating their networks.At February’s Davos forum, senior banking officialsreportedly lobbied for permission to track down hackers’ computers and disable them. They are frustrated by sustained hacking campaigns from attackers in other countries, intent on disrupting their web sites and stealing their data.Dennis Blair, former director of national intelligence in the Obama administration, has now spoken out in favour of electronic countermeasures, known in cybersecurity circles as hacking back, or strikeback.Blair co-authored a 2013 reportfrom the US Commission on the Theft of American Intellectual Property. It considered explicitly authorising strikeback operations but stopped short of endorsing this measure at the time.Instead, the report suggested exploring non-destructive alternatives, such as electronically tagging stolen data for later detection. It also called for a rethinking of the laws that forbid hacking, even in self-defence.Western law enforcers don’t have jurisdiction in the countries where cybercriminals operate. Ideally, they would pass information about hackers onto their counterparts there, said Blair, but in many cases local police are un-cooperative. It’s time to up the ante, he suggested.“I am more leaning towards some controlled experiments in officially conducting aggressive cyber-tracking of where attacks come from, discovering their origin, and then taking electronic action against them,” he told the Guardian.Legal problemsThere’s just one problem with strikeback operations, said Mark Rasch, a former federal cybercrime prosecutor and the head of Maryland-basedRasch Technology and Cyber-law: it’s against the law. “You have to start with the general assumption that hacking back is most likely illegal,” he said.Long-standing laws on both sides of the Atlantic clearly forbid unauthorised tampering with a computer, even if someone is using that computer to attack you. In the UK, theComputer Misuse Actsets those rules. In the US, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act does the same.Even without this legislation, the law generally frowns upon what Rasch calls “self help”. Judges dislike vigilante justice.The stakes are getting higher, though. Since the report’s release, corporate America has seen several devastating cyber-attacks.JP Morgan suffered a breachaffecting 76 million households. Home Depot and Target were also hacked, and most recently, Sony Entertainment was embarrassed by the theft of internal documents.“I’ve been seeing the way that technology is developing. I think it’s worth some limited legislation to post penalties back to hackers,” Mr Blair said, adding that companies should work with law enforcement rather than taking matters into their own hands.“Law enforcement authorities can go back down the same route that [the hackers] use to attack, and cause physical damage to their equipment,” he added.A Gentler PokeIs frying someone’s laptop remotely with akiller pokeeven possible? Even if it is, it may not achieve the desired effect, says Dave Dittrich, a computer specialist at the University of Washington’s Applied Physics Laboratory, who is a specialist in the topic. “How expensive is it to buy a new one? $500? Cyber is not the same as physical when it comes to disabling ‘weapons’ to remove a threat.”Frying is not the only form of counter-hack, points out Dittrich. “I prefer the term ‘active response continuum’ to make it clear and explicit that there is a wide range of actions, from benign to very aggressive and intrusive,” he said.These actions include simply probing an attacker’s computer to see what kinds of attack tool they are using.“That falls on the lower end of the active response continuum, and has less chance of causing any harm to anyone (beyond trespassing, which may still be a crime, but a lesser offense),” Dittrich said.Could laws be tweaked to allow gentler forms of active defence? Even if they were, technical problems remain, warned Jon Ramsey, chief technology officer atDell SecureWorks, Dell’s security unit. One of the biggest challenges is attribution, he pointed out. It is difficult to trace an attack to a specific individual in cyberspace.“Without accurate traceback there is a significant and substantial risk that organisations start attacking legitimate organizations,” he said. “Where would this end? It would cascade out of control. Threat actors often use compromised devices of companies and individuals that become unwilling and unknowing participants in attacks and are attacked themselves.”For example, cybercriminals frequently launch compromised computers that are part of a botnet to launch their attacks, said Bill Nelson. He is the executive director ofFS-ISAC, a US industry forum for financial services firms to privately share information about cyber threats.A botnet is a large collection of computers owned by innocent users, which have been infected by malware. The malware enables cybercriminals to remotely control the computers.“We do not endorse hacking back because there can be significant unintended consequences,” said Nelson.These issues apparently haven’t stopped financial institutions from considering the idea in private before. In December, Bloomberg reported thatbanks had considered using offshore contractors to carry out a counter-attack, after a widespread attack on the US banking community that US officials believed was mounted from within Iran.According to Bloomberg, the FBI discovered that computers used in a cyber-attack on the banking community had been disabled by a third party, and the agency had investigated banks to see if they had already engaged in strikeback activity across national boundaries. It apparently absolved banks under investigation, though.Banks would have been particularly sensitive to the idea of hacking back across international borders, said John Pescatore, who worked in the Secret Service and the NSA before becoming director of security research and training company theSANS Institute.“They need to cross country boundaries to do it. That’s what was really coming out of Davos,” he said, adding that these companies are well aware of the legal dangers when crossing international lines. “It’s that boundary crossing issue where I think the larger financial institutions are saying: ‘we need some help’.”Sharing is caringInstead of engaging in such legally risky behaviour, banks that are attacked should simply share information about it with the government to help prepare an industry-wide response, argued John Carson. He is the executive vice president ofBITS, the technology policy division of the USFinancial Services Round Table, an industry association for financial firms.Information sharing, while good for cybersecurity, may carry its own legal risks, Carson warned: “Today if there is an attack, there’s a reluctance to share that information because it could be used against that institution in a civil suit.”Legislators are trying to plug that gap. In January, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) was reintroduced in the House. The Bill would allow companies to share information about cyber-threats and hacks with law enforcement without fear of legal reprisal.In February, Senator Tom Carper (D-Del) also introduced the Cyber Threat Sharing Act of 2015, which would accomplish similar goals.President Obama also signed an executive orderadvocating cybersecurity information sharing.Armed with this information, the government might be the ideal partner to hack back against cybercriminals .Blair affirms that banks shouldn’t handle it themselves: “I still think it should be handled through law enforcement authorities, and I would not give some immunity to companies who try it on their own. Because then you just make it wild west, vigilante stuff.”Law enforcement is equally constrained by the law, though, said Rasch. “You can get a warrant to search and seize stuff, but since when did law enforcement have the authorisation to impose punishments on their own? If that’s what you’re talking about with hacking back, I don’t think they can do it,” he said.The real question, he added, is whether a government would consider refusing to prosecute law enforcement in the event of a cyber strikeback. But at that point, it stops being a legal discussion. “You’re getting out of the realm of law. You’re getting into the realm of politics,” he warned.At this level, the problem is that one government may simply have different rules or priorities to another. If a government refuses to prosecute its own cybercriminals when they’re attacking companies in your country, then should your government support strikebacks by law enforcement that believes it has identified a hacking group?“It’s a dangerous game you play, when you decide that because they’re not following the rules, you’re not going to either. Because then you don’t have rules,” he said.The problem seems simple: do you take the high road, or stoop to their level? At stake are not only millions of dollars in intellectual property, but also elements of critical national infrastructure, andeven free speech.As we face such threats, Blair remains convinced that strikebacks are a useful deterrent. He is less concerned with the legal debate than he is with the fact that western firms are being fleeced by shadowy cyber-crooks half a world away.“Sitting around sucking our thumbs debating legal points is getting us nowhere,” he concluded. “We’re being robbed blind.”
Oh, for a three-day weekend.
3D-printed organs are a realistic prospect in the next decade, but 3D-printed human beings? Will.i.am claims they will be the next step and thinks that humanity will need new ethical codes to cope with the implications.“Eventually 3D printing will print people. I’m not saying I agree with it, I’m just saying what’s fact based on plausible growth in technology,” the musiciantold Dezeen magazine.“Unfortunately that is the reality, but at the same time it pushes humanity to have to adhere to new responsibilities. So new morals, new laws and new codes are going to have to be implemented.”The star becamechief creative officerof 3D printing company 3D Systems in 2014, and has been working with it and sponsor Coca-Cola on a range of “Ekocycle” 3D-printed products, including clothing and bicycles.“If you can print a liver or a kidney, god dang it, you’re going to be able to print a whole freaking person,” said Will.i.am.Related:Will.i.am: ‘3D printing will revolutionise society. In 20 years, you’ll be able to print a new kidney’“Now we’re getting into a whole new territory. Moses comes down with the 10 commandments and says ‘Thou shalt not’. He didn’t say shit about 3D printing.”In aninterview with the Guardian, he put a more positive spin on the prospect of future advances in 3D printing and biology.“In 20 years, you’ll be able to print a new kidney. You’ll have a machine that prints your genome with proteins that are right for your body. 3D printers will change how we make things, how we fix and heal things. To eat beef and wear leather, you need a lot of land and water for cows. In the next 20 years, we’ll be able to print beef and leather instead. Real talk.”3D printing is one of several ventures into technology for the former Black Eyed Peas star and judge on BBC1’sThe Voice.He has released hardware –iPhone camera cases in 2013and thePuls smartwatch– a “cuff” as he describes it – which is set to go on sale later this year.Before 3D Systems, Will.i.am wasdirector of creative innovation for Inteland was anearly investor in Beats Electronics.
Taking on Lego,SkylandersandDisney Infinity,Sick Bricksis the latest toy-powered videogame, which – while sticking to the brawling, puzzles and fetch quests of the popular Lego titles – also introduces irreverent characters and peculiar vehicles by scanning the physical bricks through the camera. The app is free to play with a basic set of heroes, but retail packs then add single or multiple characters, such as phaser-touting Tiberius Warpspeed or Hiro Thunderbutt, who comes wielding (inevitably with that name) a fart attack.Collecting is incentivised by differing levels of rarity for each toy and in-game rewards for scanning different combinations of character head and torso bricks. In-app purchases unlock characters without a toy purchase, which, while convenient, does makes assessing the physical toy value more complex. It’s well executed, with fully voiced characters and steady progression, but it’s the pocket-money-price point and related Cartoon Network show that should winSick Bricksswift playground popularity.
Lenovo’s stated intention to stop installing third-party apps on its PCs in the near future could have a dramatic effect on the PC industry, perhaps driving smaller rivals out of business altogether. Already the world’s biggest PC company, both by revenue and unit shipments, Lenovo could actually get bigger because it got caught.In case the first part passed you by,Lenovo was discoveredin late February to have been pre-installing an app called Superfish on its consumer PCs between October and December 2014. Superfish, it breezily declared, would help you by offering “suitable ads”. It did this by interposing its secure certificate into any secure SSL connections you made – to Google, a shopping site, your bank – and watching what was transmitted. If it saw something ad-like, it could replace that with its own Superfish-supplied ad.Security specialists rapidly realised that Superfish and its SSL-grabbing ways were extremely bad news that could leave you open to “man in the middle” attacks by sites using the same certificate as Superfish. One expert showed his personal server pretending to be the Bank of America and getting a thumbs-up from his machine’s browser.SoLenovo recanted, ate humble pie, and declared it wouldn’t pre-install any more– apart, that is, from “security software” (which you can take to mean products like McAfee’s Antivirus and their ilk) and Lenovo’s own applications.You might wonder why Lenovo did this in the first place. Simple: Superfish and another app, called Pokki, and some others, paid Lenovo to be pre-installed, so they could benefit from access to users. Lenovo benefits from their money – and with margins in the consumer PC business wafer-thin, it wanted that badly. In the fourth quarter of 2013 its entire PC business had operating margins of 3.3%; in the fourth quarter of 2014 it was 5.3%.That’s ahead of the rest of the PC market, which has wallowed around an average of between 2% and 4% since 2007, according to financial data from the five main Windows makers (Lenovo, HP, Dell, Asus and Acer). The violence of the market persuaded Dell to take itself private in October 2013, so its financial results since then are not available, but it often used to show zero profit or a loss in its consumer business. The rest aren’t doing much better, and the big five have 67% of the Windows PC market, and probably even more of the profit (because they get economies of scale).The Windows PC market (ie, ignoring Apple) is undergoing a comprehensive squeeze, both in units and margins. With 1.5 billion PCs worldwide, and tablets and smartphones vying for purchases, the business has become a replacement market, and slowing. Consumers tend to buy a Windows PC on price, as there are few distinguishing features (beyond high-end Ultrabooks or 2-in-1s with detachable keyboards). That makes it a vicious, low-margin business.If Lenovo’s “no bloatware” idea becomes popular, it will slice dollars per PC off its profitability – but also others’. For instance, Acer also installs Pokki. The other day someone complained to me that Pokki was slowing up their new Acer machine. Given the choice next time between a “clean” Lenovo and Acer, what might they take?But can Acer afford to drop Pokki? Its operating profit has bumped around close to zero for some time. Without -installs, what happens to its PC profits? And then what happens to its PC business? I’m sure Lenovo would be happy to take up the slack in any market Acer withdraws from. From bad guy to humble pie to winner.Neither will Lenovo be completely chaste. It’s including antivirus pre-installs, where per-install payments are far, far higher than pretty much any other product. Indeed, the antivirus business might be keeping the whole Windows consumer PC business afloat.In which case, why didn’t it warn us about Superfish? That’s one to ponder when you set up your next PC and consider whether it’s worth taking up that antivirus trial.
It’s a very busy month for Mama, then.When not in the garden, tempting youthful minigame fans of a green-fingered persuasion,she is back in the kitchen for a game that revisits the series’ culinary roots. Fortunately, we are here to help with the workload.The gameplay focuses predominantly on 60 recipes that demand tapping, stroking, tilting and blowing the 3DS to prepare meals. The stylus is reimagined as a gastronomic Swiss army knife, and is used to chop, knead, grate and much else besides. There’s also a bounty of cooking and presentation to undertake, in an experience that harks back to Nintendo’s DS and Wii-era casual gaming revolution.Beyond the core recipe book there is also a time-attack mode, a local multiplayer setting for those with an additional 3DS, and a host of peripheral mini games that cover food service and study, and even muscle in onGardening Mama’s theme.There’s a little humour, too, and ample character presented via winsome visuals, making for a decent enough game for younger children. However, a lack of depth and challenge means Mama’s latest will do little for adults. As in the garden, so in the kitchen.
The first matriach of gaming was launched in 2006 in her incarnation as Cooking Mama, stringing together touchscreen interactions into loose recipe challenges. Its popularity has since spawned five sequels and various spin-offs with other themes. Here, the simple gesture-matching challenge of the Mama series returns to the garden, with a collection of 50 horticulture-themed mini-games. Each challenge focuses on a different plant, requiring just the right combination of tapping, swiping and dragging with the stylus to mature. Time these gestures accurately, to enable the plants to grow well enough to sell at various animal-fronted shops, and earn in-game money, which in turn can be spent expanding the garden with more flowers, fruit and vegetables, and trees.The thinly veiled busy work is made palatable for young players with larger-than-life cartoon visuals, anthropomorphised animals and the series’ well-worn touchscreen interactions. But that’s the target audience: the enjoyment will be short-lived for all but the very young, or those happy with endless fetch quests and incremental progression.
A world of robot cars may still be a long way off but that hasn’t stopped some big insurance companies from worrying about them. And not for the reasons you might think.That three insurance companies and an auto parts manufacturer mentioned driverless cars in their annual reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) over the last week signifies a certain coming of age for autonomous vehicle technology.Under the “risk factors” headings of their filings, the three companies –Cincinnati Financial,Mercury Generaland theTravelers Companies– noted that vehicle autonomy could affect business, and not for the better. The companiessounded an ominous note – for themselves, at least – saying that driverless cars could change the way they do business.Cincinnati, for example, predicted “disruption of the insurance market caused by technology innovations such as driverless cars that could decrease consumer demand for insurance products”.It’s not just insurers who are worried about fewer collisions. LKQ Corp, a parts company, has warned in its regulatory filings that with improved technology, “the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business”.But auto and insurance industry experts say it’s too early to for drivers to celebrate – and for the insurance industry to start worrying. While Google, Uber and Detroit’s car giants are all working on self-driving vehicles, the rise of the robots is still a long way off.“It takes a long time for new safety features to penetrate the fleet that’s on the road because people hang on to their vehicles for a long time,” Russ Rader, a spokesman for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, said. “Even when a feature is mandated by federal regulations, it takes 3o years for it to penetrate 95% of the vehicles on the road.”By that line of reasoning, he said that even if the federal government passed legislation by 2030 that all new vehicles be autonomous, the last major batch of human-piloted cars and trucks wouldn’t disappear until about 2060.Robert Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, said that it was impossible to tell where the industry would be in 10 years and ventured that we’re unlikely to see autonomous cars on the road at all before the 2020s. “That’s somewhat beyond the investment horizon,” he said.Michelle Krebs, Autotrader Group’s director of automotive relations, said that with road-going autonomous vehicles still appearing as specks on the horizon, there was plenty of time to discuss and refine the regulatory and insurance implications of the technology. “There’s a bit of hysteria over something that will take years to roll out in any big numbers, in my view,” she said.That said, the sort of technology that will go into the driverless car of the future is already making an impact, so to speak. Crash avoidance systems like automatic braking and electronic stability control are the building blocks of autonomous driving. They have made vehicles safer and reduced the number of crashes, said Rader. Hartwig echoed that assessment, adding that as the number of crashes and traffic fatalities have declined, insurance companies have adapted to the change.Rader said the one feature that’s already affecting the insurance industry is automatic braking. He noted that crash-related injury claims – the ones paid to injured occupants in the vehicle that was hit in an accident – are significantly lower in vehicles with automatic braking systems, because even if a crash is not avoided, impact speed is lower. He said it was too early to determine the effectiveness of lane departure and blind spot warning systems and other safety technologies.When, and if, the robot car becomes the norm, it won’t all be good news for drivers, Hartwig warned. With vehicles becoming ever more technologically sophisticated, he said, they have also become more expensive to repair. Even with the number of crashes reduced, accidents will continue to occur, and repairs will be necessary.“We have to inject some reality into this because full autonomy is far in the future,” he said. “The building blocks are on the road now. We need to encourage automakers to make those features widely available, but we can’t get too pie-in-the-sky about driverless cars.”
TOOLSEverything to hand –plus the bottle openerA toolbox for the modern handyman.This isn’t just a box. This is aCoolbox. Nothing to do with keeping your sarnies chilled, this bold container is designed for the modern, tool-wielding type, with built-in Bluetooth speakers, internal LED lights, a tablet rest and USB ports for charging up all your kit. There’s even an integrated bottle opener for when you need a break from all that thirsty work. With a handy set of wheels to boot, it has become a runaway success onIndiegogo, where it is open for backing until Thursday (12 March). Supporters can bag a box for £110, with delivery expected in June.PLAYMove over Barney, the CogniToy has arrivedThe CogniToy: answers, jokes and stories at the push of a button.If you thought Barney was the smartest dino, think again. Created byElemental Path, this internet-connected “Cognitoy” can answer questions, tell jokes and spout stories all at the push of its tummy button. What’s more, it’s creators claim its “conversation” level becomes more sophisticated as the child grows up. And that could be handy – with IBM’s supercomputer, Watson, behind its brain you might well want this dino on your pub quiz team when you’re older. Having passed its Kickstarter goal, the first Cognitoys could be delivered to backers by November.SCIENCECheck out the radiation in the vegetable rackRadium: backers will have to be quick to beat the crowd for an early bird price of around £130The latest gadget to be notching up the clicks on Kickstarter isRadium, a tiny Geiger counter that can measure the radiation levels of everything from your home to your Brazil nuts. Hooking the instrument up to your smartphone via a Bluetooth dongle, it apparently “registers itself as a standard heartbeat device” while an accompanying app allows you to record and tag the location of your counts. Open for funding for another two weeks, backers will have to be quick to beat the crowd for an early bird price of around £130.TOYSBuild your life around Meccano for grown-upsMeccano Home, a French design idea for grown-upsDo you love construction toys, but don’t want to build a Harry Potter castle or pocket-sized tricycle? You are in luck. Recently shown at theMaison&amp;Objetshow in Paris,Meccano Homeis the brainchild of a team of French designers who have created a grown-up version of the ever-popular kits. Available in the UK fromHolloways of Ludlowyou can bolt together a table or knock up some storage with colourful components that can be interchanged to freshen up your decor. With an RRP of about £290 for a coffee table, it won’t cost an arm and a leg.SOCIAL MEDIAOne in the eye for loved-up FacebookersXOXO Hint: spot the one with no Facebook friendsAiming to appeal to those with an, admittedly stylish, passive aggressive side is Erica Amatori’s Kickstarter projectXOXOHint a series of “humorous” cards designed to give your social media-addicted friends an offline message. Tell the loved-up Facebooker “Your social media posts are sappier than Titanic &amp; Notebook combined” or remind a screen-fiend to “Look up every once in a while”. Backers can order an anonymous hint for £3 or so, but it might be easy to spot who sent it. The one without Facebook friends.
When my son was born he had trouble breathing and went into intensive care. On visiting him, I found him in an incubator wearing a small purple cap. The hat was doing more than keeping his little bald head warm; the colour and the wool were a material link to the world of our everyday lives. It made him part of society even though he was surrounded by machines and tubes. The hat had been made by a legion of grannies who volunteered to make them for every baby in intensive care, and so it became a proxy for the local community, who in days of old would have crowded round the cot at home wishing for the baby to pull through.A simple knitted hat did all this. It is this complex set of technical, social and cultural roles that make fabric one the best-loved materials human beings have ever invented. It is washable, fully repairable, and, although it is more than 8,000 years old, it is still one of our most innovative technologies.Before modern times, most clothes were hand-made using locally spun yarns and home looms. It was the mass production of textiles that created cities such as Manchester and gave people access to a much wider range of fabrics, as well as reducing their cost. In the 19th century, new chemical dyes changed the look of clothes again, and the sewing machine changed how they were made.Related:Knock-out knitwear without a stitch of workBut the biggest change came in the 20th century with the mass production of clothes that were designed to fit no one but to suit everyone. This business model has made clothes cheap enough for everyone to afford, if largely ill-fitting. Now there is a return to making individually tailored clothes but – and this may sound far-fetched – the new textile technologies promise to do far more than that.3D knitting takes a digital design and turns it into a piece of clothing. In its simplest form, you download a pattern from the internet and size it digitally to fit the person it is intended for. You then feed the machine with the yarn and let it get on with its job. This is not the first time this type of technology has been developed: in the 1960s and 1970s many knitting machines entered the market from companies such as Toyota, Brother and Singer.What is different this time is that the digital interface is much more sophisticated and 3D scanning, to obtain the individual size and shape of a person, is an established and cheap technology. The time seems right for bespoke clothing, tailored for individuals but made by machines, and UK companies such asKnyttanare already offering this product.Tomorrow’s needles: OpenKnit is an open source machine that can be built from a kit.These 3D knitting machines are becoming an open technology, which promises to lead to further innovation. For instance,Openknitis an open-source machine that can be built from a kit and is part of a manufacturing ecosystem which includes a software interface and a digital hub to share digital garment designs. There are now many people worldwide developing the platform, all making different versions.The significance of this is not just about cost; by building their own machines, users can modify them to knit potentially anything, such as high-strength fibres, light-emitting materials, sensors and electronics. Such technical textiles, as they are called, are on the increase in medicine, architecture, and sports.Prosthetics, for instance, are made from carbon fibre composites. These start out as fibres of carbon, which are knitted together into fabrics that are impregnated with resin to give them rigidity. These rigid fabrics are light, strong and stiff, but essentially passive. Prosthetics makers are now working towards embedding electronics into the weave of the carbon fabricso that the material can sense itself and respond.Textiles are also big in space. I once visited the laboratory of the team that designed the first clothing ever worn on another planet. They were the only ones in Nasa who didn’t burst into spontaneous applause when Neil Armstrong stepped on to the moon in 1969. Instead they held their breath: would the best fabrics they could come up with withstand the atmosphere of an alien world? No one knew.They had done thousands of tests but finding a way to combine mobility, insulation, radiation and mechanical protection for a place no one had ever been was always going to involve some luck. They held their breath and hoped the moon’s abrasive dust didn’t hold any surprises that their lab had not anticipated. So it was that a fabric allowed man to walk on the moon. Further exploration of the solar system will need even more advanced textiles.Despite all this engineering, what makes fabric really special, is that it doesn’t seem hi-tech at all. It speaks an emotional and sensual language that we all respond to and inspires love and even obsession. My son agrees: he has very strong opinions about the clothes he wears, and yes, his favourite colour is purple.
In recent columns, I’ve praised Tesco’s Blinkbox Books servicefor honouring its commitment to customers by transferring its libraries to Kobo, a competing e-reading service of long standing. Blinkbox also distinguished itself by putting the source code for almost its entire system online, free, meaning someone could build a whole new service based on its work. So far, so classy.However, a couple of former Blinkbox customers have been in touch to voice some disquiet at the process. As they point out, unlike Blinkbooks, Kobo is based abroad, in Canada, and so a different set of laws apply when it comes to its management of customer data.For example, while businesses and government departments in the UK must comply with the Data Protection Act, the Canadian parliament is currently debating a new piece of legislation, the Information Sharing Act, which will allow all departments ofgovernment to share information in ways that are not currently permitted in the UK.While it’s highly unlikely that any Kobo users will end up on a Canadian watchlist, the point remains: ship your data abroad, and it falls into other jurisdictions and other legal systems that you don’t necessarily vote for or understand. It’s a long way from the local library.Those dissenters who didn’t wish to transfer their contracts abroad have, I’m happy to say, received a full refund from Blinkbox, so they can repurchase their lost books elsewhere.But as I’ve often argued, it’s users’ history and data that make real their experience of reading – the highlights and bookmarks are analogous to the dog ears and underlinings you might make in a physical book. Even for those who move to Kobo, all highlights and bookmarks will be lost.Shamefully, the ebooks ecosystem still lacks an open annotation interchange format; perhaps this could be someone’s next good work.
When a company co-founder and CEO took the stage at a tech startup pitching contest in Silicon Valley recently, the last thing she had on her mind was her gender. Yet as she made her way to the stage to deliver a carefully practiced pitch for investment funding, not all the audience were applauding. Some were cat-calling.She ignored the unwanted attention and concentrated on her pitch, but later reflected on the inappropriateness. “For these people it was just a little joke but why? It was a professional conference,” she says, declining to use her name for fear it might jeopardise future funding chances.The incident is representative of a larger truth recognised by many women in Silicon Valley’s tech industry: sexist behaviour is alive and well. Along string of lawsuitsalleging sexual harassment at tech startup companies and venture capital firms is currently making its way through the courts. And the sexist culture spills out in public, too. At last month’s annual Crunchies – the tech world’s closest thing to the Oscars – the presenterrepeatedly called one woman in the audience a bitchand casually threw out a racist remark (the event’s hosts, the blog Techcrunch, apologised).Women are extremely under-represented in the industry. Of the string of presentations made that day, only a few were made by female entrepreneurs. The founder doesn’t recall a single woman on the panel of investors judging the startups and the audience was mostly male too. The problems are linked, says Caroline Simard, research director at theClayman Institute for Gender Research at Stanford Universityin Silicon Valley. When women are drastically under-represented it creates the conditions under which such behaviour can thrive. “Because in tech you have so few women to begin with, then that really reinforces these power dynamics between men and women,” she says. As one person tweeted as the Crunchies debacle unfolded: “#crunchies need more women and people of colour.”Only 11% of Silicon Valley executives and on average around 20% of software developers here are women. On the Forbes list of 100 leading tech investors, only four are women. Silicon Valley firms also have fewer women at the top than large companies in other industries. Only 53% of big tech companies havea woman on their executive management team, compared with 84% for America’s biggest firms of all kinds. The earnings gap between men and women is worse in Silicon Valley, too, where men earn up to 61% more than women, compared to around 48% for the US as a whole.Related:Reddit CEO Ellen Pao to testify at sexual discrimination trialWhether Silicon Valley’s sexism or under-representation of women is “worse” than the tech industry in the UK or elsewhere is hard to argue, says Judy Wajcman, a sociologist at the London School of Economics whose new bookPressed For Timegives a gender analysis of the tech sector. “It’s shocking in both places,” she says. But it matters to an even greater extent in Silicon Valley because it is the centre of one of the most powerful industries in the world. California’s tech industry sets the cultural “tone” for tech sectors elsewhere and produces the wildly successful products that are used by billions and are reshaping the future.“You need diverse experiences to make diverse technologies,” says Wajcman. “If the people who are designing our technologies are a bunch of young white guys (because racial diversity is also under-represented) it is a very limited experience base.”The information technology sector is the future and women, it seems, are being excluded. Apple’s move into health tracking last year provides an example, the giant’s software can track cholesterol levels and heart rate, but not the menstrual cycle. Discussions on the alienation of women in tech have risen to a national level in the US and some tech firms are trying to right the balance. Hillary Clinton, frontrunner for the Democratic presidential nomination,spoke about the issueat a conference for women in Silicon Valley last month. “We can literally count on one hand the number of women who have actually been able to come here and turn their dreams into billion-dollar businesses,” Clinton said. “We’re going backward in a field that is supposed to be all about moving forward.”Activist organisations and individuals played a key role in advancing the issue during 2014 to the point where a figure like Clinton could wade in. They have spoken out – often loudly and sometimes aggressively – using the very tools created by the industry they are trying to change. The feminist media platformModel View Culturehas been particularly influential. It rails against what it calls “corporate feminism” espoused by Facebook’s chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg in her bookLean Inwhere she argues that, rather than change the status quo, women should take responsibility for their lack of progress and offers pragmatic advice on how to climb the corporate ladder.Ari Horie, founder of Women’s Startup Lab, which is an accelerator programme for women’s tech businesses, outside her offices in Menlo Park, California.Photograph:  /Barry J Holmes for the ObserverWomen in the industry now find both approaches helpful. Claire Gunter, a software sales executive, started a Lean In circle in San Francisco, which has since developed into a freestyle forum of peer support for women in tech. She speaks of following and respecting both Sandberg and Model View Culture’s controversial and bitingly critical co-founder and editor Shanley Kane. Simard, of Stanford, is hard-pressed to point to one specific group as most important, but she thinks these groups and their activism have been crucial in increasing debate.Amelia Greenhall, who previously co-founded Model View Culture and now runsDouble Union, a feminist maker/hacker space in San Francisco, sees her role as “expanding the realm of possibility”. She recently attracted the attention of leading US national news outlets by taking to task business school professor Vivek Wadhwa, a go-to expert for the media on women in technology. He was drowning out women with better contributions to make on the issue,she says. Pressure from Greenhall and others seemed last year to lead large tech companies, spearheaded by Google, to publish diversity data, never previously publicly released, along with pledges to do better (Intelhas committed $300mto improve workforce diversity). Some released data only for their total workforces, yet some companies broke the figures down by job type. For instance, the proportion of technical roles occupied by women is 15% and 20% for Facebook and Apple respectively, which is pretty typical for the sector.In April 2014,Tracy Chou, a software engineer at Pinterest, set up a popularonline repositoryfor individuals to begin inputting their own data on the number of male and female employees by counting within their companies. Double Union’s members, meanwhile, created a campaign of tweeting tech companies calling on them to make employeedemographics public. Importantly, notes Chou, it means there is now a benchmark to talk about the issues in a more meaningful way.One widely acknowledged reason women fail to flourish in Silicon Valley is its “boys’ club” work hard/play hard culture that is unwelcoming to women. While far from universal, it seems to be the small startup companies that lack the checks and balances of a big company where some of the worst excesses of sexism and harassment have occurred. The founders of those companies – almost all men – typically hire almost exclusively through their personal networks, says Simard.Those hostile environments mostly occur by accident, saysHeidi Roizen, a partner at the investment firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson, who also teaches entrepreneurship to engineers at Stanford. At an event on leadership near Google’s headquarters last month, she sketched out the typical origins of a hi-tech startup and how they can exclude women. A few male students who meet studying computer science might decide to start a company. Then, because rent is expensive, they move into an apartment together, coding and living in the same place. And who do they hire? People they know from their classes with whom they feel comfortable. “And all of a sudden you have hired 10 people and they are all males. “That is a hostile work environment for women,” says Roizen.Doubtless, the problem is made worse by influential figures in Silicon Valley advising entrepreneurs to screen for cultural fit. A powerful venture capitalist, Peter Thiel, advised in his recent how-to guide for tech startups that they have a better chance of success “when everyone shares an understanding of the world”. Sure, notes Roizen – it is easier to hire people you know because there is less friction “[but] it is that friction which is healthy” she said.Related:Wasted talent: how do we stop the female IT brain drain?Of course, female computer scientists exist, too, and some of them start companies. But they are fewer because there are far fewer women entering computer science degree courses in the first place. Roizen says her course on entrepreneurship for engineers at Stanford rarely gets above 20% women. “It is a pipeline problem and we have to solve it at an education level,” she says.Yet, notes Simard, for those women to then win venture capital backing they are likely to have to overcome damaging unconscious gender bias, which men and women are both prone to because of our collective gender stereotypes and which sees women judged as less competent technologists and leaders. It leads to us all favouring one group over another even when we are not aware of it and which means women are less likely to be hired or given promotions, prime assignments – or investment cash. “Research shows that women do have to prove themselves, work themselves harder and they are evaluated to a harsher standard,” notes Simard. “Implicit bias is present absolutely and it has been demonstrated across dozens and dozens of studies.”Roizen is a good example. In 2003, researchers chose a Harvard Business School case study of Roizen and how she was successful because of her outgoing personality and networking abilities. To test workplace perceptions, they presented the case to two groups of students but for one group her name, Heidi, was changed to Howard.While both groups found them equally competent, Howard came across as the more appealing. Heidi was seen as “selfish” and “not the person you would like to work for”. It is this hidden unlikeability factor, Simard stresses, that means telling women they need to talk about themselves more and claim credit for their work isn’t effective: when women toot their own horns they are not liked.Startup culture is only one culture in Silicon Valley. And as these companies get bigger the work environments do seem to get less hostile as more formal structures to manage people are introduced. “It is not uncommon when you hit about 100 employees to look to make some changes to your basic culture,” says Telle Whitney, CEO and president of theAnita Borg Institutefor Women and Technology, a Silicon Valley-based non-profit organisation dedicated to recruiting, retaining and advancing women in technology. “The startup culture is actually pretty separate from the culture of large tech companies.”Life is still far from easy for women in large companies. They are twice as likely to drop out as men in the middle of their career, notes Whitney. The get fed up of being perceived as less technically competent and don’t see their workplaces as true meritocracies, notes a2009 Anita Borg report,Climbing the Technical Ladder. They become exhausting places for existing women to stay, sums up Greenhall. Growing awareness of these problems means that pro-women organisations in Silicon Valley are growing in stature and number. One of the oldest, the Anita Borg Institute, with an annual budget of about $6m – over 65% of which comes from the industry – works with large tech companies to help them hire more women and add unconscious bias training to recruiting and promotion processes. Its annual Grace Hopper conference attracts 8,000-plus and provides an important recruiting ground for tech companies.Smaller non-profits such as Women Who Code and Black Girls Code work on trying to bring girls and women into programming. Late last year, in response to comments made by the Microsoft CEO,Satya Nadella,encouraging women to “trust the system” rather than ask for a raise (which he was later forced to retract), non-profitGirls in Tech– which connects and supports female entrepreneurs and technologists – launched the “#raisetech” campaign to provide education to women on how to best ask for a raise and get companies to institute structures to help encourage conversations. “[Nadella’s] comments were so out of line, we had to respond,” says Adriana Gascoigne, its CEO.There are also for-profit companies. Media companyWomen 2.0provides tips relevant to female-led startups and holds popular monthly meet-ups. In a restaurant in Silicon Valley a reception for female CEOs selected to participate inWomen’s Startup Lab, an accelerator programme to help them navigate a hostile environment, is in full swing. “Our position is, let’s get a jet-pack on you and get you out there,” says founder Ari Horie.Valerie Aurora of Double Union, behind her offices in the Mission area of San Francisco.Photograph:  Barry J Holmes for the ObserverBut perhaps the fastest rising organisation is theAda Initiative, a small feminist non-profit. “We are not about recruiting more women into a broken system. We are about making the system better for women and everyone in it,” says Valerie Aurora, its executive director and co-founder (she is also a co-founder of Double Union). Among its initiatives it runs workshops for men who would like to support women in their workplaces and outside. Others include training to help women overcome feelings of being frauds despite performing well in their fields – the so-called imposter syndrome. And it has developed wording for anti-harassment policies that tech conferences can adopt (many hundreds have done so, including Techcrunch). “At first, people said, ‘You are going to scare off women by suggesting that bad things happen at conferences’,” says Aurora. “It turns out [the policies] make women feel more confident and interested in going to them.”The Anita Borg Institute plans to expand its programmes to startups to help them hire more women. To achieve culture change, though, may also take external pressure, believes Aurora. “We need more venture capitalists willing to take a stand and say what they need [at these companies] are competent adults who work reasonable hours and don’t harass women.” Wajcman of the LSE stresses better work/life balance policies. This includes not always being available on email and better recognition of vacations and weekends. “What happened to our discussion about more leisure time?” she asks, adding that the provision of child day care onsite would make a huge difference.Confronting unconscious bias at the team-level is also particularly pressing, says Simard. For example being constantly interrupted in team meetings if you are a woman. And maybe it really is time for men to step up to the plate. Simard notes that giving well-intentioned men tools to help will be crucial. A new area for the Anita Borg Institute will be offering training for men, says Whitney.Roizen pointed out a few things where men could be more mindful of how their usual way of doing things can be exclusionary. Her suggestions: don’t continue the conversation in the men’s room; don’t create bonding events exclusively around male pursuits; and don’t presume that because women are different they are worse at the job. There is no magic bullet for culture change, says Simard. You have to look at every single point, it can be discouraging and it takes time – a mindset which Silicon Valley is not always used to.Roizen stressed the importance of talking honestly about what the industry is like for women, which means airing the bad as well as the good (she shared her own experiences of Silicon Valley men behaving inappropriately on herbloglast year). “If we don’t share our stories then people can go on and be oblivious to the fact that when you are a woman executive, technologist or entrepreneur you have an extra thing [unwanted attention from men in positions of power] to overcome,” she said.A pitching expo at the Plug and Play Tech Centre, an incubator in Silicon Valley, was where the co-founder got cat-called. The company said it wasn’t aware of the incident, would be keen to disallow any such behaviour and is looking into adopting an anti-harassment policy.Sometimes, you just have to celebrate. It is a week to the day from the Crunchies and Women 2.0 is holding a glitzy awards night, its first. On stage, Shaherose Charania, its founder and CEO, welcomes the 400-strong audience of mostly women. As the night unfolds, they honour “founders to watch”, “trailblazers who have set examples” and “game-changing tech talent” from their ranks. They include Adi Tatarko, co-founder of theHouzzhome design website worth $2.3bn, Roizen herself, and Megan Smith, the US chief technology officer. “People need to see that there are people that look like them doing this,” Charania says.
Price £22,000MPG 30Top speed 85mphOn sea 6mphFlooding holds no fear for Tim Dutton. As one of the world’s only builders of amphibious cars, he knows that rising water levels lead to rising sales. We are standing in his garage at the top of a slipway looking across the River Arun to the Littlehampton marina. Albert Steptoe would feel right at home here. Every corner of his workshop is crammed with boxes of tools and spares. The air is thick with epoxy resin. An employee who has been gluing strips of fibreglass to the hull of a car emerges from the chaos, his eyes almost spinning in his head.Tim starts to show me around. We climb a wobbly ladder to a sort of hayloft, stepping over loose planks and more body panels. “They’re beginning to call me an eccentric engineer,” he says with a mystified laugh. “Really?” I gasp, as if it would never have occurred to me. He buzzes with energy and enthusiasm and it’s easy to forget he was once a pretty formidable entrepreneur. He almost singlehandedly invented the kitcar business and, from 1973 to 1989, employed up to 80 people producing some 8,000 self-designed Dutton sports cars. “Total nightmare,” he says, “worrying about that many people. And I wanted to get back to working with my hands… So I decided to build something no one had got right in decades – theamphicar!” With a triumphant salute, he waves an arm above one of his half-built Dutton Surfs. It’s bright yellow and looks like a cross between a rubber duck and a 4x4.Flood relief: Tim Dutton pilots the Surf.Tim now makes about 10 of these curious hybrids a year (you can also buy them in kit form for £10,000). He sells them all around the world and all sorts of people buy them. Most just want to have fun, but some are for more serious applications. Tim says he’s sold some to the military. Sailors love them, apparently. Rather than worrying about towing a tender to the coast they can just drive straight on to their yacht’s mooring.The Surf is actually Tim’s third amphicar. There have also been the Mariner and the Commander and he’s currently developing the all-new Reef. He’s been in the motoring game for almost 50 years, which means he holds several unexpected records: Dutton is the oldest car company in the world still wholly owned by its founder; and he’s been manufacturing amphibious cars for longer than all the other amphibious car companies put together.The Surf is fully compliant with all vehicle regulations, except it has dispensation not to include airbags. “They’d explode every time you docked,” Tim explains. He uses the Suzuki Jimny as a donor vehicle – marrying its working parts to his hull and deck. The boat/car hybrid has both wheels and a jet-propulsion unit. You simply move a lever when you slip from land to sea.A month after visiting Tim, I took one of his Surfs for a swim/drive in the Thames. It was a surreal experience. Nothing quite matches the weirdness of motoring down a ramp and seamlessly out into the water. People waved and smiled, and we laughed in disbelief. It was bizarre, bonkersandbrilliant.For more information on Dutton cars, go todtech.uk.comEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
How has technology influenced how you train?It’s definitely helped me. I like to visualise things as I prepare for an international match. So when we started getting computer and video analysis on each and every player who you’re going to play against, it helped me visualise what I was going to expect the next day. Then again, those players also have the same information on you. So it’s a double-edged sword. People know how to exploit your weaknesses.And how do you feel about how technology’s influenced umpiring?I’m very happy with it. Sport moves forward, the world is moving forward, so anything that helps bring the game up to date is good.What would you think of a “smart” bat and ball recording details of a match?I’m happy with the bats and balls we use. I’m afraid that’s a bit too 22nd century for me.How has technology changed how you interact with fans?Social media is a huge bonus in terms of how sportsmen can portray themselves and how we interact. It’s good for setting the record straight, and it also helps to get good messages out there, like raising awareness for different charities and foundations.Related:Kevin Pietersen is a hero for our age: Beowulf, Achilles and Lancelot in oneWhich social media do you like to use?I use lots of different platforms but at the moment the one I’m spending most time on is BreatheSport [Kevin Pietersen has recently joined Breathesport’s team of sports personalities]. I’ve already been on there 10 times this morning to check sports updates and breaking news. It’s good fun because I can comment on what’s happening and interact with fans there too.Twitter caused a few problems when you were playing for England – how do you feel about it now?I blow hot and cold with it. I prefer Instagram these days, it’s simpler to use. Plus there’s a few more keyboard gangsters on Twitter than there are on Instagram.To be fair, one of those gangsters is your friend Piers Morgan.He’s amazing on Twitter. He is absolutely brilliant. People might not like the things he says but everybody follows him!What apps are on your phone?I’m not one of those people who likes to have three or four pages of them, so I don’t have very many. I check the weather every day, so I’ve got the weather app. I’ve got Snapseed for my pictures, GoPro, and then I’ve got some property ones like PrimeLocation – they’re getting used quite often at the moment – we’re always on the lookout. I’ve also got all the kids games I play with my son Dylan.How often do you Google yourself?When I was playing for England I did it occasionally. The last time was when all the nonsense was going down with the ECB last year [when Pietersen was dropped from the England team], just to check up on all the stuff that was going on. It’s good to see what’s been written but nowadays I’ve got literally no interest in what the media have to say.What’s the first thing you’d make on a 3D printer?(Long pause) An aircraft.Go big?Exactly.I’ve got this fascination with how long it’s going to take before cars will be able to convert into planesSo would you like your own private jet taking you around the world?I think that is every boy’s dream.What’s your choice computer game?The only one I have is one on my phone. Dylan and I compete against each other on Subway Surfer, and if I haven’t practised for a while Dylan cleans me out.Do you want to be a pilot?If I wasn’t a cricketer I’d have been a pilot. My wife bought me a flying lesson so I have done quite a bit. I’m not sure I want to be flying one by myself but I do have a fascination for planes.What’s your most expensive pieceof technology?My car, I’ve just bought the new Tesla. Now that is technology. It’s the most amazing car I’ve ever driven, it’s incredibly fast and silent, I think it’s a stroke of genius.Would you like a driverless car?No. I was given a Mercedes-Benz to drive the other day while I was in Australia and it has the parking technology where you don’t have to steer the car. I never used that function once. I like to park my own car.Sat nav or map book?Sat nav. I was in Barbados last week and we hired a Jeep that didn’t have satnav and I was all at sea. Almost literally! It’s quite hard to get lost on an island like Barbados, small as it is, but we did a good job of it.Would you keep your phone on the table at dinner?We banned it in our family last year. I don’t think it’s very sociable having a phone beeping all the time, and I do spend quite a lot of time on there because of the businesses I run. Our dinners are a lot more sociable now.If you had a time machine when would you travel to?I’ve got this fascination with how long it’s going to take before cars will be able to convert into planes. I’ve seen they’re making them in America at the moment. I’m wondering whether our skies are going to become pretty busy in 70, 80 years time. I’d like to see that.
