Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
In five years' time, the web will be dominated by the Chinese language, stuffed with social media content, and reaching you via superfast connections, according to Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Google. Obviously, the superfast connections are relative, especially if you're in some of the UK's "notspots". But those are the forms of prediction he made at theGartner symposium, in a 45-minute talk from whichReadWriteWeb extracted a relevant six minutes or so. Listen and, we hope, learn.While we're on it, here's 11 years of Google in two minutes on, of course, YouTube.Apparently there's a mistake in it - you're invited to tell us what (on earth) it is.And since it'sNational Cyber Security Consciousness Month- yeah, we only just found out - Google (is there a theme here?) has ablogpost on how to choose a better password.Then again, some of the advice...Problem 3: Using passwords based on personal data[Admit it, you use personal data too much when making passwords. Yes, you do.]Solution 3: Create a password that's hard for others to guessChoose a combination of letters, numbers, or symbols to create a unique password that's unrelated to your personal information. Or, select a random word or phrase, and insert letters and numbers into the beginning, middle, and end to make it extra difficult to guess (such as "sPo0kyh@ll0w3En").Good luck remembering that. Though if you're sensible you'll put it into a password store, of course, which means you only have the problem of how to remember it when you're away from your computer. Umm, perhaps a cloud-based password system. In which case you'll need a really good password for it. Obviously, you'll need it to be fantastically strong password because it stores all your key passwords. In which case you'll make it really hard to crack. Which makes it hard to remember. Which... oh, hell.Let us know your password tricks. Just don't tell us your password. Unless it's "password" or "1234". We've got those.
Yep, we've done it again. In a chain of events that would disorientate even the writers of time-romping TV drama Lost, I received last week's Best Of from Office Pest on Friday night, but without Friday. The following week, Limni sent me Friday, then three days later I received the Best Of from two weeks ago courtesy of Imperfect Rex. From this, I've cobbled together a fortnight of carefully selected highlights.This one's got everything from Uncharted 2 to the Chatterbox awards, to Uncharted 2, to Nick Griffin, to Peter Molyneux's list of influential games. To Uncharted 2. Can you guess what game everyone is playing?Okay, relax, take a deep breath... How are you feeling? Okay?You're ready...Chatterbox October 12-16By Imperfect RexWham, 'nam, thank you maamThe big news at the start of the week came from returning regular chubster2010, who announced that he got engaged while off in Vietnam.Congratulations to chubster, commiserations to the future Mrs Chubster. We'll look out for the 'keep-the-date-free' cards in the post…If they could see me nowAfter a slow start last week, by Monday, most regulars seemed to have shiny new avatars in place. It takes some getting used to when you've trained your eyes and brain to associate colours to certain posters. There are some amusing examples around the Chatterbox, and thankfully not too many of us have followedthe guidelinesand posted photos of ourselves.Supply &amp; demandIt's getting to that time of year where the games publishers simultaneously release their AAA titles. Understandably, we all want to play them as soon as time and funds allow. Davefalse, though, instigated some paranoia (mainly with me it has to be said) about getting hold of pre-ordered games:"Any ideas when they send out games that have been pre-ordered? Apparently both Uncharted 2 and MW2 are 'at warehouse despatching soon', which is obviously wrong for one of them!"Recent regular SirGiggidyMMVIII (don't expect to see that name too often in Best ofs) has faith in Game though. Hey – he didn't pay any money but got a shiny piece of paper with MW2 pre on it. Could it be that pre-ordering is not the exact science we all believe it to be?Paging Dr.ChatterboxRiadsala asked the 'box for some advice on a fairly serious matter:"Anybody here done a PhD? Any tips on getting through the pain inducing boredom threshold in never ending writing up process? … No wonder academics are all slightly removed from reality! I've spend months writing a huge big, boring book that in reality, only three people (not counting myself) are ever going to read."Sorbicol had the best, but least practical advice to any would-be PhD students:"Delete all your games, destroy your consoles, disable your internets."Easy!Trophy baitThe Cranker of the YearTM trophy has been removed from its case and polished as the nominations and votes are now open for the 2009 Guardian Gamesblog Chatterbox Awards. Full details can be foundhere.The subject of the awards also brought some discussion as to how long our veteran posters have been abusing the Chatterbox. Dizzyisanegg got all misty-eyed for simpler days:"It was early days - the Gamesblog was just a string and yogurt pot. You had to shout your comments at Aleks which she would then tie onto the leg of a carrier pigeon and, assuming it avoided Charlie's buckshot and made it to one of the other posters, you could expect a response within 14 working days. Usually it was something like 'n00b'."Santa's listIt was Wednesday before we got into some proper Chatterbox debate. PhilosopherK1ng asked the box: which would be our must-buy games before the end of the year? The clear winners were Uncharted 2, Modern Warfare 2 and Dragon Age with an honourable mention to Borderlands.The horror…Survival horror games don't get the same attention as they used to, with FPSs and RPGs dominating the most-wanted lists of many gamers. ChinofJim obviously misses those jumpy moments though and asked about the Chatterbox's favourite survival horror games of this generation.Siren, Dead Space and Resident Evil 4 (just about qualifying) were the top choices, with Condemned also getting a shout as a cheap thrill. Sad to say, Resident Evil 5 didn't get a look-in from the 'box. Think on, Capcom.Never seen the movie, but played the gameWe all know that the games 'inspired' by movies are generally marketing-ordered shovelware, designed to fleece parents of their Christmas savings. But Englishred knows that games companies can do better. With memories of Robocop and Death Wish 3, he threw out some ideas for classics that game developers should revisit:The Running Man ("I'm pretty sure I had this on Spectrum actually" – Rex)The Thing ("I'm pretty sure I had this on PS2" – as CrispyCrumb pointed out)The Maltese Falcon (point &amp; click)Escape from New YorkPhilosopherK1ng felt inspired:Nightmare on Elm St by Team SilentShawshank Redemption - will you take it graceful so you can get back to the library, or fight them every time?Brassed Off - unite the workers in a Pikmin-inspired take on the rallying cry against closure of t'pit.The Van Damme Omnibus Collection by Tecmo - a collection of the best fights from all of his quietly brilliant martial arts movies using the DOA4 engine...What else did we learn this week?Handy tips inspired bythis.PS3 games aren't region-locked. Yay! DLC for them is. Boo!Thanks PhilosoperK1ing and smellavision!Playing Batman AA through Windows Live adds achievement points to your 360 account. NiceThanks HumofEvil!When go-karting with mates, you can recognise everyone under the boilersuits and crash helmets by their footwear.Thanks henrypootle!Terry Pratchett is a better author than radio interview subject.Thanks CraggyIsland!Make sure you read the Ts &amp; Cs very thoroughly when hiring a car abroadThanks Limni!Pamela Anderson still has 'it' (especially in a red swimsuit).Thanks bigworv!If you do buy a gold MG Rover, best to gauge the Chatterbox reaction by telling us a 'friend' did it.Thanks TonyHayers!Quotes of the week"Did some Christmas shopping for all my friends' kids - God bless Boots 3 for 2 offer."Barryeans accidentally posts a message meant for Loose Women."So does nobody want to know what I've been doing for the last few weeks?Well I'm going to tell you anyway. I've been diving with the whale sharks again, and sleeping with a girl who claims she is a lesbian. Beat that anyone?"No EasilyLead, you win.NewcomersAtticusgrinch - Who are you? Why haven't you introduced yourself? And why were you posting in Monday's box on Tuesday afternoon?Ruzz - Popped in on Wednesday to ask if there was a Chatterbox COD4 clan. We are NaN, hear us roar.Pinkpanzer - Sloped in on Friday afternoon (the cheek!) to ask about component/HDMI display.Libel ListKFC / Colonel SandersLeona LewisThe obeseGamesUncharted 2, Operation Flashpoint:Dragon Rising, Fifa 10, Dead Space, Brutal Legend, Batman Arkham Asylum, Civ IV, Left 4 Dead, Infamous, PES 2010, Fable 2, Afrika, Beneath a Steel Sky (iphone)MoviesRole models, Ghost rider, Zombieland, Up, Mega-Shark vs Giant Octopus, Rocknrolla, Sky Captain &amp; The World of Tomorrow, X-Men Origins: Wolverine, The Hangover, Zodiac.TVScratch &amp; Sniff's Den of Doom, Harry Hill's TV Burp, Flashforward (losing some love already), Fringe, True Blood, Micromen, Curb your enthusiasm.Chatterbox October 21-25By Office Pest and LimniMondayBest of Chatterbox got off to a bad start this week. I sat down in work at 09:10 for my first well-earned tea-and-blog-break to get started on 'Best of' and found that… there was no Chatterbox Monday! Thankfully we're a resourceful bunch, so we all hopped over to page nine of Chatterbox Friday and that's where we'll start.After reading poor Smike's Saturday post (weekend working), we got down to guessing why the new Chatterbox had not been posted. Conspiracy theories were thus:Sorbicol:"Were the gamesblog team out on the lash last night?"McBegbie:"Greg, Keef et al been out on a weekend bender celebrating last week's award and haven't made it in yet this morning perhaps?"Limni:"So now the Graun has won its award, they've stopped looking after us."[I think it was probably Greg forgetting to post it. Believe me, I spent the weekend recovering, not celebrating further - Keef]A new box appeared around 10am (well done, Greg) to much delight, and chat turned to the Saturday 'Gamesblog Meatup'.  It sounds like it was a splendid affair.SuperSmashIn:"I'm a bit concerned that no-one has posted who attended on Saturday. It coincides with my memory loss about 9:30pm. I hope I didn't slaughter them all in one of my drinking rages…"Henrypootle:"I'm alive but literally broken. Managed to trip over on the way home and broken my front tooth. It now has about 1/3 missing. It was a capped so not as bad as it sounds, but both front teeth hurt. Wife unimpressed. Good fun though.  Sunday morning found I had a message from Cunning. Can't make out what he was saying. Something about Lazybones."RustyJames:"I don't think the Gamesblog will be welcome back in that pub. The bar staff 'had a word' with me towards the end of the night..."TonyHayers:"I have weird flash-photo memories of being in Waterloo, somehow deciphering the train times and dumping myself in 1st class on the correct train. Woke up in Poole Train Station at 1.30am, and had to spend £20 cabbing back to Bmth."Crispycrumb:"Sheep is a gentle, mild-mannered chap, quite unlike he is on here. Lazybones was very wrong to start drinking rum at 3pm.  JimBob is like a more morose Charlie Brooker.  Craggy wasn't born, he was built. Out of shovels. Hewn from rock. He's like the north face of the Eiger.  Overall, a tremendous day out."LazyBones: "Great to meet you! I vaguely remember the hugging.  And ... biting?"As I was responsible for the original 'Monster Hunter Meat Up', I feel quite proud of myself – like I've created something beautiful and terrible all at the same time.Games-wise, there was, of course, lots of love for Uncharted 2. It looks like many bloggers got to playing this over the weekend and words like "stunning", "gorgeous", "tense", "satisfying" and "brilliant" were bandied around. And those were just by Chubster2010 (get a room).Seriously though, it seems the graphics, story, combat and set-pieces have been greatly improved, clearly earning the shining reviews it's been getting of late. An example of the love from SuperSmashIn: "If you don't have the game already, beg, steal, sell your gold to one of those shady TV ad companies. You have to get this if you have a PS3. No excuses. If MW2 reaches the levels of excitement this has given me, it'll be the best gaming quarter ever."The rest of the day was mostly wiled away by Lazybones trying to figure out what had happened to his coat on Saturday, why he started drinking rum at 3pm, why he fell through the bar at 4pm and why he was 'rough-housing' with TonyHayers "…who also said something so terrible to me".  Quite what that was, he never told…TuesdayThere were a few less sore heads on Tuesday, so we got round to more talk about games. Uncharted 2 was the flavour of the day, but a few people bought into Brutal Legend and blogger reviews were very positive.Talk moved onto cycling attire – some favouring the feel of skin-tight lycra (like Smellavision).  Real men (like myself and CraggyIsland) wear shorts of course – right the way through the winter.  Rrrrrr!BillyBrush stirred up some controversy by suggesting that the 360 version of Bayonetta looks better on the 360 than the PS3[Er? Should I have subbed that? Keef]. The game is as yet unfinished though, so the 'PS3 v 360' arguments that went on half the day were, for all intents and purposes, pointless.Dizzyisanegg got angry at 'lolers': "I dislike people on the internet using 'lol' while they're reviewing televisions. There's a time and a place for loling and it is not while reviewing electrical equipment (unless the manufacturers have added a new port they've named lol)."Other criticisms were for ROFL, ROFLcopter, OMG, WTF, IMO &amp; IMHO.  Bigworv said what we were all thinking: "Shotgun to the face is the only language these people understand. They don't deserve punishment, they deserve gunishment."After all that fun, somebody asked a proper adult question about whether it was right for the BNP to appear on Question Time.  I switched off after that.WednesdayWednesday started withmorechat about Uncharted 2 – online and single player experiences.  Note to self: trade in Batman for Uncharted 2 ASAP.  The rest of the morning was taken up with me moaning about the hassles of trying to sell and buy a house and notes of condolence and support from everyone. Thanks blogsters!Later, PhilosopherK1ng pointed out that the PSP Go had only sold 1,000 units in Australia. A bit of a strange idea in the first place – it had folks making comments such as these:CunningStunt:"Makes you wonder if Sony did any market research at all."Salubriousone:"Maybe it's some sort of reverse marketing ploy whereby PSP3000 sales increase because it seems such a bargain in comparison to the Go."RustyJames:"It is good having the option to download stuff, but I think most people at least want the option of UMDs. The PSP Go is worse than what already exists - who on earth would either consider upgrading to one if they already have a PSP?  They are just limiting their target market and making it ridiculously expensive to boot."Zelos:"Truly a bizarre decision from Sony. Their target market seems to be 'people with too much money who want an expensive hardcore portable gaming system who don't already own a PSP'. That must be about five people."There followed a somewhat politically (morally, ethically and probably grammatically) incorrect conversation about people you'd like to punch, with several votes for the 'Poo at Paul's' kid. You can't say that we don't discuss a diverse range of topics.We finished off with a discussion about what meats can be called 'ham'.  Points go to Decalcomania: "Your ham was originally the bit of your leg behind the knee. So any animal can have hams. Generally now it means the hind leg of a pig."Good times.ThursdayThursday's Chatterbox was only up for about half an hour before it became known as ImmigrationBlog. The arguments that ensued cannot be defined as 'Best of' anything, so they're not going in here. Besides, we'd all rather know about what meat, grammar or biscuit-related conversations went on.  Let's just say there were lots of exclamations of:This country…Johnpm28 tried keeping it games related with his impressions of PES. Lurker Atermis turned up and said his hellos. Uncle3en threw a bargain into the box – PES 2010 for £26.71 from Asda on Friday only.  No use to any of you now though. Blame Keef for not getting the 'Best of' up the very moment I email it to him.[It's a fair cop - Keef]Musicblog did its usual turn and eMTG suggested we all list albums we would listen to without skipping any tracks.  Since we're all partial to posting lists of things on the blog, we got stuck right in.  Here are a select few:PWEI - Dos Dedos Mis AmigosNotorious BIG - Ready to DiePearl Jam - TenJurassic 5 - Power In NumbersJay-Z - Reasonable DoubtThe Prodigy - Music for the Jilted GenerationGuns 'n Roses - Appetite for DestructionIt was a painful few hours and Bigworv summed it up: "Five pages of racialists and music lists. You people sicken me."  Thanks to eMTG for starting it all.  We're working on what your punishment (gunishment?) should be?FridayThe day kicked off with loads of discussion around Thursday night's edition of Question Time and Nick Griffin's performance on it. Opinion seemed split as to whether the BBC had let it become too one-sided. CraggyIsland noted that he personally had been the victim of a systematic genocide without noticing, and Alimantado found he had an ideologically disturbing crush on the Tory panelist.To fan the fires of controversy, Dizzyinsanegg then posted Peter Molyneux's list of the 5 most influential games:The RTS Dune 2: The game took players away from twitch play to a cerebral approach.Super Mario 64: The true precursor to the likes of GTAIV as it ushered in free roaming in an open environment.Tomb Raider: The game featured an iconic heroine instead of a muscle-bound man.Halo: The title brought FPS games to consoles.World of Warcraft: The use of "carrot dangling" to drive players to keep playing.Cue much discussion. CunningStunt wasn't happy with the inclusion of Tomb Raider: "Do you honestly think that having a female lead character is revolutionary? Tomb Raider wasn't even this first game with a woman. What about Metroid? Gauntlet?".BeardofBees, RobLindsay, and Riadsala offered alternatives ranging from Elite via Diablo to Populous.Also discussed at length were the annual Chatterbox awards, and specifically the date of the ceremony itself – for more info or to give your preference have a lookhere.Quote of the week"Rex, I think I'm developing a man crush on you."Bigworv feels the love for ImperfectRex.Other Quotes"When you find a shotgun that ricochets lightning bolts off the walls, a repeating pistol that makes every bullet split into four bullets and discharges a whole slip in two seconds, or a sniper rifle that sets people on fire, you don't really care."BeardofBees is enjoying Borderlands."I'm a big fan of playing the 'you look like you've had a hard day, let me run a bath for you' card. Once I hear the first splashes of bath water and the gentle tones of radio 4 its straight on with the box"Hounded has the secret to domestic bliss.GamesBorderlands, Singstar: Take That, Dead Space: Extraction, FIFA 2010, PES 2010, Operation Flashpoint II, Uncharted 2, Machinarum,Films &amp; TVUp, Masterchef, Generation Kill, Couples Retreat, The Hurt Locker, Dead Snow,BooksThe Dark Tower series, The Girl with the Dragon TattooWelcome to: Artermis,
Hackers have been running viruses hidden in adverts on the world's biggest gadget website, Gizmodo, which receives more than 3m visitors per day, the site's editor warned on Tuesday.Gizmodo says the "malware" was on its site "for a little while last week". Its announcement did not specify the nature of the problem, but some attacks are now able to infect some Windows machines simply when an advert is viewed. Others flash up warnings that encourage people to download and pay for programs that claim to protect them from fake viruses.Brian Lam, the editor of the site, said in anapology on the sitethat the hackers who planted the script "somehow fooled our ad sales team through an elaborate scam" but that "only a few people should have been affected". However, he added, "this isn't something we take lightly". He said that the problem would have been noticed sooner but was not, because the editorial team does not use Microsoft Windows.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for the security company Sophos, was critical of Gizmodo's attitude to its readers, because it did not initally specify the threat. "I'm rather disappointed that Gizmodo doesn't offer more information about the threat, or some links to anti-virus products that may help its readers check and clean-up their computers. Instead, they make a rather snotty remark about how they didn't notice the infection themselves as they are running Mac and Linux computers," hewrote on his blog.The problem of such "malvertising", as it had been dubbed, appears to be spreading. In September theNew York Times suffered a similar attackfrom hackers posing as ad buyers for the internet telephony company Vonage; hackers have even succeeded in placing malicious adverts through Google's DoubleClick service, which is then syndicated among a number of different sites. TheDaily Mail was also affectedin December 2008 by banner ads which would infect Windows machines with viruses from Russia.Malware and fake virus adverts – "scareware" – are hugely lucrative for the hackers who plant them. The security firm Symantec estimated earlier this month that more than 40 million people had fallen victim to "scareware" scams in the past 12 months: it identified more than 250 versions of the programs, and estimated that criminals can get more than £750,000 annually from them.One security startup company,Dasient, formed by former Google staffers, recently estimated that more than 600,000 websites have been hacked and are running malicious programs without their owners being aware of it – making them a potential risk to anyone who browses them.Google has set up a search engine atanti-malvertising.comspecifically to let companies check would-be advertisers against a register of potentially dangerous or untrusted clients.
Facebookis to give people the option to "memorialise" the profile pages of friends and relatives who have died.The site invited family members to report when one of its users had died, to enable it to remove sensitive information such as updates and contacts.It has received complaints from users who have received reminders about dead friends or relatives through its "suggestions" feature, which is intended to help users find other people they might know."We understand how difficult it can be for people to be reminded of those who are no longer with them, which is why it's important when someone passes away that their friends or family contact Facebook to request that a profile be memorialised," wroteMax Kelly, Facebook's head of security.The site will require proof of death, in the form of an obituary or newspaper cutting. Once the profile has been transformed into a tribute page, only confirmed friends will be able to find and see it. The site will also prevent anyone from logging into the page, but will let friends and family leave remembrance posts on the message wall.The idea for memorialising users profile pages came after Kelly's best friend, a fellow Facebook employee, died in a motorbike accident."As time passes, the sting of losing someone you care about also fades but it never goes away," Kelly wrote."I still visit my friend's memorialised profile to remember the good times we had and share them with our mutual friends."Separately, Facebook has again fallen victim to internet crime. The internet security firm Websense said thousands of malicious fake messages had been sent out, purporting to come from Facebook Support. The message invites users to download a new password, but carries a piece of software that could allow their machine to be invaded by hackers.
In part 2 of the BAFTA transcript, veteran developer Molyneux discusses why 2009 is the most exciting year for games ever and why Project Natal is a huge pointer to the future of gaming. Oh, and episodic gaming and in-game stores too...So those are some of the inspirations that have brought us at Lionhead to this point.  And this point is 2009 and I'm going to say to you 2009 in the computer games industry is the most exciting year ever.  We have got huge innovation around controllers which we are going to talk about and maybe look at a little bit later, we've got amazing innovation around digital downloading, how we deliver content to people and we've got amazing things happening in the online space.  Now any one of these would be a huge event in a year but we've got all three, at once, in 2009 and we are madly, insanely designing around those things and we need to innovate more than we have ever done before.  So let's look at the first one of those, let's look at controllers.Controllers started with this thing (NES controller), there it is, there's that puppy, many of us were hospitalised from sore thumbs and they weren't really ergonomically designed, they were designed to play one sort of game and one sort of game only and that's a game you move left, right and up and down.  That then hybrided really after a few hiccups from various British manufacturers, there were some very bizarre controllers in the time, but it moved to Nintendo's first effort to really deal with the huge problem which was 3D because really, these buttons were designed to navigate in 2D not in 3D.  So they gave us this nipple on the front and it's still a very strange design, I think that was designed like that for left and right handed people and so they gave us that nipple at the front to allow us, to give us some freedom and really, Super Mario that I spoke about earlier, you can see that without that nipple, Super Mario would probably not have been possible or at least far, far, far, worse. 7Then we moved to our friend the Play Station one controller, again they were focusing a little bit too much on the 2D imagery and it wasn't until the Play Station two came along and you had more of those lovely, which Microsoft did it as well, those lovely little thumb pads which gave you the real ease of movement.  But then something bad started to happen and you can probably see it from these pictures (Xbox controller) we've gone from two buttons to about seven buttons there to, well if you count the shoulder buttons, about eight buttons there to about eleven buttons there and then the latest version, beautifully ergonomically designed though it is, it has got more and more buttons.  We have started to put more and more of these buttons into these controllers and actually when we do that you know what we are doing?  We are alienating the very people that we want to bring in to computer games.I know and I could point in this room someone who is the perfect example of what we are talking about and it's my wife, she's down the front here and I have been making games and one of the things I would love to do is make a game that my wife plays, I would love to do it, but I have failed dismally, absolutely dismally and the reason for it is is that bloody thing there, that's the thing that stops me, it's not the fact that, you know I can create a game that you hug people and you can stroke people and you can be nice to people and you have a dog and all that stuff, I know that she would love that stuff.  But as soon as she picks up this controller the first thing she does is run her character up against a wall and then just stay there for about five minutes looking at me and saying "I just can't play these computer games."That's terrible.  That we in this industry have created a device where the people we want to come into this industry find it an enormous barrier.  So what's happened?Well what has happened, fortunately we have woken up and we've realised this now so we've got Nintendo with the Wii and the nunchuck controller and you can waggle it and shake it and so all sorts of things with it.  But Microsoft has come along with I believe and I'm not just saying this, a truly, truly huge step forward and it's that thing.  The principle and the concept is why do you need to hold anything in your hand?  You know you have your body, if your body could be the controller, if you could control your game with gestures, if a game could see you then surely that's the sort of barrier that we want to break down.  If you could just walk up to a game and be recognised, surely that's a barrier we want to break down and that's what this thing can do for us.  It can start to break down those barriers.Now how does it work?  Very simply and if I do go into too many details I will be breaking confidentiality, what it does is it can recognise your skeleton and I'm going to play a little video now, how many people have seen the natal E3 video clip?Okay so that's good, I was a bit frightened there it was going to be one person and it would be my Mum or my wife, that wouldn't be too good.  So let's just show you this clip and I want you to, for those people that have seen it before, I want you to when you look at it, start to think about what you would do with something like this.  Don't think about "Hey how would you do Halo or how would you do Gears of War or how would you do a role playing game."  This is the first time I've encountered controlling a game before, think how you would do it and then we will talk a bit afterwards so here we go.(Shows video)Okay, so that was just a short promo video but it really showed you some of the capabilities, one is skeletal tracking, it can see your skeleton, it can see when your arms move and your legs move and it can see that really quite precisely.The second is voice recognition, I think that's a huge thing, personally sticking something on my head and a microphone, that's not what I call comfortable play, I want to be sitting back on my couch and I want to be talking and conversing with the machine.  So this is a big, big deal.  And for me as a designer I have had to go right back to the drawing board.  I've had to think about completely different ways of doing things and I am going to give you a demo a little bit later on about one of those things but before we do that, move onto the demo section we are going to come back to this and the next thing I am going to talk about is that digital download side because I really want to bring these three things together to make my point.Things are changing in the computer games industry; they are changing in everything to do with entertainment, the way that entertainment is delivered to us as consumers.  The way we consume television now is very, very different. The way we consume films is very, very different, the way we consume music is very, very different.  Retail is an enormously important part of it, still incredibly important part of the gift market but you can see things are starting to happen in the computer games industry about digital, just like they have in the music, film and TV.Now what does this mean, where does this put us?  Well the first thing I want to talk about is this idea of what we call episodes and that is this principle, is that the idea of walking into a shop or having a game and playing 20 hours of entertainment and paying this lump of money for that 20 hours of entertainment kind of feels a little bit old school.If we were to break some of our experiences down into episodes and more importantly and more interestingly, if we make the first episode of what we are doing totally and completely free then two nice things happen.The first nice thing that happens is that me as a designer doesn't have to face the horror and hell of a marketing person coming up to me six weeks before the game comes out and saying "Um, could you just do a little demo of the game that you've done?" that is an utter nightmare because either one of two terrible things happen.  Either first you make a demo which is too long, too involving and too compelling, that you kill of 90% of your audience.  Or second you make a demo which is just right but then you give away so much of the game when the person buys the game they have to repeat play a lot of their experiences.If we break things up into episodes, allow people to download episode one completely free and then when they get to a chapter end we say to them very simply as this works in Fable at the moment, we say to them very simply "Okay, do you want to continue and buy the next episode for X or do you want to buy the whole thing?"Whilst they are in game, whilst they are playing the game, they press the button and they either continue playing or they say no.  That to me is a lot more exciting in a way of getting content than going down to a shop and buying the whole lot.  But it doesn't really stop there.The other thing I really want to talk about is something called an in game shop and this is something that we are putting into Fable 3.  The idea of in game shops are this, in the industry we have been doing this for years and years and years, we've been making the main game and then we as a team go on holiday for a little while, we take it easy, about a month later we say "Maybe we should do some downloadable content because people would like more."  We start the downloadable content, eight weeks later out comes, about three months after the main game is released out comes this downloadable content.  In Fable 2's case it was something called KnotHole Island.  By which time of course, all of our fans and people who enjoyed our world have all gone off and are playing God knows what else.  Then you have to use your marketing people to drag them back in.  Now that just seems wrong.If we had an in game shop which was linked to the internet where as you are playing the game you could walk into this in game shop and say "You know what, I'd like a better sword.  I'd like a better sword that was stronger and that you could kill more things with and I'm willing to pay £1 for it." Or "I'd like a ticket on the ferry to that Island which people have been talking about."  In other words delivering more and more content through this on game shop as people are playing the game.For me that is like when I used to play in the arcades, and I used to get to a point in an arcade game and then I would die and it was that horrible countdown time, 9, 8, 7, 6, that's exactly like that.  You would be searching your pocket, you didn't care about this was the last coin in your pocket, you weren't going to eat for another two days all you want to do is continue.  I loved that feeling as a consumer, that compulsion and I love the idea of choice so giving this in game shop, populating with lots of stuff, giving you the consumer the choice whether you have extra stuff, the free ticket on the ferry or the free sword, I think is a pretty big thing and it changes the relationship that we have in our industry with the people that play the game.The beauty about this in game shop is we can upload stuff on a daily basis.  If someone on the team at Fable says "Hey, why don't you do a rubber duck for your bath in Fable?" we could upload that, that's no problem.  So I think changing that relationship, that's another huge thing in our industry.The last thing that we will talk about and I am not going to dwell on it too long because we are slightly running out of time, no-one told me what time to finish by the way so, it's a very dangerous thing to let me talk forever.The last thing is online.  Now I could have chosen to show you a lot of stuff about online, there is a huge movement towards cooperative online and towards taking away to a combative online whether that be first person shooters to a more cooperative side and we at Lionhead  are really supporting that but it doesn't stop there.I want you to remind everybody in this room, probably everyone's heard of this title, I want to remind you all of Second Life.  How many people here have had a second Life at any time?  How many people found it very complicated to have a second life?  Did you like me, what I found when I went into second life and the first thing that happened, I pressed some key on the keyboard which made me completely naked and then had to go around for the first hour asking people "Excuse me have you seen my clothes?"I didn't make an awful lot of friends but the principle of second life, the idea of having a world which you could create things and you could share and you could be proud of what you'd done, that was a great principle and that's coming back.  There are an awful lot of games now that are really, really looking at the idea that you can create stuff and you can be proud of stuff and we can share that creation process.  So it's not only about drama and challenges, it's also about sharing and creating whether it be Little Big Planet or some games that are going to be coming out next year, there's a lot of talk about us creating stuff and what a wonderful thing this is that we as an industry are starting to think much, much more broad.Right the last thing I really want to talk about is how we are bringing all those things I've just mentioned together in one title that we are creating at Lionhead called Milo.CONCLUDES TOMORROW....
The latest update to the open-source Ubuntu operating system will be released ThursdayApple let Snow Leopard out of its cage earlier this autumn, and Canonical will release another beast this week: Karmic Koala, otherwise known as the open-source operating system Ubuntu 9.10. This comes on the heels of Microsoft's launch of Windows 7, a major update of Vista.There are hundreds of different versions or distributions of Linux, some pitched for general use and others for specific needs or tasks such as high security, older machines or multimedia. In thefive years since its launch, Ubuntu has risen to become one of the most popular.Linux is popular running servers or embedded systems, but it remains a minority sport as a desktop operating system. Desktop Linux use figures are difficult to pin down and highly contested. Some put the figures as low as 1% while Linux enthusiasts say that figure is closer to 12%. As Bruce Byfield wrote earlier this year when looking at the figures,choose your logic and choose your figure.Based on theDebian flavourof Linux, Ubuntu has focused on trying to bring Linux to the masses, promising "Linux for Human Beings". I'm going to put Windows 7 and Ubuntu 9.10 head-to-head in this review.Installation and upgradesI'm relatively agnostic when it comes to operating systems, although I know that Linux purists and Microsoft advocates will be looking for any hint of bias in this review. Every day I use Mac OS 10.4 and Windows XP via virtualisation on a MacBook and Ubuntu 8.10 on an Athlon XP 2400+ desktop. I also have been using Windows 7 on the MacBook via multi-boot setup using the very usefulrEFIt bootloader.I'm using the latest release candidate for Ubuntu 9.10, and I'm using the Windows 7 beta on the MacBook for comparison.For the purpose of this review, I did an in-place upgrade on a Dell Latitude Cpx with a 750Mhz Pentium III and a fresh install on the MacBook.Upgrading to a new version of Ubuntu is easy. Like Windows and Mac OS X, Ubuntu automatically keeps your operating system up to date. Windows will update Microsoft software and the operating system. However, Ubuntu will not only update itself but also update any software installed on your system.For the upgrade to 9.10, Ubuntu downloads the software to carry out the upgrade and steps you through the process. Even on this vintage hardware, it took about two hours, but on a faster machine, it would have taken far less. However, the time of the upgrade depends on the speed of your internet and the speed of your computer.If it's the first time that you've installed Ubuntu, you can download a CD image and burn your own installation CD. One of the reasons that I began using Ubuntu is that the CD allows you to run the operating system without installing it to your hard drive. It's a try-before-you-format-your-hard-drive option. There is a shortcut on the desktop to begin the installation process.The Wubi installer makes adding Ubuntu to a Windows system very easyI also installed Ubuntu 9.10 on the MacBook using ahelper application called Wubi, which makes installing Ubuntu alongside Windows a breeze. It asks how much of your hard drive you'd like to turn over to Ubuntu and asks you to set up an account for Ubuntu. Copying over the necessary files took less than 10 minutes. When I rebooted into Windows, I now had the option to boot into Windows 7 or Ubuntu. The first time I booted into Ubuntu, it finished up installing in about 5 minutes. While Ubuntu installs, you'll see useful information for those not familiar with the operating system and the open-source application included by default.I installed the Windows 7 beta on the Athlon desktop upgrading from Windows XP. Upgrading from Vista to Windows 7 is relatively straightforward, but the update from Windows XP is more complicated. Jack Schofield has already given afull review of Windows 7. Of course, the big challenge for Ubuntu or any other version of Linux is that hundreds of thousands of computers will ship with Windows 7 pre-installed. However, Ubuntu does come as an option on computers from major manufacturers such asDell, HP, Acer and Toshiba.The main benefits of Ubuntu 9.10, Karmic Koala, over its predecessor are:• Faster boot times, which Ubuntu has been working on in the last two releases.• If you have a computer with Intel integrated graphics, Ubuntu has a new driver to improve graphics processing and stability.• Ubuntu has added an excellent cloud storage service, Ubuntu One. More on that in a bit.• Ubuntu has revamped the way to add new applications with a new Software Centre.You can see all of theupdates and new features in Ubuntu's 9.10 Technical Overview.Verdict:Upgrading Windows Vista to Windows 7 was about as easy as upgrading Ubuntu from a previous version. Upgrading Windows XP to 7 was much more complicated. The Wubi installer is a study in simplicity. Ubuntu wins this one with more options and simplicity across all optionsSpeedIn terms of speed, Windows 7 is definitely lighter on hardware than Vista. It was quite usable on the Athlon desktop, especially after I shut off the Aero visual effects.This review isn't about speed tests but a feature comparison, and I'm not going to compare Ubuntu running on a nearly 10 year old laptop to Windows 7 running on a 2.0Ghz dual-core Core Duo MacBook or even an Athlon XP 2400 desktop.However, if you've got an older computer that is starting to feel sluggish but you either don't want to or can't afford to buy a new computer, give Ubuntu a go. You'll get an up-to-date operating system running quite smoothly on your out-of-date computer.Ubuntu also comes in several different versions. Ubuntu uses the Gnome desktop, which has a nice mix of style and speed.Xubuntuuses thelighter-weight XFCE desktopto get the most of older hardware.Verdict:Windows 7 is much better than its predecessor in terms of running well on older hardware. Ubuntu always has been strong on a wide range of hardware.Drivers and hardwareUbuntu has pros and cons when it comes to drivers. It is generally quite good at recognising a wide range of hardware. With Windows, I had to download a driver for my vintage 3Com WiFi PC Card, but with Ubuntu, it works out of the box. The support for the WiFi card even improved from Ubuntu 9.04 to Ubuntu 9.10.Ubuntu added extensions to take advantage of special keys for my laptop, and when I plugged in a spare Mac keyboard, it handled special Mac-centric keys too such as the CD eject button.Those are the pros, but there are cons. My home desktop uses an ATI Radeon 9600XT video card. ATI's proprietary video driver is excellent for Linux, but they moved my not terribly old card to legacy support so I have to rely on the open-source driver, which doesn't deliver the same performance. I'm not going to upgrade Ubuntu on my home desktop until I get a newer video card. This isn't Ubuntu's fault, but it is a source of irritation.If Ubuntu doesn't automatically install a driver, it can be quite a bit of effort getting something to work, and not all hardware and peripherals will work with Linux. Sometimes to get hardware to work, you'll have to go to the command line, which is terrifying territory for most users. It's worth checking to see if Linux drivers exist for your printer and other key peripherals.The installation went pretty smoothly on the MacBook apart from the sound driver. Sounds plays from the speakers but not from headphones. UPDATE: As commenter Yelvington points out, the headphone issue isn't down to drivers but something even slightly more bedeviling. The headphone sound is muted by default after the installation, and I had to install the Gnome Alsa Mixer to unmute it.Windows has always had issues with drivers. I still am baffled why Windows forgets hardware that I have installed previously. Windows 7 doesn't seem to have completely solved these issues.The Windows and by extension Linux hardware eco-system has always been both a strength and a weakness. Thousands, if not millions, of vendors make hardware and peripherals for Intel-based computers that can run Windows or Linux. It is wonderful to have so much choice and competition. However, it does make handling drivers much more complicated than in the relatively limited Apple hardware world.Verdict:Both Microsoft and Ubuntu could improve on how they handle drivers.MultimediaWindows Media Centre is included on all but the entry level version of Windows 7, and it manages media well and is great software to watch TVLooking at the default applications that come with both Windows 7 and Karmic Koala, Ubuntu installs the Rhythmbox player for music and the Movie Player for video. Both are capable, and anyone familiar with Apple's iTunes will find the application easy to navigate.Due to licencing restrictions and Ubuntu's own philosophy, it does not ship with the ability to play commercial DVDs. It's relatively easy to add commercial DVD support by adding Ubuntu Restricted Extras in the Software Centre, which I'll get to in a minute.Most versions of Windows 7 come with Windows Media Player and Media Centre. The Media Centre is impressive and polished. It organises your pictures, video and music files, and it gives you the kind of 10-foot interface that works well from your couch in the lounge.If your computer supports it, Media Centre also has an excellent interface for watching television. The electronic programme guide is excellent and makes it easy to schedule recording of TV programmes.Verdict:Microsoft wins this one. Windows Media Centre ships with all but the most basic version of Windows 7, and it's a nice piece of software. I'm sure that Linux enthusiasts will be quick to point out the digital-rights management issues of Windows, but in terms of included software, Windows Media Centre beats the applications included with Ubuntu.Software and applicationsUbuntu has a new application to add software, the Software CentreIn terms of software, Ubuntu is like the iPhone. Almost anything you'd care to do, there's an app for that. However, you'll have to learn to translate from the applications that you're used to on the Mac or Windows. For people looking to make the switch to Linux,Osalt.com is a good directory of open-source alternativesto common commercial software.Ubuntu comes withOpenOfficeinstalled by default as its office productivity suite. The default installation has word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software, and a database application can be added. Ubuntu also hasGIMP photo editing softwareinstalled. GIMP is full featured, but the interface is confusing. Similar to Apple's included photo management software iPhoto, Ubuntu comes withF-Spot.Windows 7 users will need to buy Microsoft Office, or you can also download OpenOffice and GIMP. Windows users will be used to Outlook to handle their email. Ubuntu ships with Evolution, which handles email and also has calendaring software.Ubuntu 9.10 comes with Firefox 3.5 as standard, and it now ships with the Empathy multiple protocol instant messaging client. Empathy works with most instant messaging systems including AIM, Gtalk/Jabber, MSN and IRC, just to name a few.UPDATED: Windows 7 hasMSNWindows Live messenger and ships with Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8, which is a vast improvement over previous versions. As commenter Briantist and snipsnip point out, you'll have to download Windows Live messenger as part of the Windows Live apps.To install other applications, Ubuntu 9.10 changed the Add/Remove Software application with a refreshed tool called Ubuntu Software Centre. You can search the directory full of hundreds of applications.Other software sources can be added to install software such as Skype and Google. It's not an uncomplicated process,Windows 7 comes with a simple application to manage your photos and do basic editing, quite capable multimedia software and an internet browser. Everything else you'll have to pay for, although many of the open-source applications available on Linux are now also available for Windows.Verdict:Ubuntu wins this hands down with a huge range of free software packages ready to download.Ubuntu in the cloudUbuntu One cloud storage appears as a desktop folderThe last release of Ubuntu, 9.04 or Jaunty Jackalope, brought a lot of cloud-computing features to the open-source operating system. OpenNebula and Eucalyptus ave system administrators theflexibility to build private, public and even hybrid clouds. The additions allowed Ubuntu to easily take advantage of Amazon's EC2 cloud computing service. However, these additions were aimed at system administrators not consumers.Ubuntu 9.10 brings cloud storage to the masses with its Ubuntu One service. It's simple and well integrated. Whenever you save a file, you have the option to save it directly to Ubuntu One. Up to 2GB of storage is free, and you can pay for higher amounts of storage.You can also share files with other people, and your files are easily available on other computers, even ones not running Ubuntu. However, I had some issues accessing Ubuntu One on a MacBook with Safari. However, it worked well on the open-source browser Firefox. The service is in beta so I'd expect a few glitches.Apple has long had it's .Mac and MobileMe services. Microsoft doesn't have a similar service built into Windows.I stand corrected. Microsoft does have a cloud storage application, Live Mesh, which also boasts desktop sharingUPDATE: As commenter snipsnip reminds me, Microsoft does have a remote storage and remote desktop service in beta calledLive MeshandSkyDrive, which offers 25GB of storage for free. It's not yet integrated into the operating system in the way that Ubuntu One is, but Microsoft is under scrutiny about what it integrates into the OS because of its market dominance. It is cross-platform to a point. Like Ubuntu One, you can access it via a browser. However, some of its functionality relies on Microsoft's Silverlight.Verdict:Ubuntu wins this as well.Microsoft doesn't really have an answer for this feature, yet. UPDATE: Microsoft does have an answer in Live Mesh and SkyDrive. Live Mesh isn't quite yet as well integrated as Ubuntu One is immediately from startup.Ease of useThis is a subjective decision. I've spent the last two years using Ubuntu, and I find it relatively easy. However, just like anyone moving to a new operating system, there is a learning curve, and Linux advocates often gloss over this. Ubuntu has made great strides in ease of use, but average users will still struggle with it at times.Adding new software sources so that you can easily install applications such as Skype or Google Earth will be beyond most average users. User interface design for Linux has made huge strides this decade, but it still lags behind software on Mac OS X and Windows 7.Windows 7 will be an adjustment for XP users. Vista users won't notice a change apart from a faster, smoother experience and less annoying pop-ups second-guessing your choices.Verdict:Windows still is easier to use than Linux for some key tasks. As I said, this is a subjective choice based on assumptions I'm making about average computer users. I don't find Ubuntu difficult to use, but I have invested quite a bit of time learning how to use it over the last two years. Most users just want things to work. Ubuntu is making a lot of progress, but Microsoft has stepped up its game as well.Final VerdictWindows 7 is a worthy successor to Windows XP. Vista had well known flaws, which meant that itnever replaced XP for most users. For those with a lot of investment in Windows software, there probably will be no reason to look elsewhere. Windows 7 is a worthwhile upgrade. Most people use Windows not because they really think about operating systems but because the software they use runs on Windows.For those not that tied into the Windows world, Ubuntu is worth a look for people looking for an alternative. My final take away from using Mac OS X, Windows 7 and Ubuntu 9.10 is that consumers have never had more choices for capable, powerful and easy to use operating systems. Linux users will be quick to point out that Ubuntu is only one Linux distribution.I had tried Linux frequently as soon as I got broadband almost 10 years ago, but I always gave up after a few days until Ubuntu. It's a relatively easy to use, modern operating system that will only cost you the time to download it.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Veteran games developerPeter Molyneuxrecently delivered a lecture at BAFTA. Here is part one of the transcript where he talks about titles that changed the gaming world...So what we are going to talk about today, I thought when I had this opportunity for this lecture came up, I thought what shall I talk about?  I could do my traditional, and I'm quite famous for doing this, blatant talk which is a demo about the game that is about to be released talk, or I could do a talk which inspires people and I really have chosen to take the latter format, and that is the inspiration.What I want you to take away from this talk is that we are in a very, very crucial point in our industry and I really want to drive something home that everyone should leave this room hopefully thinking that there is a really bright future ahead.So let's move on with the talk.  As the kind introduction said my name is Peter Molyneux, I am now a Creative Director, it's fantastic.  I'm not quite sure what it is but I am a Creative Director, I used to be a Programmer, I used to be a Designer as well and over the years I've done as the introduction so kindly said, I've done quite a few games.  This is my first game (shows image ofPopulous) I want you to have a look at that, that's 320 by 200 pixels, the little men on there, the faces of the little men were made up out of four by four pixels and me in the press at that time was saying "Look at the emotion in that face, look at those little eyes wink, look at the curiosity of the people, they have real free will."  I had this dream even back then.  That went onto a game like Powermonger which I am going to be very honest today in today's lecture and say "I am actually a pretty poor programmer, well a very poor programmer and a pretty poor designer."With Populous, a lot of Populous was designed round my incompetence's of a programmer.  For example, if anyone remembers the game, does anyone remember Populous here?  Quite a few of you, you know the raising and lowering of land?  Do you know that wasn't a game design idea I had, that was actually because I couldn't work out how to do something called wall hugging.  Wall hugging is when little people go up against a wall and supposed to navigate left and right, I couldn't do it, I wasn't a smart enough programmer so I though "Oh damn it, I will just get the player to do it."  Hence that whole genre was born.But you know, I think for me it was at that time, I remember thinking "Why are all the games the same?" and I want you to think about that line.I went on to doPowermonger, again this would have been a brilliant genius game if it hadn't been for one stupid decision I made and guess what that was?  Well you had these little armies and tell me if this reminds you of any genres that you've heard of before.  You had these little armies and these little armies you could take round and attack things, sounds a bit like an RTS doesn't it?  But my fatal flaw in design was that the way you issued orders to those armies was sending a pigeon out to them.  Now obviously the immediacy of RTS's was broken very slightly by the very fact that this pigeon had to flap its way across the landscape.  So it just goes to show you how atrocious it is.We at Bullfrog then did games like Syndicate, one of the first games I am proud to say with mini guns in there and the sheer delight that people had of mowing down innocent people within a city, that's not been often replicated.  I don't think we'd get away with that in today's politically correct world.We then went and did Magic Carpet, another great example of real incompetence actually because here we had a fantastic, amazing 3D engine, all we had to do is set it inside a corridor and give you a gun and allow you to shoot things and it would have been massively successful but instead we put you on a magic carpet and allowed you to fly around the landscape, so it shows you even when you are trying to innovate you make huge mistakes.The one game I really want to talk a little bit about isTheme Park.  Theme Park was one of those games which when you are making it, a lot of people look at you as if you are completely insane.  The idea that we had at Bullfrog is "Theme Parks are fun, we like going to theme parks, wouldn't it be cool to be able to design your own theme park however crazy and wacky?" and that was the core of what the game was.  But because we had done shooting things with a magic carpet and mini gunning innocent civilians in Syndicate the world didn't really expect that from us, they didn't expect something so cute so we had a huge number of problems because we were actually challenging one of the foundation stones that everyone believed us that we did.  What we were saying was "Hey we can make games that look cute and we can make it for a broader audience. "  Okay there is no mini guns in it, and that was a very interesting moment.  It was a real fight to get that through and to get the publishers to really, really believe in it but in the end guess what?  The funny thing was, if you add up, even though it says four million there, if you add up all the sales of Theme Park and all the iterations and all the different formats, it actually went on to sell almost  15 million copies and that, even though it was very unpopular to do that is a real inspiration point.Then we went on to do High Octane, won't talk much about that because it didn't sell a lot.  My last game with Bullfrog was Dungeon Keeper and that was the first time that I really thought and that we as a team really thought "Hey, bad guys are good as well" the idea that you could play, you didn't have to play an archetypal good guy, was really key to thinking about that and almost immaterial what the game actually was.The Lionhead started, we started with a game called Black and White, the ambition for Black and White was an iconless game, the ambition was to have, to control the game with a mouse, that was our first inkling of thinking how clunky keyboards were as a game mechanic and how many icons there were onscreen so we were playing a lot with that and then latterly we've done Fable, a role playing game, again trying to make a role playing game not just for the core role playing game audience but trying to make it a little bit broader.  I know this is strange but probably it was one of the first games where farting was allowed and under your player's control, it probably sold about 100,000 units more just because of that one feature in the UK.  In America of course they just think it's very embarrassing and they never do it, but there you go.Finally onto the latest release is Fable 2. Now here is the interesting thing, let's just take two of these games, the very first game I did and the very last game I did, and although I say I, I always mean we by the way.  Populous in 1989 sold four million, it was crazy that it sold that much, it created a new genre, the press actually created the genre in my opinion but it created this new genre, it was a huge success.  Fable 2 the most successful role playing game on the 360, but they both sold the same.What's happened to Clive Sinclair's dream?  That dream that he had that I believe when I watched him jumping over his Sinclair QL and driving round in his weird bicycle thing, was that the main form of entertainment that people would have would come from computer entertainment.  That was his dream.  And that's when we as a nation all got behind home computers and there was in the playground, everyone was talking about Sinclair Spectrums versus Acorn Atoms and BBC Micros and we really thought this industry really seriously thought, just like a brattish kid coming out of school seriously think they are going to rule the world one day that we would rule entertainment.  But look at this number.  What's happened?  What's gone wrong with that dream over 20 years?  If we are making games, some hugely successful games that just appeal for four million, that's really one that I want to talk about now.Is there some way that we can innovate and we can create entertainment that breaks this cycle and starts appealing to a much broader audience?So in doing that and I really want to share with you some of the things that have really inspired us at Lionhead and there is probably 100 things that you are inspired by, there could be movies, they could be TV shows, they could be music , they could be computer games, but I have just picked five.  Five events in computer entertainment which maybe no-one else in this room would pick.So let's take the very first example and the very first example I want to really talk about is Dune 2.  I think this was the first true mass market RTS game and the idea was and this was a real moment for me in computer entertainment, the first thing was that a lot of computer games before that, especially very successful computer games were all about the immediacy, the twitching of the buttons and the mouse and along came Dune and we allowed you to be a little bit more cerebral, you felt a bit smarter after you played Dune. It created this whole genre of game called RTS but it also did something else which was fascinating, it allowed people to play together again in a very different way.  It really for me started a lot of what in today's world we call multi player games.  And it created all these terms called turtling.  Of the RTS players, how many people here are turtles, yes, you see, I'm a turtle, I like building up my army and just smashing everyone and that game play style was there and I think those people really started questioning some of the fundamental foundation stones which were computer games need to be twitchy, they need to be fast and they need to just be for this core audience.  Remember the world thought that computer games were just for teenagers.  So that's the first example.The next example I want to show you is this one, you must know this everybody.  Yes, Super Mario.  That was a very kind introduction but Miyomato in my opinion is the true genius of our industry.  What he did with Super Mario was an enormous event for the whole of computer gaming because what it enabled us to do is to think about 3D in a very real sense because he took his 2D platform game and he turned it into 3D.  He didn't only do that he invented something called free roaming.  For me before that there wasn't such a thing as free roaming and then suddenly Meomoto came along and created a title which even in today's terms is unbelievably playable and you look at that and you realise the simplicity of what he did, concentrating on the controls, throwing away that foundation stone, that platform games must be 2D that's what he did.  Again he threw away that foundation stone.Let's move to the next example which is Tomb Raider. Now you may think I would choose to pick on the important event here as being the jumping and puzzle games but no, I'm going to pick on two things actually and they are the main character's breasts.  I think the genius of what those guys did and it was true genius, is they realised that the main character you play didn't need to be a man with big muscles, because just about everything up to that point were big hero types modelled usually off Arnold Scharzenegger.  By providing Lara what they did is addressed two of the main hobbies that teenagers have, the second hobby that teenagers have is computer games, if you combine it with the first hobby which we will not go into in great detail for obvious reasons, then you've got a sure hit.  That simple decision again, someone challenging that foundation stone, that heroes must have big muscles, they must be all about boys, you could have a boy playing a girl character and that would be absolutely fine, became hugely iconic and she still remains probably one of the enduring symbols of our industry.  If you think that something is a foundation stone that is the time that you should question it because a foundation stone becomes a mill stone around your neck if you are just doing something for the sake of doing it.Let's move to the next example.  Now you may think I'm going to say in World of Warcraft it was the genius of Blizzard and in fact they are geniuses, but for me the most brilliant thing about World of Warcraft were the steeds.  You know the incredibly clever thing that they did, the foundation stone that they really challenged for me as a designer, before I played World of Warcraft I designed games by giving as much stuff to the player as early as possible.  I could remember sitting in design rooms and saying "Oh my god the players been playing for 20 minutes and they haven't got the Sword of Dobber yet, you've got to find a way of getting it to them." And the brilliant thing that they did with World of Warcraft is they made these steeds and you couldn't get a steed until you became level 40.  That anticipation, the idea of thinking "Oh my God, it's going to take me 20 minutes to walk across the Barrens for the fifteenth time, I can't bear it, I've got to get that steed, I've got to get it."  That anticipation drove me on as a player of World of Warcraft into the early hours of the morning, just that one single feature and the lesson here for me is, again if you challenge a foundation stone, the foundation stone there that was challenged for me was the idea that you have to give everything to the player on day one or in the first few minutes.  Ever since I've played World of Warcraft I realised that if you can get players to anticipate something it's actually far more powerful than delivering something to them.Let's pick out last example and this is Halo from Microsoft. But what is it about Halo that is so brilliant?  Up to the Halo everybody thought that first person shooters on the console would be rubbish.  I can remember sitting in pubs with people and saying, "I'm never going to play a first person shooter on a console because it's all about the weapons it's file switching and the keyboard and moving and looking at the same time."  What Bungee did so brilliantly is they saw the hub of the problem as being this weapon switching and instead what they did is say "you can only carry two weapons."  They threw away that foundation stone which was you have to have a lot of weapons and replaced it with you can only carry two weapons, you are limited on this, you will regenerate your health rather than completely die if you hide behind things and putting all those things together is another way that they completely challenged and rewrote the rulebook.CONTINUES TOMORROW...
Geocities is dead. Gone. Kaput. It's joined the choir invisible and...Anyway. Geocities, founded in 1994, was one of the first build-your-own website schemes, one which created a zillion grim-looking white-text-on-black-backgrounds-with-stars efforts, and two zillion "under construction" signs. Yahoo bought it in 1999 for $3.6bn in stock. Joining was free, and you could get a princely 15MB of web space; it's claimed that it was, at one stage, the third most-browsed site on the web. Even this March it still recorded 11.5m unique users - though that had been falling fast, down from 18.9m in October 2008.If you're feeling nostalgic for the Under Construction signs, by the way, there's a few hundred truckloads to be had at the "Please be patient" website.And then there's the real effort, by the Archive Team, who have been trying toarchive as many Geocities pages and sites as they could. It's not clear how many they've gathered unto themselves, but it's probably the web's best collection of animated GIFs, white-on-black text and twinkly star backgrounds still in existence.The web comic XKCD commemorates the closing of Geocities with a makeover Photograph: Public DomainTo add to the sighs of relief from a million web designers who never found a single Geocities page they didn't hate (after all, why not replace those blink marquees with a little Flash?), the web comicxkcdhas for today - we hope it's only today - gone to a Geocities-themed layout.Part of the widespread culling going on at Yahoo under the new leadership of Carol Bartz, the demise of Geocities was greeted with a sort of yowling noise when its imminent execution was announced. The attitude wasperfectly summed upby the academic Tom Harris, who at Yahoo's UK Hack Day in May said: "They are destroying the cave paintings of the web." Or as our own Jemima Kisssaid at the time the killing was announced, "Closing Geocities feels a bit like your Mum making you throw out a manky old toy you never play with any more. As soon as there's the threat of it going, it's suddenly your favourite thing."Today, Geocities. But what will it be tomorrow? Will we need to launch a lifeboat for Friends Reunited - or for MySpace? And what were your favourite Geocities memories? We'd love to know.
Gym bunnies may have scoffed and couch potatoes carried on scoffing, but in sales terms at least Wii Fit has been a huge success. The fitness game and balance board have been integral to Nintendo's strategy to widen the gaming market and narrow our waists. That doesn't mean it didn't end in a dusty cupboard though. Like all fitness products long-term usage is an issue and Wii Fit was no different. So the release of Wii Fit Plus is good news for those owners who have long since given up tree poses and push-ups.Plus includes everything in the original Wii Fit but adds some handy new features. The calorie counter is the most obvious. After every event you get to see how many – or how few – calories you have burned off. Because the counter takes your weight into account it feels like a fairly accurate representation of how strenuous your exercise was and may make you think twice about that next choccy bar.The other key addition is the ability to create your own routines.Again, like the calorie counter you wonder why this wasn't in the original game, but now you can focus on aerobics or toning or whatever.Plus carries over all your workout info from the original game so there is no need to start from scratch. Another nice touch is that all exercises are now open from the start. The "unlocking" principle is fine for videogaming but never felt right for Wii Fit and its casual audience.Wii Fit worked best when it came to balancing and yoga moves. The instructions were encouraging and accurate enough to at least give you a sense of what was needed. Feedback wasn't always clear enough but for most of the balance events you actually felt like you were getting somewhere. The more active events were less successful though. Running, in particular, was horribly ineffective and likely to encourage you to go for a jog outside (maybe that was the point?). This trend continues in Plus, with the strength and yoga exercise still more rewarding than the more active ones.There is now stronger emphasis on "games". Skateboarding and golf are fun. The latter – lean left or right and straighten knees – offers a good break from the yoga. An obstacle course event is amusing in short doses too. But if you want to shift some weight or tone up then the exercises are the only way. Fitter, and more flexible, users will get more of a challenge from some of the new challenges – yoga fans in particular will enjoy them.Newcomers will have to splash out for the balance board as well and cost does then become an issue. But if you already own Wii Fit and actually use it more than once a month then Plus is a must buy. The additions are worth the relatively cheap price of the disc.
The inventor of the web, Tim Berners-Lee, has finally set foot on Twitter - and having started at around 8am on Friday with afirst tweet complaining about a "confusing user interface"(yet posting from Tweetie, a popular Twitter app for the iPhone - that's quite a leap from how most people start, on the standard web interface), he's already gained more than 10,000 followers.Of course the question "Is it really him?" is bound to arise - but in the absence of a verified account badge (which must already be overdue), one can judge whether it's him by theaccounts he is following- which are small but already heavy with World Wide Web Consortium accounts (3 of the 20).It's not the fastest rise to 10,000 ever - but it's indicative of the democratisation of the web, and of the online society generally, that you can now direct your thoughts at someone whose work on a little computer in Cern nearly 20 years ago has revolutionised the world.There's an interesting report by CNeton what he told the Web 2.0 summit, which includes the comments that you "shouldn't build [local] laws into the web"; that "fault-tolerance is vital"; that "if you want it everywhere, give it away"; and plenty more.What with that rousing speech, andhis work for the UK governmenton trying to make more of its data available, Berners-Lee has become someone to watch much more closely than a few years ago.
Possibly you don't often think much about which file system your computer is using. It's the sort of technical detail that doesn't make much difference to anything - until something gets corrupted on the hard drive (a bit flips as a cosmic ray comes past, say, or the disc coating just goes bad). Then it matters.While Microsoft has been consistent in pushing from FAT (which can't handle more than 2GB) to NTFS (the snappily-named New Technology File System), Apple has moved from here to there. It began with its HFS file system, moved up to HFS+ with OS8, and more recently to "HFS+ Journaled", which uses a "journal" system to record whether changes have actually been written to the disc. If you lose power before the change is written, the journal notes that and will make the necessary adjustments on the next power-up.For years though people have been expecting that Apple would announce that it was going to use Sun's ZFS file system. ZFS is heavy-duty server stuff: it provides a snapshot of pretty much everything that's ever happened on the drive. Think of Time Machine, but applied all the time across everywhere. As you might expect, that's hefty on the disk space demands, which has led some (such as MacJournals) to dismiss the idea entirely. (The Macjournals case is persuasive. ZFS is great if you're running 500,000 rack-mounted servers; not so great if you've got one laptop with limited storage.)However others thought that ZFS support would be included in Mac OSX 10.5 ("Leopard") when it came out in 2007; or that it would be in the more recent 10.6 ("Snow Leopard"). But it didn't. Last week, aterse notice on the ZFS site at Mac OS Forgenoted that "the ZFS project [on Mac] has been discontinued. The mailing list and repository will also be removed shortly."Why? After all, ZFS is released under a Creative Commons-style licence that would allow Apple to use it withouth reference to Sun. But according to aposting in the ZFS-discuss list, Apple wanted more - specifically, a "private licence" and an indemnity against anongoing patent lawsuit involving NetApps and Sun's ZFS. Sun, in the midst of being taken over by Oracle, couldn't give it; Jeff Bonwick of Sun says in the message simply that "I cannot disclose details, but that is the essence of it."Yet Apple may be recruiting to try to build a new file system, judging by thejob adverts there. If you get the job, don't expect to be one amongst thousands of heads-down developers; expect instead to be one among millions who applied. Louis Gerbargrecalls the head of a university file system teamwho was discussing the file system project he was working on.He was pitching it to a group of Apple engineers. It was some interesting work, but there were some unsolved problems. When he was asked about them he commented that they didn't have enough people to deal with them, but he had some ideas and it shouldn't be an issue for a company with a real FS team. It turned out his research team had about the same number of people working on their FS as Apple had working on HFS, HFS+, UFS, NFS, WebDAV, FAT, and NTFS combined. I think people don't appreciate how productive Apple is on a per-engineer basis.From my own experience of the size of Apple's development teams, and other anecdotal evidence, I'd guess that for HFS, HFS+, UFS, NFS, WebDAV, FAT and NTFS.. although it must have been a while ago (HFS is ancient history now) there would probably have been, let's see, seven people. (Margin of error: 50% either way.)The big - the really big - question though is: what does Apple want a new filesystem to do? What is there that HFS+ Journaled [to use the American spelling] doesn't do that it needs a file system to do? I haven't seen any explanations of that which quite make sense yet. Given that you want a file system which will let you boot drives, it would almost look just as simple to go to Unix's UFS - except that can't handle resource forks like HFS and HFS+, and Apple still uses resource forks (sometimes).If you can figure out what a file system should do that HFS+ Journaled isn't doing - and which would also work on everything from a laptop to a server - do tell in the comments.
Last week, I mentioned theGameCityfestival among my top five must-see events for the rest of 2009. Since its inception four years ago, it's been the UK's most diverse and interesting videogame shindig, attracting amazing international names and offering a huge range of bizarre and fascinating sessions, talks, live music shows and world record attempts.It's all kicking off again this Thursday and to get a better idea of what's going on, I spoke to the festival's director, Iain Simons...So this year the event is called 'GameCity Squared/. Does this mean it's changed? If so, how?In short, lots. This year is all about accessibility and content We've been trying to remove as many barriers as possible. That means price, location - even down to getting deals with East Midlands Trains to help people get here. Of course, this doesn't mean that all the content is suitable for everybody, but we're much more relaxed about letting the audience self-select what it wants.The other big change has been to try and really ramp up the showmanship, the theatricality. We've always aspired with GameCity for it to feel like it's somewhere else when you're in it, and I hope this year we're going to start getting close to that. Trying to make more 'you-had-to-be-there' moments is a big aim. We're really aware of our independence within the games calendar now I think, and starting to understand how we can differentiate what we do better. That whole early strap-line in year one of 'we're trying to work out what a videogame festival could be' wasn't a joke, and I still wouldn't pretend we have the answer.Was there anything specific you felt didn't work last year?We put a lot of effort into teasing apart our two key audiences of folks who are already into this stuff - students wanting to get into the industry, gamers, fans... and the people who are just discovering it. Hence, we put the more specialist stuff inside a single venue and put a ticket price on it - and the softer things, like the zombie event, happening on the Market Square. The feedback that we got from the audience was, in broad terms - that they enjoyed it, but felt a little claustrophobic being in a dark nightclub all day[a majority of events took place in Nottingham's huge Gatecrasher club]- and a lot of the audience, particularly those with kids, didn't really want to go into a nightclub anyway. From the developers, the strong feedback we got was that the thing they really liked about the event previously, was how civic it was - that they'd be doing a talk, and there might actually be kids, families in the audience.So that was a mistake meddling with that openness, and that's what we're putting back in.Has the event changed in size and choice of venues as part of the evolution?It's grown a little since last year, but the main change really has been in the building central to it. We've always wanted a sense of moving in somewhere for the duration. So when you walk into the event, you're really in GameCity - and that's a different place to where you were outside. That's always been a problem with the venues we've been based in before - a cinemastillhas to show films every now and then, even if there is a videogame festival on.SO the only real solution for us to get that sense of location, with the amount of control over the environment that we needed, was to create our own venue. The location was kind of obvious - the Market Square is the centre of the city - and the kind of huge tent structure which covers it is going to provide some really unique opportunities for making new events. The aim was to get the interior of the tent to chance completely everyday - so you'd get a totally different GameCity depending on which day you come. We'vealmostmanaged that - and the event that runs for two days is so brilliant it really needs to do so.Who are some of your key industry guests this year and what will they be doing?There are some amazing people coming along this year, and they're doing a pretty wide variety of things. Of course Matsuura-San is the headliner - he's going to be doing a lot of things, some of which you've seen before, some of which you haven't. Having Robin fromThatGameCompanyalong is also brilliant - she's an amazing speaker.Will there be more in the way of industry workshops and practical sessions?Yes - developers will be around the whole event waiting to be interrogated by eager students.Bizarre Creationsare running their brilliant art clinics again for example - but we're also going to be delivering a lot more things for the public to make and do. TheElite Origamiis a big example of that - but alsoSpite Your Face productionsare going to be in town everyday running LEGO stop-motion film workshops. Basically - it's a lot more hands-on...There were some imaginative, large-scale public events last year - anything similar this time?Well... We're not attempting to get 3000 zombies to dance again, but I think people will find a lot of radically different events in the Square. We've tried to make it a very different place every day, so overnight a crew comes in and totally changes the space. GameCity on the square on Thursday / Friday will be totally unrecognisable from Weds or Saturday. We're trying hard to be a lot more playful with the spaces - trying to make the festival not just a collection of interesting things, but an actualplacein itself.How will you be integrating social networking services this year - if at all? And are here any other technical innovations to look out for?We've leaned heavily on twitter for announcements and community building this year, and will be using it a lot more during the show as an actual service rather than just a means to broadcast. The new site has a tonne of new functionality built into it which we're barely scratching the surface of this year. Once this year is out the way and we start to roll out the 2010 activities, you'll be seeing a lot more open up in the site.We're also going to be playing around a lot more with public presentation this year, particularly in running some experiments in just what kind of content does work on a 14ft outdoor concert screen... The 15 Pixel series of viral videos we commissioned from theAlaskan Military Schoolhave also been hugely successful. So far, we've only released three - but you'll be seeing a lot more of those at the show...What are the five elements Gamesblog readers simply cannot miss?Hmmm... well.. For me...My Life with Elite (Weds 3pm)Is going to be pretty special. David Braben, Ian Bell, Robert Holdstock - I'm really interested to see how this is going to work out. A lot of the folks at this event haven't seen each other for years - it really is a 'this is your life' of the game.Crysis : Live (all day Thurs-Fri)is going to be brilliant. Crytek and Rob have paid a lot of attention not just to have exciting it is to play, but how exciting it is to spectate. We've not tried anything like it before and I'm nervously excited.Something Splendid (Weds 10.30)This honestly is the thing I've spent the most time working on and pretty much sums up everything we're trying to do with the festval. We were discussing last night wether or not to announce what it is, but I think we're resolving to keeping it a surprise. I promise you, you will not be disappointed.Masaya Matsuura (Fri 4pm / Sat 12pm)What can I say? He's an awesome headliner and he's going to be doing some awesome things. This will be loud.One more thing?... I think it'd probably bethe OneLifeLeft Club nighton Friday. It's going to be, I believe, 'large'.
Monday's PES free (?) version of Chatterbox
Orange will start selling the iPhone to British customers in just over two weeks, triggering a two-horse race for customers in the run-up to Christmas.The mobile phone company announced last month that it had become the first UK network to prise open O2's exclusive grasp on the device, which has helped the company maintain its place as the UK's largest operator.Orange is understood to be planning to launch the iPhone on 10 November, the day after O2's two-year exclusive contract with Apple comes to an end. It will be sold through the company's own shops and Phones4U .Carphone Warehouse, which was the only independent retailer able to stock the iPhone when O2 had it to itself, is also expected to sell the phone on behalf of Orange. Orange refused to comment.The date that Orange has picked to start selling the phone is the same day that Vodafone will announce its half year results. Management at the company has made no secret over the past few months that it wanted to get its hands on the iPhone. Although it has spawned a host of copycat devices, it is still seen as the best touchscreen phone in the market, winning a clutch of industry awards.When Orange announced it had managed to sign a deal with Apple, Vodafone moved quickly to sign its own deal with the Californian company but will not get its hands on launch its the iPhone handset until the start of the new year. Instead it will rely on the new Blackberry Storm 2, But the merger timetable has been threatened by the government's recent decision to ask the competition authorities to look at the impact of the deal on the UK's airwaves. As a result, T-Mobile may have to go it alone with the iPhone for most of next year.Kevin Russell, chief executive of the UK's smallest network, 3, said last week he expects to be stocking the device sometime next year."I would expect the iPhone to be on the 3 network sometime during 2010," he told a Westminster eForum event in London. "At the moment, we don't have the iPhone. We don't really have any smartphones but if we improve our range of smartphones and introduce the iPhone then our data traffic will grow massively."Certainly interest in the iPhone among UK consumers shows no signs of abating. Already Orange has had over 200,000 customers register their interest in getting the device, before the company has even said what it will charge for it.There is hope that having more than one network offer the device will lead to a Christmas price war. But Orange UK boss Tom Alexander told the Guardian after signing the deal that the company is more likely to look at other ways of increasing "value", such as including accessories and even pre-loading certain applications.
The recession-busting technology companies Apple and Amazon have room to continue expanding during the downturn, according to analysts.While most businesses are still struggling to cope with the effects of recession,  the two American corporations saw their stock prices hit all-time highs last week after reporting rising profits. Apple's continued success pushed its shares to a historic high of $208, while Amazon – boosted by a huge jump in profits – returned to levels above $115, last seen during the height of the dotcom boom.Industry observers say that their success is not merely a temporary blip. Brian Marshall, a senior analyst with Broadpoint AmTech, believes that the Apple boss Steve Jobs has masterminded a recipe for success with the company's range of expensive products."A year ago there was concern," he said. "The fact that consumers were dying on the vine and the high-end products looked like a combination for disaster – and then there was the [poor] health of Steve Jobs, which took the stock under $80. But sales didn't decline, they actually grew."Marshall is predicting that revenues will surpass $50bn soon and continue to rise as Apple's market share increases, especially in countries such as China, where it is preparing to launch the iPhone."Despite massive success they still have less than 5% of the handset market and less than 5% of the PC market," he said. "I think without question they can easily double their share."Amazon, meanwhile, continues to excite investors, many of whom hope that the success of its Kindle e-book reader, as well as the recent deal to buy the American online retailer Zappos.com, will help further increase its influence.The Morgan Stanley analyst Mary Meeker cited the company's ability to combine low prices with a broad offering."Continued success in adding new customers indicates that Amazon.com's value proposition is succeeding in attracting consumers as they transition from offline to online," she said.Part of Apple's appeal to long-term investors is that it has grown consistently from a low base, seemingly immune to the wider fluctuations in the notoriously fickle computer business.With hits such as the iPod, iPhone and MacBook laptop, a 10-year investment in Apple would have provided returns of 1,000%. Shares in rivals have fallen significantly over the same period: Hewlett-Packard has dropped by 36% and Microsoft by 52%, while Dell's shares have lost almost three-quarters of their value from the height of the 2000 boom.Conversely, Amazon was one of the greatest beneficiaries of rocketing internet stock prices in the 1990s. Like most other dotcoms, it suffered a huge correction as the crash took hold, but after a period in the wilderness, it is bouncing to historic highs as shoppers who are avoiding the high street hunt bargains online.Notorious The former internet analyst Henry Blodget, who shot to fame during the dotcom boom for his prediction of Amazon's rising share price, said that the return to historic highs took longer than he expected – but that it was positive news nonetheless."I'm happy Amazon didn't end up roadkill," he wrote on his blog over the weekend. "I'm quietly raising a glass to the brilliant Jeff Bezos and co for building one of the most enduring franchises of the early internet years."
The Guardian has emailed "up to half a million" users of its UK-basedJobs websiteto tell them that some of their personal data may have been compromised by "a sophisticated and deliberate hack" on Friday night.A Guardian spokesperson said the site has about 10 million unique users per year, and that "the hack was stopped before it was completed"."As soon as we were alerted to the fact that there was a problem, we dealt with it, in line with the information commissioner's guidance on data protection," said the spokesperson. "We felt it was important to be transparent and alert our users as soon as possible."Yesterday , the Guardian put asecurity noticeon its Jobs site, which said: "The supplier who runs the site has identified the manner in which it was hacked and taken steps to prevent a recurrence."User accounts were not hacked, so there is no need for site users to change their passwords. The compromised data could include the person's name, email address, covering letter and CV, but "we have no reason to believe that any financial or bank data was compromised," said the Guardian's email. Some of the data was up to two years old.The user data is not held on the web but stored on separate databases run for the Guardian by third parties. In the UK, it is reportedly run by Madgex.A Guardian technology director said: "We will have final numbers of real users and the type of data in the next few days, once we strip out duplicates, false emails and so on." He said he was unable to provide any technical details of the hack, as these were part of a police investigation by the central e-crime unit at Scotland Yard.Jobs site user Chris Gittner said that at first he thought the email was a hoax, and "all of this wasn't helped by finding out about it late on Saturday evening when there was no one official around to talk to."Kate Waugh, a user from Staffordshire, said: "I'm quite worried about the repercussions of my sensitive data falling into the wrong hands: I've had enough experience already of card fraudsters so I know how easily you can fall victim to these things."I'm going to take the steps recommended by the Guardian, but it's one more worry I could do without. I have to say the Guardian's reassurance that it won't happen again doesn't help."The Guardian's email passed on police recommendations for "precautionary measures" such as contacting a credit reference agency - Callcredit, Equifax or Experian — and usingCifas, the UK's fraud prevention service . Cifas also runs fraudjobsite.co.uk.Another user, Simon Anthony, said "we probably will" register with Cifas but "it costs £12 each person. Will the Guardian pay for this?" He said he objected to paying for security that he should not need.Job sites are regularly attacked by hackers and via email "phishing" attacks, as they provide a rich source of data for those interested in identity theft. Job seekers who simply circulate their CVs directly to potential employers, or post them on the web or on Facebook, are also increasing their level of risk. Job sites may still be the safer option.The Guardian's US-based Jobs site was not affected.
The Guardian has emailed some users of its UK-based Jobs site to tell them: "We learned yesterday evening that the Guardian Jobs website has been targeted by a sophisticated and deliberate hack, which has breached the security of the data on the site. You have used the site to make one or more job applications and we believe your personal data, relating to those applications, may have been accessed.The supplier who runs the site has identified the manner in which it was hacked and taken steps to prevent a recurrence.A Guardian technology director adds: "Not all users are affected by any means."There's asecurity update pagefor users of the Jobs site.The hack has been reported byThe Next Webblog, which saysThe Guardian have confirmed to TNW that the US site, guardianjobs.com, has not been affected and is independent of the UK operation.  The data is held on separate databases run by the third parties that operate the sites for the Guardian, Madgex and Indeed. In the UK, it's run by Madgex and according to the Guardian, steps have been put in place to make sure a recurrence doesn't happen.The Metropolitan Police are investigating.Charles Arthur adds:The hack is being described as "sophisticated and deliberate" to make the point that it is not something where, for example, a casual user could browse someone else's data through lax procedures on the site. It is the result of a much more detailed attack.The precise number of people affected should become clear in the next few days. A Guardian technology director said: "We will have final numbers of real users and the type of data in next few days once we strip out duplicates, auto &amp; false emails and so on. It's been reported that all user data has been compromised. which is simply not true."For many people the only data they would have had on the site would be a name, email address, covering letter and CV - though of course an inventive identity thief might be able to parlay at least some of those details into something that could cause damage.Those who might be affected (that is, those who have received emails from The Guardian on the topic) are thus being advised to contact creditors, credit rating agencies and CIFAS protective registration: "If you think you have been a victim of identity theft you should consider subscribing to CIFAS. This places a notice on your credit file indicating that your name and address may be used to perpetrate identity fraud."
BMW E30 325£800 AT TODAY'S PRICESMILES PER GALLON: 28SEATS: 5GOOD FOR: SLOW BURNSBAD FOR: QUICK RETURNSThe trip counter on this car stands at 41,187 miles. For a 20-year-old car that's peanuts, and probably explains why the bodywork and interior is in such good nick. The red leather seats look as if they've hardly ever been sat on. You'd guess that this little beemer has been doted on by one very,verycareful owner. But that's only half the story. It has only had one owner, but far from nurturing this car, they did everything they could to destroy it.That owner is the American oil company Mobil. In 1990 it bought this BMW 325i, with its state-of-the-art 2.5 litre in-line 6-cylinder engine, and decided to drive 1,000,000 miles in it. Actually, that's not entirely true. They didn't drive anywhere in it. They didn't even leave the garage. They stuck it on a rolling road – the vehicle equivalent of a hamster wheel – fitted it to a never-ending fuel tank, stuck the throttle at 85mph and kept it running, day and night, for four years. It's enough to turn your green heart black.Mobil didn't totally deprive the car of love. They followed all BMW's recommended service and oil-change schedules. After 1,000,000 miles on the treadmill, the car's power plant was taken apart by mechanics, who were astonished to discover that engine wear was negligible and still within factory specifications for a new car. BMW were understandably thrilled that their product was so durable. Mobil, too, were thrilled, as they saw it as proof-positive of the life-enhancing benefits of their synthetic oil products.To help raise awareness of the importance of checking your engine's oil levels, the million-mile motor has been unshackled from its rolling road and given its head on the open road. It's estimated that half of us never check the oil level of our car; in fact, most of us would probably be hard-pressed to even find the dipstick, yet this 60-second check could save you a fortune in repairs.Of course, the oil and BMW's genius explain why the engine is in such good fettle, but it's the fact that the car has barely seen the light of day that explains why the body and interior work is almost perfect. If it had endured two decades of street life there'd have been many more scars to boast about.The modern equivalent of this car would cost you up to £30,000, but in its day this 325i was the height of refinement. It has an onboard computer, airbags, cruise control and a decent stereo, but on a run up the M11 it all feels charmingly basic. There are buttons to press which do onlyonething! You want the radio on, you flick a switch and on it comes. It's a blissful return to those heady pre-tech days when digits were still fingers.The 325i's engine was throaty and rewarding. The drive was effortful. It felt like driving was a skill once again, something you could work on. The most surprising thing was the astonishing visibility. The windows were all enormous. Today's thickened pillars have come at a cost. On the M11, every extra mile felt like a bonus. After all the years whirring away in the dark, this hard-working pit pony was relishing a gallop in the fresh air.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
THE OLD SAYING that "if you're not thoroughly confused you don't fully understand the situation" applies with a vengeance to our new media ecosystem. Take the strange case of teenagers, whose brains are being scrambled and rewired by nature to make them fit for adult life. Until the 1960s, "teens" (as they are called in the US) barely existed as an interesting social category. Like sex in Philip Larkin's poem, Annus Mirabilis, one might say they were "invented in nineteen sixty-three/… Between the end of the 'Chatterley' ban/And the Beatles' first LP".Then they acquired spending power and became interesting to retailers and advertisers – and therefore to the mass media – to the point where our society is now obsessed with them. This obsession is particularly neurotic whenever cyberspace is mentioned, and leads adults to project on to the younger generation all kinds of fears and fantasies.Thus they are perceived as confident "digital natives" of cyberspace, whereas we are merely nervous "immigrants". They supposedly have a legendary facility with communications technology, and indeed may be evolving overdeveloped thumbs from incessant texting. They think that research involves typing queries into Google, never read newspapers, regard Wikipedia as more reliable than the Oracle of Delphi, have no concept of privacy, are accomplished multi-taskers and are the early adopters who drive every internet trend. Or, to sum up adult conventional wisdom in a single ugly phrase, teenagers are more "tech savvy" than we are and, as such, the best guide to our networked future.Hmm, I wonder. At the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco last week, an entire session paid homage to the myth of teenage omniscience. A troupe of Bay Area kids were invited on to the platform and interviewed respectfully by a former investment analyst. It was not illuminating. "It rambled and eventually degenerated to teenagers free associating on different companies ('Google?' 'Simple!')," wrote one observer, "but the most compelling part for me was seeing their visceral dislike of Twitter." They simply couldn't see the point of it. "If I were using Twitter, I would just say I'm sitting on a couch in front of a bunch of people," one said, adding that he couldn't see the point.At this point, your columnist sat up and blinked. Twitter, after all, is the cyber-sensation du jour. It's growing like crazy and is even impinging on the British legal system (as evidenced by its unravelling of the Trafigura super-injunction). Yet the kids who supposedly drive every internet phenomenon have little interest in it. The statistics support this: Twitter is a preoccupation of older generations; according to comScore, only 11% of its users are aged 17 or younger.Ah well, you say, at least teenagers are the motive force behind social networking, which many people see as the most important online development of the past five years. Here again, the statistics tell a different story. According to theNew York Times, for example, teenagers now account for only 14% of MySpace users and 9% of Facebook's. Yet it is Facebook that is growing like crazy: it now has over 300 million users (and is adding 600,000 new users a day at present). And most of them are oldies.A further intriguing twist was added to this story last week when the new chief executive of MySpace told theFinancial Timesthat the company was no longer interested in competing with Facebook, in effect conceding defeat in the race to become the largest online social network. He said his company instead aimed to become an online hub for music and entertainment. "Facebook is not our competition," he declared. "We're very focused on a different space."In truth, MySpace doesn't have much choice: it has to do something to arrest its decline. According to Hitwise, Facebook took more than 58% of US social network traffic last month, while MySpace's share fell to 30% (compared with 66% a year ago). Four years ago, Rupert Murdoch's purchase of MySpace for $580m was widely regarded by an awestruck media world as an inspired move. Now it's looking like an old man's punt on something he didn't really understand: teenage psychology.And the meaning of all this? Simple: when it comes to predicting the future of cyberspace, the only certainty is that no one knows anything, least of all teenagers. Now where's that walking stick..?
Do you remember your first time – the trepidation, the expectation, the rite of passage? Mine was in 1997 – "things can only get better" – opening up the heavy black Mac Powerbook I'd just unwrapped, going through the unintelligible process of account creation with a patient BT support desk, plugging in various fat cables and listening as the dial-up connection went through its slow motions: the little digital jingle of the phone number and then the long expectant screech and babble of static as your machine attempted to connect, an electric chatter in which I could imagine – that first time – I heard all the world's voices talking to one another, the ultimate party line. It was, I guess, the closest most of my generation came to tuning in and turning on. This was seven years before Facebook, eight before YouTube. Amazon was still a river in south America, Google was an unlikely algorithm in the minds of Sergey Brin and Larry Page, which they were then thinking of calling "BackRub".In the dozen years since – can that really be all it is? – it has become harder and harder to imagine the world without the internet. It fast became our marketplace and our playground, our library and our collective memory. Sitting here, in front of my screen, as usual, I find it genuinely difficult to imagine my own pre-1997, pre-keypad world. What on earth did I do with my time? Researching a story as a journalist routinely involved trekking up to the newspaper library in Colindale, an obscure corner of north London, and poring over microfiche of old newspapers; finding a job or a place to live or a holiday might have meant catching a bus and then schlepping along the high street and peering at pieces of cardboard in shop windows. Correspondence required addresses and yours faithfullys and a hunt for envelopes and second-class stamps. A foreign country.Most of the subsequent debate we have had about our online lives has asked whether we are too much in thrall to the great invention of our age, whether we are becoming extensions of our keyboards, bloggers not talkers, twitterers not thinkers. In all of this chatter, though, it is easy to forget one startling fact: there are, in 2009, 10 million people in the UK who have never gone online, who would not recognise a homepage or a bookmark, for whom http and www are still weird unknowns; they are, to use the inevitable coinages, the e-bandoned and e-solated, a predigital tribe.This one-in-six population might have avoided the addictions of browsing and the despond of "you have no new mail" but they are also increasingly excluded from the opportunities and conversations of the world. A quick Google search is enough to provide plenty of vital statistics to support this observation. There are, for a start, the balder economic figures: those who shop online and pay their bills through the internet, make "average savings of £560 a year"; the 1.6 million children in Britain who do not use the internet would increase their lifetime earnings by a collective £10.8bn were they to log on tomorrow; currently unemployed people who learn to find their way in the virtual world will on average increase their lifetime earnings by more than £12,000; if everyone was connected the Treasury would make overnight efficiencies of £1.77bn, and so on – the web never runs short of statistics.It is not just for these kinds of reasons, however, that some governments are suggesting that broadband connections must be a right and not a privilege (Finland, last week, was the first to make that commitment to its citizens). There are also more intangible benefits. Since its widespread adoption, the internet has often been charged with increasing alienation in society, making each of us self-absorbed in an abstracted world wide web which caters to our every whim. A good deal of recent research, however, suggests that the converse is true. Technology has the ability to create links that societies increasingly lack.Access to the internet, and the ability to navigate the web has, for example, been shown to produce a significant rise in social confidence among 60 per cent of those who had previously been excluded, while in recent studies of internet usage among individuals who considered themselves to be depressed, "feelings of loneliness" decreased in 80 per cent of cases once people got online, and depressive symptoms were "cured" in 20 per cent of cases. Virtual conversations and interactions are now widely argued to be just as important as "real world" encounters in making people feel attached to a community, or part of a network.Among the 10 million people in Britain who have never used the internet are about 4 million whom we think of as being excluded from society in other ways also: through poverty and an absence of support, or because of disability or old age. The government's "champion" of these people, at least in digital terms, is Martha Lane Fox, who did as much as anyone to popularise the first wave of dot.commery. Having spent several subsequent years, the first of them in hospitalised isolation, recovering from a near-fatal car accident, she also had some experience of what it feels like to be disconnected from the world. Her brief is to highlight the ways in which the internet can enhance lives and to try to provide a focus for the many schemes that attempt to bring the information superhighway to the people and places from which it seems most remote.Her job began, she suggests to me, with the vague notion that "you might begin to solve some aspects of the knottier social problems with a mobile phone application" and went on from there. It all comes down to educating the e-bandoned in the possibilities of a computer, and after that, the hope is that all sorts of other connections will start to form. (There is some research to suggest that these beneficial connections might be physical as well as ethereal: a report from the UCLA medical centre last week concluded that older adults who learn to use the internet to search for information experience a surge of activity in "key decision-making and reasoning centres of the brain, increasing cognitive processes and slowing the decline in brain function".)It is often fear, however, as much as absence of opportunity that holds people back. "It is," Lane Fox suggests, "so easy for most of us to sit here and take the functions of a computer for granted, but for many people they are still entirely alien." One of the most common reactions she sees among those who experience connectedness for the first time is a paralysing anxiety. It's always, "Why do you press the start button to turn it off?" or, "What on earth do 'alt' and 'ctrl' mean?" In the end it always takes some kind of personal connection to get people going, an insight into a hobby – a gardener's page, say – or the ability to find local history or family records.You have to make the encounter an emotional one, Lane Fox suggests, "whether it is looking at photographs of grandchildren on Flickr or realising that Tesco will deliver your groceries to your door". Anecdote is the best educator; peers are the best teachers. And, as we all know, after that first time, there is no looking back.• To find out more about the Race Online 2012, call 0800 771234 go toraceonline2012.orgFour refuseniks go online for the first time…The Builder: Russ Flaherty, 32, SheffieldBuilder Russ Flaherty with his new laptop, Sheffield. Photograph: Gary CaltonRuss Flaherty's girlfriend must be relieved that he's finally familiarised himself with the internet: up until now she has, as he puts it, "sorted it all out"."To be fair," he admits, "I'm a bit lazy really. But obviously it's got to the stage now where I need to do it myself." His work as a builder has meant he didn't have much cause to use the internet. But recently he started his own business and realised that it was impossible to get by without it. "Everything's online now, isn't it? Your bills, your account, your tax and everything. It's all geared up for it."The first thing he did online was look for a van: "You can compare prices so it saves time and everything's there for you to see so you don't have to mess about visiting garages." More recently, he's been designing flyers online for his business and looking up resorts in Bulgaria for a skiing holiday at Christmas. Now, he says, "whenever I need anything or want anything [the internet's] the first place I'll go."Does he wish he'd got online earlier? "Yeah because you feel like you're behind the times. It's like with Facebook, all my friends are on it and I used to think 'bloody hell, haven't you got anything better to do?' but it's an addiction isn't it, once you start it you're there." So has the internet changed his life? "It's helped," he laughs, "put it  that way!"The single dad: Pete Tayor, 48, full-time carer, BristolPete Taylor at home in Bristol. He was helped to get on to the internet by the South Bristol Digital Neighbourhoods Programme. Photograph: Stephen ShepherdJoining Facebook was a priority for single-parent Pete Taylor when he went online for the first time last week. As a full-time carer for his 27-year-old son Russell, who suffers with a rare terminal illness, adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD), he's found that his "social life has gone out of the window. But since I put myself on Facebook, people I haven't seen for over 20 years are now phoning me up, I've met new friends and can arrange dates. It sounds daft but [having the internet] gives you something to look forward to."He's a self-confessed technology-phobe but in less than a week has learnt how to post items online: "I don't mess about! I've already stuck pictures of a recent weekend at Butlins on Facebook."In addition to enjoying the "bit of escapism" which the social-networking aspects of the web offer, Pete has also been using it to help with his caring responsibilities and has joined online ALD support groups. "There's no cure for Russ's illness and it's really rare but now I can stay in touch with other people in the same boat, share advice," he explains. "Every day I keep thinking of things I can do online to make my life easier. If I get a letter from the hospital, for instance, I can just reply by email. I've even been shopping online. I need to buy a bed and was about to put my coat on and run around the shops when I thought 'Hang about, I've got a computer here.'"Pete had been considering getting the internet installed for a while but feared it would be complicated and expensive. So when a local initiative, the Knowle West Web Project funded by Bristol city council, offered him a free computer, wireless and training he was delighted. "It was a lucky day, to say the least. I'll be on the internet every day now. It's already a necessity."The grandmother: Caroline Williams, 79, retired, Guildford79 year old Caroline Williams at home in Guildford with her laptop. Photograph: Richard SakerJuggling fitness classes, choir practice, collecting grandchildren from school and visiting family across the UK, until last week Caroline Williams had the hectic lifestyle of a teenager, minus the internet habit. "I'd been resisting going online for years, I'm so busy and just thought, well I've done without it for 79 years!"But after some coaxing from her four internet-savvy children and grandchildren and a laptop donated by her daughter, she's now online and has completed two training sessions at her local Age Concern centre, which, together with Help the Aged, is running national online training programmes. She's found it a good learning environment for a nervous beginner: "The volunteers are all retired people who've learnt to use computers so they're very comforting and helpful. It's ridiculous I've put it off so long because it's really easy."Keen to facilitate her regular cross-country visits to family, Caroline has so far mastered buying cut-price train tickets online and finding maps, "My oldest granddaughter has just started at Royal Holloway college and I wanted to go and take her out for lunch. I was able to find a map of her local area online and which trains and buses went there." She's already planning her next steps: "An email account is the next job. I also listen a lot to Radio 4 and often miss bits of programmes so I want to learn to use 'listen again' online." Would she say that her family have successfully converted her to the internet then? "Oh yes, I can see it will be jolly useful. I hope I don't get addicted to it!"The young person: Anthony Fisher, 20, student, SunderlandAnthony Fisher, who has just started using the internet thanks to the Pennywell Youth Project, Sunderland. Photograph: Gary CaltonUp until last week Anthony hadn't sent an email, which, for a 20-year-old, certainly puts him in a minority among his peers. He explains that the internet has, "sort of gone over my head the past couple of years, probably just because of confidence". Now, though, staff at Pennywell Youth Project, where Anthony volunteers and is training to be a youth worker, have helped him set up an email account and get to grips with Google, YouTube and the rest."I thought it was about time I started learning," he admits. "It was holding me back quite a lot because as a youth worker you need to have IT skills so you can plan trips and do risk assessments and that sort of thing." And other than a "few glitches with the dongle" he says he's been "sort of 70% OK". Getting lost seems to account for the other 30%: "The internet's such a big place so if you type in the wrong thing you get on to a whole different site."Though it's already proved useful in terms of research for his NVQ in youth work, the possibilities for fun haven't eluded Anthony either: his best online find so far is an episode ofCSIon YouTube that hasn't aired yet here. "I'd definitely say I've been missing out," he says. "This has opened up a whole new world really." So will he be introducing any friends to YouTube and the rest? "Yeah, the two I've got left who aren't online!"Interviews by Hermione Hoby and Imogen Carter
The Worst Music Videos (In The World)theworstmusicvideos.comAlex Turner of Arctic Monkeys probably visited this website for some style tips, judging by the video for new single, Cornerstone, in which he sports a classic 70s jumper and clunky tape machine combo. Nothing, though, can match the majesty of Russian boyband Steklovata, whose no-budget promo features alarming knitwear, thigh-slapping, Gazza hair circa 1996 and multicoloured snowflakes. Or the operatic meltdown of a man who calls himself Dancing Butterflies singing a preposterous ode to mother nature. Familiar musical criminals include David Hasselhoff and vertically-challenged actor Joe Pesci, who adds "not a rapper" to a list that also includes "not a funny guy".Letters Of Notelettersofnote.comIn our era of tweets, status updates and txt msgs, the humble letter is in danger of becoming extinct. Here, this endangered form of written communication is preserved and celebrated with the reproduction of hundreds of important (and not so important) letters. Among the highlights is a fantastically laidback note from Mick Jagger to Andy Warhol concerning some album artwork which includes the line "please write back saying how much money you would like". There is also is an incredible letter to the FBI expressing dismay at Elvis Presley's on stage self-gratification, an expletive-riddled fax from Hunter S Thompson, the unlikely pen-pal correspondence between TS Eliot and Groucho Marx and historical mail from politicians and murderers alike.Blog Roll – FootballFrank Worthington Photograph: PA Archive/Press Association ImaFootball Spotterfootballspotter.comFootball exotica, including the world's worst away end and Frank Worthington's vintage keepy-uppy skills.Dirty Tackledirtytackle.netRare and exciting footage of Carlo Ancelotti on "everybody's favourite Italian interrogation/lap dance/fever dream show Chiambretti Night".Fisted Awayfistedaway.wordpress.comCelebrating Alan Hansen's obsession with abstract nouns, analysing goal celebrations and wondering how Rafa Benítez spent so much money.Football And Musicfootballandmusic.co.ukThe unforgettable horror that was the German team's union with The Village People for the 1994 World Cup and other crimes against music.Crab Footballcrabfootball.wordpress.comA sideways look at the Premier League including Dean Ashton's secret life and Hull City's plan to entice Bobby Zamora.What We Learned On The Web This WeekSigourney Weaver looks better with a 'tache15 womenwho look better with moustachesow.ly/vov8The internetis about to dieow.ly/v9OpBarbie hascanklesow.ly/v9PbEvery nightmillions of people around the world dream of the same manthisman.orgWhat theperson before you searched formysterygoogle.comAlfred Hitchcockwas scared of policeow.ly/v9PtHow todecode Hollywoodspeakow.ly/v9PDMahmoud Ahmadinejadis sexier than Gordon Brownhottestheadsofstate.wordpress.com/listThe topaccidental balloonistsow.ly/v9RWWhen toget a haircutow.ly/v9SxThe bestwall murals around the worldow.ly/v9WqWhy librariansmake better dates than modelsow.ly/v9P1
Apologies for turning this into the PES blog but it's been a hugely frustrating evening.  I've been trying to get a decent online match on Pro Evolution Soccer 2010 but to no avail. Lag, delays, unresponsive menus - it's been a disaster. Performance issues aside there are still the problems with poorly thought out menus - for example how do you easily set up a 2v2 with a friend and not have to wait hours for someone to join? - and illegible icons.  Yes, I should have known that the great performance on the test servers would not be replicated once the game had launched but I felt that Konami had to get this one right.  How wrong I was.I've thoroughly enjoyed playing PES 2010 offline but online is key for me. If it isn't fixed or doesn't improve very soon it looks like FIFA has another convert..Anyone else played PES online yet? Is it just me having a nightmare?
Microsoft has, you'll have seen,just announced its first-quarter results. They're down on last year - which isn't surprising for a company which relies on corporations for its principal revenues, at a time when corporations are suffering a continuing recession.But what's telling in the results is how badly Microsoft is *still* doing online.Specifically, look at the numbers in itsfinancial resultsfor the Online Services division. You'll have to scroll down to the bottom of the page, where it has SEGMENT REVENUE AND OPERATING INCOME (LOSS).There we find that things are rosy at the Windows and Windows Live division ($2.6bn revenue, $1.4bn profit), Server and Tools ($3.4bn revenue, $1.28bn profit), the Business division ($4.4bn revenue, $2.86bn profit), and even at Entertainment and Devices - home of the Xbox and, um, Zune ($1.89bn revenue, $312m profit).But what about the Online Services division? Different story. $490m revenue - which isdownfrom $520m in the same period last year - and losses of $480m, an increase against last year's $381m loss.In other words, for every $1 that Microsoft's online services division brought in, it spent $2.That's not good - especially for a company that is ostensibly trying to make itself into an online behemoth. The OSD includes Bing, MSN, Microsoft Advertising and the Global Foundation Service (no, me neither). Here'sGlobal Foundation Services, which "is the engine that powers Microsoft's Software Plus Services strategy, hosting more than 200 of the company's online services and web portals. We focus on smart growth, high efficiency, and delivering a trusted experience to customers and partners worldwide."So, notSidekick/Danger, then?Though if you believe theOnline Services Division recruitment page, "Our mission is to shape Microsoft's software and services strategies, continually reinventing the way people live their lives online. We create the services, technology, and portals hundreds of millions of people rely on to get the information they need when they need it."OK. The question still is, why isn't the online part making money? Some of the latest losses will certainly have been to do with the huge investment required to relaunch "Live Search" as Bing.But the question still remains of how, when and perhaps whether, Online Services will ever make money for Microsoft.Here's the big problem: analysis of search engine share suggests that it isgaining share from Yahoo - but not at the expense of Google. In other words, its envelopment of Yahoo's search facility makes no difference in its race to catch up with Google; it's like Zeno's paradox, but really happening.That means that all the money being spent to acquire Yahoo's share is going to take away from the bottom line - yet still not take the Online Services Division any closer to real profitability (where you spend less than you receive - remember?).
A friend who's quite into hacking around with stuff says that he's found a flaw in the website of a political party whose views you both detest. (Its leader might have appeared on a high-profile television programme recently, for example.)The flaw, your friend explains, would let you hack into the site and change everything around. Then you, with your expertise, could change the front page, leave scripts that would capture login details, pretty much anything. Maybe there would even be some useful databases hanging around there.You're interested - but the Computer Misuse Act doesn't have a public interest defence, and you're unsure whether your friend has the hacking chops to do this undetected. Then again, that leering face on the website is soooo annoying..What do you do?
If you commute or travel by tube, you could soon start to see lots more people reading books, magazines and even newspapers on "electronic paper" now that Amazon has started shipping its Kindle ebook reader internationally. The black-and-white six-inch LCD screen isn't as good as paper, but it's perfectly readable in most lighting conditions, and button-presses take you quickly from page to page.This is not to damn with faint praise, because the Kindle does have advantages over its paper parents. You can, for example, buy a new book in mid-journey, if you get bored with the one you were reading. Amazon's one-click ordering system makes this scarily easy. You don't even have to log in.A new novel downloads silently and automatically over the Kindle's mobile phone connection – Amazon's Whispernet – in a minute or less. You can also look up words in the Kindle's built-in (American) dictionary, or use its web browser to consult Wikipedia.And while Kindle is a bit smaller than a book, its 1.4GB of free memory can hold a lot more words. If you want to carry the whole Harry Potter series at all times, along with everything by JRR Tolkien, you can. No matter how much you stuff into it, the Kindle never gets any bigger.You can even have the Kindle read books to you in a male or female voice, using text-to-speech software, or have it play music in the background: there are tiny stereo speakers on the back of the machine, or you can use headphones. However, you can't even get a list of songs: they just play in the order you loaded them. Also, in the UK, web access is limited to Wikipedia: no Guardian, no BBC etc.Amazon points out that the web browser and audio capabilities are currently free, experimental features, and are still under development. But the result is that the Kindle is far from offering a challenge to an MP3 player or mobile phone for anything except consuming books.Indeed, the Kindle's UK availability doesn't even represent a concerted attack on the ebook market, where Sony's Reader series is fairly well established. "Internationally available" means that if you buy a Kindle for $259, Amazon will ship it to the UK. The change isn't in the device, which still comes with a US plug (though you can charge it via a USB cable): the change is that your Kindle will automatically work with a local Whispernet (3G or GPRS) mobile phone service.My Kindle arrived as a review sample, but a real buyer told me his final bill included $20.98 for Shipping &amp; Handling and an Import Fees Deposit of $45. To that, I'd want to add $29.99 for the smart black leather case, which makes it much more comfortable to carry a Kindle: it's sturdy but will benefit from protection. This takes the ball-park price for playing up to about $350 (£214).An ebook reader could, of course, pay for itself in a year or two if users could save money on books. After all, it's much quicker, cheaper and more carbon-efficient to deliver a computer file by phone than put a book in the post. But it's hard to see any savings.Having just unpacked my loaner, I bought a book: Neal Stephenson's Quicksilver, the first volume in The Baroque Cycle. The price from Amazon.com was $9.65 (£5.90), confirmed by email. But truth to tell, I'd rather have bought the massive 926-page paperback from Amazon.co.uk for £6.99, or a second-hand copy at prices as low as £1.47 (plus postage). There are no second-hand ebooks floating around….If I'd been buying in the US, then I would have got my book for less. Amazon is not keen to discuss pricing differentials, but says its $9.99 best-sellers convert to $11.99 or $13.99 in Europe. That covers the "extra operational costs" plus VAT, says a spokesman. Crazy as it sounds, VAT is payable on ebooks, but not physical books.Much as I like the idea of ebooks, I don't expect the Kindle to make much impact on global paper consumption, unless there are some fundamental changes. I'd want to pay less for an ebook, for starters, and I'd also want the right to give it away or sell it on if I no longer want it. This isn't allowed.There's a great case for having heavyweight textbooks, legal tomes, field-service manuals and even tourist guides in a searchable electronic format like Amazon's. But for novels and books that need colour, the drawbacks may be too big for most people.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It would have to be the iphone – along with the majority of the world, I've always been a Mac man. It's not just a phone, it's an experience. The applications are fantastic – you can download a game that's better than any game on a Gameboy.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd make it slimmer, and I'd try somehow to make the screen unscratchable.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think this version will be, but the new one will probably be a hologram.What always frustrates you about technology in general?It moves on too fast.If you had one tip to give about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't think  about it, just buy it because there will be a new one in six months. And buy that one as well – if you can, of course.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I don't really think I'm either a nerd or a luddite – I do love my technologies though, so probably closer to nerd.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – because ever since i can rememenbr I have always had Macs. As a kid the games were rubbish, but yeah, I love my Mac.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I buy a lot of DVDs but I like to download podcasts, and audio books off iTunes.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Depends on whether they make female versions or not. A good idea, unless it gets too much like I, Robot where they take over the bloody world.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A Bugatti Varyon – the fastest car in the word and the most technologically advanced car ever.• Sam Parsonson stars in Coffin Rock, in cinemas from today
Microsoft gave shareholders a boost today after beating Wall Street estimates, despite posting another fall in profits and revenues.The company announced that profit for the three months ending 30 September was down by 18% to $3.6bn (£2.2bn) on the same period last year, while demand for the company's software and services had also fallen.Sales over the last quarter were valued at $12.9bn – a drop of 14% from more than $15bn this time in 2008.The decline marks the second successive quarter in which Microsoft has experienced a year-on-year reduction in revenues –a situation that was entirely alien to the company until six months ago, after 34 years of continuous growth.However, thefigures are up on the previous quarter, and came in significantly higher than Wall Street predictions.The launch of Windows 7, which took place yesterday, is expected to give the company a boost in the coming quarter.Kevin Turner, chief operating officer, said that the release of Windows 7 – and business products such as a new server – was "exciting" and was helping the company to bounce back from a tough period."We are pleased by the early positive response we are receiving for these products," he said.Indeed, the success of Windows 7 is crucial to Microsoft's overall health, with sales of the company's flagship operating system making up more than half of its profits. Sales of Windows software had dropped by $1.6bn compared with the same period last year, as customers prepared to move to the new system.
Sorry, my mistake!Thanks to Colin Leeds for letting me know they were closed....
The latest addition to EA Canada's NBA Live franchise has a lot of ground to make up. The past few have been plagued with gameplay and control issues, and the major opposing franchise, the NBA 2k series, has pulled ahead in recent years. The latest 2k is said to be the best yet. Can EA turn the tables with Live 10?In a word, no. Granted, it is a step forward: control issues have to some extent been addressed, and defensive tactics have been promoted to prevent the game being the slam-dunk sim of previous incarnations. Some nifty little touches have been added to allow you to cohesively control your team. Complex passing, for example, is a doddle: the shoulder button instructs one of your players close to the hoop to set up a play, so you can pass them the ball and then dunk it, which looks great if you can pull it off.Another clever device is the use of your secondary joystick during passing to control the targeted recipient. It sounds complicated, but it works well when trying to pass accurately around a defender, and it makes difficult plays possible without a reliance on the game's AI. This is very useful, because the AI is still pretty dodgy. Players catch the ball then step out of bounds, or just find themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time, which lets the whole experience down.Atmospherically, the game scores quite highly. It looks and sounds like a real NBA match: the teams, apart from a sweat effect which makes everyone look like they've been wrapped in cling-film, are impeccably rendered. The crowds look and sound great, too, and change perceptibly depending on the match, lending important games a real sense of tension. Only the commentary is a letdown, with that age-old sports game problem of repetitiveness. Another good feature is the live season, which means that you can play current NBA matches as they're happening, and team data and stats are updated live too.But despite all that, NBA Live 10 is still stuck in arcade mode. Despite upgrades to the control system, it will still remain a button-bashy affair for most, and the AI is frustrating. Five-on-five games are possible online, with all-human teams, but these are crazy affairs where winning feels like a matter of hitting the controller at random and as frantically as possible.It looks better, it sounds better, it feels a little better, but it's not really enough to swat critics of the series away. It still lacks a satisfying career mode, which the 2k series does offer, and this lack of substance is where the game falls down. It's still a very playable multiplayer option though: if an arcade game is what you want, this will deliver.NBA Live 10 has progressed, but only in its presentation: beneath the surface, not enough has been done for it to be competitive in a market crowded with quality products.
Late in the summer we began a project to tell the story of the internet using the internet - that is,asking you what you considered important. It is published today as aninteractive people's historyfrom that first Arpanet connection in 1969 (between Charley Kline at UCLA and Bill Duvall at Stanford, both of whom were video interviewed by technology correspondent Bobbie Johnson) to the events of 2009: most significantly - I think - the use of YouTube and other social media to bring footage of the Iranian democracy protests to the outside world after the Ahamadinejad government had forced out the international press and TV.And there was plenty in between. As the project went on, it struck me the switching on of Arpanet was the mirror image of 1969's other big technological event - the moon landings. While the moon landings were the subject of enormous attention at the time and today, not a great deal developed from them. There were no Mars landings, for example. Arpanet attracted the attention of very few - says Kline: "It was neat that it was working ... but nobody recognised that it was the beginning of something" - but what would develop from that first connection has had a huge influence on how we live today.The development was not just the work of Arpa-funded computer scientists. Bulletin boards, Usenet and simple chat functions were also parents of the internet today. The interviews include people who put the technology to new uses - Dave Hughes, who turned the bulletin board to political purposes in Colorado Springs in the early 1980s (Roger's Bar), or Richard Bartle at Essex University who co-created multi-user online gaming (MUD) in the late 1970s.Thanks too to other interviewees: Peter Kirstein at UCL, who, in difficult circumstances, connected Britain to Arpanet in 1973; Howard Rheingold on the early days of online communities; Nigel Titley on connecting British Telecom to the internet (without his superiors really wanting him to); Philip Edwards' tale of spam at the first school online in Wales; Ellen Buddle on being a teenager in the chatrooms of 2001; Dean Whitbread on podcasting; and Dave and Valerie Goodman, who met on Flickr and, when they married, were celebrated by the site as the first Flickr wedding. A lot of it is the story of people trying things out - and finding that they worked, sometimes better than they expected.Finally, thanks to everyone who helped us tell the internet's story, many of whom are quoted in theinteractive people's history.And if you want more, G2 has a complementary special edition marking the internet's 40 years. Oliver Burkeman on howthe internet changed the world forever, Ivy Bean, the 104-year-old Twitterer,talks about her new-found celebrity, plus you get a run-down of theGuardian's reporting of the internetin the era of "junior cybernauts". See the contents listhere.
Photo from Flickr. I took it with my little screenshot.Oh, that in the picture above? It's a control panel that I discovered inside theFree Our Data blog. Click on the buttons and it would let you do pretty much anything you liked in the directory. Though as you may have surmised from the dire layout and colour choices, it's not Wordpress-approved.Not at all: this is a control panel installed by a hacker, who I suspect used one of the holes in user registration on Wordpress to install this. (I surmise that because the blog is on shared hosting, and other Wordpress installs on the same host that I know of which didn't allow user registration haven't been affected in the same way. If it were an exploit across the whole web server, you'd expect that all the blogs there might be affected.)You'll recall that there wasa recent scare over Wordpress vulnerabilities: pretty much every installation not hosted at Wordpress.com was suspected of being at risk.Wordpress is important because it's so widely used by people who have been looking for a quick, free blog install for their own hosting: getting it running is a cinch if you've got MySQL and PHP on your system. It's widely used, for example, in the civil service, where getting blogs up quickly has become an important consideration.However keeping ahead of the hackers is rather different, and over the years there have been multiple occasions where quick updates have been urgently required. There was even one occasion where an "update" turned out to have been poisoned by a hacker who'd inserted their own stuff into the base code.It turns out that turning off "user registration" is probably one of the simplest and most effective ways of "hardening" Wordpress. (Allowing other users to, in effect, have access to your database leaves the way open for privilege escalation that you won't like.)And now, some more.First, there's been another upgrade to Wordpress (it's now at 2.8.5). The Wordpress blog describes it as a "hardening release".Much more important, in my view, is the release of theWordpress Exploit Scanner plugin. Plugins are little extensions to Wordpress; and Exploit Scanner is probably the next one you should install. (The first you should install, in my opinion, isDr Dave's Spam Karma 2- which weeds out spam comments more effectively than anything I've ever seen, and is specific to your blog.)The Exploit Scanner does a number of things: it compares your files against an MD5 hash of the Wordpress files for whatever version of installation you're running; it finds examples of suspicious code in your files - three principal ones being the use of "invisible" text through CSS; the use of iframes to embed code from other sites; and base 64 encoding, which can be used to obfuscate entire programs. It will also look through your posts and users to see if there's anything suspicious or spammy about them.It was the third of those suspicious behaviours - using base_64 encoding - that Exploit Scanner pointed out on the Free Our Data blog, leading me to the control panel pictured above. You could call it an accomplished bit of programming, using just 21Kb to put in a program that will analyse your system for any vulnerabilities, will try to hack your password directory (there's even a button called BRUTE FORCE - for slogging through trying to get at those passwords), and notes everything potentially weak about your system. Remember that this, though, is the hackers' tool. Once Exploit Scanner had pointed me there, that part of the hacker's toolbox was quickly wiped.I should mention though that Exploit Scanner didn't notice the files that the hacker had added pointing to a "Canadian" "pharmacy" - it is limited to comparing the files that are there with the ones that it knows Wordpress should have; those which are there which shouldn't be it ignores.One point about the default Wordpress installation - from this experience - is that the hackers hid a stack of pages in the "default" Wordpress theme. Among the security steps worth taking is to install a different theme and delete the default: that might make the hackers' task more difficult.A final note: Exploit Scanner, like Spam Karma 2, is donationware. I'm making mine. How much is it worth to you to have a secure installation?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
PES 2010 is finally released today. Seen by many as the last chance for Konami to regain ground lost to main rival FIFA, PES 2010 is a huge release. If you saw my impression pieces last week you won't be surprised by the review - PES 2010 offers the best on-pitch videogame football experience. But will it sway you from FIFA?Forget the lack of official licences, restricted online options and occasionally incomprehensible menu – Pro Evolution Soccer has always delivered where it matters most, on the pitch. PES 2010 continues the trend and is simply a joy to play. The action is fast, instinctive and expressive. Aerial through balls are a particular delight but cushioned first-time passes and accurately weighted crosses are all a joy. Headers feel much more realistic now too, with the players responding realistically to your timed button presses.For the first time players can use 360 degree control when moving players. Initial discomfort soon gives way to a greater feel on the pitch, with plenty of room to improvise as you create space for a cross or shot.  The action feels slightly slower than 2009 but is still much faster than main competitor FIFA. A typical PES game is more akin to the recent 4-3 Manchester derby than the continentally paced FIFA.While the pace of the game is often unrealistic the player models are not. All the big players look the part, particularly facially.One of the biggest improvements over 2009 is the online play. Yes, it lacks the 10vs10 and player leagues of FIFA 2010 but it is not much easier to set up games, especially 2 vs 2 games with friends. Lag is much improved too.Offline players will spend most of their time in the Master League mode. Like the rest of the game this has seen a much-needed presentation upgrade and will entertain those looking for a longer term challenge than the Champions League.Away from the pitch the main improvements are cosmetic. The menu screens and music are finally bought into the 21st Century. The commentary is as appalling as ever although the responsive crowd noise – quiet when you score an away goal, cheering when you make a last ditch tackle – makes up for it.  The new card system, that allows you to tweak player and team tactics, is less successful though, primarily because it is hard to notice any difference on the pitch.Many PES players have moved over to the ever improving FIFA and there's no doubt that the more realistically paced and fully featured FIFA 2010 is an excellent football package. But performance on the pitch is where it really matters and PES 2010 wins that battle.So what do you think then? Managed to get a copy of PES 2010 yet? What do you think?
At 104, Ivy Bean may be the oldest person in Bradford. She is also, thanks to the internet, one of its most famous residents. After maxing out the friend capacity on Facebook (with 5,000), Bean graduated to Twitter in 2008, and from her residential home on the outskirts of the city  she now offers daily insights into her life for some 48,000-odd followers.Hillside Manor is home to  16 residents. I meet Bean in the lunch room, where each Friday she eats fish and chips, then tweets to let her followers know how it went down. She is amiable and chatty, despite problems with her hearing today: "I could hear right as rain yesterday, but my hearing aid's jiggered. Give it a clout," she instructs.Bean got into social networking when the home computer maintenance company Geek Squad helped her sign up last year, but what started as a  publicity stunt has taken on a life of its own. Before that, Bean says, "All I used to do was sit  all day and fall asleep. I'd be miserable if I didn't do it."These days Bean is a celebrity. Last month she had a private meeting with Peter Andre, who was in town for a book signing. "He's a lovely fellow," Bean says. On Wednesday, Chris Evans blew her a kiss on Twitter.Bean's windowsill is crowded with family photos, and she has a drawer full of letters and gifts from well-wishers worldwide. "Last week I had one off someone on her holidays in America, and another from Zimbabwe."In person, she doesn't see many visitors, apart from her daughter, but she says she never feels lonely now with the Twitter community to chat to, whether she is explaining what parkin is, or discussing the  merits of Deal or No Deal. When her good friend Norma Furniss passed away earlier this year, Bean was inundated with messages of support; if she doesn't get the chance to tweet on any given day, her followers are  anxious to know that she is OK.Bean has no intention of  resting on her laurels, however; she would still like more  followers. "We'd better get it up to 50,000," she says. "People should get their name down and we'll have a few more."Ivy's Twitter name is@IvyBean104.
I'm standing on the internet. Six feet beneath me, buried in the soft sand of a north Cornwall beach popular with surfers, is one of the most important telecommunications cables in the country — the £250m Apollo North OALC-4 SPDA cable that provides the most powerful physical internet connection between the UK and the US. The only clue to its presence is a tall sign in the beach car park, which reads "Telephone cable". It is not pointed towards the people sucking on ice-creams and waxing their surf boards; rather, it is directed at passing fishermeh, warning them  not to catch their nets or anchors on this fibre-optic cable, which is just a fraction thicker than a garden hosepipe.The 3,800 mile-long cable was laid across the Atlantic seabed in 2003 and runs from the Cornish coast to Fire Island just off New York's Long Island. The last time you sent an email, did a Google search, watched a YouTube clip, or tweeted, there's a very good chance that some of that data travelled at the speed of light through this very location.Not surprisingly, the location  of Apollo North needs to remain secret. Which is why its state-of-the-art "cabling station", set back from the beach on farm land, is not to be found on an Ordnance Survey map; instead, the spot is marked only by the contours of an undulating field.In reality, on the ground, there is a concrete road and a cryptic sign ("C.L. Site") leading to a  windowless facility the size of a small supermarket, shielded  by trees in a shallow hollow. The building, part-owned by Cable and Wireless, marks the point where Apollo North, one of about half a dozen cables that straddle the ocean between north America and Cornwall, comes to the  surface and connects to the UK's land-based telecommunication network.But how important is this one cable to the UK's internet capacity? "People in the UK probably wouldn't notice if it got severed," says Stephan Beckert of internet analysts TeleGeography. "Connections between the US and western Europe are varied and robust.  We call it a 'self-healing ring'.  But it surprises many people that the internet greatly relies on these cables. Virtually no internet  traffic goes via satellite as it's too expensive and the bandwidth available is minimal. However, certain regions still have bottlenecks and are vulnerable to breaks."Last year, large parts of the Arabian Gulf region were plunged into internet blackout when four submarine cables were severed within a week. When the first Transatlantic fibre-optic cables were laid in the late 80s, the high voltage of the electric cables laid alongside them attracted a feeding frenzy among sharks, resulting in a number of severed cables and electrocuted sharks. Protective sheathing was quickly added.The Apollo North cable – the last in a long line of transatlantic cables to arrive in Cornwall, the nearest land point to north America - hasn't suffered a break for four years. It is powerful enough to provide 320 gigabits a second of bandwidth capacity. This is roughly equal to 100,000 times the bandwidth available to the average UK home user.But don't tell anyone in this  region of Cornwall – in a recent survey, a number of local rural pockets known as "notspots" were shown to have some of the slowest average internet speeds in the country.
IIn April 1994, the Guardian published adaring piece of investigative journalismchronicling the promises, pitfalls and peculiar vernacular of a new and unexplored territory named Internet. It was, according to the article, a place "where pornographers and Nazis walk freely, where criminals roam unchecked and where anarchy reigns".The piece, by Jonathan Freedland, made liberal use of cutting-edge online phrases  such as "junior cybernauts" and "Netties".  It mapped the uncharted territories of  "Throbnet, WildNet and Kinknet" and  noted the growth of a "cottage industry"  made up of "services that enable users to  look at raunchy pictures".That paints, of course, a woefully incomplete picture of the piece; it also grappled  seriously with the many issues raised by the early days of the web. But its now outmoded language (including use of the term "cybersurfers") is typical of the early days of the net, before journalists felt they were writing about anything but a sci-fi geeks' social club.Freedland's piece was not the Guardian's first encounter with the internet, however, though it may at the time have been the most in-depth. Search the Guardian's archives for the word "internet" and the first hit is a 1984 headline in which the word "international" has been misspelled. The first intentional hit isan article from 1987 by Jack Schofield, editor of the Guardian's computer section, about the standardisation of early email protocol.Intermittent mentions followed over the next five years, but tended to be fairly technical until 1992, when Schofield reported that "home computer users can now fairly easily add their machines to the worldwide computer network known as Internet". Three years later, assuming at least some readers had done just that, the newspaper ran a week-long  series providing aBeginner's Guide to the  Internet. This involved various Guardian  journalists, most of them "bona fide Net virgins", narrating their first foray into the  online world. Fay Weldon concluded that  people are "never so harmlessly employed as when they are in cyberspace".By 2001 the paper's technology section was ready to announce itsseven wonders of the web, listing obvious candidates such as Google, Yahoo!, eBay and Amazon alongside the more surprising Blogger, Multimap and Project Gutenberg. Google's search engine, it suggested, "cannot get much faster than it is without becoming a super-charged Hawking engine searching in negative time".Since then, of course, there have been thousands of articles on the internet. The pieces that stand out are the first encounters, often reading like the reports of an exotic Victorian explorer. You can measure out the landmark moments in recent internet history in 2,000-word chunks of G2. There's the day, 6 May 2004, after Google announced it was going public,when G2 tested its fact-finding power against phones and libraries(Google won). In October that yearWikipedia got the G2 treatment, with writer Simon Waldman crowning it "one of the wonders of the  digital age".A year later, Waldmandiscovered and  dissectedfilesharing software BitTorrent,  a collaborative venture of an altogether  different kind. While BitTorrent at that time was well-established, with YouTube G2 was in very nearly at the ground floor. Leo  Benedictus justwrote about posting a video to the sitefive months after its launch. (Admittedly the video was asking the site's users if they were "weirdos", but still.)One of the most recent internet stories wasa feature on Twitterin January this year. This was just after the Israeli consulate in New York had held a question and answer session about the Palestine situation entirely in 140 character tweets. The quote "We R pro nego . . . we talk only w/ ppl who accept R rt 2 live" may go down in history as the final sign that nothing  remains immune to the strange new demands of the internet age.It is also, surely, proof that, cybernauts aside, Freedland was eerily prescient when, in 1994, he described the net as "the place where, perhaps, the future of the human  race is being decided".
History does not record why John Edward Taylor settled on the title Manchester Guardian for his new radical newspaper in 1821, but  happily I can tell you exactly how we chose the name of the Guardian's website 176 years later. It was all down to  Simon Waldman's father's shop.We'd been brainstorming possible website names in what was then endearingly called the New Media Lab. We wanted something that would convey a leap from the constraints of the printed page. Breaking of shackles! Boundless possibilities! There were some  really bad ideas, then one slightly less bad: Guardian Unlimited. "That's it!" exclaimed Waldman, then the Guardian's "deputy  internet editor". "My father once had a shop called Fabrix Unlimited!"Despite the huge success of its website over the last decade, the Guardian was a relative latecomer to the business of online news. While competitors such as the Daily Telegraph built efficient and well-used digital facsimiles of their print editions, the Guardian instead established a new media "skunkworks" team, tasked with dreaming up innovative online ideas, in an airy old warehouse just across the road from its main offices.There a group of programmers and young journalists dabbled in a curious range of  experimental projects from a wildly ambitious, multilingual website for Euro 96 to Shift  Control, a webzine so painfully cool that every issue was redesigned from scratch. When, in 1997, Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger  dispatched me across the road with instructions to redirect their efforts to building an online version of the Guardian itself, the  team wore the despondent look of a bunch  of German soldiers who had just been sent to the Eastern Front.But though many of the hipsters soon  departed, some of the lateral, webcentric spirit of the New Media Lab animated our plans for the online Guardian. Instead of  attempting to transfer the paper online, we would build deep specialist sites in a range  of areas and then join them up in a network. "The Guardian is committed to developing content that exploits the new medium's strengths rather than simply recycling its  print product," declared one portentous early document.The first of our attempts at these "narrow and deep" sites was a joint venture with the bible of cricket, Wisden, to cover the 1997 Ashes series. I'm sure the site was ingenious and groundbreaking but all I can remember about it is a series of increasingly convoluted attempts to attract the attention of Test Match Special. First we sent a cake, iced to resemble the Ashes 97 homepage. Then we escalated to a box of claret, the label on each bottle removed and replaced with a new one featuring the Lord's Pavilion and the provenance "Chateau des Cendres" (Ashes in French, of course). Aggers sounded bemused but we got our precious mention.At the time, the web's capacity for multimedia and interactivity seemed to open up an intoxicating world of possibilities. And like a child experimenting with every ringtone on  a new phone, we were determined to try all  of them. One day several of us spent hours  bellowing different football results into a  microphone in a small office so that users of our football website could email "singing scorelines" to each other. How on earth did that idea fail to sweep the world?Even our crude efforts to develop potential sources of revenue, somewhat wryly overseen by Carolyn McCall, now chief executive of the Guardian Media Group, were curiously thrilling. As part of our coverage of the 1997 Booker prize we offered the option of buying copies of the shortlisted titles online. Each time one was sold, we'd all get an email detailing the  order and someone would leap up and shout "Jim Crace, Quarantine!" or "God of Small Things!" For a while we kept a running tally  of how much money we had taken; surely one day this would be a river of cash that would keep the Guardian afloat!At the time, the greatest challenge was finding programmers willing to work for  significantly less than they could earn elsewhere in the giddy dotcom bubble. But gradually we managed to assemble a small group of somewhat eccentric but terrifyingly clever  developers, including an ethereal expert in the semiotics of the internet and a hippy maths genius who initially turned down our job offer on the grounds that the Guardian was "too commercial". Only one – rather key – role  repeatedly defied our casting efforts. Back then you could count the number of first-rate designers with web experience on one hand. So we decided to find a great designer and gamble that he or she would learn on the job. In what felt at the time like an inspired stroke of lateral thinking, we hired a brilliant young Dutchman who had spent the previous year honing an impossibly stylish new look for the Dutch police force. There was just one problem: he had never used a Mac, let alone designed a website. Six months on we both concluded the skills involved in producing insignia for Dutch panda cars did not easily translate to the lawless frontier of web design. It took two more throws of the dice, and an improbable alliance between the 80s design giant Neville Brody and a quiet young California-trained German, to produce what was later widely hailed as the world's best  designed newspaper website.But while we refined our plans and brainstormed endlessly about how news should be treated on the web, many in the outside world became increasingly puzzled by why they could not find Guardian articles on our website. When Diana died in the summer of 1997, the New Media Lab received a torrent of calls from people wondering where to find our coverage, and it was clear we needed to offer some kind of news service until the all-singing and dancing Guardian Unlimited network was ready to launch.A rough and ready site, entitled From the Paper, was thrown together in days and we began to take it in turns supervising a small band of journalism students who would work through the night cutting and pasting stories from the newspaper's computer system on to the web. The combination of relatively  inexperienced staff and instant publishing produced some terrifying results. One morning I arrived to find much of the website home page dedicated to the death of Linda McCartney. Above a large picture of her was the headline: "Now she really has wings."And the new technology seemed at times purpose-built to encourage mishaps. An early success was theFiver, the witty teatime email on football news that has become something of a Guardian institution. But though popular from the start, it had a technical flaw: once signed up it was very difficult to stop receiving it. When one exasperated user found himself repeatedly unable to remove himself from the mailing list, he replied to one of the jaunty missives: "Will you just fuck off!" Thanks to another technical idiosyncrasy, the message was promptly dispatched to the inboxes of all of the Fiver's several thousand subscribers.Not all glitches could be blamed on technology though. In early 1998, the trade magazine UK Press Gazette published a forensic two-page account of the Guardian's ambitious web plans based on a copy of a highly confidential strategy document I had written. I was furious; which of the tiny number of people who had the document had leaked it? After a two-hour inquest, the culprit was found: it was me.  I had inadvertently emailed the document to an embittered former staff member with a name similar to the intended recipient.Perhaps thanks to my evident inability to master challenging new technologies such as email, I was recalled to a less dangerous role on the paper before the long-awaited launch of Guardian Unlimited in January 1999. Under the far more competent eye of Emily Bell, the Guardian's director of digital content, it went on to collect a string of awards and become Britain's most popular newspaper website, now visited by more than 30 million people a month. But in January 2008 its name was quietly switched to Guardian.co.uk. The change marked the completion of the website's journey from experimental sandbox to the heart of what we do. But who does not feel a twinge of sadness that the Guardian's link to a little clothing store in Liverpool has been so cruelly sundered?Ian Katz is deputy editor of the Guardian.
The first emailIn late 1971 Ray Tomlinson, an  engineer working on a time-sharing system called Tenex, combined two programs named Cpynet and SNDMSG in order  to send the first ever network email. It had been possible to send email from one user to  another on a single computer for nearly 10 years but Tomlinson was the first to use the primitive Arpanet to send text from one computer to another.While the same principles are used to send emails across the world today, the very first email (the contents of which Tomlinson says he has long forgotten) was sent between two computers  sitting right next to each other. At the same time, Tomlinson also devised the format of modern emails, with the @ symbol dividing the user name from the name of the host computer (although he did not invent the symbol itsel). And why did he do it? "Mostly because it seemed like  a neat idea."The first virusComputer viruses and worms,  essentially just self-replicating programs, were predicted as early as 1949 by the mathematician John von Neumann. It is generally accepted that the first was a virus called the Creeper, which infected Arpanet in 1971.It was created by an engineer called Bob Thomas working for BBN, the same company that employed email creator Ray Tomlinson. The Creeper was not, however, malicious. Infected machines would simply display the message, "I'm the creeper: catch me if you can," but did not suffer any lasting damage. The first piece of anti-virus software was created as a direct response to the Creeper's challenge.The Reaper was also a self-replicating program, which spread through the system in much the same way that the Creeper had, and removed the offending virus from infected computers. Just as quickly as it had spread, the Creeper was caught.The first online communityLarry Brilliant, co-creator of the first online community Photograph: New York TimesIn 1981, while working for theWHO, Dr Larry Brilliant(below)created a primitive online conferencing system. Its original purpose was to organise the rescue of a helicopter downed on a humanitarian mission in Nepal. On his return to America, Brilliant showed his system to Apple founderSteve Jobsand, on his advice, launched a modified version of the software that would run on people's home computers.The next step was to develop a permanent text conferencing system – what we now know as an internet forum. The first example, known asthe Well, began with a meeting between Brilliant and Stewart Brand, then editor of theWhole Earth Catalog, an early green-living manual. Brilliant pitched Brand an idea: he would use a version  of the software to create a  discussion forum for the items in the catalogue. "But Stewart had  the good sense to ignore my  idea and instead he just opened it up for discussions of any kind,"  Brilliant recalls. "It was the best discussion – of the meaning of life, sexual practices, travel advice, love, law; everything you find on the internet today except the commercialism."Brilliant adds: "About 99.9%  of what made the well great  was Stewart's ideas of what could be talked about  and his uncanny ability to bring online the smartest  people of the day –  senators, governors, campaigners and a  whole lot of  writers."The first smileyProfessor Scott E Fahlman(below)worked at the computer science department at Carnegie Mellon in the early 1980s, at a time when it was making heavy use of online bulletin boards. Often someone would make a sarcastic remark and a few readers would fail to get the joke. At one point a humorouscomment on the boardsabout a brainteaser involving mercury was interpreted as a safety warning, nearly causing the building to be evacuated.The group began devising some form of punctuation to mark posts that weren't to be taken seriously. It was Fahlman who suggested :-). "I was probably not the first person ever to type these three letters in sequence, perhaps even with the meaning of 'I'm just kidding' and perhaps even online," Fahlman concedes. "But I do believe that my 1982 suggestion was the one that finally took hold and spread around the world."The first multiplayer gameMultiplayer games were developed inside the internet's first decade, paving the way for games such as Second Life that define much of internet culture today.Mud(which stands for Multi-User Dungeon) was the first text-based fantasy game, developed by programmers Roy Trubshaw and Richard Bartle at Essex University in 1978, allowing players all over the world to interact.Arriving in "the Land" at a  cottage next to a cemetery, new visitors could figure out the extent of their abilities, then explore, kill things and score points, with the ultimate goal of reaching the wizards' level. Bartle admits that they weren't trying to be pioneering: "We didn't know we were the first, we didn't know that there weren't hundreds of these games. It was the best way I could articulate what I wanted to say about the real world – by creating another world."The first search engineWhile studying for his master's degree at Montreal's McGill  University in 1989, Alan Emtage, a young computer scientist, was also working as a systems administrator for the university. But he found rooting around online to locate software for the students to be a bit boring, so set about streamlining the process. He developed a set of scripts which would run automatically every evening to build a single, easily searchable database.Once word got out that Emtage could find pretty much anything on the internet, inquiries flooded in. Two of his colleagues, Mike Parker and Bill Heelan, were brought in to rewrite the system with him, and this version was namedArchie. Emtage was  suddenly at the heart of an online revolution. "By 1991, that one  machine in our office running Archie was using half the bandwidth of eastern Canada," he says. "Our school of computer science director, Renato De Mori, was approached at a conference by one of his peers, who  congratulated him on Archie and what a splendid job we were doing at McGill. We had never told the faculty about it so he had no idea what it was – but he smiled graciously and said thank you. When he got back to Montreal, he wanted to know what the hell the guy was talking about."And why name it Archie?  Because of Archie comics? "It was 100% not named after the comics! I hate those comics, I think they're the most insipid piece of writing ever. It was just "archive" without a V."The first browserStrictly speaking, the first web browser was Tim Berners-Lee's WorldWideWeb, later renamed Nexus so as to avoid confusion with the web itself. Berners-Lee created the program in 1991 while working at Cern, the European organisation for nuclear research. However, WorldWideWeb ran  exclusively on the Nextstep  platform, the early precursor to Apple's Mac OS X, and never reached a mass market.The first popular browser was Mosaic, which is generally credited with spreading the casual use of the web around the world. Created by University of Illinois students Marc Andreessen and Eric Bina, it was first released for computers using the Unix operating system on 23 January 1993. It built on Berners-Lee's server by including support for graphics, sound and video clips. After its  popularity boomed in the academic community, Andreessen and several fellow students marketed Mosaic commercially. It was a huge success, granting hundreds of thousands of people their first glimpse of the web.The first webcamThefirst webcambegan operating in 1991, the same year as Tim Berners-Lee's World Wide Web, and had its origins in an even more important topic in computer science: the flow of caffeine around a research group. The group, based in Cambridge University's computer lab and  led by Dr Quentin Stafford-Fraser, had a problem: the coffee machine was shared by others in more distant parts of the building."These poor souls would often arrive, mug in hand, to find no fresh coffee," explains Stafford-Fraser. "So one afternoon, friends and I gripped an old camera in a retort stand and connected it to a spare computer, then wrote a program [known as XCoffee] that allowed anyone in our group to display a live image of the pot in the corner of their screen."When, in 1993, web browsers were first able to display images, my colleague Dan Gordon modified the software so that a browser could take the place of our program. As a side effect, the whole world could see the image.  Millions did, and so the first webcam was born."Coffeecam finally shut down  in 2001, when the computer  science department moved to a new building.The first blogThe first blogger may never be identified for sure, but the most likely candidate is American freelance journalist Justin Hall, who began blogging (not that the term then existed) in 1994 with a website called Justin's Links From The Underground. Hall was online early enough to get first dibs on the covetedwww.links.netURL, and his website began as a sort of guided tour of the internet. It wasn't long, however, before Hall's personal life became the principal topic. Hall wrote candidly about his relationships, passions, plans and fears, sharing just about everything with his loyal readership. At one point he took a road trip across America, updating readers along the way.As for the terms, "weblog" was coined by the Jorn Barger in December 1997, and later abbreviated to "blog" by his fellow American Peter Merholz. Whether he called it blogging or not, though, Hall had been at it years before everyone else.The first cyber cafeCyberia, Britain's first cyber  cafe(see left), was set up in 1994 on the ground floor of theEasyNetoffices in Whitfield Street, central London. It was the brainchild of EasyNet founders Eva Pascoe, Gené McPherson, Keith Teare and David Rowe, and quickly becametheplace to be seen for the digerati, with Mick Jagger attending its website launch and its female founders attaining minor-celebrity status. The franchise was soon extended across the world – with outlets in Paris, Bangkok, Tokyo, Dublin, Edinburgh, Manchester and Rotterdam – but  eventually folded, its founders moving on to other projects.Teare looks back fondly: "It was 150 miles an hour for four years. And now there are hundreds of thousands of them, worldwide. Not Cyberias of course; just plain old cyber cafes. Never was a great business – but it&nbsp;was a great experience."The first eBay saleThe French-Iranian programmer Pierre Omidyar launched AuctionWeb in September 1995. It was later renamedeBay. There had been other virtual auction sites, but this one was better  designed and better marketed.The first item to change hands at auction was a broken laser pointer offered by Omidyar  himself, finally purchased for $14.83. Omidyar had the courtesy to contact the winning bidder and warn them they were buying  faulty goods, but the buyer claimed to collect broken laser pointers, so the sale went through.The first Wikipedia entry"Wikis" date back to 1995, when software developer Ward Cunningham launched WikiWikiWeb, named after the shuttle buses at Honolulu airport ("wiki" means fast in Hawaiian, and in internet terms refers to the collaborative generation of content). The software's innovative application would later prove the key to the extraordinary success ofWikipedia, which itself originated in a free-content reference project known asNupedia, founded in 2000 by American entrepreneur Jimmy Wales.Wales hired the philosophy academic Larry Sanger to run what they defined as "averyopen,verypublicly editable series of web pages". The first article, quite randomly, was "atonality", written by German academic Christoph Hust. But there was a flaw in the plan: after a year only 12 articles had been published  because of the need for fact-checking and editing.It was not until 2004, when the collaborative wiki software was utilised, that Wikipedia was unleashed. Unfortunately, all of its original articles have been lost, as initially the software didn't save history as it does today. But the first words that appeared on Wikipedia, typed by Wales, were "hello world". "Once the wiki started, lots of people began to contribute, and that's when I realised it was pretty exciting and could really take off," Wales says now. "Except that  obviously it's a bit big bigger than I ever imagined."The first social networking siteFrom the outset the internet was all about connecting people, with proto-social networks evident even in the early days of Arpanet and bulletin boards. But the pioneering US siteClassmates.comwas far closer to the model of social networking sites such asFacebookthat dominate today, and inspired a host of imitations includingFriends Reunitedin the UK.Classmates.com began life in 1995 in the basement of former Boeing employee Randy Conrads. It was an instant hit, playing on many an American's desire to swap life stories with former friends or reignite a high-school romance (after the first 100  marriages, in 2002, they stopped counting). Conrads came up with the idea when he started attending reunions himself: "I thought there was a lot of strength in high-school affinities, the desire to get together and travel long distances and spend a lot of money in hotels in order to talk to each other, and the  internet, as it grew, could be a place for people to connect like that. I thought if I could do it for all high schools, maybe I could make a business."Conrads was the first person registered on the site, and soon he was not only rekindling friendships from the military school he attended abroad, but getting his classmates to invest in and work for the company. "Running into those people again has been the start of  several special relationships with some of the people I went to school with – not all, though."The first major dotcom failureKajsa Leander and Ernst Malmsten. Photograph: Tom JenkinsIt wasn't the first dotcom to go bust, but Boo was definitely the most high-profile of the first tranche of failures. Set up by two extremely well-connected Swedes, former poetry critic Ernst Malmsten and Vogue model Kajsa Leander, with the backing of some big business guns,  Boo.com seemed to have a lot  going for it when its was unveiled in the autumn of 1999.But the Boo story quickly morphed into an emperor's-new-clothes type yarn. Aspiring to be an online Harvey Nichols, it soon had a staff of 500 across seven countries hosting famously lavish parties. But the buzz dotcom brand of the moment was, in reality, a poorly functioning website in a market that didn't yet have the appetite to buy high-end  designs online – these were the days of snail-paced internet connections and low-resolution design. Eighteen months down the line, with £90m squandered,  no one seemed that surprised when everything went horribly wrong. In his final memo to staff, Malmsten said simply: "I'm sorry that in the end we couldn't turn things around, and maybe that was my fault."The first YouTube videoIt has been said before, but here it is again:YouTubeis four years old. Four! The YouTube story began so astonishingly recently, in fact, that one of the events that inspired it was Janet Jackson's dress malfunction at the 2004  Super Bowl – or rather, the fact that you couldn't find footage of it anywhere on the web. Little over a year later, formerPayPalemployees Steve Chen, Chad Hurley and Jawed Karim had filled the gaping whole in the internet market for a video sharing facility.The first video on the site was posted on 23 April 2005, and remains there today. "Me at the zoo" is a man called Karim's 18-second long report from the elephant enclosure at San Diego zoo. It's both dull and awkward, enlivened only by a strange message flashing up half-way through exclaiming: "Can you hear the goat. Meeeeeeh!!" But its historical significance means that it has had well over a million hits so far.
In 1995 I was part of a press party that was flown out to Microsoft, where a rueful executive told us, "I'm in charge of the product that Bill Gates said would never happen." It was the launch of Microsoft's first web browser, Internet­Explorer. Gates, the richest and most powerful chief executive in the world – and a highly technologically literate one at that – had been an "internet denier" in terms of its transformative nature.For me there were two memorable aspects of that trip; one was an audience with Gates, with his customary homecut hair and stained shirt. He told the press, "If you can imagine something that might happen technologically, it will probably happen in the next 10 years; if you can't imagine it, it might take a generation." The other was an Internet Explorer T-shirt, which I wore throughout an extended labour two years later. At the time it was an apt metaphor for any kind of technical project delivery.Forecasting the future of the internet is a horrible business, even in the short term. Those who can do it most successfully are among the richest people on the planet. Being asked what the internet will look like in four years' time is a stretch. Being asked what it will look like in 40 years is bewildering.So many early predictions about the internet and world wide web turned out to be wrong. It was going to be a goldmine with limited use – in fact, it has turned out to be almost the exact opposite: a sprawling society, rather than a market, with unlimited use.Every forecast about the future of the internet has, more or less, turned out either to be an outrageous underestimate or a hopeless overestimate. The internet "bubble" that burst in 2000 was concrete monetary proof of this, as was the rise of Google as a service that would empower everybody and imperil the world's media industries.Last year Google's Vint Cerf, commonly dubbed the "father of the internet", visited the Guardian. When asked what he thought the future of the internet would look like, he became very animated and started to talk about building the internet "out into space". Under Gates's rule, this pitches the internet in space as a 30-year project.What is commonly acknowledged in circles who spend all their time thinking about the internet is that we are starting another wave of major development – this time powered by a general growth in high-speed network and bandwidth, and the proliferation of new devices that make everything portable. That "everything" includes your identity, your location, your ability to make and transmit and receive stuff instantaneously from your friends, or the world. Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of the world wide web, is engaged now in the "semantic web", which will give us the ability to find and link everything digitised far more easily and quickly. Indeed, many think the concept of "websites" is already old hat, as we move into a cloudy world of surreal&nbsp;capability.If you have an iPhone or an Android, or any of the new generation of "things that fit in a pocket", which are set to replace mobile phones, then you will know how this might start to change the internet and how people use it. "The technology is changing and people are staying the same," a wise developer suggested to me when I raised the prospect of&nbsp;the internet at 80 not 40.We might, however, be on the brink of an age where internet technology does indeed change many aspects of our lives: engagement in politics, constructing and conducting relationships, culture, knowledge. The dizzying prospect is that everyone is potentially part of the network, rather than on the receiving end.And who knows, Cerf could be right. In 40 years, the internet might stretch across celestial boundaries. A case of ET Skype home.Emily Bell is director of digital content for Guardian News and Media
'I believe it to be the trend that is going to have the greatest impact on the English language in the 21st century," linguist David Crystal once wrote of the internet, and certainly it has proved to be an area of rich lexical change.The meanings of well-known words (bookmark, surf, spam, web) have shifted dramatically, while our vocabularies have expanded to  accommodate new ones. The lower-case is in ascendance, @ has flourished, the full stop has been reinterpreted as the "dot" and entire trends have been refreshed by the prefix "cyber". Here are some of my favourite internet contributions to the language:FriendsAn accumulation of people you found on the internet.;alskdjfUsed to fill space and waste time,  often spotted on social  networking sites.404Error message arising when a file is not found; also suggests general cluelessness.ROFLRolling on the floor laughing, or LMAOROFL (Laugh My Ass Off Rofl).PokeTouching someone via Facebook. Annoying and excessively flirtatious, yes, but chaste  and hygienic.CrackberryNickname that compares the BlackBerry's  addictive nature to freebase cocaine.CybersexThe  act of having  sex via the internet. Actual sex  predicted to be  obsolete by 2050.GooglewhackingAttempt to "defeat" Google by typing in two words and retrieving a  single search result.LurkerSomeone who visits  forums and reads others' comments, but never leaves his own posts.Rick-rollingJape in which a posted link leads to a YouTube video of Rick Astley's hit Never Gonna Give  You Up.Mouse hand/BlackBerry thumbPhysical injury as a result of addiction.&nbsp;
On 17 April 2000, I wrote thefirst ever blogpostfor the Guardian's website. None of us knew at the time how  blogging would morph into the noisy,  boisterous online experience it is today. In fact, it wasn't even called "blogging" back then. The term is a contraction of "weblog" and my daily offering was, somewhat quaintly, known as the "Guardian Weblog".And that's exactly what I published on that first day nearly a decade ago: a "log" of what I thought to be the most interesting reads on the web at that time. Among nine recommendations, there was a link to an "interview" with the search engine Ask Jeeves, an article in the Zimbabwe Independent asking how the  opposition parties were ever going to topple Robert Mugabe, and a piece in the San José Mercury News wondering how many more words with an "e" prefix we could possibly take? (It would be a few years before our  weariness would move on to Apple's  ubiquitous "i" prefix.)The biggest difference in blogging between then and now, of course, is reader interaction. There was no facility for readers to discuss my recommended links on the Guardian Weblog, or suggest their own. A weblog back then  was either an online diary or a simple list of  recommended links, much like the ever  popular Drudge Report. Much of the online debating was happening on so-called  "usenetnewsgroups". It wasn't until  November 2001 that the Guardian went  properly interactive with the launch of its technology-themed OnlineBlog via the  Blogger website. And it was a further four-and-a-half years before Comment is Free helped to shape blogging into the format we now know and love – short, pithy commentary on a highly topical matter followed by a string of often fierce, passionate views posted by readers.I've written hundreds of blogposts for  the Guardian in the intervening period, but re-reading my first post takes me back to what now seems like an age of innocence. It was a time when we, the journalists, told you, the reader, what you should read online – and you had no way of offering your own view. Oh, how things have changed.
&bull;Nokiaput the cat among the pigeons byannouncing that it was suing Apple for patent infringement. A failed agreement between the two over some licenses for using some Nokia systems for wireless protocols putsaround £7 an iPhone. I'd expect Apple to pay up quietly - but it's bad timing by Nokia on the back of itsrecent struggles.&bull; What's going on withAmazon? The company announcedremarkably strong financial resultson Thursday, saying that the Kindle was now the most popular item it sold and that it expected Christmas to be even better. Recession, what recession?&bull; Time for the weekend, and here's a little something to keep you going until Monday - or at least the next 30 seconds. OK, it is only going to apply to those of you who (like me) get a little obsessive about just HOW AMAZING the technologies used in TV programmes like CSI manages to be.But it's still bloody funny. (Courtesy ofb3ta)You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Online classifieds site Craigslist has claimed victory over its detractors after an American judge dismissed claims that the site was the largest source of prostitution in the United States.A high-profile case brought by Thomas Dart, the sheriff of Cook County, Illinois, had alleged that the website – which is one of the world's largest online properties and is visited by more than 50 million people worldwide each month – had profited massively from aiding and abetting the sex industry.In a lawsuitfiled in March, in what he said was an attempt to reclaim the costs of investigations into prostitution via Craigslist inside his jurisdiction – a district which includes Chicago."Missing children, runaways, abused women and women trafficked in from foreign countries are routinely forced to have sex with strangers because they're being pimped on Craigslist," he said at the time.However, US district court judge John Grady said in a ruling that it was far from clear that Craigslist had encouraged its service to be used for advertising prostitutes – and that it may even be able to claim some limited protection under America's freedom of speech laws."A woman advertising erotic dancing for male clients is offering an adult service, yet this is not prostitution," he said, adding that Dart "cannot sue Craigslist for their conduct".Earlier this year, Buckmaster told the Guardian that the accusations against the website were the result of a hypocritical "witch hunt" by politicians and the media.In an interview, he said that many local newspapers had jumped on the chance to attack Craigslist over the idea that it promoted unsavoury behaviour – despite relying on income from similar advertisements on their own outlets."Journalistic media have no interest in reporting on far larger numbers, and far more graphic ads that exist in their own publications," he said. "They only have an interest in reporting such ads as they appear on the internet, and on Craigslist in particular."Craigslist did, however, agree to a number of changes after the claims were made – including closing its "erotic services" category and changing it to an "adult services" section in which every entry was reviewed by a member of the company's staff.Matt Zimmerman, a lawyer with campaign group the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said that the judge had come to the right decision."The problem of sex trafficking is indeed a serious one," he said. "But as the court pointed out in a footnote, that fact 'does not shed any light on the legal questions before us.'""Just as phone companies are not liable for harassing phone calls, or email software providers for deceptive messages, online message boards like Craigslist are in most instances not liable for their users' posts."
High street shops may have been struggling to make ends meet during the recession, but online retailer Amazon surprised financial experts on Thursday with a remarkable increase in profits.Announcing its latest set of results, the American company stunned Wall Street analysts by recording profits of $199m (£119m) for the last three months - a jump of 68% on the same period last year. Sales, meanwhile, rose by more than a quarter to $5.45bn (£3.27bn). Estimates had suggested that the Seattle-based company was due to rake in around $5bn in sales for the period ending on September 30.Amazon was particularly buoyed by the success of its Kindle electronic book reader, which founder Jeff Bezos said was now a mainstay of the Seattle-based company's strategy."Kindle has become the No1 best-selling item by both unit sales and dollars – not just in our electronic store, but across all product categories on Amazon.com," he said.Much of the growth was due to international sales, which now account for 48% of the company's income – a number that would have been even higher if not for currency fluctuations that saw the figures dampened slightly.And those results are likely to be boosted further since it began selling the Kindle worldwide earlier this month through its American store. Indeed, the volume of international Kindle sales has been so high that the company announced yesterday that it was cutting the cost from $279 (£167) before tax to $259 (£156) – in line with the prior cost of the US-only version of the gadget.This puts the cost of the Kindle at the same level as a new device announced by American book retailer Barnes &amp; Noble, the Nook, but also placates some of those who felt aggrieved at the slight price increase. Customers who bought the device at the higher price in the weeks since it was announced will be refunded the extra $20 they paid, the company said.However, although the company could expect to see revenue grow sharply in next quarter as a result of international Kindle sales, experts suggested that there was more to Amazon's arsenal."The Kindle is a good story, but in terms of impact on revenues in any way, it's pretty small," said Dan Geiman, an analyst with McAdams Wright Ragen, "By all indications it's been a hugely successful product for them, but it's still a pretty small percentage of their revenues."The company said it expected a strong Christmas period, pushing shares up by more than 14% in after-hours trading to $106.98.
Africans are buying mobile phones at a world record rate, with take-up soaring by 550% in five years, research shows."The mobile phone revolution continues," says a UN report charting the phenomenon that has transformed commerce, healthcare and social lives across the planet. Mobile subscriptions in Africa rose from 54m to almost 350m between 2003 and 2008, the quickest growth in the world. The global total reached 4bn at the end of last year and, although growth was down on the previous year, it remained close to 20%.On average there are now 60 mobile subscriptions for every 100 people in the world. In developing countries, the figure stands at 48 – more than eight times the level of penetration in 2000.In Africa, average penetration stands at more than a third of the population, and in north Africa it is almost two-thirds. Gabon, the Seychelles and South Africa now boast almost 100% penetration. Only five African countries – Burundi, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia – still have a penetration of less than 10 per 100 inhabitants.Uganda, the first African country to have more mobiles than fixed telephones, is cited as an example of cultural and economic transformation. Penetration has risen from 0.2% in 1995 to 23% in 2008, with operators making huge investments in infrastructure, particularly in rural areas. Given their low incomes, only about a quarter of Ugandans have a mobile subscription, but street vendors offer mobile access on a per-call basis. They also invite those without access to electricity to charge their phones using car batteries.Popular mobile services include money transfers, allowing people without bank accounts to send money by text message. Many farmers use mobiles to trade and check market prices.Growth is expected to remain robust, says the Information Economy Report, published today by the UN Conference on Trade and Development (Unctad). The regional mobile operator MTN forecasts an average mobile penetration of 80% by 2012 in its 15 African markets.But the main barrier to further expansion is cumbersome regulatory frameworks, the report adds. "Countries with similar economic circumstances but with a liberalised market generally show higher penetration rates," it says. "Taxes can also act as a barrier, particularly import duties on handsets or special mobile communications surcharges. The mobile industry has been seen as a cash cow in some countries."The share of the population covered by a mobile signal stood at 76% in developing countries in 2006, including 61% in rural areas. In sub-Saharan Africa, closer to half the population was covered, including 42% in rural areas.The income barrier to mobile ownership has been reduced thanks to more efficient network equipment and affordable handsets. But the report says that to expand coverage into rural and remote areas, government support may be required. "Rural areas in some countries are often economically unattractive for operators to invest in. This is usually not due to a lack of demand but rather to economies of scale."Mobiles have come as a blessing to those who never had access to landlines because of poor infrastructure. At the end of 2007, there were eight times as many mobile phones as fixed lines in the least developed countries. The number of fixed lines in the world has essentially been frozen around 1.2bn since 2006 and saw a slight decline in 2008.But a "digital divide" persists in terms of internet access. Australia, a country with 21 million inhabitants, has more broadband subscribers than the whole of Africa. There is also a huge gap in terms of broadband speed. The report warns: "Urgent attention is needed to address this situation and bring the continent more meaningfully online."Other developing regions often boast a broadband penetration 10 times higher than in Africa, where Algeria, Egypt, Morocco, South Africa, and Tunisia  account for 90% of all subscriptions. Broadband access in Burkina Faso, the Central African Republic and Swaziland is the most expensive in the world, costing more than $1,300 (£780) a month.Torbjörn Fredriksson, head of the ICT analysis section at Unctad, said: "Even though broadband usage is disappointing, there is a good story to tell in Africa about the astonishing growth of mobile telephony, despite the financial crisis."We expect this progress to remain robust as the income barrier to mobile ownership continues to drop, thanks to liberalisation, more efficient network equipment and more affordable handsets. This is because operators have made significant investments in infrastructure across the continent. And there appears to be continued interest among investors in expanding and upgrading these networks in Africa."He added: "This report stresses that despite the positive trends in mobile telecommunications in Africa, there is no room for complacency. A long-unfinished agenda must be addressed to create a truly inclusive information society for all."The report also found that at the end of 2008 there were an estimated 1.4bn internet users around the world. The growth rate of 15% was slightly lower than in 2007. In developing countries, the number of users grew by a quarter and such countries now account for more than half the world's internet users. But while more than half of the developed world population is now online, the corresponding share is only 15% in developing economies and 17% in "transition" economies.China hosted the biggest number of users (298 million), followed by the United States (191 million) and Japan (88 million). A little over one fifth of the world's population used the internet in 2008.
Wipe my mobileI want to completely wipe my mobile phone so that no personal data of any kind can be retrieved from it before I give it charity.Joe MercerJack Schofield replies: Most if not all mobiles have an option to reset the phone to its factory preset condition, which effectively makes your data disappear. This is often known as a "hard reset". The option can be a menu item, so look in the settings for Clear or Factory Reset or something along those lines. In some cases, there is a reset code, such as *#7370# for a Nokia N95. The instructions should be in the manual, or if not, you may be able to find them online.TheReCellular websiteprovides instructions for a large number of phones, though you have to provide registration details including an email address. ReCellular is a US company that buys, sells and recycles mobiles, and I can't guarantee its instructions will work on all UK phones. Otherwise, one of your network's mobile phone shops should have the answer.Make sure that you have manually removed any email accounts and deactivated the phone before you wipe it. Some services can helpfully "refresh" the missing data from their servers. Also, remove memory cards etc.Note that forensic software and services companies may be able to recover data from a phone that has been reset or wiped. If a phone has contained extremely sensitive data that could justify the cost of trying to recover it, then the safest option is to shred it. If you are buying a new phone, think about choosing one that can be wiped remotely and/or install security software that will encrypt and protect your data right from the start.Keyboard fixI've started to introduce my mum to the 21st century, and she's using the internet with my old Packard Bell EasyNote running Windows XP. The return key's suddenly stopped working. Is it worth getting repaired, or should I replace it? I've a limited budget (£250) and she thinks netbooks are too small!Steve SaulJS:There may be dirt under the key that you could remove using compressed air, or you could pop off the key, clean and replace it.Laptop Repair 101has a good pictorial guide. Alternatively, a local PC repair shop might be able to fix it.However, cheap notebook keyboards are not built to last, and it might be better to replace the whole keyboard, if you can find a spare. Try searching for "replacement keyboard" with the precise model number of your laptop. ButCyfinity has documented the replacement of one EasyNote keyboardand it seems to be a finicky job.If your EasyNote is on its last legs, £279 is about the lowest price for a name-brand product that's not a netbook, though you might find a supermarket deal or "manager's special". November could be a good time to buy: there might be lots of old stock at clearance prices when a flood of new Windows 7 machines appears on October 22.Protecting 64-bit VistaWhich combination of free protection software (anti virus, firewall, etc) would you recommend for a Vista 64-bit machine? I've been running McAfee and Kaspersky software as trials but am wondering if they are really worth the money.Karl TeofilovicJS:A lot of Vista users just use the built-in firewall, sometimes withSphinx's free Vista Firewall Control. The link now leads to the Windows 7 Firewall Control, but I presume it's the same.Comodo's firewallis a good free alternative. This now comes bundled with AntiVirus for Windows, for Vista and Windows 7, but you don't have to install it. Among the other free anti-virus programs, you can choose between Avast, AVG Free and Avira AntiVir, or possibly Microsoft's new Security Essentials. If you are willing to pay, then I think the 64-bit version of Kaspersky Internet Security (£39.99) is a better all-round suite, but the free stuff does the job.I also urge you to runSecunia's free PSIfrom time to time. Vista is inherently much more secure than Windows XP, so malware writers are trying to exploit vulnerabilities in Adobe, Apple, Real and other software, especially browser plug-ins.According to Secunia, "updating your programs and PC with the latest security updates is more important than having an anti-virus program and using a firewall". This may be an exaggeration, but not by much.Windows Side-by-SideAfter reading your item on Huge XP (8 October), I noticed that my Vista Home Premium hard drive has a giant folder, C:\Windows\winsxs, containing 8130 folders, 33,625 files, and occupying 7.24GB. It grows every time updates or applications are installed. Does internal housekeeping ever shrink it?Ken LeeJS:WinSxS is the Windows Side-by-Side directory, which stores operating system components such as dlls. (If you've installed old programs that need old dlls, there could be multiple copies of those.) For protection, it is owned and controlled by a "Trusted Installer" service, not by you. It's hard-linked to all the software on your hard drive, so you should not attempt to move it, delete parts of it, or otherwise mess with it. It's what keeps Vista running reliably by, for example, replacing damaged or corrupted files. Internal housekeeping can shrink it, if you uninstall unwanted software.Incidentally, Windows XP also has a WinSxS folder, though it's usually small.Backchat•Peggy Pelrine asked for help choosing a voice recorder. Malcolm Stewart says; "In May I purchased an Olympus WS-110 digital recorder from John Lewis (£45) to do a series of interviews for a dissertation. It's light, internal or external mic, one AAA battery lasts for 17 hours, and has the USB port. Playback can be set to slow to enable typing, and you can jump around at will. It's so much better than any other recorder I've used, even dealing with conversations taking place in a busy café. Now I wished I'd purchased a stereo one."
