What was the original plan for Yahoo?It began as a hobby in 1994 as we wanted to keep track of our personal interests on the web, but the lists became too long so we broke them into categories, then subcategories and basically the core concept behind Yahoo was born. We shared lists with friends to help them navigate the web and when we celebrated our first million-hit day in the autumn, we realised maybe we had a potential business.Did you envisage lasting 10 years?When we were a handful of people in a small office in Mountain View, we used to say "We're making a real difference." I believe we still are. Our 10th anniversary is a milestone, a great sense that we have accomplished a lot, but it's not a time for complacency. We still have a long way to go. Companies such as Microsoft, Cisco and Intel were just starting at their 10-year anniversary.What helped you get stronger when other portals fell?People regard Yahoo as a platform for essential services and it's had a profound impact on the way people obtain information, communicate and their entertainment. We've stayed ahead of the trend curve, plus we've had some luck. We are driving innovation to be leaders in areas such as advertising, music, broadband, and search. Consumers vote with their mouse every day and we never take their choices for granted.What was it about Flickr that made it such a must-have acquisition?There's a lot we can achieve through this acquisition because we'll be able to leverage their leading technology and product features such as tagging (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tagging). The internet's a driving force in the change from mass media to "my media", in which consumers will be their own programmers. User-generated content or "social media" will be a large component, and Flickr (www. flickr.com) has one of the strongest, most active communities out there.How do you feel about internet telephony?Voice over Internet Protocol is one of the most exciting developments. We believe Yahoo Messenger (http://messenger.yahoo.com) is the ideal platform for extending VoIP services. We chose it because we want to bring together the most relevant features into one comprehensive communication suite.Have advertisers found their way back to the net?In the UK, online marketing budgets saw the strongest growth of all media in the first quarter of 2005, according to the IPA's Bellwether Report (www.bellwetherreport.com) and they're expected to surpass the &pound;1bn barrier by mid-next year.Do you see more convergence of TV and broadband services?A lot of the technologies we talked about in the late 90s are starting to become a reality. If you look at the under 35s, who grew up with the net, their media consumption and approach to technology is completely different to their parents' generation. They rely on the net for information, work, entertainment - and keeping in touch with friends and family.Visit:www.yahoo.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Jack St Clair Kilby, the inventor of the integrated circuit, has died aged 81. Mr Kilby pretty much founded the modern computer industry, building his prototype chip over the summer of 1958 using improvised equipment and working largely alone. Texas Instruments has created an obituary pagehere.Image courtesy of Texas Instruments
According to theBBC, a study presented at theELSPA International Game Summitby the Swiss research firm Modulum says that although parents are aware of age ratings, they don't really care if their Little Jimmy or Jane plays a game intended for an older audience. Instead, they're more concerned with how much time the little nippers play them.Once again, this reflects a mis-judged perception of contemporary games culture by the "outside" world. From the article:"Most parents think their child is mature enough so that these games will not influence them," Modulum researcher Jurgen Freund told a games conference....Mr Freund suggested that the problem was that parents felt disconnected from the world of video games and so showed little interest in this aspect of their children's lives.So what are the options? Terrify them withManhuntand thereby scare parents off entirely or show them shots ofSuper Mario Brosand perpetuate the notion that games are just for kiddies?I'm sure the powers that be are working on this conundrum right now (there was thatmeetingbetween the government, BBFC, ELSPA and TIGA late last year), but any bright ideas are welcome on this forum.Edit: For the sake of completeness, here are the current age ratings symbols and descriptors in the UK, Europe and the US. If anyone has info pertaining to other territories, pleaseemail!Europe/UKPEGIELSPAUSAESRB
Cohen: Microsoft's attempts are simply "vaporware". Photograph: Kevin P Casey/APBitTorrent creator Bram Cohen, a man who is not usually short of a word or two, has spoken on hisLiveJournalabout Microsoft's Torrent-esque Avalanche protocol (reported hereat the weekend).Guess what? He's not a fan:First of all, I'd like to clarify that Avalanche isvaporware. It isn't a product which you can use or test with, it's a bunch of proposed algorithms. There isn't even a fleshed out network protocol. The 'experiments' they've done are simulations.He fisks the project fairly strongly, giving it several pieces of his mind and an angry waggle of the finger for good measure.As you've probably figured out by now, I think that paper is complete garbage. Unfortunately it's actually one of the better academic papers on BitTorrent, because it makes some attempt, however feeble, to do an apples to apples comparison. I'd comment on academic papers more, but generally they're so bad that evaluating them does little more than go over epistemological problems with their methodology, and is honestly a waste of time.Whether or not Cohen's position on Avalanche is correct, it's only a matter of time before somebody builds a BitTorrent-style system that does the job better. That's the way of the world. BitTorrent itself remains an inspirational idea, but still relatively difficult to implement - and why shouldn't it be, it's not a mass market consumer product.I imagine there are technology wonks at hosts of companies all trying to replicate the BitTorrent effect - the real question is who's going to get there first?
That's a slightly misleading headline I admit but creator of splendidly offbeat 'rolling and collecting' game Katamari Damacy (Japanese for 'Bundle Soul' or something thereabouts), Keita Takahashi, will be giving a keynote speech at this year'sGame Developers Conference Europeheld in London from August 30 to September 1. According to the press release:"Takahashi-san gives a detailed inside look into the development process for the game, and previews new gameplay innovations he will be presenting through his latest project: We Love Katamari."Hopefully, this is subtle confirmation of the expected (and looooong overdue) UK release of Katamri Damacy this autumn. Surely they wouldn't drag Takahashi-san all the way over here to a country where his game isn't even available? They wouldn't do that to us would they?Also giving a Q&amp;A-style keynote chat will be Phil Harrison, Executive Vice President of Development at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe. Phil, the tallest man in videogames, will discuss, 'next-generation development and the state of the European interactive entertainment community' although I expect he will bat away specific questions about PS3 with an enormous club.I've just emailed Sony PR asking for an interview with Mr Harrison. I expect I've gone and blown that now.
It was the boldest of innovations. A chance for the mainstream media to strike back against the upstarts of the online world. On Friday the Los Angeles Times - an unwieldy broadsheet newspaper - launched its "wikitorial", an interactive device allowing readers to contribute to and rewrite its editorial column."Do you see fatuous reasoning, a selective reading of the facts, a lack of poetry?" asked an introductory article in the paper. "Well, what are you going to do about it? You could send us an e-mail ... But today you have a new option: Rewrite the editorial yourself."Trumpeting the experiment as "a constantly evolving collaboration among readers in a communal search for truth", the paper admitted that it faced potential disaster: "Like an arthritic old lady who takes to the dance floor ... the Los Angeles Times is more likely to break a hip than to be hip. We acknowledge that possibility."At the end of a 1,000-word editorial about the war in Iraq, online readers were invited to "Click here to Wiki this morning's editorial".But by Sunday, readers were met with the following statement: "Where is the wikitorial? Unfortunately, we have had to remove this feature, at least temporarily, because a few readers were flooding the site with inappropriate material."Hot and flustered, the arthritic old lady had left the dance floor.The wikitorial took its lead from the website wikipedia.org, an encyclopaedia on the internet written by volunteers. The name comes from the Hawaiian term "wiki wiki", meaning quick or informal.The wikitorial started with the first users posting modest amendments to the editorial just hours after its publication.By early morning, readers were inserting a tone that was more shrill than the high-minded balance of the original: "The Bush administration should be publicly charged and tried for war crimes and crimes against humanity."At 9am, the editorial was erased by a reader and substituted with another. Bizarrely, the new version echoed the position of the original.By mid-morning, the editorial had been replaced by the more reductive "Fuck USA".By lunchtime, the founder of Wikipedia got in on the act, "forking" the editorial into two pieces, representing opposing viewpoints."I'm proposing this page as an alternative to what is otherwise inevitable, which is extensive editing of the original to make it neutral ... which would be fine for Wikipedia, but would not be an editorial," wrote Jimbo Wales, who advised the paper on its experiment.At 4am the paper's managing editor got a call from the office. Explicit images known as "goatses" had appeared on the wikitorial page. The experiment was terminated.But the paper remains undaunted. "As long as we can hit a high standard and have no risk of vandalism, then it is worth having a try at it again," managing editor Rob Barrett said.Michael Kinsley, opinion editor of the LA Times and the founder of the online magazine Slate, defended the wikitorial. "It's a cool thing, this wiki business and you think there's got to be some way it's useful," he said. "I thought, what the heck, let's do it."The wikitorial, with modifications, will probably return, he said. "We said it was an experiment. We were embarrassed a bit, but we took it down and we'll come right back."The old lady just can't keep away from the bright lights.
Pre-empting ourweekly letters page, I'm going to take a run through some of the letters and emails that have come in to us this week.Just because we don't publish something in the paper, it doesn't mean we haven't read it. Send in your email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.Despite a host of coverage of the iPod, nobody quite seems to have hit the limit with coverage of Apple's music player yet... though a few readers did write in to have their say on recent coverage of the great white hope.Unpleased with the 'podDean Dracknell doesn't sound like a happy bunny. "What people fail to mention about the iPod is how remarkably unreliable it is," he says. "How often it locks up so you have to reset it to get it to work again; how many times you have to reinstall its operating system; or how often it is simply not recognised when you connect it to a PC."Frank Cookson leaps to the defence of Apple, though, wondering if the phrase "iPod killer" gets bandied around too much. "Every fortnight or so you talk of the end of the iPod," he writes. "It seems every new portable that comes on the market gets the 'iPod killer' treatment."He wasn't the only one. The assertion that "Creative's hero has been the Zen Micro" didn't go down well with Michael Vallance in Singapore. "Huh? Look at the market and read the numbers," he says, pointing out that Creative's share price has dropped by 35% since January. "Another opportunity for the Guardian to knock Apple," he (probably) sighs.Any other businessThe saga over older surfers continued to rumble on, though a little more slowly than recent weeks. Paul Goossens wrote to tell us that older web users "need to be assured that their computer will be safe from net nasties. ISPs need to realise that their role in shielding customers from security threats is imperative for customer satisfaction and retention."Meanwhile, Richard Stallman'sarticleon software patents has already drawn some response, including from William Donelson, who told us that he "agrees wholeheartedly". "This should not be allowed to pass, and the Guardian should present more of these articles and the (assuredly feeble) replies from UK ministers."And finally...Finally, one of our regular columnists, Dave Birch, got in touch to respond to some previous feedback.Aidan Cunninghamwrote that "Birch has come to theconclusionthat an iPod is more essential than a mobile phone because he hasn't used all of its features".The response? "My point was that the features aren't compelling," Dave tells us. Aidan's suggestion - that Dave buy a sleek white object ("a bag of cotton wool") fell on, ahem, deaf ears. "Certainly inexpensive, but doesn't have the latest edition of 'I'm Sorry I Haven't A Clue', I'm afraid."And that wraps it up for another week.Remember: if you've got any questions, queries or points to make about anything you've seen in Online or here on the blog, please email us atonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk, or leave a comment below.
Broadband internet growth will propel the value of the worldwide entertainment and media industries to $1.8 trillion (&#163;990bn) by 2009, PricewaterhouseCoopers predicts, as print publishers cede ground to new media.Legal online distribution of games, videos and movies is also tipped to accelerate, countering the effect of piracy. Total spending from new revenue streams such as broadband and digital downloads will rocket from $11.4bn to $73bn over the next five years, according to PwC's report, Global Entertainment and Media Outlook: 2005-2009.Spending on media and entertainment around the world grew 8% last year to $1.3 trillion. This was the largest gain since 2000. The internet was the fastest growing medium, with online advertising up 36% and access revenues up 21%, driven by the switch from dial-up to broadband services.The internet will continue to outpace other media, as more people hook up to broadband and buy online. Internet advertising is predicted to increase by 16% to $32bn in 2009, as marketers take advantage of broadband formats.Surging growth in broadband access combined with the revival of online advertising will see the total internet sector grow 17% annually over the next five years to $289bn.The booming popularity of digital distribution and mobile phone ringtones has turned the record industry around, enabling it to post its first gain since 1999. The worldwide industry increased 6% to $38bn in 2004, despite the continuing decline in physical format sales.Illegal digital downloads and CD burning will continue to cut into physical sales but will be offset by growth in licensed digital downloads and mobile music. PwC has forecast 8% annual compound growth for the sector, reaching $56bn in 2009."If you get the right product to the right people at the right price legally, they will pay for it," said PwC's UK entertainment and media expert, Robert Boyle.PwC is upbeat about the long-term global advertising outlook, forecasting 6% annual compound growth to $477bn in 2009. TV will still account for the bulk of future global ad spend, expanding 6% annually to $186bn - nearly six times the size of the online spend. Newspapers and radio will grow more slowly, at 4.3% and 4.7% respectively, as they lose share to new media.Despite the deterioration in UK consumer spending, PwC is confident the favourable economic outlook will sustain 6% annual growth in advertising here. Internet advertising will continue to grow at double-digit rates, while advertising in traditional media will only increase by 4%-6%.Consumers are forecast to spend more on internet access, subscription TV and video games but less on filmed entertainment as the DVD market reaches saturation.
The health service's head of IT said yesterday he was "all ears" to doctors' complaints about the new acute care booking system, called choose and book.Family doctors at the British Medical Association's annual conference for GPs last week voted overwhelmingly to oppose the system as it is currently designedBut the NHS's director of IT, Richard Granger, told a conference in London yesterday some NHS staff had been acting as if choose and book, under which GPs will be expected to help patients choose secondary care from four or five suppliers, would fail."Three years ago, I think the consensus was it wouldn't happen," Mr Granger said. "People have moved on from that into 'This is what we want to happen, please listen to us' - and we are listening and acting upon that input."Of the GPs' vote, Mr Granger said: "One of the problems of the task that I lead is, many of the people critical to its success have experience that goes back more than a decade of things not happening, so when things start getting delivered they suddenly realise that they had better start getting involved."I think there is some catching up to do, which is not through lack of trying on my part."More than 200 GPs were involved in the design of choose and book and two GPs are acting as conduits for input. "We are all ears," he told the government computing event GCExpo.Mr Granger said doubts about choose and book should be addressed to Margaret Edwards, director of access at the Department of Health. "We've delivered what we were told to," Mr Granger said. "She needs to listen to what GPs want and then instruct me on what she wants delivering."He added that a year ago, choose and book's contractor, Sema Group, had delivered a system that worked, to budget and on time. He said the system had been "perhaps ahead of its time, perhaps without slightly enough buy-in from clinicians and the policy people that specified it, but we went ahead and delivered what they wanted."It is unfortunate we delivered it to schedule, because if we had delivered it a year or two late, I think the user input would have caught up with the system being delivered."Mr Granger said 350,000 NHS staff were now using national programme products that delivered benefits to some 2 million patients."That will increase massively during the balance of this calendar year," he said. "By next year ... if you go into an NHS facility, at least part of that facility will be dependent on things that we are delivering."
You report today on the prosecution of a young girl for downloading music (Mother faces music for girl's illegal downloads, June 21). Her mother is being asked for &#163;4,000 in "compensation". Since the mother says she cannot afford to pay this charge, and presumably her daughter has no other income, it seems unlikely that, in the absence of file-sharing, she would have rushed to her local record store and spent &#163;4,000 on CDs.In this and, I suspect, many other similar cases, there is therefore little or no actual loss to the record companies or their musicians. File downloading in these cases is not an alternative to purchase, simply a way for these kids to hear their chosen music. Indeed, with this early exposure, they will probably be more likely to buy CDs in the future.I would have assumed that in order to bring about a successful prosecution, the record companies need to produce evidence that they have suffered quantifiable financial loss.Phil RidgwayWoodbridge, SuffolkIt's heartwarming to see the BPI targeting teenage girls in its effort to get back every penny owed to the multimillionaires Chris Martin and Noel Gallagher. I would be interested to hear where the artists stand on this issue. Have they never copied anything on to tape? Have they never burned anything on to CD? Have they never downloaded something without paying for it?Is it appropriate for our legal system and our prisons to be used in this way - simply to ensure that Coldplay and Oasis don't go hungry? Make poverty history, indeed.Peter HigginsLondon
You don't often get Microsoft and Sony in the same room, but it happened today at theELSPA International Games Summit. The two-day event had an interesting line-up of speakers - senior Microsoft and Sony exec's kicked off proceedings this morning - but a rather poor turnout. What the likes of Microsoft's Peter Moore, last seen talking"zen of gaming"to 2000+ people in LA, made of the sparse attendance is unknown. But the presentations threw up some interesting stuff. Microsoft expects to sell 10 million 360's "within 12-16 months", while Sony attempted to persuade Europeans that being last to get new consoles is actually a good thing.Up first was Peter Moore, Worldwide Marketing and Publishing supremo at Microsoft Xbox. A confident speaker, Moore buttered up the audience by handing around a "finished" 360 case and controller before telling the audience that first mover advantage was just that, an advantage. And this is despite Moore's history with Sega on the Dreamcast, which he said failed due to lack of marketing, publisher support and brand momentum. He forgot to mention the shockingSpirit of Speed 1937.What followed was a typically glitzy presentation consisting of marketing speak - connected communities, golden age of online gaming, no Zen - and a real emphasis on the technology behind the 360. ATI were hauled up to show an impressive real-time demo but all the talk of HDTV, home cinema set-ups, kick-ass graphics and other signs of gaming machismo sat uncomfortably with his professed desire to widen the gaming market. You can't accuse Microsoft of lacking confidence though. Moore said he expected 10 million 360's to be sold "within 12-16 months".David Reeves, head of Sony Europe was up next, with a less glitzy, more stat-driven presentation that focussed on the European market. There was an explanation as to the causes of hardware shortages - apparently orders have to be placed an astounding 7 months in advance! - plus a stack of reasons, mainly financial and logistical, as to why the UK doesn't have a games expo this year.Most interesting though was his argument that Europe actually benefits from being last in the hardware queue. Yes, while you twiddle your thumbs this summer, waiting for your PSP to arrive(incidentally, this is outselling DS "2 or 3 to 1" in the US, consultant Nick Parker said today), remember this. It's for your own good. Yes, apparently the delay means all bugs can be removed from the hardware (remember that). Also, you'll be pleased to know, a delay helps reduce Sony's marketing costs because so many Europeans are already aware of the PSP. Great.Reeves was on firmer ground with his desire to widen the market - a common thread between all console manufacturers. The likes of Singstar, EyeToy and the upcomingBuzzmusic quiz game have and will do this.Gazing into his crystal ball, Reeves predicted closer co-operation between the console manufacturers in the future. Hardware neutral may be taking it too far for now, but he did predict, "links between console manufacturers". Halo 5 on PS4 anyone? Unlikely, but once upon a time the thought of aSonic game on a Nintendoconsole would have seemed impossible.Some interesting stuff though and congratulations to ELSPA on getting the quality of speakers, even if the turnout seemed disappointing.
Record industry mavens have long wobbled their jowels in fear of illegal downloaders. They're destroying the music industry, don't you know. But things are on the turn, according to new research. Here's whatReuterssay:Around 35% of music consumers now download tracks legally via the Internet and the percentage will soon pass the 40% who have pirated music, according to a new survey by Entertainment Media Research.The online research company used data collected from 4000 music consumers to compile the 2006 Digital Music Survey in association with media law firm Olswang.Fear of prosecution, Internet viruses, and inferior quality were cited as the main deterrents against illegal downloading, the report said. Nearly two-thirds of music consumers said immediate availability was the key reason for buying tracks online.Well, the number of legal downloadshasskyrocketed... since consumers have actually been able to buy music online. But the fear of prosecution doesn't always stop illegal downloading - just askSylvia Price, who's on the sharp end thanks to her daughter.So look on these words, ye mighty: don't despair.
It was, as the LA Times itself admitted, always a bit of a nutty idea. When the highly respected US newspaper announced last Friday that it was allowing readers to add their thoughts to online editorials, many in the media predicted disaster.Sure enough, the paper has abandoned the experiment - dubbed "wikitorial" - within days of its launch after readers flooded the site with obscene language and pictures.The trouble began on Friday, when the LA Times posted an editorial on its website urging a better-defined plan to withdraw troops from Iraq and invited readers to add their thoughts.Within hours one user had managed to change the headline on several pages to read "Fuck USA". Editors scrambled to remove the offensive headline, but lost some readers' comments at the same time.But the number of "inappropriate" posts soon began to overwhelm the editors' ability to monitor the site and on Sunday they decided to remove the feature.Yesterday the paper thanked readers who had logged on "in the right spirit" but said the feature would stay offline indefinitely while it looked at what happened and how to fix it.In an introduction to the experiment published on Friday the LA Times acknowledged it could all go horribly wrong."Plenty of skeptics are predicting embarrassment; like an arthritic old lady who takes to the dance floor, they say, the Los Angeles Times is more likely to break a hip than to be hip," it said. "We acknowledge that possibility."The plan was for the newspaper to show the original editorial and interim versions along with the readers' final product."The result is a constantly evolving collaboration among readers in a communal search for truth," the paper said in its Friday edition. "Or that's the theory."Nearly 1,000 users registered to take part in the rewriting of the editorial, which argued for the US to set goals for training Iraqis to replace US troops in Iraq, and called for the US defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, to go if those goals were not met."Wikis", based on the Hawaiian word "wiki wiki" for "quick", are online communities that encourage users to collectively write and edit articles, and even override and delete other contributors' work. The end product can be thought of as a community's shared knowledge.There are wiki cookbooks, collections of quotations and an encyclopedia.The best-known wiki, Wikipedia, is an online encyclopedia where any visitor can add, change and erase someone else's entry.Some contributors have attempted to impose their personal viewpoints - for instance, by replacing an article on abortion with the word "murder" written 143 times.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Blessed be to summer solsticecelebrators. In honour of the longest day of the year (Hurrah! As far from British wintertime as we can possibly be!) Gamesblog has compiled a selection of appropriately-themed computer games for sun worshipers and new-age hippies alike.So grab your druid hat and head down to Stonehenge (where the demons dwell). It's time to get interactive, pagan-style.Druid: Released in 1986 and followed by the hugely successful Amiga gameEnlightenment: Druid IIin 1998, it wasdesignedby the legendary team which later becameBullfrog Productions.Solstice: Released in 1990 for the Nintendo Entertainment System. According toRottenTomatoesThe evil mage Morbius has kidnapped Princess Eleanor and disappeared. You're Shadax, the brave warrior who seeks to return Eleanor to her rightful place. You'll search through the treacherous Kastlerock for the six pieces of the magical Staff of Demnos, the one thing that can help you rescue the Princess. Make your way through more than 250 exciting, unique rooms, battling deadly beasts and solving intensely complicated puzzles. Plenty of keys will lead you to hidden areas and many potions will lend you the gift of transformation. Graced by stunning 3D graphics, SOLSTICE looks and plays like an arcade adventure, but has the patience and replay value to make it one of the most complete epic the NES has ever known.Pagan Hangman: Not a site dedicated to pagan-bashing. This simple interactive game takes the traditional hangman and gives it a pagan twist with hints like "Thor" and "Banded and green". Eh? It comes from pagan celebration site A Mystical Grove.Buffy the Vampire Slayer: While not related immediately to the summer solstice, Buffy's mate Willow has been credited with turning an entire generation of teenage girls on toWicca. This branch of witch views the summer solstice as one of their most sacred of holidays.Stonehenge: The board game. Released in Germany in 1994, it's referred to as "Abstract Strategy" byBoard Game Geek. Even better, it comes complete with 18 megaliths! Fromgamefest.com:Imagine you are the mystic site of Stonehenge. It is a dark midsummer's night, 395 B.C. You have come here to become the Master Druid. The contest begins. With the first rays of the sun, mysterious ley-lines appear on the ground. The intersections of the lines sustain the power of the druids. The most magically powerful druid becomes the Master -- therefore place your druid-pieces wisely at the intersection. The total value of your pieces on a line should be higher than your opponent's. In this way you dominate a line, and can mark it with one of your megaliths. The first player to place all of his megaliths becomes the victorious Master Druid.Finally, pretty much anyMMORPGfeatures aDruid Grove, aclass of druidsand other druid-y things.Surely there are others?
A teenager's penchant for the bands Coldplay and Oasis left her mother contemplating prison yesterday.Sylvia Price has received a demand for &pound;4,000 in compensation by solicitors acting for the music industry after her daughter, Emily, was caught illegally downloading songs by her favourite artists.Mrs Price, a self-confessed computer illiterate, said: "I don't know where I'm going to get the money from. I'll have to go to prison because I haven't got that kind of money."As well as using the PC to help with her homework, 14-year-old Emily had been using file-sharing to download 1,400 songs for free.Because of Emily's age, Mrs Price, 53, of Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, is legally responsible to pay any penalty.A nationwide crackdown organised by the British Phonographic Industry is under way to try to stop illegal downloaders. Thousands of people use file-sharing software which allows them to swap music files, costing the music industry &pound;1.3bn a year in lost sales. At any one time 8.5 million people across the world are file-sharing.Earlier this month Coldplay's new album, X&amp;Y, was leaked on to the internet a week before its European release. Other artists, including U2 and Madonna, have had to bring forward releases or offer free tracks on websites after their music appeared online before reaching the shops.The Prices were caught in a third wave of swoops on what the BPI believes are the worst offenders.Emily said she did not think what she was doing was wrong. "Everyone I know at school does it. I ... didn't know it was wrong," she said."I think I've been picked on because my computer is on all the time and people have downloaded music from my files."Solicitors Wiggin &amp; Co, which pursues internet pirates on behalf of record companies, said Emily had been breaking the law for two years.Mrs Price has until July 1 to pay the BPI or face a civil action.BPI spokesman Steve Redmond defended the tactic of targeting the parents of downloaders. He said: "If we don't demonstrate that copyright law has teeth, we're going to be out of business and countless musicians will lose their livelihood too."
GQ editor Dylan Jones is a dapper fellow. He's also madly in love with his iPod, in fact with the whole concept of iPod - so much so, that he's writtena book about it.Hamish Mackintoshasked him a few pertinent questions for last week's Online.Read more...
"A new company called BadFruit has anticipated Apple Computer's plans to add podcasting support to iTunes with a software plug-in called 'BadApple'," reportsCNET News.As yet, the programmers behind the BadFruit site are remaining anonymous, although several clues point to a corporate identity. Unlike most basement-hacker projects, the software comes with a sophisticated privacy policy and terms of use that may indicate bigger plans for the future.For now, the plug-in provides seamless access to hundreds of podcasts inside the iTunes shell, with downloads functioning in much the same way that the iTunes music store itself works.It's Windows-only at the moment (which hasn't pleased some of the users) and there's a disclaimer running across the bottom of all pages which reads "BadApple is NOT from the Beatles. It's also not from Apple Computer Inc. It's definitely not endorsed or approved by Apple. In fact, I'm pretty sure they wouldn't want you to use BadApple."
The dominance of English on the internet is being challenged by the UK organisation that maintains British website addresses, in a move designed to reflect the country's multi-cultural mix.Nominet, the not for profit company that registers internet addresses ending in .uk, yesterday launched a three-month public consultation on plans to introduce so-called international domain names (IDN).Although internet browsers are already capable of reading text written in languages from across the globe, until now the actual website address has had to be written using the 26-letter Latin alphabet plus hyphens and the digits 0 to 9.But Nominet, which has 4.1m registered domain names under the .co.uk, .org.uk, .me.uk, .plc.uk, .ltd.uk and .net.uk banners, is considering the adoption of the internationally recognised IDN standard.That would clear the way for websites with addresses which include accents, as in www.caf&eacute;.co.uk, or use entirely different alphabets such as Greek or Arabic.Several countries have already made similar changes to their domestic addresses, but the UK plans could go much further than merely adapting website addresses to include the quirks of "native" languages."We are asking everyone in the UK what they want," explained Nominet's head of regulation Edward Phillips. "We have Welsh and Gaelic, which require some additional characters, but when you start looking across the country you realise there is a huge range of languages spoken here. Should we open it up to absolutely everybody?"Given how multicultural the UK is, just saying that we are going to stick with the Latin alphabet is not really a fair way to go about it."Professor Susan Bassnett, of the University of Warwick, an expert on intercultural studies, believes moves to use other languages in British website addresses are part of a growing realisation that people in this country can consider themselves to be both British and of a separate ethnic background."People in the UK are much more conscious of their ethnic identities and have a desire to inhabit more than just one world," she said.It could also mark a significant weakening of the Anglo-Saxon dominance of the world wide web. English owes its online status to the internet's creation by English-speaking scientists and the strength of American business online, although, in fact, the majority of the world's population does not speak the language.Paradoxically, the introduction of new characters and new languages into very visible British website addresses could actually have a positive influence on the country's native English speakers, she added, as it will reinforce the message that English is not, after all, the only language in the world."As English increases its power and more and more people learn it, native English speakers have become less and less interested in learning another language," she said. "This could be a very positive influence on that trend."Certainly the Nominet consultation includes moves far in excess of what some other countries have made.There are roughly 300 languages spoken in the UK, according to the Department for Education and Skills, and opening up the internet to different languages in addresses would allow language-based community groups to have their own sites on the internet.Plain names for ethnic sitesJust using western European languages, potential changes in the way British internet addresses are compiled would allow websites that use accents - such as caf&eacute;.co.uk, adi&oacute;s.co.uk, apr&egrave;s-ski.co.uk etc - to be set up.But if there is demand, any ethnic community in the UK - from Chinese and Greek to Russian and Indian - could have .uk websites with addresses in their own languages. The switch would not require heavy investment as international domain names leave the underlying registration system untouched. IDN involves an upgrade to the internet browser on a user's computer, such as Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox, so it can recognise website names written in nearly the full range of symbols.When a user types into this browser, an address that contains characters not in the 37 core symbols - the Latin 26-letter alphabet, numbers 0 to 9 and hyphens - the application converts it into a "plain" domain name which can be understood by the English language-based fabric of the internet.These plain names are prefixed xn--, so www.caf&eacute;.co.uk would become www.xn--caf-fsa.co.uk, and that is where the site resides. But the user will be taken straight to the website without knowing the address has been translated back into English to find the right location on the web.
This one's been around for a week or so, but I just spotted it again on the linklog of Kottkeplc, and thought I'd post it: a video of Sony'sDataTiles project, described as "a modular platform for mixed physical and graphical interactions".It's a 33 meg download, but worth a watch. Essentially, you watch somebody working with a variety of standalone widget-type applications: weather, email, paint, shopping basket. Except these applications arephysical.They are glass plates which are placed on top of a table, which then displays relevant information through the plate. And they can interact with each other, through proximity and gestures.Watch it. It's fascinating.
Sobering thoughts for exponents of treeware, fromtoday:More than one-fifth of people who read newspapers on the internet have all but abandoned purchasing print editions, a report has found.A US survey by the research company Nielsen//NetRatings revealed that 21% of internet users who read daily newspapers have transferred the bulk of their newspaper reading to the internet.Now, this is the kind of thing that will have old media pointyheads around the world fingering their collars with worry (including, of course,our own esteemed paper).But fortunately, your tiptop Guardian Online chums are riding on the crest of a technological tidal wave: we straddle the on and offline worlds.Hey, is it just me, or is it getting hot in here?UPDATE:Thankfully I'm in the office now, so I've put a copy of the story on Guardian Online: registration is no longer required.
Greg Costikyan has writtenan excellent critiqueof mobile games development over on his blog, Games*Design*Art*Culture. He points out that the key problem with current mobile titles is that, due to technical and security limitations, they cannot access any of the phone's key functions - voice comms, address book, camera, etc. These are, of course, precisely the elements that could make mobile phone games unique and interesting to a much larger number of users.Sadly one of the comments attracted by Greg's post provides a succinct and convincing explanation as to why his dream will never become a reality:"Cellular carriers fear anything that could drive up support costs. Carriers don't want to ship anything that doesn't help them 'monetize' their userbase. Carriers want unique features that lock people in to their network. Carriers worry about not making enough money to cover the acquisition and upkeep of their obscenely expensive infrastructure."I've spoken to a couple of developers who've told me that their modest plans to include Bluetooth two-player modes were scuppered by carrier-related problems. And apparently, merely providing hidden content in games is frowned upon.Almost certainly mobile gaming is not considered important enough to make radical changes to network interoperability. Even with the advent of 3G, it is likely we'll have to make do with laggy two player racers or shoot 'em ups, and perhaps the odd four-player game of Scrabble. Any dreams of the mobile phone becoming a unique multiplayer gaming platform, as compelling as they are, may never be realised.
Next month, the European Parliament will vote on the vital question of whether to allow patents covering software, which would restrict every computer user and tie software developers up in knots.Many politicians may be voting blindly - not being programmers, they don't understand what software patents do. They often think patents are similar to copyright law (except for some details), which is not the case.For example, when I publicly asked Patrick Devedjian, then the minister for industry, how France would vote on the issue of software patents, he responded with an impassioned defence of copyright law, praising Victor Hugo for his role in the adoption of copyright.Those who imagine effects like those of copyright law cannot grasp the real effects of software patents. We can use Hugo as an example to illustrate the difference between the two.A novel and a modern complex programme have certain points in common: each is large and implements many ideas. Suppose patent law had been applied to novels in the 1800s; suppose states such as France had permitted the patenting of literary ideas. How would this have affected Hugo's writing? How would the effects of literary patents compare with the effects of literary copyright?Consider the novel Les Mis&eacute;rables, written by Hugo. Because he wrote it, the copyright belonged only to him. He did not have to fear that some stranger could sue him for copyright infringement and win. That was impossible, because copyright covers only the details of a work of authorship, and only restricts copying. Hugo had not copied Les Mis&eacute;rables, so he was not in danger.Patents work differently. They cover ideas - each patent is a monopoly on practising some idea, which is described in the patent itself.Here's one example of a hypothetical literary patent:Claim 1: a communication process that represents, in the mind of a reader, the concept of a character who has been in jail for a long time and becomes bitter towards society and humankind.Claim 2: a communication process according to claim 1, wherein said character subsequently finds moral redemption through the kindness of another.Claim 3: a communication process according to claims 1 and 2, wherein said character changes his name during the story.If such a patent had existed in 1862 when Les Mis&eacute;rables was published, the novel would have infringed all three claims - all these things happened to Jean Valjean in the novel. Hugo could have been sued, and would have lost. The novel could have been prohibited - in effect, censored - by the patent holder.Now consider this hypothetical literary patent:Claim 1: a communication process that represents, in the mind of a reader, the concept of a character who has been in jail for a long time and subsequently changes his name.Les Mis&eacute;rables would have infringed that patent too, because it also fits the life story of Jean Valjean.These patents would all cover the story of one character in a novel. They overlap, but they do not precisely duplicate each other, so they could all be valid simultaneously - all the patent holders could have sued Victor Hugo. Any one of them could have prohibited publication of Les Mis&eacute;rables.You might think these ideas are so simple that no patent office would have issued them. We programmers are often amazed by the simplicity of the ideas that real software patents cover - for instance, the European Patent Office has issued a patent on the progress bar, and one on accepting payment via credit cards. These would be laughable if they were not so dangerous.Other aspects of Les Mis&eacute;rables could also have fallen foul of patents. For instance, there could have been a patent on a fictionalised portrayal of the Battle of Waterloo, or a patent on using Parisian slang in fiction. Two more lawsuits.In fact, there is no limit to the number of different patents that might have been applicable for suing the author of a work like Les Mis&eacute;rables. All the patent holders would claim they deserved a reward for the literary progress that their patented ideas represented - but these obstacles would not promote progress in literature. They would only obstruct it.However, a very broad patent could have made all these issues irrelevant. Imagine patents with broad claims, like these:Communication process structured with narration that continues through many pages.A narration structure sometimes resembling a fugue or improvisation.Intrigue articulated around the confrontation of specific characters, each in turn setting traps for the others.Who would the patent holders have been?  They could have been other novelists, perhaps Dumas or Balzac, who had written such novels - but not necessarily.It isn't necessary to write a programme to patent a software idea, so if our hypothetical literary patents follow the real patent system, these patent holders would not have had to write novels, or stories, or anything - except patent applications.Patent parasite companies - businesses that produce nothing except threats and lawsuits - are growing larger.Given these broad patents, Hugo would not have reached the point of asking what patents might get him sued for using the character of Jean Valjean. He could not even have considered writing a novel of this kind.This analogy can help non-programmers to see what software patents do. Software patents cover features, such as defining abbreviations in a word processor or natural order recalculation in a spreadsheet.They cover algorithms that programmes need to use. They cover aspects of file formats, such as Microsoft's new formats for Word files. The MPEG 2 video format is covered by 39 different US patents.Just as one novel could infringe many different literary patents at once, one programme can infringe many different patents at once. It is so much work to identify all the patents infringed by a large programme that only one such study has been done.A 2004 study of Linux, the kernel of the GNU/Linux operating system, found that it infringed 283 different US software patents. That means each of these 283 different patents covers a computational process found somewhere in the thousands of pages of source code of Linux.The text of the directive approved by the council of ministers clearlyauthorisespatents covering software techniques.Its backers claim the requirement for patents to have a "technical character" will exclude software patents - but it will not. It is easy to describe a computer programme in a "technical" way, the boards of appeal of the European Patent Officesaid.The board is aware that its comparatively broad interpretation of the term "invention" in Article 52 (1) EPC will include activities so familiar that their technical character tends to be overlooked, such as the act of writing using pen and paper.Any usable software can be "loaded and executed in a computer, programmed computer network or other programmable apparatus" in order to do its job, which is the criterion inarticle 5 (2)of the directive for patents to prohibit even the publication of programmes.The way to prevent software patents from bollixing software development is simple: don't authorise them. In the first reading, in 2003, the European parliament adopted the necessary amendments to exclude software patents, but the council of ministers reversed the decision.Citizens of the EU should phone their MEPs without delay, urging them to sustain the parliament's previous decision in the second reading of the directive.&copy; 2005 Richard Stallman (rms@gnu.org). Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article are permitted worldwide without royalty in any medium provided this notice is preserved.&#183;Richard Stallman launched the GNU operating system (www.gnu.org) in 1984 and founded the Free Software Foundation (fsf.org) in 1985. Gérald Sédrati-Dinet devised the examples in this article
"Theo de Raadt is a pioneer of the open source software movement and a huge proponent of free software. But he is no fan of the open source Linux operating system," saysForbes."It's terrible," De Raadt says. "Everyone is using it, and they don't realize how bad it is. And the Linux people will just stick with it and add to it rather than stepping back and saying, 'This is garbage and we should fix it.'"De Raadt makes a rival open source operating system called OpenBSD. Unlike Linux, which is a clone of Unix, OpenBSD is based on an actual Unix variant called Berkeley Software Distribution. BSD powers two of the best operating systems in the world -- Solaris from Sun Microsystems and OS X from Apple Computer.In the UK, we say MRDA, or "Mandy Rice-Davis Applies," after a once well known scandal. (In somewhat different circumstances, Mandy responded in court to the effect that "He would say that, wouldn't he.") Either way, De Raadt complains about Linux being backed by the two biggest computer corporations -- IBM (almost $100bn in annual sales) and Hewledtt-Packard (not far behind, now it has swallowed Compaq, DEC, Tandem and Apollo) -- "who have turned Linux hackers into an unpaid workforce"."These companies used to have to pay to develop Unix. They had in-house engineers who wrote new features when customers wanted them. Now they just allow the user community to do their own little hacks and features, trying to get to the same functionality level, and they're just putting pennies into it," De Raadt says.Comment:It is a normal part of the technology adoption Hype Cycle,as propounded by Gartner, that something is overhyped then suffers a backlash. (In Gartner terms, goes from the Peak of Inflated Expectations to the Trough of Disillusionment.) Forbes is merely playing its part.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 23 2005.In the article below, we referred to "the Charlie Nicholas 1971 goal". The intended reference was to Arsenal's winning goal in extra time in the 1971 FA Cup final against Liverpool - scored by Charlie George. The mistake was ours and not made by the person to whom the statement was attributed.Things might be about to kick off between the unstoppable force of football and the global mobile phone operators. Video clips of Premiership goals could soon be available superfast from the stadium to footie fans' mobiles.At least this was how the juiced-up agenda at last week's annual Mobile Entertainment Market conference pitched it, offering the prospect of a sports media revolution at football club and broadcast level. The big teams were out in force with Arsenal, Sky Sports and Vodafone live! putting out their top players with a mostly defensive game plan.There is no better place to start examining the potential for this dialogue between the mobile companies and the tricky-to-reach 21st-century media consumer than Arsenal FC. Adrian Ford, Arsenal's commercial director, describes the club as "enthusiasts for mobile". There is something tangible, he says, about capturing the irrational nature of being a fan through a mobile phone.It is what the Gunners and current shirt sponsor O2 are calling "affinity services" - a way of bottling up sporting passion and selling it on in mobile bytes. The club has all the hot buttons needed to reach its fanbase and currently leverages everything from matchday text scores to Thierry Henry wallpapers, "a snip at &#163;1.50," says Ford.At the moment, though, these services have just 12,000 subscribers out of a possible 10 million fans in the UK and Ireland and 27 million more followers, worldwide. Ford is full of praise for O2 and says the relationship is a deep one. Nevertheless, the sponsorship contract is up for renewal at the end of next season and it is not as if the services are only available on O2.Ford's language becomes freer and more fluid when he talks about Iconic Moments, an initiative for next season focusing on pushing the nostalgia button. "It could be the Tony Adams goal celebration at Anfield in 1989, Ian Wright's record-breaking goal, Thierry Henry singlehandedly taking on the Spurs defence, three seasons back ... although you won't be able to get the Charlie Nicholas 1971 goal &#91;because of the complex archive rights issues&#93;. This is a powerful genre to experiment with."This is not just about a human connection between the club and the hearts and minds of fans. The nostalgia content is touted as more important than live coverage because of the rights rules governing big-money football.Football rights have never been a problem for Steve Nuttall, head of enterprise for Sky Sports. "There is a healthy degree of paranoia in television about mobile rights, which is no doubt reflected in equal measure by the mobile networks."Sky is in a different position from Arsenal because it does not have a single, strategic relationship with a mobile operator and pursues the "Sky everywhere" approach. "We have distribution agreements with most of the UK operators and we want as many engagement opportunities for Sky Sports customers as possible. Sky Sports should be available to them wherever they are and for whatever is relevant to them," says Nuttall.The Sky message to the mobile consumer is not so much "What would you like?" as "Come and get it!". "We have plenty of content and we have invested quite heavily in mobile content, but there are limitations, which are not set by us. Additionally, there are not enough people using their mobiles for content at the moment," says Nuttall.So is this down to the lack of mainstream Sky Sports support and sponsorship of mobile operators? Nuttall is bullish, citing cross-promotion through television and the web as well as traditional customer relationship management (CRM) posts to subscribers. "We don't know how much demand there is for 3G services and what they will pay for. Delivering content propositions in the mobile world is a complex challenge and a lot of the challenges are outside our control."Despite Nuttall's apparently cautious approach to the mobile medium there is clearly more appetite for it than he is letting on. "Sky content in your pocket" - a downloadable gizmo for "superior" handsets that brings round-the-clock sports news and betting odds available from Sky.com - was launched last week. "We will be monitoring the response carefully from a CRM perspective," says Nuttall.The subtext throughout the conference was the need for greater information from brand and media experts about what the consumer wants from mobile broadband services. The paucity of information about who is doing what on their mobile phones is possibly the biggest challenge when selling to media buyers and planners, who are used to the internet industry, where advertisers can track the clickstreams of every user.Graeme Ferguson, global content director for Vodafone live!, talked at the conference about bringing media to mobiles, and when challenged about the issue of knowledge sharing gave the stock operator response: "Consumer behaviour information is accessible and rich but perhaps not as rich as we want it to be. But it is readily available to be shared with Vodafone live! partners."This is no different from the approach of any of the other operators, and suggests that there is a real need for independent information about customers and more communication with them to solve the continuing puzzle - what content do they actually want on their mobiles?
"Death is very likely the single best invention of life," says Jobs. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APSteve Jobs is currently being showered with plaudits for his commencement speech at Stanford, (there's an audio of ithere). For those of you who'd rather read it,Bruce Sterlinghas a transcript on his weblog, along with some serious praise: "It deserves to be heard in full, especially if you are in its intended audience, new college graduates," urges Sterling.Anyway, the speech is pretty good in terms of getting out the Jobs message: motivating people, understanding that the things you learn can all be useful in your life, and to appreciate the things you do. It's the kind of stuff some self-help guru is likely to repackage and churn out. iSucceed, perhaps?Personally, I think one of the most important pieces of advice that I've ever read came from one of my literary heroes, Jonathan Swift, who wrote that "when a true genius appears in this world, you may know him by this sign: that the dunces are all in confederacy against him". Unfortunately the dunces have never lined up against me, but I live in hope. Now that's not quite technological advice, but maybe it's helped me never read a ...For Dummies book.So, in honour of Saint Steve's Advice To Students, here's this week's competition question:What's the best piece of technological advice you've ever been given?The writer of the best answer can look forward to getting their hands on a copy of the O'Reilly bookRevolution in the Valley: Andy Hertzfeld's pieced-together recollections of How The Mac Was Made.
Yet more MMORPG tragedy. Following on from thevirtual sword stabbingcomesnewsof the death of 4-month-old baby, who suffocated at home while her parents played World of Warcraft at a cyber cafe. There is something intrinsically addictive in MMORPG's - mainly the mix of socialising and regular, just-out-of-reach rewards - which leads them to become an obsession for some. This, however, is obviously a case of two people clearly not fit to be parents.
A campaign group is demanding tough new measures to crack down on cowboy car mechanics.The National Consumer Council (NCC) says half the garages in the UK offer poor service. Shoddy repairs and car servicing cost motorists an estimated £4bn a year, the group says.The extent of the problem is revealed in a report released today, At a Crossroads, which warns that poor standards put motorists' safety at risk and can push up prices.It concludes: "The consequences of poor standards in this industry are serious. Shoddy workmanship on a car can cause death or serious injury."The financial loss that consumers suffer collectively is also on a massive scale."The NCC first threatened action against the car repairs industry two months ago. It and its Scottish and Welsh sister bodies announced plans for a "supercomplaint" in April, after it found people were "consistently and comprehensively" getting a bad deal from mechanics.Since then, the NCC says, some progress has been made, as the largest trade body, the Retail Motor Industry Federation (RMIF), now plans to apply to the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to agree a code of practice.The NCC welcomed the RMIF's plans and said it wanted both the RMIF, and the Scottish Motor Trade Association (SMTA), to agree a self-regulating code of practice with the OFT by March 2006.Philip Cullum, NCC deputy chief executive, said the two trade bodies represented more than 10,000 garages - almost half of all those in the UK.The NCC said if either body missed this deadline, they should face government regulation to improve standards.The consumer watchdog has put forward two options for regulation: a levy on garages to help fund undercover quality checks, or a licensing scheme for mechanics and/or garages.It wants the DTI to create an independent complaints system for the whole car servicing and repair sector."The government shares the NCC's view on self-regulation," a DTI spokesman said. "We want, and expect, to see all those concerned, including the RMIF and SMTA members, to move forward in achieving OFT approval for codes in this sector."Responding to the report an RMIF spokeswoman said: "I am pleased to confirm that the RMIF is working with the OFT on a new code of practice to raise standards."Douglas Robertson, chief executive of the SMTA, welcomed the report. He said: "The SMTA remains committed to improving the relationship between our members and the consumers."We remain committed to the reduction in consumer detriment and we are continually working towards that goal in what we believe to be a realistic fashion."
More than one-fifth of people who read newspapers on the internet have all but abandoned purchasing print editions, a report has found.A US survey by the research company Nielsen//NetRatings revealed that 21% of internet users who read daily newspapers have transferred the bulk of their newspaper reading to the internet.The study comes after the president of News Corp and Rupert Murdoch's righthand man, Peter Chernin, admitted last week that his children got their news online.The report will provide sobering reading for the newspaper industry but it nevertheless reveals that 72% of people who read newspapers online still buy print editions. The remaining 7% alternate between online and print editions.Mr Chernin, who oversees one of the world's biggest newspaper publishers - whose stable includes the Sun, the News of the World and the Sunday Times - recently admitted that the internet and free papers such as Metro were a threat to traditional newspapers."Is Metro an educational project for young people to graduate to the world of newspapers? I grew up as a newspaper reader but my children don't read newspapers; they get their information from the internet," he said.Gerry Davidson, senior media analyst at Nielsen//NetRatings, said many newspapers were boosting the content of their websites and adding material that print editions could not match."Many online editions now feature original content and have developed an online strategy that includes online message boards and editorial blogs, which leverage the medium's strengths of interactivity and immediacy," Mr Davidson said.The Nielsen report found men preferred to read newspapers on the internet, while women wanted to read them in print.It found 53% of online readers were men but women accounted for 57% of those who preferred print editions.Last week, in an interview, Mr Chernin repeated Rupert Murdoch's view that online newspapers would grow over the coming decade.Mr Murdoch admitted in April that he "didn't do as much as &#91;he&#93; should have" to confront the digital challenges faced by his newspaper business, which also includes the Australian and the New York Post.He said he was a "digital immigrant" while his young daughters would be "digital natives" of the internet, which was "an emerging medium that is not my native language".In a speech to American editors in Washington, Mr Murdoch issued a stark warning to the industry, arguing that the web was "a fast-developing reality we should grasp".He said consumers wanted "control over the media, instead of being controlled by it", pointing to the proliferation of website diaries known as "blogs" and message boards.He warned that editors and reporters were too often out of touch with their readers, asking, "Do we have the story?" instead of, "Does anyone want the story?"&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The record industry's hardline stance on illegal downloads appears to be paying off, with the number of people paying for them expected to overtake the pirates within a year.An increasing number of people are opting to buy downloads rather than risk prosecution, according to the 2005 Digital Music Survey to be released today. Some 35% of music consumers now legally download, compared to 40% of those who do so illegally. Nearly a quarter of people said they would start legally downloading soon, compared with 16% in 2004."I think there is a good chance that we will see legal downloaders outnumber pirates in the next six to 12 months," said Russell Hart, chief executive of Entertainment Media Research, which conducted the survey.Fear of prosecution was the number one reason music consumers were put off downloading illegally. About 44% of survey respondents cited fear of prosecution, 39% said illegal downloading was unfair on the artists, and 29% were concerned about viruses.The results are evidence that the British Phonographic Industry's high-profile, litigious strategy to crack down on music pirates is having an effect.The BPI has targeted 90 pirates across Britain. Some have paid compensation to the industry for sales lost to illegal downloads, while others face a high court case. "We've seen a significant proportion of people frightened off by court cases against illegal uploaders," Hart said.Children aged 13-17 and women were most likely to be concerned about being taken to court for music piracy. EMR believes illegal downloading is on the wane, as 65% of people who have pirated music claim they will do so less often in the future.It said the fact that 42% of pirates have also bought legal downloads debunked the theory a generation raised on free music could not be persuaded to pay for it. More than 40% said downloads were cheaper than CDs while consumers also download to sample albums before buying.The main reasons people didn't download music was because they preferred CDs (58%) or because they thought it was too expensive (35%).Downloading is still more popular among males (39%) than females (31%) while 44% of men aged 18-24 download. But the next generation of downloaders is expected to include more women (24.5% intended to download in the future) than men (21.5%).The survey detected little consumer interest in down loading music to mobile phones with only 21% saying they would be interested in downloading music to mobiles when commercial services became available.The 63% who weren't interested said they liked to have downloads on their computer so they could burn CDs and create compilations. This tallies with the finding that 57% of music consumers download tracks to their computer to listen to while working. Music consumers were also concerned mobile downloads might be more expensive than internet downloads. A third already had their own digital music player so had no need for music on their mobile.
"Google Inc this year plans to offer an electronic-payment service that could help the Internet-search company diversify its revenue and may heighten competition with eBay Inc's PayPal unit, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday. Exact details of the search company's planned service are not known, the report said, but quoted people familiar with the matter as saying it could have similarities with PayPal, which allows consumers to pay for purchases on Web sites by funding electronic-payment accounts from their credit cards or checking accounts," reportsReuters."A Google spokesperson contacted by Reuters declined comment."Comment:SinceGoogle is becoming a portal, users can expect lots of new services ... but I wouldn't have thought taking on PayPal was top of the list. What does it have to sell?
Filling in for Readers' Editor Ian Mayes on Saturday, with a piece hung on our forthcoming move to a smaller format printed paper, the Guardian's director of digital publishingSimon Waldman wrote:The world our Berliner will launch into is almost unrecognisable to the one that greeted our last major change - the redesign of 1988. It was a world with only a handful of TV and radio channels, where the only digital device in your home was an LCD watch or a pocket calculator. There were no mobile phones (well none that you could honestly call "mobile"), no Big Brother, and most important of all, no internet.Since Simon also mentions 'bloggers who rail against traditional media with the cry "factcheck your ass",' I shall take the liberty of pointing out that some of this isn't true.The Internet was certainly around in 1988, though not in common use -- I didn't get on until 1992. But the UK did have Janet, the Joint Academic Network, which was connected to the Internet, and it had Prestel, which targeted the mass market.In fact, lots of people had home computers or video games consoles in the early 1980s, and lots of us were using electronic mail and online systems such as The Source, CompuServe, BT Telecom Gold (Dialcom), and AOL, as well as Prestel(Micronet) and the Fidonet network of bulletin boards (BBS). Even the Guardian had electronic mailboxes in use -- mainly by overseas corrs -- well before we computerised the paper in 1988.In 1988, home computing was well into its third generation of machines. It started with the pioneering Apple ][ (which was beige), Commodore PET and Tandy TRS-80 at the end of the 1970s, followed by UK machines such as the Sinclair (ZX80/81/Spectrum/QL) and Acorn (Atom/BBC/Electron) models.The IBM PC was launched in August 1981, and became a huge worldwide hit. Then came the Motorola 68000-based triumvirate -- the Mac, the Atari ST and the Amiga -- in 1984-85, all with mice and graphhical user interfaces, much like the systems we use today.In the UK, we'd also had the Computers in Schools project (followed by the famous Modems in Cupboards) and a Minister for IT, Kenneth Baker.I seem to recall that Ken was interviewed by Vic Keegan for the first issue of the Guardian's MicroFutures page in 1983 (when I started writing a weekly column about IT). We launched the Computer Guardian section started in 1985. Hard to imagine that happening if there werenodigital devices in homes!
"Microsoft researchers in Cambridge have developed their own version of BitTorrent which the software giant will use to distribute big files such as films, television programs and software applications over the Internet," reportsIDG News Service. [Note: this is badly phrased: it is not a version of BitTorrent.]"Codenamed Avalanche, the technology is similar to existing peer-to-peer file swapping systems, including the most famous - BitTorrent - that divide large files into many smaller pieces that are shared by all users and reassembled on your hard drive to create a copy of the original."The clever bit:The problem with existing systems, according to Microsoft, is that people sometimes have to wait a long time to receive the last, "rare" pieces of a file. This is made worse when clients drop off line unexpectedly and creates bottlenecks when only a few clients have files that are in high demand.Avalanche helps solving this problem, according to Peter Key, joint head of the systems and networking group at Microsoft Research in Cambridge, by encoding the file pieces at the server with a special algorithm before they are distributed. Each encoded piece contains information about every other piece of the original file, so users don't have to collect every last piece in order to reassemble the whole, Key said.Well, not that clever. There's the wonderfulPar2, for example, which already does the same thing....
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday June 22 2005.In the article below, we spoke of the Guardian's redesign of 1988 taking place at a time when there was no internet. We should have qualified that by adding something like "as a significant factor in publishing". Its origins were some 20 years earlier.This week it was announced that the Guardian will be changing to its new Berliner format in the autumn. We will have a new size, a new design and a new print plant. It will be one of the most profound changes in our 184-year history.The world our Berliner will launch into is almost unrecognisable to the one that greeted our last major change - the redesign of 1988. It was a world with only a handful of TV and radio channels, where the only digital device in your home was an LCD watch or a pocket calculator. There were no mobile phones (well none that you could honestly call "mobile"), no Big Brother, and most important of all, no internet.Of all of these changes, it is the internet that has brought newspapers the greatest threats, opportunities and challenges.At the very least, it has added new dimensions to the way we publish. In the six years since we launched Guardian Unlimited we have become used to breaking stories through the day, and having an instant, global audience. Through talk boards and email, and the groundbreaking presence of a readers' editor, we have also become used to a much, much greater level of interaction with our readers.Now, as both a newspaper and a website, we are having to get used to something new: blogging. Blogs that link to us, that talk about us, that criticise us and praise us. Bloggers who have read   the Guardian throughout their adult lives, and bloggers who might have stumbled across a single story on Google and decided to love or loathe us as a result.Depending on which survey you read, there are between 8m and 12m blogs out there, around 4m of which are regularly updated. They come from all continents and from people of all ages.Some might have huge global audiences, some might be read simply by the author's friends: what matters is that they are read, and are becoming an increasingly important part of people's lives.As the publisher of the New York Times, Arthur Sulzberger Jr, said recently about blogs: "We have to deal with the fact that people aren't just looking to newspapers for information, they are looking to themselves."Even a self-declared "digital immigrant" such as Rupert Murdoch can see how that is changing people's   relationship with their newspaper. "The digital native," he told the American Association of Newspaper Editors, "doesn't send a letter to the editor anymore. She goes online, and starts a blog."That is a big issue for the Guardian and Guardian Unlimited - more than for any other UK paper. According to analysis by Blogpulse, we are one of the 10 most cited news sources by bloggers around the world. The only other UK player in the list is the BBC, marginally ahead of us.It is tempting to see the relationship between blogs and traditional media as inherently adversarial. Bloggers rail against traditional media with the cry "factcheck your ass"; professional journalists decry bloggers as amateurs, and in the words of one CBS executive, "guys in pyjamas" (to which bloggers responded by calling themselves the pyjamaheddin).Yes, if we make a mistake - or if people think we have made a mistake - there are plenty of bloggers watching who can, and will, tell the world. A swarm of angry bloggers is not pleasant to run into; and a swarm of angry, politically motivated bloggers even less so.But beyond this squaring-up between old and new, something more subtle, sophisticated, and ultimately more profound seems to be happening: our content is spawning a "secondary market" in conversations and connections we have no control over.People have always talked about newspapers. We would not be doing our job if they didn't. But in the past those conversations were ephemeral and local - they had no life beyond the kitchen table or water-cooler that hosted them.Now, however, conversations about our content are permanent, and global. An   Australian who has never seen a copy of the Guardian can read something we have written and agree or disagree with it on his blog, prompting other bloggers to follow suit. Months after the event, someone from Chile might stumble across it all while searching on Google.That sort of thing is happening every day. Ironically, as papers sell fewer and fewer copies in the western world, their content has never been so widely read, so talked about, so linked to, and generated so much energy.On Guardian Unlimited, we are currently looking at a number of ways to harness this energy. It isn't simple. It isn't easy. The challenges are technical and legal as much as anything else. But it is fascinating, and exciting; and like our Berliner, it is the future.&#183;Simon Waldman is the Guardian's director of digital publishing. Ian Mayes is away.
What does the truth look like? Google, the company last week confirmed as the biggest media firm on the planet, rather hopes that it reads something like this: WO 2005/029368.That's the number of one of several patents filed in the US recently by the Californian internet giant. According to that patent, Google is for the first time planning to rank news stories according to their accuracy and reliability as well as their topicality.Google, and its heavyweight competitors, are pouring billions of dollars and thousands of staff hours into trying to ensure that when you search on the internet, you receive not only exactly the information you want, but also information that is true.During the early days of the internet boom, it was predicted that search engines would gradually lessen in importance as users latched on to their favourite sites. But the opposite has proved true, with Google and its competitors becoming the way into the web for eight in 10 web users, according to Ask Jeeves.Google News, an offshoot that emerged directly from the company's policy of allowing its 2,700 staff to spend a fifth of their time on their own projects, links to 4,500 sources from around the world and has become a key source of traffic for the internet arms of traditional media giants. But it makes no claim for the sources' veracity or accuracy.Now Google is looking to develop technologies that factor in the amount of important coverage produced by a source, the amount of traffic it attracts, circulation statistics, staff size, breadth of coverage and number of global operations.A Google spokeswoman said the company did not discuss individual patents but pointed out that its news service was "evolving all the time".But Jim Hedger, the search engine optimisation manager of Canadian company Stepforth, says that "Google is in the midst of sweeping changes to the way it operates". After the posting of the patents, he wrote: "It isn't really a search engine in the fine sense of the word anymore ... It is more of an institution, the ultimate public-private partnership."The company, famously founded in a garage by students Larry Page and Sergey Brin just seven years ago and now valued at over $80bn (&#163;43.8bn), recently revealed that it will pour $500m into developing new technologies this year alone.It's not just Google that is pouring cash into discovering the internet's equivalent of the Holy Grail. Competitors Microsoft, Yahoo! and Ask Jeeves are also spending huge sums to employ armies of developers working around the clock to develop new versions of the complex algorithms that power search engines.Charlene Li, a technology analyst from Forrester Research, said in a recent report that the search engine market was in a huge period of development and change. "As MSN launches its new search engine and players like Yahoo!, Ask Jeeves, A9 and a slew of startups continue to innovate, ... the market remains open to big shifts," she said.Tony Macklin, vice president of European product development at Ask Jeeves, added that the difference between competitors was now "more about brand than technology".Google is notoriously secretive about its algorithms - the online equivalent of the recipe for Coca Cola.The company insists its only motive is to help users make sense of the morass of information on the web. But some worry about the cultural influence of everything being filtered through the Google lens, particularly if it emerges as the arbiter of "truth" on the web.In France, Google's plans to digitise 15m books from Harvard, Stanford, Oxford and the New York Public Library immediately raised the kind of ire once directed at the perceived cultural imperialism of Disney. The head of the French National Library, Jean-Noel Jeanneney, writing in Le Monde, called the plans "confirmation of the risk of crushing American domination in the way future generations conceive the world".But experts in search technology say that such objectors are shutting the stable door long after the horse has bolted. "The technology already makes quality judgments on things all the time - that's the nature of a search engine. No matter what they do, they'll always come in for criticism," contended Danny Sullivan, editor of Search Engine Watch.Mr Macklin said the Ask Jeeves technology already contained a bias towards more authoritative sites for its results.Mr Sullivan said another dimension would be added to the debate once search technology started second guessing users' preferences by analysing their online activity and even their hard drives. Microsoft is planning to put tools based around a concept known as "implicit query" in its next version of Windows, due to be launched next year."It will be interesting to see when they make that further jump into modifying the results based on your behaviour. People don't think about the fact they have a search profile, but they do," said Mr Sullivan. "You'll do the same search and suddenly realise it's different to your friend's because you've got different histories. It will be a problem for some people. But if it's useful, people will believe in it and use it."As religious leaders will attest, belief in your version of the truth largely depends on faith. Google's company motto remains "don't be evil". How long before that becomes "the way, the truth and the life"?
Mario Party AdvanceGame Boy AdvanceMario Party is that unenviable rarity - a franchise featuring Nintendo's moustachioed tradesman that engenders quiet desperation rather than joy. Console Mario Parties have been worth avoiding if you're not a fan of limp mini-games, random victories and waiting several minutes between uniquely dull turns. Mario Party Advance has a couple of surprises: one is that it's reasonably fun to play on your own with unlockable (albeit rather patchy) games and gadgets to collect. Another is that the multi-player elements have been tightened up since its flabby GameCube iterations, providing some entertainment to go with the expected hours of mild disappointment. Lacking the raw innovation of Wario Ware: Touched! or multiplayer addiction of Mario Kart, this is the very embodiment of adequacy.Gran Turismo 4 GuidePiggyback, &#163;13Because it's impossible to damage your car in Gran Turismo, driving techniques that would normally end with your charred remains being scraped off a wall can successfully be used to win races. These include braking using the backs of opponents' cars, shortcuts across sand traps and ever-popular "wall riding", in which crash barriers become your unofficial steering mechanism. Arriving months after the game and incorporating the collective experience of 1,000s of armchair drivers, the Gran Turismo 4 Guide is everything you could ever know about the world's favourite driving simulator, from how to get (in-game) rich to where best to apply the previously mentioned treachery on each track. It's typical of publisher Piggyback's devotion to duty, reflecting obsessive care and attention lavished over man-years of careful effort, and is as much an elegantly crafted coffee-table memento of GT4 as a simple strategy guidebook.
Human Pac-ManIf you've played Pac-Man without sympathy for the terror of being locked in an inescapable maze chased by ghosts, and feeling really hungry, help is at hand: researchers in Singapore have developed a system that lets you become Pac-Man. Using real city streets as the maze, you and four ghosts strap on augmented reality headsets and GPS transmitters before heading off in search of cookies to eat and Bluetooth-enabled sugar jars that take the place of power pills, letting you devour ghosts exactly as they would you - by walking up to them. Estimated to cost $10,000-$20,000 and requiring more physical commitment than, say, a quick spin on Advance Wars, this is unlikely to galvanise the mainstream any time soon.
With the Revenge Of The Sith clogging up the multiplexes, Star Wars fever is everywhere. To get the inside scoop on the phenomena go toblogs.starwars.com, which hosts blog entries from Lucas Films employees and Star Wars obsessives like author Dan Wallace.A seemingly endless collection of fan tattoos are housed attattoosandtoys.com, while those in need of an abridged version of all the movies may be impressed byonemanstarwars.com, which features a one-hour version of all the first three films, with one actor, Charles Ross, taking on all the roles from Princess Leia to R2-D2.The simple tale of some organic vegetables attempting to overthrow the "dark side of the farm" is told atwww.storewars.org, but funnier and slightly spooky iswww.sithsense.com, where visitors can play 20 questions with Darth Vader.
The revelation that China's army of censors and monitors of the media and the internet have been instructed to intervene in internet discussions under false names and lead the discussion toward the sort of conclusions of which the party would approve is an index of the desperation of the authorities. Mere excision or suppression, of which there has been and still is plenty, is apparently no longer enough. Now the debates arising among the nearly l00 million net users in China are to be infiltrated by cultural double agents who will pipe up with encomiums of President Hu Jintao or attempt to change the subject from Tibet to the benefits to be expected from the Three Gorges Dam.Even if the operatives are more subtle than that, it is a safe bet that most will soon be spotted and become chat room pariahs. When Hu first took over he made quasi-liberal noises about free expression and debate, which led people to expect, if not a transformation of the media and communications scene, at least some improvement. But he has proceeded in the opposite direction. A sophisticated filter system, triggered by words such as "democracy", continually sweeps Chinese internet space clean, and has been refined and intensified under Hu. Yahoo and now Microsoft have, in the words of a statement from Reporters Without Borders, "given way to the Chinese authorities and agreed to self-censorship" on the same lines. The latest twist is that all websites and weblogs are to be required to register, with real names and identity numbers, on the "we know where you live" principle that the people concerned can be identified and punished in the event that dangerous thoughts get an airing. Some are ready to confront that approach directly, like Wang Yi, a radical writer and internet essayist on legal subjects, who is suing for the return of books he had privately published and which the authorities then confiscated.Wang doesn't expect to win but he does expect to embarrass - and to log everything that happens to him on the net. Part of the transition from simply suppressing debate to trying to manage it in China is the effort to establish, or re-establish, the idea that everybody and everything is under surveillance. The problem the authorities face, however, is that Chinese society has moved beyond the point where systematic punishment is possible, because the numbers involved in debate, especially on the internet, are just too large, and because some clear limits on what even a Chinese government can do to its own citizens have begun to emerge.
MondaySaddle upArcade goes LiveDisco InfernoTuesdaySecond Life and the virtual property boomHidden sex shame of GTA?Gamecube LivesWednesdayResearcher into long-term effects of violence and games released todayMobile gaming's answer to E3?Mobile gaming more popular with women than menThursdaySnake 'creator' honoured at MEMReviewed$26,500 virtual property owner speaksFridayQuick mobile gaming round-upGo retro, go indieOf bears and freedomForwards not backHaven't we suffered enough?
As one reader (thanks Chew Z) just reminded me, the weekend is nigh and like most of the adult population of Britain when there's the faintest hint of a warm evening, I will soon be standing in an over-crowded pubcar parkgarden, supping from a flimsy plastic glass designed to dollop beer all over my trousers when I accidentally squeeze too hard.Afterwards, many of us will get home slightly worse for wear but far too sober to contemplate Big Brother, and may well reach for a videogame. But what doyougo for on those mythical friday or saturday post-pub gaming sessions? If you're with mates it might be the obvious Sing Star, Dance Dance Revolution or PES - perhaps Capcom vs SNK if you want to confuse and disorientate yourselves. Alone, you may fancy a lengthy Xbox Live session, although being caught drunk in charge of a sniper rifle can be embarrassing, as can falling asleep in the neat camping position you found. MMORPGs can be especially dangerous places when you're slightly inebriated - how many times have you woken up to discover that you've given away all your best items, and that you're now married to a wizard?Anyway, my votes go to PES and Battlefield 1942. You?
SundayAll because the lady loves...MondayHotspot hogs trouble small businessEFF: Legal Guide for BloggersTuesdayTalk time: Seymour HershHowzat: the best online cricket gamesWednesdayFeedback: Apple and the oldiesWindows 2000 too successfulWhere does the music come from?How to get a great site rank in GoogleThursdayThe technology behind BatmanSpyware floods in through BitTorrentFridayAtwood: we need science fictionGoogle searches mobile phone contentOpen source smack-down
One of our writers is interested in pulling together some case studies of people who work on IT helpdesks, that strange institution which provides a crucial backbone service for so many offices.It will all be completely anonymous and confidential: but if you've had experience of working on a helpdesk and you'd like to share your thoughts, emailnatalie.hanman@guardian.co.uk.
Sony is stepping up its rather bizarre campaign to prevent small importing businesses from bringing the new PlayStation Portable into the UK. The Japanese giant is now taking its case against small independent web retailers to the high court, complaining that it is suffering a loss of revenue and is having its trademarks infringed.I've just been speaking to Dan Morelle ofElectricBirdLand, one of the businesses being taken to court, who - to put it mildly - isn't best pleased.As he points out, high street retailers and official Sony distributors are continuing to sell PSP products and accessories (presumably to those who already have grey market PSPs) and the practice of importing is a long-standing one that's never been challenged before - let alone targeting those without the resources to fight back.A decision against legitimate importers could mean a lot of change for technology fiends.
The last few weeks have seen some frankly hair-raising news concerning planned videogame to movie conversions. In May it was discovered that Constantin Films and Impact Pictures had not one but two further Resident Evil movies in development. Resident Evil: Afterlife will shoot in Australia later this year, while a tentatively titled Resident Evil 4, set in Japan, will probably follow the year after. Apparently, Paul Anderson, who 'directed' the first Resi movie, and 'wrote' the second, is in charge of scripting the third instalment. Really looking forward to that because he has expertly captured the tone of the videogames so far.Oh and the same bunch are also planning a movie version ofDead or Alive. As we already know from Street Fighter, beat-'em-ups make great movies - what with their plotless repetitive action. However, if the film simply shows a series of pretty girls doing high kicks and showing their pants I feel a considerable majority of the game's fanbase will be satisfied.Meanwhile, it has also beenannouncedthat action baldie Vin Diesel will be starring as Agent 47 in a movie adaptation of Hitman, Eidos' successful assassinate-'em-up series. Diesel who can currently be seen blundering like a big emotionless ape through The Pacifier, is known to be a huge videogame fan, contributing ideas to the Chronicles of Riddick tie-in. Despite that, the game was really good.But the best is yet to come...Uwe Boll, the German director and producer, who has carved out an infamous career for himself turning cult games into unimaginably bad movies is allegedly planning a cinematic version of Postal. For those of you who don't loiter around the bargain bin in Game, Postal and its sequel followed the heartwarming adventures of a psychopathic murderer as he shot and bombed his way around a small American town. Boll has already committed acts of celluloid attrocity with House of the Dead and Alone in the Dark and also boasts Far Cry in his portfolio of forthcoming productions from hell.No wonder, then, that Microsoft is taking such a pro-active interest in themovie conversion of Halo. The tech giant has hired its own scriptwriter (Alex 'The Beach' Garland) and is demanding a creative role as the movie goes into production. The last thing the Xbox manufacturer needs is for its flagship brand to be turned into some kind of mindless straight-to-DVD sci-fi horror flick. Well, if the movie turns out to behalfas entertaining asRed vs Blue, they'll have done okay.
The major players are starting their summer seasons with style this year, branding and re-branding themselves in an attempt to create a broader consumer base. PlayStation are hitting the festivals and other outdoor venues with their "Freedom" campaign while Nintendo is forcing thathorrible bearfrom Bo Selecta upon us at the V, T in the Park and Download events, in search of comedy talent worthy of television. Not a peep yet from the Microsoft camp, who may be laying low in preparation for their 2005 release of the Xbox 360. But is this really the best way to advertise computer game entertainment? Apart from the brand-recognition implications, I think not. After all, who wants to squint at a video monitor or a handheld with the "blazing" British summer sun reflecting off the screen?In fact, whither the games in these promotional campaigns? Enter the age of "entertainment machines", with a little bit of gaming thrown in.Sure, PlayStation's history oflifestylecampaignshas often featured little actual gameplay (to great effect), and the others have tried, but this heralds a contemporary, non-game-centred approach to publicising gaming, necessitated by the saturation of lifestyle electronic appliances in the public sphere, and the inroads the interactive entertainment format holders hope to gain by entering into this market. After all, which non-gamer in their right mind is going to forego a whopping £40-£50 of other entertainment on something that only gives them a little bit of mostly-solitary fun?Nah, they'd rather be at the park/mall/races with their mates. So to these places the publishers will go, followed by the usual suspects (i.e., the hardcore, competitive gamers) who'll hog the machines and turn off the potential non-gaming clientele.So are gamers and their gaming needs being shoved to the wayside, or is this just marketing's answer to those dry dry summer months of few to no interesting interactive releases?
There's been a lot offussabout the issue of backwards compatibility - i.e. the ability for new consoles to play their predecessor's games - and the Xbox 360. While Sony made the PS2 fully compatible with PSOne games, and intends to do the same with PS3, Microsoft have made the 360 compatible with only the best-selling Xbox games. But why bother with backwards compatibility in the first place?I can see the argument from the point of view of someone who has just bought a console and is worried about their new toy becoming obsolete. But honestly - anyone buying an Xbox or PS2 for the first time in 2005 is clearly not theearly adopteraudience that will be purchasing the 360 and PS3 in the next 18 months. By the time the mass market gets a 360 or PS3 they'll be far more interested in playing Halo 3 or the new GTA game than replaying the oldies.Look at game shops or eBay - most gamers don't keep their old stuff. They trade it on, putting the proceeds towards the latest titles. The games that are kept in the collection remain playable on the hardware they were designed for, even if you may have to go the loft to dig out the console in the future.Personally I'd rather console manufacturers spent their time producing hardware that will allow developers to create the classics of tomorrow rather than waste time allowing us to revisit old games that we can already play. Backwards compatibility is great for the console manufacturers PR's when facing the "games are too expensive" (which they are) argument, but it really isn't as important as it's made out to be.
"For the past two years [Marc] Fleury's company, Atlanta, Ga.-based JBoss, has been stealing business from IBM by giving away a set of open source programs that do the same work as IBM's WebSphere software. Fleury claims JBoss shipped more copies last year than IBM did. IBM apparently has grown tired of having a freebie program eating away at its sales. So now it is going nuclear," claimsForbes.The story is that IBM has bought a JBoss rival, Gluecode, and is going to give the software away.Fleury ... claims IBM is trying to put his privately held company out of business. He is furious, but also stunned: He says Gluecode could hurt sales of IBM's WebSphere as much as it hurts JBoss, yet IBM doesn't seem to care."Where does this all end? When the whole deck of cards, the whole software industry, falls apart? I find it arrogant on their part that they think they can control what they've unleashed," says Fleury, JBoss' chairman and chief executive.Poor guy. Did he not get the memo? This is what open source software is all about: creating knockoffs and giving them away, destroying the value of whatever the other guy is selling.[My emphasis.]
"Google Inc on Thursday started testing a mobile-phone service that searches websites that have been designed to deliver content customized for the small screens of cellular phones. Google Mobile Web Search targets sites that use XHTML as the technology for delivering content to handsets," reportsTechWeb News."To use the Google service, people go to the company's homepage via the web browser on their phones, type in their search query and select 'Mobile Web (Beta)' as their search option."
Not tempted by any of themainstream videogamesout this weekend? Fancy some retro-themed action? There have been a couple of notable independent releases/updates during the week, both following in the footsteps of classic arcade titles. Pictured above isAstrogeddona beautiful riff on Asteroids from Ort Software - reminds me a lot of the hardcore shooters that came out of the demo scene during the nineties. Then we haveUltratron, a Robotron update from Somerset-based developer Puppy Games, featuring cool minimalist visuals. Both provide free demo versions.
Our 21st-century civilisation may not produce the drama of the Tudors or the paintings of the renaissance, but when it comes to playing poker on the internet, we are living through a golden age. It seems that after a hard day in the office staring at a computer to earn a few quid, people like nothing better than sitting in front of their home computers and losing it all. Playing poker online is just like the real thing. You are dealt a few cards, you bet, you raise the stakes and finally you reveal your fantastic hand."Ta-da! I win.""No, a straight flush beats four of a kind, doesn't it?" asks the computer."Er, not sure, I thought that two pairs beat a flush?" comes another message."Not a royal flush, surely?""Well, I think the kids have been mixing the cards up because I've got Mr Bun the Baker."Later this month will see the biggest share floatation for years as the company behind the highly profitable online gambling site PartyPoker is listed on the stock exchange. PartyGaming is valued at &#163;4.73bn, which is coincidentally the same amount I've lost attempting to play online poker. The current turnover is huge, with up to 80,000 people playing at any one time, which is why thousands of investors are apparently so eager to invest their hard-earned cash inlatest-craze.com.People are attracted to online poker because it gives you the chance to try your hand at being a cool, card-sharp hustler while sitting at home in your dressing gown and slippers. There are no people to see you blush, and no one to witness what an idiot you were to bet your last few quid on a pair of nines. The secret to gambling, of course, is that if you lose some money, then bet a whole load more so that you can win it all back. That always works.The old adage that the only way to make any money on the horses is to open a bookies is equally true for the digital age. In 10 days' time the four owners of PartyGaming will come into fortunes of around a billion pounds each as they sell a company that they set up less than a decade ago. Of course, it's all very well these entrepreneurs putting years of their working life into a gambling website, but there's no spiritual fulfilment in a job like that. I mean if you're a teacher or a health worker, you may not get a huge salary, but you go home feeling that you have improved the world a tiny bit each day. What do the owners of PartyGaming think last thing at night? "What am I going to spend my billion pounds on?" Pah, where's the job satisfaction in that.Mind you, it's hard to begrudge these tycoons their massive windfalls when you look at all the worthy causes they have supported in the past: setting up sex chatlines and graduating into online pornography before finally cashing in on a craze that has seen an increase in gambling   addiction. No one deserves a billion pounds each more than them; it's comforting to know that there is some natural justice in this world.The only cloud on the horizon for the richest-yet dotcom billionaires is that they could face jail in the United States. Although the internet may know no borders, their company's wealth has been built on accepting credit card payments from a country where they knew this sort of gam bling was illegal. We could yet see a high-profile gambling trial with lawyers trying to outdo each other on the poker puns. "My client may have kept his cards close to his chest, but I can assure you that his company is no busted flush  ... "Whether the internet billionaires appreciate the seriousness of their situation is not known."So this is like a virtual prison you are sending us to? In cyberspace, as it were?""No, it's a very real prison, with big metal bars and locks on all the doors  ... "But this might be worth bearing in mind if you were thinking of investing in the safest bet since Shergar had to outrun those two Irish blokes with the lasso and the motorbike.Thankfully most of us are far too sensible to get sucked into any sort of serious betting. Except, of course, your pension fund will probably be invested in PartyGaming shares. Strange that Washington doesn't have problems with that sort of gambling. Still it's only a bit of fun isn't it, just a little flutter."Excuse me, but what happened to all that money that I put aside for my retirement?""Oh, well, I don't know if you remember way back in 2005, there was that brief online poker craze, and they floated the company and, well, we invested the pension fund in that, and well, who'd have thought it? The bubble went and burst! We lost it all on a gambling company! Isn't that ironic! Er, sorry."comment@guardian.co.uk
