A quick burst of six links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft's Bing uses Google search resultsâ€"and denies it &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"At Google we strongly believe in innovation and are proud of our search quality. We've invested thousands of person-years into developing our search algorithms because we want our users to get the right answer every time they search, and that's not easy. We look forward to competing with genuinely new search algorithms out there – algorithms built on core innovation, and not on recycled search results from a competitor. So to all the users out there looking for the most authentic, relevant search results, we encourage you to come directly to Google. And to those who have asked what we want out of all this, the answer is simple: we'd like for this practice to stop."Galaxy Tab a dim bulb &gt;&gt; NYPOST.com"The Galaxy Tab, Samsung's answer to the iPad, might better be called the boomerang as one Wall Street firm has found that an eye-popping 15% of those sold are being returned. "The Galaxy Tab is a slow-seller, as well, according to analysts. "The 15% return rate, which covers sales from its November debut through Jan. 16, compares to a 2% return rate for Apple's iPad. "'Consumers aren't in love with the device,'" said Tony Berkman, a consumer tech analyst with ITG."police.uk official crime maps â€" there should be a law against it &gt;&gt; Adrian Short"Perhaps apocryphally, Stalin said that it's not who votes that counts but who counts the votes. Likewise, we should be hugely cautious about giving too much weight to official visualisations of data. As the policing minister Nick Herbert wrote today: "'We live in the age of accountability and transparency. The public deserve to know what is happening on their streets, and they want action. By opening up this information, and allowing the public to elect Police and Crime Commissioners, we are giving people real power – and strengthening the fight against crime.' "So what we're looking at here isn't a value-neutral scientific exercise in helping people to live their daily lives a little more easily, it's an explicitly political attempt to shape the terms of a debate around the most fundamental changes in British policing in our lifetimes."Apple on Sony Reader: 'We Have Not Changed Our Guideline' | John Paczkowski | Digital Daily | AllThingsD"Apple's made no change to its App Store Guidlines, it's simply enforcing a rule that's been in them all along: apps that offer purchases elsewhere must support in-app purchases as well. "We have not changed our developer terms or guidelines," company spokesperson Trudy Miller told me. "We are now requiring that if an app offers customers the ability to purchase books outside of the app, that the same option is also available to customers from within the app with in-app purchase."From 2008: Why the police are against crime mapping â€" and what it tells us &gt;&gt; Free Our Data blogLinks back to an item from May 2008, when Brian Paddick defended the police's lack of transparency over crime maps in the UK. Money quotes: "there are systems to hold police commanders accountable though meeetings. Making crime maps available down to street level is a lot of pain for very little gain..... It's not a very British thing to hold people to account in front of their peers. It had mixed results depending on how the chair held them to account." Compare and contrast (if there's any contrast) with the release of crime maps this week. Actually, nothing has changed. The link to the radio clip still works. too.Strategy Analytics' Apple and Samsung market share analysis is fair | Tech Gear News - BetanewsThanks to @briantist for the link: "Most analyst firms also record shipments as "sell-in," when counting PCs and other products. "Sell-in" refers to the number of products shipped into the sales channel. "Sell-through" refers to actual sales to customers. During Apple's fiscal 2011 Q1 earnings call earlier this month, executives revealed that the quarter ended with 4-6 weeks of iPad inventory, up about 525,000 units. Let's do some quickie math. Apple shipped 7.331 million iPads over 12 weeks, which works out to about 610,917 units per week. Assuming that sales rate -- and presumably with iPad selling so well Apple might calculate for even more -- four weeks works out to more than 2.4 million and six weeks to, well, why bother? Let's be super generous to Apple here and just call actual sales somewhere around 5 million units, when subtracting four estimated weeks of inventory."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Even the director of the Tate was unaware that if, with patience, you look really close up at Pieter Bruegel's world-famous 16th century painting The Harvesters, which hangs in the Metropolitan Museum, then you will see a family enjoying a jolly game of throwing sticks at the tied-up goose, a pastime more usually associated with Shrove Tuesday [see footnote]."I didn't know about this rather cruel game, no," said Sir Nicholas Serota. "Next time I'm in New York I shall take a closer look."Serota was speaking at the launch today ofa significant new art project by Google. The reason we can now examine Bruegel's painting in such astonishing detail – every tiny scene, every brushstroke, every hairline crack can be seen – is because it has been captured using super-high resolution, or gigapixel photo-capturing technology.The project, unveiled at Tate Britain in London is an extension of Google Street View in which real views of streets from across the world are captured and displayed on screen.With the Google Art Project, anyone with access to a computer can take a virtual 360 degree tour of galleries in 17 major museums across the world, without queuing and without other people getting in the way – and look in superb detail at one work from each.The museums include the National Gallery and Tate Britain in London; the Met, MoMa and Frick in New York; the Uffizi in Florence, the Hermitage in St Petersburg, the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam and Reina Sofia in Madrid. They have all signed up to the unique project developed over the past 18 months, which allows unprecedented access to 385 rooms and about 1,000 artworks.Serota called the project "another great step forward. It gives people an unrivalled opportunity to come really close to great works of art."The galleries are already digitising their collections and offering whizzy websites, but Google's project offers something new, Serota said. "This is a second generation view of the way museums will use the internet. Ten years ago museums were obsessed with getting thousands of objects on the screen, now we're interested in getting depth of understanding of the works."Nelson Mattos, Google's vice-president for engineering, said the Google Art Project had started off as one of the company's "20% projects" which allows employees to take a fifth of their time away from their regular day job, to work on innovations. "What has been accomplished is fantastic, really amazing. We hope it will provide a very different and new way to interact with and explore art," Serota added.Other tricks on thewebsite, include the ability to save artworks such as Rembrandt's Night Watch or Van Gogh's The Starry Night, then create your own collection and email it to friends.Among the 17 paintings captured using technology that is 1,000 times more powerful than an average digital camera, are Manet's In the Conservatory, Bellini's St Francis in the Desert and Holbein's The Ambassadors, from the National Gallery.Tate Britain's choice – Chris Ofili's No Woman, No Cry – is the only one by a living artist. One reason for its inclusion is the large, hidden ultraviolet message the website reveals (RIP Stephen Lawrence), which can only be seen in the dark.Google and the museums believe the website will prove popular, as well as provide encouragement and inspiration for people to travel to the galleries and see the paintings up close in person.The plan is to keep expanding the project, paid for by Google, with new museums, galleries and paintings.At the launch at Tate Britain the absence of institutions such as the Louvre and the Prado were noted. But project leader Amit Sood, said Google wanted to get the scheme up and running, so included the 17 museums who signed up straight away.• This article was amended on 3 February 2011. The original stated that the throwing of sticks at a tied up goose was a Shrove Tuesday game. First, the painting is of a harvest scene in August or September, not February or March. And the game, according to curators at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, was known as "cock-throwing" (the bird was often a rooster rather than a goose) and, while associated with Shrove Tuesday, may well have been played at other times of the year.
Microsoft has been forced to named the culprit that has beenchewing through data allowances for the owners- all X of them (where0 &lt;= X &lt;= 2,000,000) - of Windows Phone 7. It's Yahoo Mail.Thediscovery was made by blogger Rafael Rivera, who applied some packet-sniffing to WP7 data. Discovering the flaw was no trivial hack (unless you find writing nodejs scripts to strip the STARTTLS bit off IMAP packets trivial), but eventually he surfaced with the discovery that "Yahoo's IMAP server (winmo.imap.mail.yahoo.com) does not respond to FETCH requests correctly."In brief, "Yahoo is sending about 25 times as much data as it needs to."Rivera's advice:"To workaround this, I strongly recommend Yahoo mail users reconfigure the phone to not transmit data via a cellular connection (Settings –&gt; Cellular –&gt; Data roaming options). As an alternative, you can set your Yahoo account to only Download new content only on manual trigger (Yahoo Mail –&gt; Settings –&gt; Sync Settings)."Microsoft was thus forced to admit that yes, Yahoo (its BFF in search) is at fault. "We have determined that an inefficiency exists in the synchronization of email between the Windows Phone Mail client and Yahoo! Mail," it wrote.Last month Microsoft said that it had identified the culprit – but didn't want to name the app that had been consuming as much as 50MBper day. The lack of naming dismayed people, since it didn't give them any clues on how to avoid it. Aside from returning their Windows Phone 7 phone to their retailer, obviously. Without the overhead, the data use would have been a much more manageable 2MB/day, for example.Yahoo is one of the three biggest email providers on the web, with an estimated 270m users, behind only Microsoft's Hotmail in size. That means that WP7 owners are almost certain to also have a Yahoo Mail account.A fix will be rolled out in "coming weeks" - though Windows Phone 7 owners have already been waiting in some cases since October for an update to the OS, and Microsoft has not given a date for the fix. (Some rumours suggest that a major carrier, possibly in the US, has been blocking the upgrade; if true, it will do WP7's, and Microsoft's, reputation no good. But we emphasise that it's not confirmed.)In a statement, Microsoft said it had determined an "inefficiency in the synchronisation of email between the Windows Phone Mail client and Yahoo Mail". It also "identified an issue" with its Exchange ActiveSync [EAS] email synchronisation protocol, which affects Microsoft Outlook and Google Gmail.The result: mail gets stuck in the outbox if a user exceeds the mail server email size. Again, an update will be issued in a "near-term end user update".It's inconceivable that Microsoft has only just found this out at the same time as Rivera. It seems quite likely that it knew about it when it acknowledged the "third party" problem in January - and, since the data-chewing nature has been bruited about since October, it should have been picking this up much sooner.This is a very bad start for Windows Phone 7: user sales are unknown (but reported by retailers and networks to be "slow"), Microsoft has not rolled out the expected update that would bring expected functionality such as cut/copy/paste and other functions, and it has not been forthcoming with users who have put their faith in it about problems that itmusthave known about.Better must follow, or worse will follow; WP7 is already starting late in the race, and if it's trying to put its trousers on at the same time then it will turn into an expensive rout.Update:in my hurry to get this story written, I overlooked the completely obvious question: why is this only an issue for Windows Phone 7 phones? There are millions of smartphones out there which also connect to Yahoo Mail, but their owners aren't complaining about enormous data usage.Acomment on Rivera's postsuggests that the iPhone gets just the same problem, but that it doesn't see it because it only downloads 50 messages by default rather than WP7's 200. That's possible, but unlikely. The more likely explanation comes in the blogpost, where Rivera writes that "Yahoo's IMAP server (winmo.imap.mail.yahoo.com) does not respond to FETCH requests correctly."The clue is in the prefix - winmo.imap.mail.yahoo.com. It's set up by Yahoo to serve Windows Mobile phones, but these are WP7. That might be the clue. It seems unlikely that every other smartphone platform has had the same problem and yet solved it independently without anyone telling Microsoft (which should have dealt with it on Windows Mobile anyway).So either Yahoo has messed up in how it treats WP7, or WP7 doesn't do it right. Eitherstillisn't good.
The internet is full. Or, to be more precise, it has run out of new internet addresses – having used up almost 4 billion since being set up 40-odd years ago.The Internet Address and Naming Agency (IANA), which doles out blocks of new internet addresses (consisting of machine-addressable numbers rather like a phone book), said on Tuesday morning that it will allocate the last seven remaining blocks of addresses this month, including three to the overall internet registrar for Asia and the Pacific.This could mean that in a year's time you may hear about a new site – yet when you type its address into a web browser or click a link to it on a web page, your computer simply won't connect to it because it will use an addressing system entirely different to the one used before.It could even get worse than that, according to James Blessing, a member of the board of the UK's Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA). "You might find that you can't get online unless someone else goes offline," he said. "It would be like the internet before broadband, when everything was on dial-up modems, and if too many people were dialling in then you couldn't get connected."The problem has been exacerbated, experts agree, because ISPs, governments and companies that make the routers used in households and businesses have ignored the problem until the last moment.Nor is there any way to estimate the costs involved in changing, because it depends on how well set up each ISP and each household is.Alex Pawlik, chief executive of the network coordination centre RIPE (Réseaux IP Européens), which allocates internet addresses in Europe, said: "I think in about six months' time people will be waking up and will have to explain to their boss why they haven't done anything about it."The old system, called "IPv4" – for internet protocol version 4 – has stood the internet in good stead since its inception. It could support a total of 4.3bn internet addresses, and many more by using certain networking tricks.But with the explosion in the number of devices, particularly mobile phones, connecting to the net, more and more addresses are needed.A technical solution, called IPv6, already exists, and has been waiting in the wings for more than a decade. Rather than the 4.3bn limit of IPv4, IPv6 would allow about 340 trillion devices to be on the internet at once – or, as Blessing puts it, "everyone could have their own internet".RIPE is preparing to hand out the last-ever block of addresses that will work with existing systems in the next few days to internet registrars. Those will be sold by registrars for new websites or internet services in the coming months. And once those are gone, RIPE and the world's other six regional registrars will only be able to hand out IPv6 addresses.However, an IPv6 address is in effect unreadable by equipment set up to handle IPv4 addresses, which comprises pretty much every piece of computer and network equipment on sale, apart from newer computers running Microsoft's Windows 7 or Apple's Mac OS X, and most smartphones. Older system such as PCs running the ten-year-old Windows XP – still in widespread use – and the broadband modems used in households cannot understand IPv6 addresses without special configuration that would defeat most users.But nobody has been willing to spend the time and money to implement IPv6 until the end of the old system has become imminent, says Blessing."People have been saying that the IPv4 address space hasn't run out yet for some time," Blessing says. "It's like oil wells. This is the equivalent of the oil wells drying up, and us not being able to find any new ones. We know there are multiple alternatives like electricity or biofuels, but as long as we have oil we'll use that. When RIPE runs out of new IPv4 addresses, some time this year, that's like the oil wells running dry."Philip Sheldrake, who runs the advocacy group6uk, says that only 1% of the traffic now passing through the net uses IPv6 addressing. "It's not like the millennium bug, when there was a clear date when everything had to be done," he said. "Everything ought to continue working as before. But gradually, we are all going to have to move to v6. After all, there are only 4.3bn addresses in IPv4 – and there are six billion people on the planet."Will this affect you and what can you do about it?What does an IP address look like?It's a collection of four "dotted quads" of numbers between 0 and 255, such as 77.91.248.30. That is an IPv4 address: each of the numbers is eight binary bits long, and there are four of them.Is that the same as a web address like guardian.co.uk?It is to a machine once the human-readable bit has been turned into something machine-readable by another machine called a domain name server, which does the words-to-numbers translation.What does an IPv6 address look like?It's usually written using two pairs of four dotted quads in hexadecimal (base 16, where the numbers 10-15 are represented by the letters a-f). So an example would be 2001:db8:1f70::999:de8:7648:6e8.What's the problem, then?Probably your computer, and almost certainly your household router, if confronted with an IPv6 address will think that an error has occurred, and ignore it. It would be like trying to deliver post when you don't speak the language.When will IPv6 come in?It has already started to be used: some sites, including Facebook, have started experimenting with it while retaining their IPv4 address. But in about 12 to 18 months, sites will start to only have IPv6 addresses.How can I fix this?You can't. The onus is on ISPs and router manufacturers to provide ways around the problem, including upgrades to their services and hardware. You might have to upgrade your computer's operating system, and you might have to buy a new router.
Google – or at least one of its sharper-tongued search fellows – has accused Microsoft's Bing of "copying" its search results and therefore "cheating" by basing its product "on our hard work".A remarkable thing to say for the world's most popular search engine, which is presently being investigated by the the European Commission's to see whether there is enough evidence to lauch an antitrust case, but there it is."I've spent my career in pursuit of a good search engine," Amit Singhal, a Google fellow who oversees the search engine's ranking algorithm,told Danny Sullivan at Search Engine World. "I've got no problem with a competitor developing an innovative algorithm. But copying is not innovation, in my book."What's got him so angry? Since October 2010, Google's engineers have apparently been noticing that bizarre mispellings have been returning the same order of results on both their and Bing's results. How could that be, given that some of the mistypings have never been seen by human eyes before?So Google laid a trap. Suspecting something might be afoot with suspiciously similar results, the Mountain View company began planting faux results on 17 December for 100 mistyped search queries – including,hiybbprqag,mbzrxpgjys, andindoswiftjobinproduction(those examples are now tarnished by more recent references including this one) – and waited to see them appear on Bing's own search offering.And lo, by 31 December, appear they did, to Google employees using Internet Explorer on their laptops from home using Suggested Sites and the Bing Toolbar. As Sullivan notes, "It strongly suggests that Bing was copying Google's results, by watching what some people do at Google via Internet Explorer."Which has certainly gotten Singhal worked up. He considered it case closed, and told Sullivan: "It's cheating to me because we work incredibly hard and have done so for years but they just get there based on our hard work. I don't know how else to call it but plain and simple cheating. Another analogy is that it's like running a marathon and carrying someone else on your back, who jumps off just before the finish line."But hold on just a minute. True, some of the Bing results matched the Google ones. But out of 100 honeytraps laid, Bing only fell into between seven and nine (depending on the time when the experiment was repeated).So is the Bing sting wafer thin? Bing certainly thinks so.Stefan Weitz, director of Microsoft's Bing,told Search Engine Land:"As you might imagine, we use multiple signals and approaches when we think about ranking, but like the rest of the players in this industry, we're not going to go deep and detailed in how we do it. Clearly, the overarching goal is to do a better job determining the intent of the search, so we can guess at the best and most relevant answer to a given query."Opt-in programs like the [Bing] toolbar help us with clickstream data, one of many input signals we and other search engines use to help rank sites. This 'Google experiment' seems like a hack to confuse and manipulate some of these signals."We did ask for a more detailed response from Bing in the UK. It said it would have to contact the US. We'll add it here when we have it.Update:ZDNet's Mary Jo Foleyhas received an enlightening statement from Microsoft PR: "We do not copy Google's results". We await a fuller explanation.Update #2:Harry Shum, corporate vice-president of Microsoft Bing, has refuted Google's claimon the company's official blog. Shum describes Google's "spy-novelesque stunt" as a "back-handed compliment" to Bing, and suggests that users' opt-in clickstream data – and information from hundreds of other sources – is the likely cause of similarity:"We use over 1,000 different signals and features in our ranking algorithm. A small piece of that is clickstream data we get from some of our customers, who opt-in to sharing anonymous data as they navigate the web in order to help us improve the experience for all users."To be clear, we learn from all of our customers. What we saw in today's story was a spy-novelesque stunt to generate extreme outliers in tail query ranking. It was a creative tactic by a competitor, and we'll take it as a back-handed compliment. But it doesn't accurately portray how we use opt-in customer data as one of many inputs to help improve our user experience."Might Microsoft be doing something underhand here? To be sure, Google's evidence would not pass muster in any self-respecting court of law. Sullivan thinks that if there is a certain amount of, um,flatterygoing on here then it's a net loss for users: "I like that search engines have each had their own voices. One of the worst things aboutYahoo changing over to Bing's results last yearwas that in the US (and in many countries around the world), we were suddenly down to only two search voices: Google's and Bing's."For 15 years, I've covered search. In all that time, we've never had so few search voices as we do now. At one point, we had more than 10. That's one thing I love aboutthe launch of Blekko. It gave us a fresh, new search voice."Meanwhile,Forbes reporter Jeff Bercovici suggestsGoogle combat Bing's $100m advertising campaign with its own quip: "Google: Search So Good, Even Bing Uses It."
Britain's ability to compete in the video game and visual effects industries is being compromised by an education system that doesn't understand or cater for these increasingly important fields. This is the finding of a report published today by the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (NESTA). Written by games industry veteran Ian Livingstone, life president of Square Enix, and Ian Hope, managing director of VFX company Double Negative, the document suggests wholesale changes to the way in which computer science is taught in schools and in higher education.Speaking at a launch event in London today, culture minister Ed Vaizey, who instigated the report,stated: "I'm thrilled this report has emerged. It highlights the importance of video games and special effects to our economy. This is actually a report for the whole tech sector, it's about equipping our children with up-to-date skills. We need to make sure there's the option to do computer programming in schools. It's a vital skill for the 21st century."The essence of Livingstone and Hope's findings is that schools concentrate too heavily on ICT and office computer use, and not enough on the sorts of in-depth creative programming skills needed to develop games and to produce visual effects for the movie industry (which, as the authors suggest, are related fields that use many of the same skillsets). If the school curriculum were to include computer science, British children would be better geared toward careers in the increasingly profitable high-tech entertainment industries. In turn, games and movies bring a cool factor to the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) subjects that are often perceived as boring by children. The report suggests greater use of games in the teaching of maths and science subjects.As for higher education, the report questions the value and focus of many current video game design courses. Indeed, according to the document, only 12% of students from game-specific courses find a job in the industry within six months of graduating.Worryingly, large numbers of employers recruiting from education stress important shortcomings in university applicants. They are particularly concerned about graduates' lack of expertise with the gaming platforms that they target, insufficient technical skills in areas ranging from maths to programming, and their management skills.The authors suggest closer links between the industry and universities – a development that's already happening in some areas. The University of Abertay, for example, maintains close links with development studios in Dundee, while the University of Huddersfield runs its own semi-professional games studio, which produces titles for UK publishers.The report makes 20 recommendations to the Department for Education. Among these are bringing computer science into the national curriculum as an essential discipline, implementing a next generation of video games and visual effects talent careers strategy, and giving prospective university applicants access to meaningful information about employment prospects for different courses. The throughline of the argument, however, is to prevent the ghettoisation of computer science by teaching it as a creative rather than a purely technical discipline, and ensuring close links between the industry and education so that game courses are relevant to game development.According to Hope and Livingstone, it's not just about getting children in to these vibrant and profitable sectors. It's about enriching the education process:Greater awareness of the technical needs of the video games and visual effects industries will itself make STEM subjects more attractive for some young people. But there are, for example, a growing number of international studies showing how interactive technologies such as video games can be used, in some cases very significantly, to improve mathematics and physics outcomes in the classroom. Through this review we have learned of some incredible examples of this happening in UK classrooms.TIGA, the trade body that represents independent game developers in the UK, has welcomed the report, but managing director Richard Wilson has pointed out the lack of detail on government funding, and the necessity of tax breaks to aid the British industry:Ultimately, the UK video games industry competes on the quality of its workforce – which is excellent – and the tax environment. Measures to strengthen the supply of high-quality people available to work in the games industry are important. However, if the coalition government ignores the fact that many of our overseas competitors offer substantial tax breaks for video games production, then overseas investment will shy away from the UK, irrespective of the quality of our workforce.You can download the full report fromthe Nesta website.
At last year's Tokyo Game Show,From Softwarethrilled fans of its engrossing RPG adventure Demon's Souls, withnewsof an indirect successor, Project Dark. Now, according to a preview in Japanese magazine Famitsu, that game has been re-named Dark Souls and it's coming out sometime in the future for both PS3 and Xbox 360.Details are sparse, buta kindly visitor to the Neogaf games forumhas provided a rough translation of the Famitsu article. Apparently, Dark Souls is not a sequel to Demon's Souls and will not take place in the same 'universe'. However, it DOES have a 'medieval dark fantasy' setting and it features a similar online component, allowing players to see where others have died in the game world; it will also support co-operative and versus play. It seems, though, that Dark Souls will feature a larger, more seamlessly integrated environment, which will be fully explorable, in contrast to the hub-based system of Demon's Souls.Leaked scans of the Famitsu articlecertainly show a strong visual connection between the two titles.It seems that Namco Bandai will distribute the game in Europe, as it did with Demon's Souls. No doubt we'll find out more at E3.For now, Xbox 360 owners can rejoice in the fact that they'll finally find out why so many of their PS3-owning peers had Demon's Souls down as their game of the year in 2010 (unless they bought it in Japan, in which case, 2009).
The culture secretary Jeremy Hunt has asked Ofcom to review whether one of the Digital Economy Act's most controversial aspects – blocking access to websites accused of filesharing – is workable.Hunt said he had "no problem" with the principle of blocking access to websites, despite opposition from campaigners who argue that it opens the door for wider forms of online censorship, but that it was "not clear" whether the measures were practicable.The site-blocking measures were included in the act, which waspushed through in the last hours of the Labour government in April, as a response to complaints by copyright holders, including trade bodies representing the music, film and TV industries, on the basis that file-sharing sites that encourage illegal downloading are a threat to the creative industries."The government is committed to creating the right conditions for businesses to grow," Hunt said today. "That includes providing them with the right tools to protect the products of their hard work and investment."The Digital Economy Act seeks to protect our creative economy from online copyright infringement, which industry estimates costs them £400m a year."I have no problem with the principle of blocking access to websites used exclusively for facilitating illegal downloading of content, but it is not clear whether the site-blocking provisions in the act could work in practice so I have asked Ofcom to address this question. Before we consider introducing site blocking we need to know whether these measures are possible."Ofcom is expected to report back around springtime.Peter Bradwell, a campaigner at the lobby organisation Open Rights Group, said: "It's encouraging to see the government listening to people's genuine concerns about the Digital Economy Act. The web-blocking provisions are a real mistake – they would stifle freedom of expression, for unproven benefit, whilst being extremely costly and difficult to manage.The fact that both Jeremy Hunt and the deputy prime minister announced this review hopefully signals they are taking everybody's concerns seriously. What's important is that we have an intellectual property regime that promotes innovation and creativity, and also respects basic rights such as freedom of expression and privacy. The Digital Economy Act doesn't give us that. There have been many people telling decision makers why the act is so flawed since it was proposed. And, hopefully, now they are hearing those calls. If you add this review to the four or five other reviews that are ongoing, it seems like there's a real opportunity to argue for a change of approach."But Geoff Taylor, the chief executive of the British Phonographic Industry, the music trade body that lobbied on behalf of the act's anti-piracy measures, said: "The BPI continues to believe that measures to prevent access to illegal websites are essential if Britain's creative and technology sectors are to fulfil their growth potential."Many of these websites are located outside the UK and exist solely to profit at the expense of artists and creators, threatening British jobs and investment."Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, said that the review followed public response from the Your Freedom consultation exercise opened up earlier this year, during which the issue of site blocking was raised. "When we launchedYour Freedom, I promised that the ideas submitted would be given proper consideration," he said. "Although reform of the Digital Economy Act did not form part of the coalition agreement, we have listened to the views expressed. The government will look at whether we have the right tools for the job in addressing the problem of online copyright infringement."Ofcom will start this process by reviewing the site-blocking provisions to see if they are workable. We will await the conclusions of this work before we take a decision about the way forward."The controversial measure was amended during the act's parliamentary hearings in April last year. Initially, the clause would have given the government wide powers to block access to internet sites carrying illegal downloads. This was replaced by the existing clause that allows the government to block access to sites the court considers likely to "enable" copyright infringement.Ofcom will assess whether it is possible for internet service providers, such as BT and Sky, to block access to sites, how robust such a block would be, and whether only certain parts of sites could be blocked as opposed to the whole portal.Opposition campaigners welcomed the review, but argued that the principle of site blocking would endanger freedom of expression.The ISPs BT and TalkTalk won the right to a judicial review of the actin November. Acoalition of rights holders, including the Premier League and a number of trade bodies, will lobby in support of the act at the judicial review in March.Shireen Peermohamed, partner and intellectual property specialist at Harbottle &amp; Lewis, the London-based media and entertainment law firm, said: "It seems like the Digital Economy Act has turned into a political hot potato, it being under attack in the judicial review and now this. My impression is that nobody anticipated the backlash from ordinary members of the public."The act certainly loses its teeth if [site blocking] isn't practicable, but then maybe further legislation would be required. If it is practicable then they would likely look at whether certain tweaks could be made, like blocking only parts of sites."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Privacy groups have attacked the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) for dropping its investigation into BT, which in Septemberemailed details about more than 500 of its customers to a law firm.The ICO told the Guardian that BT cannot be held responsible for the action, in which a spreadsheet with confidential information including names, addresses and telephone numbers was sent in plain text by one of BT's staff to the solicitors' firm ACS:Law in connection with allegations of online copyright infringement. The spreadsheet, which by BT's own rules should have been encrypted, laterleaked onto the webwhen ACS:Law's site came under attack from online activists.Simon Davies, director of the campaign group Privacy International, described the ICO's decision as "reckless" and vowed to appeal for a judicial review. "This appears to give the green light to companies like BT claiming to have a data protection policy, but failing to adequately enforce it," Davies said. The privacy pressure group Big Brother Watch said the information commissioner, Christopher Graham, had "bottled it".The ICO closed its investigation into the apparent data breach earlier this month after ruling that BT was not liable for the mistake, which it said was committed by one of its employees.BT became embroiled in a wider row over data privacy late last year when the confidential details of thousands of UK internet users – including Sky and BT Plusnet customers – leaked online in the aftermath of theattack on ACS:Law's website. The ICO is presently investigating that leak separately from the BT breach, and could levy a £500,000 fine on any guilty party.It later emerged that a BT employee had sent ACS:Law the details of more than 500 of its customers in an unencrypted spreadsheet – an action in apparent breach ofprinciple 7 of the Data Protection Act(DPA), which specifies that "only authorised people can access, alter, disclose or destroy personal data" and that "if personal data is accidentally lost, altered or destroyed, it can be recovered to prevent any damage or distress to the individuals concerned." The BT users' details are still available on filesharing sites.The ICO said on Monday: "We have regular contact with a range of organisations regarding allegations of staff inappropriately accessing or disclosing personal information."Where it is found that the data controller has adequate policies and safeguards already in place, the usual and most appropriate outcome in these cases is disciplinary action taken by the employer."However, where that employee is accessing records for personal gain, such as selling the data on to third parties, the ICO may open a criminal investigation."BT refused to comment when contacted by the Guardian.The ruling will add to campaigners' criticism of the ICO's role as the UK's privacy watchdog. Davies said: "Clearly, BT must be held even partially responsible event to the extent of failing to adequately educate its employees. It is symptomatic of a regulatory body which has become obsessed with protecting corporate interests."We will today begin the process of appealing the commissioner's decision and will look in the long term at having all of the ICO's processes fundamentally reviewed."Daniel Hamilton, campaign director for the pressure group Big Brother Watch, added: "The fact the employee responsible was acting in violation of company policy shouldn't matter."BT is clearly guilty of rank incompetence in its handling of customers' personal data and should be punished accordingly. If the information commissioner is unwilling to take action on an issue as important as this, how can the public be expected have any faith in him?"The majority of the UK's largest broadband providers have vowed to challenge the process which legally obliges them to hand over the details of customers who are suspected of infringing copyright following the row over data privacy.ACS:Law had obtained the customers' details from BT and others through a court order and had intended to sue them over alleged copyright infringement. Online activists crippled the London-based law firm's website with a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack in September, in protest at the company'smethod of pursuing alleged illegal filesharers, which is currently the focus of a Solicitors Regulation Authority investigation. ACS:Law has since said that it will not pursue any further cases.• This article was amended on 2 February to clarify that no TalkTalk customer details were involved in the leak from ACS:Law's website. TalkTalk has never provided ACS:Law with customer details.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Google and Twitter have launched a service to allow people in Egypt to send Twitter messages by leaving a voicemail on a specific number after the last internet service provider in the country saw its access cut off late on Monday.The new service, which has been created by co-ordination between the two internet companies,uses Google's speech-to-text recognition service to automatically translateprovides an online voicemail service and tweets a link to each message, which is sent out on Twitter with the "#egypt" hashtag.Subsequently SmallworldNews has organised a team of people who areproviding translations into English of Arabic messages. They said they did itbecause"We were so impressed and excited with the technology and the number of calls coming in that we wanted to help bring the voice of the egyptians to even more people."Ujwal Singh, co-founder of SayNow and Abdel Karim Mardini, Google's product manager for the Middle East and north Africa,said in a blog postthat "over the weekend we came up with the idea of a speak-to-tweet service – the ability for anyone to tweet using just a voice connection ... We hope that this will go some way to helping people in Egypt stay connected at this very difficult time."Google listed three phone numbers for people to call to use the service. They are: +16504194196; +390662207294; and +97316199855.No internet connection is required. That will be important for users in Egypt after Noor Group, which had been the last internet service provider connecting to the outside world, went dark late on Monday. It had remained online after the country's four main internet providers – Link Egypt, Vodafone/Raya, Telecom Egypt and Etisalat Misr – abruptly stopped shuttling internet traffic into and out of the country last Friday.At about 11pm local time Monday, the Noor Group became unreachable, said James Cowie, chief technology officer of Renesys, a security firm based in Manchester, New Hampshire, which monitors huge directories of "routes", or set paths that define how web traffic moves from one place to another.The Noor Group's routes have disappeared, he said.Cowie said engineers at the Noor Group and other service providers could quickly shut down the internet by logging on to certain computers and changing a configuration file. The original blackout on Friday took just 20 minutes to fully go into effect, he said. However it is not clear whether the Noor Group's disconnection was planned or accidental.Mobile phone service was restored in Egypt on Saturday, but text messaging services have been disrupted during the continuing protests.Corrected suggestion that text-to-speech is involved. It is not.
Samsung's Galaxy Tab. Photo by(UB) Sean Ron Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA fundamental bug in HTML5's Canvas? &gt;&gt; PeteSearchPete Warden has a problem with HTML5's canvas: it won't stitch adjacent tiles together seamlessly in the way that Flash will. Some suggestions blame WebKit - which means WebKit needs an upgrade pronto.Surprise: Windows Mobile beats Windows Phone in initial quarterUS data only, note. "In a surprise twist, smartphones running Microsoft's old mobile operating system grabbed more market share than new Windows Phone 7 devices did in the US in the fourth quarter, according to data released by the NPD Group research firm this morning. Devices running the legacy Windows Mobile registered 4% of the U.S. consumer market in the quarter, down from 7% a year earlier."Windows Phone 7 debuted at 2%."Chalk it up, in part, to the fact that Windows Mobile remained available at all four major US carriers during the quarter, while the new Windows Phone debuted only at T-Mobile and AT&amp;T. Timing was also a factor, as Windows Phone 7 devices didn't come out until the quarter was already under way."Huge non-shock as Android tablets actually sell &gt;&gt; Revert to Saved"During the three months to December 2010, Apple's iPad grabbed 'only' 75% of shipments, down massively from the 95% it had in the previous quarter. Extrapolating wildly, analysts therefore predict Apple will within two years have a market share of minus 45%. ARGH!"Samsung Galaxy Tab Sales Actually 'Quite Small' &gt;&gt; WSJ"In early December, Samsung announced it had sold 1 million, declaring that sales were going "faster than expected." Then, in early January, Samsung announced sales of 2 million.&#10;"But during the company's quarterly earnings call on Friday, a Samsung executive revealed those figures don't represent actual sales to consumers."Moral: take analysis of tablet markets with Lot's-wife-sized pinches of salt.Pay-as-you-go: the best way to buy a smartphone? &gt;&gt; PC Pro"Now smartphones are as likely to be seen on buses and supermarket queues as in the boardroom, and the networks have started offering some smartphones on PAYG tariffs."As a business user with a restricted budget, you can take advantage of this. How? Because it's usually much cheaper to buy a PAYG phone and unlock it so that you can use it with a cheap contract SIM than it would be to buy the same phone SIM-free."At Flickr, Fending Off Rumors and Facebook &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Although Flickr is well known and still widely used, its traffic is shrinking. Unique visitors to Flickr in the United States fell 16 percent, to 21.3 million, in December compared with a year earlier, according to comScore. Meanwhile, for that same time frame, use of Facebook's photo features grew 92 percent, to 123.9 million users.&#10;"Flickr's trajectory largely dovetails that of Yahoo, which is struggling to re-emerge from years of underperformance. Carol A. Bartz, the company's chief executive, is leading a turnaround effort that includes jettisoning products that are not central to her strategy of emphasizing Yahoo's strengths.&#10;"Other than the recent support on Twitter, Yahoo's top executives have barely mentioned Flickr publicly for some time. Few top executives actually have a public Flickr account."Android Tablets Gain on IPad in Fourth Quarter, Researcher Says &gt;&gt; Businessweek"Google Inc.'s Android boosted its share of tablet computers almost tenfold in the fourth quarter, narrowing the lead of Apple Inc.'s iPad, market researcher Strategy Analytics said.&#10;"Android devices captured 22% of global tablet shipments in the three months to Dec. 31, up from 2.3% in the preceding quarter, the Boston-based researcher said in a statement today."Not unrelated: Android tablets didn't start to ship in any volume until Q4. But note comments above.Plentyoffish Hacked &gt;&gt; Plenty of fish blogA dating site gets hacked, gets bizarre calls from hacker claiming Russians are controlling his computer, gets more bizarre calls claiming problems can be fixed "for a price", and then it goes mad in the comments.Still, plenty more dating websites on the net...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The chipmaker Intel has halted shipments of hardware incorporating its new "Sandy Bridge" processors and says it will have to spend a total of $1bn (£600m) fixing a fault, delaying hundreds of new PC models for up to three months and potentially stifling growth in the personal computer market.Launched early in January, the Sandy Bridge chip combines standard processing and graphics units on a single die. But Intel said today it had found flaws in a support chip, called Cougar Point, which would have led to failures over time in connections to hard drives and DVDs.The fault will upset production on more than 500 computer models that were to have used the processors. That in turn will hit the PC industry, which has already been suffering from slowing growth in the US and other regions last year.It could also open the door to Intel's longstanding rival, Advanced Micro Devices, which has a similar processor, named Fusion. After the news AMD shares jumped by 5% in early trading in New York, while Intel shares slid by 1.5%.Intel said the systems with the affected chips have only been shipping since 9 January, so "relatively few" consumers were likely to be affected. Only top-end processors, the second-generation Core i5 and Core i7, which each have four processing "cores", have been included in PCs sold to customers.Intel said consumers can "continue to use their systems with confidence, while working with their computer manufacturer for a permanent solution".The company said it has shipped 8m of the defective chips, but that it is already working on new versions of the support chips and that they could be shipping as soon as February. Had the problem gone undiscovered, about 5% of PCs using the new chipsets could have failed over a three-year period, said Stephen Smith, vice president and director of PC Client Operations at Intel. "It would be a low and continuing failure rate over the life of the systems," he said.Intel said it would cut its revenue target for the coming quarter by $300m (£187m) and that repair and replacement for the flawed chips would cost another $700m. In the quarter just finished it reported record revenues of $11.5bn, up 8%, and net income of $3.4bn, up 48%. However it raised its revenue outlook for the quarter to $11.7bn, from $11.4bn.The discovery of the flaw is the most embarrassing for the chip company since October 1994, when a scientist discovered a rare, but repeatable, error in the Pentium processor's calculation system after millions had been shipped in PCs. Replacing the chips then cost Intel $475m.The new problem is in the silicon design of the chips themselves, which means Intel has to redesign the silicon and produce an entirely fresh set of chips. That typically takes 12 weeks.For PC makers that had begun building computers with the chips, it will be an expensive reversal. Assuming that the revised chips work correctly, they will not be with manufacturers before April. All the major PC manufacturers rely on Intel for central processing units.Brendan Furlong, an analyst at Miller Tabak, said: "This is a minor negative and not as big an issue as it seems. It's obviously an embarrassment, rather than a major problem for the company."• This article was amended on 1 February 2011. The original said that Intel has halted shipments of its new "Sandy Bridge" processors. This has been corrected.
BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) could be kicked out of India, one of the world's fastest-growing mobile markets, after the government refused to accept 11th-hour security concessions on access to users' emails and messages.India on Monday rejected an offer from RIM which would have given it partial access to the country's 400,000 BlackBerry users' messages and email. It is the latest instalment in a three-year struggle in which the government has sought to be able to read communications to BlackBerry devices, citing security fears and claims that they were used in the2008 Mumbai killings.India's home affairs minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, said today that the government still wanted access to BlackBerry users' corporate emails, which RIM has consistently stated is technically impossible. "I think a decision [about the future of RIM in India] will be taken today by the MHA [Ministry of Home Affairs]," he added.RIM said it had nothing to add to a statement issued earlier this month. The access deal "does not extend" to BlackBerry Enterprise emails and only includes BlackBerry Messenger and the email service offered to non-corporate customers, it said.India is an important market for RIM. Informa Telecoms &amp; Media forecast that more than 600,000 BlackBerrys will be sold there this year, and that India's smartphone market will grow rapidly from 12m now to 40m by the end of 2015.It is not immediately clear what action India will take against RIM, though government officials havepreviously threatened the Canada-based manufacturer with a blackouton BlackBerry users in the country. RIM has always said it isconfident that a compromise will be reached.India is understood to want access to all communication transmitted through BlackBerry smartphones in the country, including the high-security corporate emails favoured by business clients and many high-ranking public servants. Although RIM has offered access to the popular instant messaging service BlackBerry Messenger, the level of security afforded to corporate emails means that even it does not have access to this communication. Only RIM's corporate clients can decrypt the emails sent between their devices, because they are automatically scrambled on leaving the handset.The Delhi government's concerns over communication in the country were heightened by the catastrophic Mumbai terrorist attacks in 2008, which it suspected were partly coordinated through messages that could not be intercepted by Indian authorities.RIM was last monthforced to denythat it was ready to allow the authorities full access to corporate emails, the security of which earned the manufacturer its market-leading reputation, after an Indian home ministry report was leaked to the Economic Times newspaper. RIM described the report as "false and technologically infeasible", but said that the government would be granted "lawful access" to BlackBerry Messenger.Last year the mobile maker escaped similar threatened bansin the United Arab Emiratesandin Saudi Arabia.
For a service built on intricate, highly personalised digital networks created online by several hundred million people and some of the world's best engineers, Facebook Deals -announced today- has a curiously analogue interface when the deal in question reaches its final destination: users wanting validation will have to wave their phone screen towards the person behind the counter. "See - look! I've checked in, and I have a voucher!" It feels like the digital equivalent of a train running out of track, but somehow that's enough of a confirmation that people really are taking part, and not just pretend-gazing at a screen.That said, Deals is clever and timely.Firstly, as Facebook director of local Emily White pointed outon Monday morning, our experience of the internet is increasingly defined by "the wisdom of our friends, rather than the wisdom of the crowds". Facebook wants that experience translated as much as possible into the real world, so our activity, as much as our opinions and our party photos, is logged and shared online.Facebook Placeswas the first part of that, inviting us to volunteer our location and our friends (along with the time, date and activity we're doing) when we go out, whether shopping, eating or going to a museum. Deals is the next logical expansion of that, adding a layer that lets local businesses interact with users.There are elements ofdaily deals site Groupon, though Facebook can let businesses do longer-term campaigns more like a Nectar card, or group buying with friends, or check-ins that donate to charity. It's more flexible than Groupon and on a much larger scale, though there are several usability issues which might prevent this becoming truly mainstream for some time: users need to be on Facebook and have access to a smartphone, but they also need to be familiar with the location check-in concept and have the curiosity to investigate what that yellow square means next to venue names.Facebook Places certainly challengesFoursquare, not least because Deals places it firmly along the commercial lines of rivalSCVNGR, which claims to have had some success building a location-based game around business from the outset, rather than starting out with early adopter gamers. Again, it is scale that is Facebook's main advantage.I questioned quite how "local" Facebook Deals isn't at this morning's launch, because all the brands named so far (Yo Sushi, Mazda, Starbucks, Benetton, Debenhams, O2, Argos) are either national or international. White said that eventually Facebook will work to attract small, local businesses. But what Facebook means by "local" is whatever is nearby, and wherever we go to shop, eat or entertain ourselves - and that might mean a multinational as much as Sid the Fishmonger.There's no direct money for Facebook in rolling out Deals; business don't pay to serve offers up, and Facebook doesn't take a cut of proceeds or charge users. What it does get is a real incentive for users to explore the mobile app, and increased usage; European vice president Joanna Shields (ex-Bebo, ex-AOL, ex-Shine) also said at the launch that users on the mobile app already share five times more information than users on the web.And down this road, of course, lies a collision with Google, which created much of its fortune by simplifying web advertising and making it accessible to small businesses. Facebook takes that one step further. Any of us can set up a local, targeted ad through a process no more complex than posting an event. Google wanted that, which is why it made itsmulti-billion bid for Groupon (rejected)and why it's nowreadying Google Offers.Where's this all going? Take the dynamic that Google exploited with web advertising, tapping thousands of smaller businesses, and think how Facebook could build on that from international brands to individuals through your local network. Promoting a local club night, selling your car, appealing for funds for the local community centre - there's a rich seam of targeted advertising already being nurtured on Facebook, and it has hardly begun.Add to thatCredits- Facebook's on-site payment systems currently restricted to games - and there's a much larger Facebook economy to be explored. Credits could be the next secure payment system - beyond virtual goods in games, users could buy music, films, books or anything else on sites integrated with Facebook Connect. If you "like" on a third-party site, why not "like and buy", with Facebook, which already has your name and contact information?It's the logical extension on Facebook acting as the internet's default ID provider. And it will happen. The only question is how soon.
The UK top ten video games chart, week 4 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Dead Space 2(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (40)PC (4)12 (1)Littlebigplanet 2(7+)PS3 (100)23 (4)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (31)Wii (14)PSP (5)184 (5)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)115 (2)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (36)Wii (8)PC (3)126 (3)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)167 (10)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (38)Wii (12)PC (2)118 (6)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)619 (15)Art Academy(unrated)DS (100)910 (11)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)54UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Yes, it's time to experience the wonder that was January 17-21 – but now in condensed form, and viewed through the prism of Chatterbox, Gamesblog's daily debate forum thing.This week: quantum mechanics, attractive geeks and why searching for news of the New Zealand badminton squad is not office friendly...Monday, January 17In an unexpected turn of events, the major part of the day's chattering was actually taken up by – wait for it – games. It was a massive shock to the system for this summariser, used to editing long discussions on cheese, dice, painting dollies, relationships, sex, top 10 movies/hip-hop albums. Yes, there were odd deviations around films, boardgames, tanks, football, books, digital SLRs, bands and cheating at games. But in general, chat was actually on topic. Frankly, I think the assembled masses of chatterers should be careful, the Games Chatterbox isn't the place for gaming talk of this volume.What?Oh.So, which games? Black Ops, Enslaved, PES, Demon's Souls, BFBC2, Faery, White Night Chronicles, Marvel Pinball and Bloodbowl. Phew. Collectively serious about the hobby.In fact, the only major deviation of the day was around  DC v Marvel comics (the jury was out on this one), but this was a direct result of various people sticking a toe into the warm waters of DC Universe Online. There were impressive levels of geekiness on show as a result, probably culminating in TimtheMonkey's explanation of how, "in the DC universe the whole of Creation is powered by an emotional colour spectrum." The rest would be too much for the casual reader to bear. The whole affair was fittingly summarised by SandySleaze:"This is as incomprehensible to me as Bloodbowl blog, dice blog, board game blog and dolly painting blog. Sometimes I think I am in the wrong place."And, whilst not the last post, the always reliable HereComesTreble applied his non-standard way with words to effectively round off the day:"I ate an entire fist of bananas at lunch, at my desk, crouched over my computer like an animal. This is living?"TuesdayGoody84 kicked off Tuesday with the news of the PES league final, which was won by RivaldoRules. Congratulations were very much due and were given throughout the day, even though it sounds as if the AI might have had as much to do with the victory (or loss, depending on whose side you look at it from) than the bloggers' efforts.And then this responsible ppiece of medical advice  from CunningStunt:"I find the best cure for a cold is to raise you blood alcohol level to the point the virus can no longer survive. Works a treat."At some point in the morning talk actually got around to games with discussion on the relative merits of buying either Little Big Planet 2 or Killzone 3; two games which most people will find hard to differentiate between. Minecraft talk got some blogtime with special reference to Seananners on YouTube who's done some interesting work with what the sandbox 'game' can do.Age-BlogMarie2490: "Six days till I'm 21, getting old..."SandySleaze: "21 isn't old. Pootle is old. Geologically old."It seems the bloggers either loved being 21 or don't seem to remember much of it.  Notable recollections from Elquesodiablo: "I'd cut my ponytail off, threw it in a river by Mount Cayburn and met Brian Blessed who sang 'happy birthday' to me from the top of the hill. Echoed brilliantly." For Sorbicol his 21st, "was spent doing my degree finals – one the day before, two on the day, one the day after. It sucked. But in a non-cancerous way".After the morning posting flurry, Sorbicol raised the topic of quantum mechanics and the theory that we're all living in a simulation (with better draw distances than current 3D games of course) inspired by Monday's Horizon programme. Kalador would later de-bunk this theory citing Lex Luthor, Green Lantern and Unicron as expert witnesses.BeardOfBees inadvertently started a discussion on Queen of the Geek Girls with nominations for Mila Kunis, Captain Janeway, Felicia Day, Emma Stone, Sasha Grey, Jessica Chobot and Summer Glau amongst many others. Finally, BeardOfBees apologised for starting it all, but couldn't help saying it was Mila Kunis anyway … or Sasha Gray because she plays D&amp;D.[What about Kristin Kreuk, Milla Jovovich or Ellen Page? Wait, this isn't sexist is it? – Keef]Home Alone was discussed and there was disagreement over whether or not it's actually any good. Macaulay Culkin seemed to be a sticking point for both sides of the argument, but EnglishRed summed it up quite well with, "Say what you like about Home Alone, it's no Uncle Buck".  Indeed.Last post was at 10.30pm by idoru66. This counts as "doing it wrong".Fleeting delurk from boogienites (who didn't answer The Question).WednesdayOn Wednesday we learned that BarryEans' aim was better than we all thought from his online record, as he revealed the news that Mrs Beans was three months pregnant. Offers of condolence were quick to appear but the man himself seemed curiously happy about the whole thing, his only concern being the sanctity of his 'mancave'. He wondered,"Is it wrong to secretly hope for the morning/evening sickness to continue so I can give my mancave a prolonged farewell?"Yes. Yes it is. But I'm sure Mrs. Beans will understand as you hold her hair away from the bucket with your foot so you can hold the pad with two hands. Maybe if you're lucky, Sony will bring out a Move game that allows you to incorporate the two.Unfortunately, the laws of karma meant that Barry's relationship joy had to be countered, in the see-saw fashion that the yin and yang of love are wont to play out, and this came in the form of the totally unforeseeable breakdown of Katie Price's marriage to the chiseled-jaw chap who won Big Brother. HappySocks took on the role of bearer of this terrible news and was roundly condemned for bringing in such low brow conversation to the halls of Chatter. As RobLindsay so rightly put it:"What happened to comicblog and scienceblog?"Horrified that anyone would want to talk about Jordan, we all then proceeded to talk about not wanting to talk about Jordan. Various twisted fantasies were put forward about what various 'Boxers would like to see happen to her, though congratulations go to SerenVikity for being the most inventive, and least violent, with hers,"I hope someone gives her bad investment advice. Nothing would make me happier."That's really hitting her where it hurts.Spare a thought as well for the Gamesblog's answer to Kerouac, LazyBones, on his continuing search for a kettle. Here's hoping by the time you read this he has the ability to make tea.Quote of the Day"A friend of mine at work's brother has just made the team for the New Zealand badminton national squad. She wanted to do a search for them, but bear in mind that the nickname for the New Zealand team used to be the Black Cocks. As they dont have a new nickname she typed in 'Black Cocks squad'... she just got an email for inappropriate use of the internet."Thanks go to Simian for this story warning of the dangers of mixing work internet access, Google and naivety.ThursdayAmazingly there was actually a discussion today about whether a colander was better than a sieve. No back up quotes shall be given for this as frankly they are all dull. Unfortunately, it did happen. At length.SerenVikity almost caused a fracture in the fabric of reality with this: "Let us form a clique." A clique within a clique? Magic that should not be messed with I fear.Other 'quality' topics included best-potato-blog (roast if you are interested) and addictions-blog.Quotes of the day"I have a vision of myself at a halloween party, standing with a glass of sherry whilst the guests listen enthralled and the children sit on the floor at my feet. I am in front of a roaring fire, wearing a smoking jacket, reciting The Raven."BeardOfBees' illusions of grandeur continue to swell."Perhaps we are all atoms colliding in the void, with no meaning whatsoever? You'd like that wouldn't you …"Lazybones draws CunningStunt into his existential madness.Friday"The place to talk about games, and just about anything else too..." Well the Chatterbox lived up to that on Friday – it certainly didn't feel like Little Big Planet 2's launch day. After the usual niceties of thanking one another for the previous night's online gaming (COD: BlOps, NFS: HP, Blood Bowl and PES all going strong), like all good Guardian readers, we set about critiquing Channel 4's new satirical news show. No one could have predicted that pdmalcolm's offhand comment – "Lauren Laverne was the object of my teenage lust in her Kenickie days" – would result in '90s Indie Girl Crush blog though."I would like to go out with PJ Harvey. I wouldn't like her to write any songs about me though. I would also go out with Betty Boo. I imagine she is now a 40-year-old scorcher."Lazybones interviews for the vacant position of Heat editor.Very quickly the names became more obscure and it was clear that this was just a convenient cover for Male Teenage Fantasy blog. "I am forced to also add Judith Holofernes from German Indie rockers, Wir Sind Helden," said Fegbarr.SerenVikity tried to shock us into a new discussion topic with, "Nirvana are overrated. Perhaps not worse than McFly though.... perhaps" but this only led to yet more music analysis. Finally it took something truly mind blowing from Simian to get us out the rut: "Why would you make toast only to let it go cold in a toast rack? Straight on the plate, butter, jam and a fried egg. Eaten warm is clearly the only way to do it right."Quote(s) of the day"My son Emile has been raised in a well-wired, high-bandwidth household – what you might expect in a culture of software developers. He's an avid gamer, a verbal and sensitive 13-year-old who hasn't yet lost touch with his inner child. He loves game and can tell you exactly what he loves about each game experience, the emotions he feels when he plays, even his nostalgia for technologies used 'back in the day,' meaning (often) before he was born."ARavenet"I'm worried for Emile"CountGinulaEnd gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Cell Mates' by Mariachi El BronxCheck theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's Best Of was written by AlexP76, Bobbobob, PicPicPic, AngryMan13 and HumOfEvil. It was edited by HumOfEvil"There is a theory which states that if ever for any reason anyone discovers what exactly the Universe is for and why it is here it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable. There is another that states that this has already happened."Douglas Adams
Google's Android overtook the long-time market leader, Nokia's Symbian, as the world's most popular smartphone platform in the fourth quarter, according to the research firm Canalys.In total, 32.9m phones running Android were sold to retailers and mobile networks in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared with Symbian's total sales of 31m in the quarter, the researcher said.In apress release, Canalys noted that Nokia had, however, retained its lead as the single biggest smartphone vendor, with a 30.6% share of phones shipped.The rise of Android to the top of the smartphone sales chart indicates the popularity of the free operating system with vendors, which do not have to pay a licence fee to use it on their phones.Pete Cunningham, a senior analyst with Canalys, said that the company's most recent forecast expects Android use to continue to grow at least twice as fast as the smartphone market itself, which grew by 88.6% between the fourth quarters of 2009 and 2010, from 53.7m phones sold to 101.2m.But he warned that low-end vendors such as China's Huawei and ZTE would create problems for some of the other players such as LG, Sony Ericsson and Motorola, which are trying to reinvent their product lines to capture high-end sales. HTC and Samsung are in the strongest position, accounting for nearly 45% of Google OS-based handset shipments."Motorola and Sony Ericsson were trying to supply to all segments of the market, and they haven't got the ability to do that," said Cunningham. "Samsung and Nokia are the only two that can do that. So for Motorola and Sony Ericsson, the only option is to reinvent themselves. On the higher tier of the platform there are high margins to be made."The biggest loser in sales terms was Microsoft, which was the only company to power fewer smartphones – 3.1m compared with 3.9m in Q4 2009. Given that itsaid last week that 2m phones running its new Windows Phone 7 OS have shipped to retailers and networkssince its launch at the end of October, that suggests that 1.1m phones running the now-orphaned Windows Mobile OS were also shipped.However, Nokia was the biggest loser in terms of market share, dropping by 13.8%, while Android's rose by 24.2%. Apple lost 0.3% in share, shipping 16.2m phones, and RIM, maker of the BlackBerry range, lost 5.6%, even while both grew the numbers of phones shipped."2010 has been a fantastic year for the smartphone market. After a difficult 2009, the speed with which the market has recovered has required real commitment and innovation from vendors and they have risen to the challenge," said Canalys VP and principal analyst Chris Jones. "But vendors cannot afford to be complacent. 2011 is set to be a highly competitive year with vendors looking to use new technology, such as dual-core processors, NFC and 3D displays, to differentiate their products and maintain value."Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) remained the largest market, with shipments totalling 38.8m and a year-on-year growth rate of 90%. Nokia continued to lead in EMEA and Asia Pacific, but in 2010 it was overtaken by RIM in Latin America, which shipped over a million more units than Nokia in Q4 2010, helped by the popularity of its mid-range smartphones, such as its Curve family of devices.Smartphone sales, Q4 2010OS vendorQ4 2010 shipment%share Q4 2010Q4 2009 shipment%share Q4 2009%change YOY%share changeTotal101.210053.710088.60Google33.332.94.78.7615.124.2Nokia3130.623.944.430-13.8Apple16.2168.716.385.9-0.3RIM14.614.410.72036-5.6Microsoft3.13.13.97.2-20.3-4.1Others32.91.83.464.8-0.5Separately, RIM claimed today that it won the smartphone wars in the UK for December, saying that data from GfK estimated it had sold half a million BlackBerry devices in the UK in that month, capturing a record high of 36% of the UK smartphone market including 51.1% of the smartphone pre-pay market, and 23.3% of the contract and SIM-free market. In all, RIM claims it made up 14.9% of the total mobile handset market for the UK in December 2010.Cunningham said that Android handset makers will increasingly move into the pre-pay market in the coming year and drive down prices.The US is still the largest country market in terms of shipments, at more than double the size of the Chinese smartphone market. RIM recaptured first place from Apple, as the latter experienced its usual US seasonal dip, and RIM benefited from the first full quarter of shipments for the BlackBerry Torch.But that too could change. "The US landscape will shift dramatically this coming year, as a result of theVerizon-Apple agreement," said Canalys analyst Tim Shepherd. "Verizon will move its focus away from the [Android-based] Droid range, but the overall market impact will mean fewer carrier-exclusive deals, while increasing the AT&amp;T opportunity for Android vendors, such as HTC, Motorola and Samsung."Android was by far the largest smartphone platform in the US market in Q4 2010, with shipments of 12.1m units – nearly three times those of RIM's BlackBerry devices. Windows Phone 7 devices appeared too late in the quarter to take full advantage of holiday season purchasing. As a result, Microsoft lost share in the US, from 8% in Q4 2009 to 5% in Q4 2010.In China, Nokia's share slipped from 76% a year ago to 56%, under pressure from Huawei and Samsung in particular, despite growing its volume in the country by over 70% in the same period. The Chinese market grew 134% year on year, though from a small base, but notably faster than the US market, which grew at 64%.
AOL Europe has acquired online video distribution network GoViral in a $96.7m (£60.78m) deal that will see co-founders Jimmy Maymann and Claus Moseholm pocket well over £20m.The online content company has paid an upfront $74.1m for GoViral, which was co-founded in 2005 by Danish internet and advertising executives Maymann and Moseholm, with a further $22.6m to be paid over a two-year period following completion of the deal.This is AOL's first major European acquisition since its disastrous 2008 deal to buy social networking website Bebo for $850m.AOL sold Bebo to private equity firm Criterion Capital Partnersfor a fraction of that price last year.GoViral was founded in Denmark in 2005 but is based in London, where 75% of its 100-strong workforce is employed. Moseholm moved to London in 2006 and Maymann, who has an executive MBA from London Business School, spends the majority of his time running the business from the city."From the very beginning we knew that the key to succeed was to be in London," said Maymann, speaking to MediaGuardian.co.uk.In March 2009 Maymann and Moseholm sold a 34% stake in GoViral totechnology investors Kennet for €6.5m. The pair then diluted their stake further by giving management access to an undisclosed stake in the business, taking their combined holding to under 50%."We believe that GoViral … allows us to match our ambition for premium content creation and engaging advertising, with highly targeted distribution at scale," said the AOL Europe senior vice-president, Kate Burns. "Video is core to AOL's consumer programming strategy."AOL Europe said that the deal will strengthen its video offering and "ultimately" North America. GoViral currently has offices in the UK, Germany, France, Denmark, Sweden and Spain, with further international expansion planned."AOL has made a clear commitment to deliver great original content and, with their strong US position, it is a great accelerator for us to grow internationally and realise the potential of video," said the GoViral chief executive, René Rechtman.AOL's UK operation, which hasundergone restructuringand strategic refocusing following the demerger from Time Warner, has been building its content, offering striking deals withacts including Harry Hillandlaunching women's site MyDaily.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Facebook made a significant move into the potentially lucrative local business advertising space on Monday with the launch in the UK and other European countries of Places Deals, which gives users discounts and benefits with nearby shops, restaurants and venues through their mobile phones.Launched in the US last November, Facebook Deals lets users 'check in' to venues via the Places feature on its mobile app for iPhone, Android and through facebook.com on some smartphones.Facebook says millions of users are already choosing to check in to venues, and its app is already the most popular in Apple's iTunes Store. More than 250 million people use Facebook every day from a membership of more than 500 million worldwide, and more than one third of those access the site through mobile.Through deals with partners announced today, the first 30,000 Facebook users to check in at Starbucks stores in the UK can claim a free coffee, the first 1,000 to check in at Debenhams will receive a free mascara and makeover, and the first four to upgrade their contracts and check in at O2 stores will win a free Xbox or Playstation.Mazda, Yo! Sushi, Usher and Alton Towers also announced offers, while Argos and Benetton are donating to charity with a set number of checkins. Companies can list themselves for free in Deals, and Facebook says it does not take any share of revenues from the promotions.Facebook Places Deals, which is also launching in Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Canada, is seen as a major part of the company's commercial strategy, potentially linking users to any business from national retail chains to local stores, and allowing those businesses to effectively advertise through the social networks of their most regular customers by publishing. Depending on a user's privacy settings, Deals they take part in will be published in the newsfeed that their friends follow."The wisdom of friends has taken over from the wisdom of crowds, through a highly personal experience in the real world, and Facebook local enables users to take that Facebook identity out and about with them as they experience the real world – likewise using that to inform that Facebook identity," said Emily White, Facebook's director of local. "Places is the 'where' to 'what am I doing' and 'who am I with'. And it allows businesses to start joining the conversation."White would not speculate on whether Facebook's on-site payment system Credits, which is currently used only for gaming, would be extended to be used with on-site commerce, or whether businesses may pay for elements of Deals in the future. She would only say that Facebook's focus is on developing "a phenomenal user experience".Venues announce Deals with a 'golden ticket' that appears next to their name in nearby venues when a user opens Places in the Facebook app. Users can see the deal, claim it and show the voucher on their screen at the check out, but Facebook does not share the name or contact information for each customer with businesses.White noted that brand pages on Facebook attract far higher traffic than official brand websites. Coca-Cola, she said, saw around 270,000 monthly unique users on its own sites but 22.5 million on Facebook.com. She said retailers would not just offer discounts, but can encourage customers to donate to charity or use the scheme more like a loyalty card.White dismissed comparisons with daily deals site Groupon and the social location game Foursquare. "[Places] is about where you are at the moment. It is very different from Groupon's offering today and takes advantage of the unique platform Facebook has."Despite those denials, Facebook will be keen to build on the attention given to Groupon, which rejected a high-profile $5.3bn acquisition offer from Google in December.Deals also puts Facebook on a collision path with Google, which makes the overwhelming majority of its $29.3bn revenues from web advertising. Facebook's advertising revenue is already beginning to challenge that of Yahoo, which last week reported a drop in revenues and profits through squeezes on its ad income.
DC Online Universe got a good session this weekend but my main gaming action was retro.  In particularSuper Star Wars, which I downloaded onto the Wii. Either my gaming skills were sharper the last time I played this in 1993 – very likely – or Super Star Wars is just incredibly tough. The jumping in particular is horrible and tumbling down a Jawa sandcrawler for the umpteenth time was not quite the nostalgic treat I had planned.  It may not have the wow factor of – gulp – 18 years ago, but the game still looks and sounds pretty good. It just doesn't play that well. However an updated version of Super Star Wars – and Empire and Jedi of course – for the DS or PSP , complete with more friendly controls, would surely be a hit? What do you think? And more generally, how was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
A coalition of rights holders, including the Premier League and trade bodies representing the music, film and TV industries, is lining up to intervene against internet service providers in the judicial review of legislation to tackle illegal downloading.The Premier League and eight other organisations, including the Producers' Alliance for Cinema and Television (Pact), the Motion Picture Association and music industry body the BPI, have been given permission by the high court to defend the Digital Economy Act's provisions for policing internet piracy.These bodies, along with the trade unions Equity, Bectu and the Musicians' Union, the British Video Association and the Film Distributors' Association, will be able to make written and oral legal submissions and representations in court arguing that the DEA is critical to the future of the creative industries.ISPs BT and TalkTalk were granted the right to a judicial review in November after arguing that the DEA could infringe internet users' "basic rights and freedoms" and was given "insufficient scrutiny" in parliament."The act can help repair the damage that illegal downloading causes to the UK creative industry and reduce the threat to the hundreds of thousands of jobs that the creative companies supports," said John McVay, chief executive of Pact. "The DEA is the result of many years of consultation and presents a reasonable and balanced solution."McVay described the legal challenge by BT and TalkTalk as a "misconceived case". He said the group was particularly concerned with the notion that the DEA was "rushed through parliament" and would have a "disproportionate" impact on ISPs, business subscribers and consumers.The group was given permission to intervene in the review through the consent of the government as well as BT and TalkTalk. The Open Rights Group, which believes the DEA is "badly flawed", has also been given permission to intervene in the judicial review.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAmazon Leaks Details About Their Netflix-Like Movie Subscription Service, Free For Prime Members &gt;&gt; BusinessInsider"Amazon wording on the page said, "Your Amazon Prime membership now includes unlimited, commerical-free instant streaming of 5,000 movies and TV shows at no additional cost". Shortly after it was reported, the Amazon user who found the page could no longer access it, but multiple screenshots at Engadget.com clearly shows the details and is the best proof yet that Amazon is getting ready to challenge Netflix with a subscription based streaming service."Dropbox: Why is Dropbox more popular than other tools with similar functionality?? &gt;&gt; QuoraThe chief executive of Syncplicity on why his company's product didn't get the rave reviews and success of Dropbox. Enlightening in many ways: "If you're starting a new company, the best thing you can do is keep your feature set small and focused. Do one thing as best as you possibly can. Your users will beg and beg for more functionality. They will tell you their problems and ask you to fix it. My philosophy is that they're right if their feature request is right only if it works for 80% of your customers. Until you have a lot of resources, stay focused on your core competency."Google won't autocomplete "bittorrent" but will autocomplete "how to kidnap a child" &gt;&gt; Boing Boing"Google won't autocomplete searches for "bittorrent," but if you are interesting in learning how to kidnap someone, make meth, build a bomb, cheat on your taxes, or shoplift, they will happily autocomplete your search for you."Translation: Stephen Elop's ecosystem messages &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dedlu (ex-Nokia) translates Nokia's chief executive Stephen Elop's elloptical... er, elliptical comments from his analyst call over the company's latest earnings.Samsung 'sells' over 2 mln Galaxy Tab in 3 months &gt;&gt; Yonhap News Agency"About 500,000 units of the Galaxy Tab were shipped to Europe while 350,000 tablets were sold in North America and another 330,000 units in Asia." Er, OK - where are the other 820,000 then? Also, note that the word "sold" is used in its loose sense of "sent to the channel", ie wholesalers and/or retailers. How many of those end up in users' hands is a different matter. For reference, Apple said it had 2m iPads in the channel at the end of Q4, and 7.4m had sold - as in, reached the hands of users.BBC News - Can Leo Apotheker make Hewlett Packard a cool company?"The starting gun will be fired on 9 February, with a "big product announcement" on mobile devices, and hints of phones and tablet computers. "The product line will get a new name and come under the HP brand, Mr Apotheker says; the days of Palm and Palm Pre seem to be numbered. "Then, on 14 March, we will get the big unveiling, Mr Apotheker's "secret answer" and "vision of what HP is capable of in the future... the starting point".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Has Mark Zuckerberg poked comedy? Does he like it? Has he friended it? Or has the 26-year-old CEO of Facebook decided that having a companyvalued at $50bn(£32bn) isn't quite enough and, actually, he just wants the kids to think he's really into this newfangled thing called "a sense of humour"?For whatever reason, this weekend, the normally publicity-averse Zuckerberg appeared on Saturday Night Live, alongside Jesse Eisenberg, the actor nominated for an Oscar for his portrayal of Zuckerberg as a twitchy and cruel nerd in The Social Network.The two had never met and as Saturday Night Live comedian Andy Samberg, who frequently mimics the internet entrepreneur on the show, put it when Zuckerberg appeared on stage alongside himself and Eisenberg, the encounter had the potential to be "awkberg".Awkberg, and surprising. Although Zuckerberg's appearance on the show had been rumoured all week, many doubted it would happen. Zuckerberg's media appearances have so far proved limited and highly controlled.Moreover, his dislike of the movie about how he started Facebook is well known. A report in the Wall Street Journal last year claimed that Facebook executives attempted to "massage" the film's script to make Zuckerberg look less of a Machiavellian oddball.When that tactic didn't work, they simply tried to "discredit" it. Zuckerberg then happened to donate $100m-worth of Facebook stock to public schools in Newark, New Jersey, on the day The Social Network just happened to be premiering in the US.With The Social Network now nominated for eight Oscars, perhaps Zuckerberg decided that if you can't beat 'em, you might as well join 'em. Most of all, Zuckerberg found that popular appeal is something not even $100m can buy.Despite whatever reservations Zuckerberg may have felt before, he clearly&nbsp;enjoyed himself on the show, occasionally to the detriment of his possible dreams of coolness: he couldn't resist shooting little glances into the camera – Hey, I'm on TV! – and was unable to suppress the occasional excited bubbles of laughter.Although Zuckerberg had claimed in the past that much of the film's portrayal of him was "wrong" – objecting in particular to the intimation that he was dumped by his girlfriend when he started Facebook – on the show he didn't seem that far off from the movie's slightly odd nerd desperate for popularity.The show opened with Eisenberg performing a monologue, before being joined by Andy Samberg in his Zuckerberg costume – for the record, a wig and zip-up sweatshirt.The camera then went backstage where the real Zuckerberg was seen grousing that Eisenberg "is like my evil twin" and that "those guys are such nerds. Come on! I&nbsp;invented poking!"When Zuckerberg finally did appear on stage, he stared down a nervous and seemingly awestruck Eisenberg."Did you ever end up seeing the film?" Eisenberg asked."Yeah, I did," replied Zuckerberg, tersely."Cool. What did you think?""It was interesting," said Zuckerberg."Interesting. OK, I'll take that," said a happy Eisenberg.It was a position Zuckerberg could do well to adopt for himself. Not everyone can be cool, liked or popular. Sometimes just being an interesting billionaire has to suffice.
Those of us waiting patiently for the era of flying cars have been stung before. Usually by some delusional old tinkerer appearing onTomorrow's WorldorBlue Peter, tantalisingly showing off some hovering hatchback or Cortina-with-wings and promising it'll be an everyday form of transport – soon. It never happens. As the characters in Bill Watterson'sCalvin and Hobbescomic strip complained way back in 1989: "A new decade is coming up. Big deal! Where are the flying cars?"Finally, in 2011, some action. Later this year an American company calledTerrafugiawill go into "low volume production" on its Transition Roadable Aircraft – a genuine, non-delusional, you-can-actually-buy-it-and-it-actually-flies flying car. It looks a bit like the Ghostbusters' vehicle with fold-out wings, and will cost something between £125,000 and £160,000. Terrafugia CEO Carl Dietrich hopes to sell 200 a year."A lot of people said they never thought it would fly," Dietrich has said. "But we have a vehicle right here, right now that drives and flies, and converts between the two in 20 seconds."Terrafugia (Latin for "escape from land") was founded by Dietrich and a team of pilots and aeronautics engineers. Partly funded by the US Department of Defence, they've been quietly beavering away on the car in Woburn, Massachussetts since 2006, and are almost ready to start selling.Owners of a new Transition will need 20 hours of flying time on record before being allowed to unfurl the car's mechanical wings and take off, but it's easy to pilot once they do – or so says Colonel Phil Meeter, the first man to fly the Transition in tests over upstate New York in 2009. On landing he enthused: "My daughter could do this! Anyone can do it!" The retail machine will have a flight range of just less than 500 miles (enough to get from London to, say, Zurich) and will travel at speeds of up to&nbsp;115mph.This being an American firm, targeting American customers, Terrafugia's flying car is not without its luxuries. It has touch-screen controls in the cockpit, and the "cargo area holds golf clubs". With the wings in tucked-up mode the Transition can be filled up in any normal petrol station, and parked in any normal garage. It also has built-in parachutes. But let's not dwell on that.
The latest movie tie-in game aimed at young Wii owners is unsurprisingly being released to coincide with the new CGI film inspired by the classic Hanna-Barbera animation, based on the misadventures of Jellystone's most famous resident.Yogi Bear: The Video Gametakes the form of a conventional 2D platforming adventure, which entails flinging its protagonist between ledges, gathering scattered collectibles and outmanoeuvring gently aggressive American wildlife.Tasked with saving Jellystone from closure as its centennial anniversary nears, Yogi is a bear who is clearly rather tentative about exploring new realms within the platforming genre. For anybody who has played the classics, our hero's exploits will perhaps feel rather too ordinary. Typical arrangements of arbitrarily placed platforms and swinging vines do little to distinguish the release from its many competitors.But this is a game aimed at children, and to judge it with the jaundiced eye of years of gameplaying, when mechanically and technically it is robust and well-implemented, would be unfair. It realises the world and character of Jellystone capably, and for those young players yet to enjoy the highlights of Mario's career and enraptured by Yogi's cinematic outing, it will, doubtless, delight no end.
The perfect tonic for speed freaks looking for action away from precision engineering and slavishly following the racing line,Nail'dhas a simple premise: race around off-road courses on either a two-wheeled trail bike or four-wheeled ATV, while trying not to get, er, "nail'd". Which here, means literally going off-road and falling hundreds of feet before meeting the ground again in a decidedly terminal fashion.There's an impressive sense of speed, requiring quick reflexes to dodge obstacles and opponents or catch air in some stomach-lurching leaps over vast chasms on the 14 tracks. Each is beautifully rendered with stunning vistas and intricate detail that fizzes past in a flash.It's not without its flaws, however. Awkward vehicle physics create a feeling of floating over the terrain, rather than feeling each bump and, while the rock soundtrack is perfectly passable, it's routinely drowned out by the infuriating whine of the engine booster.There is vehicle modding, which adds depth to the fairly shallow single-player race series and stunt challenges but, with its pick-up-and-play controls and non-existent learning curve,Nail'dis probably best enjoyed in the head-to-head thrills of post-pub online multiplayer scrapping.
Nintendo's tubby mascot and his oldest foe resume hostilities in this compelling DS puzzle game. The tie-wearing ape has kidnapped Mario's old flame Pauline and this time the plumber decides to play a more passive role in the rescuing process, relying on an army of clockwork robots to save the day.The three previous games in this series offered a degree of control over the miniature Marios, but this time they won't stop once set on their path. Your task is to guide them away from hazards and towards the exit, using girders as makeshift bridges, tapping enemies to create temporary stepping stones and placing jump pads to bounce them up to higher platforms. A countdown kicks in as soon as the first mini Mario reaches the way out, forcing the player to guide multiple robots simultaneously, ensuring some frantic micro-management as the difficulty increases. It's a welcome change of pace, even if the perpetual motion of the clockwork replicas can sometimes lead to fortuitous escapes as you happen on solutions by accident rather than design.Each level contains collectibles that affect the completion score, with trophies awarded for getting all mini Marios to the exit in good time. Lettered cards are commonly tucked away in hard-to-reach places, but should you take the time to collect them all, you'll unlock a bonus mini-game. Boss battles offer a puzzling twist on the original Donkey Kong arcade game, with the simian giant removing rivets to demolish your carefully built constructions and lobbing barrels to deplete your limited supply of robots.Puzzle games are rarely known for their dazzling visuals andMini-Land Mayhemis no exception; it all looks a little basic, though the rudimentary graphics are not without their charms. Nintendo is a master of the satisfying sound effect, though, making it hard to ignore the various trinkets that litter the levels, while a host of familiar Nintendo themes also appears in remixed form to provide a pleasant musical backing.The initially miserly level count increases significantly once enough trophies are collected, with secret stages gradually opening up and a particularly testing new mode unlocked after the credits have rolled. And should that still be insufficient, there's the opportunity to construct your own challenges, which can be shared via Wi-Fi.Mini-Land Mayhemis another typically polished release from Nintendo, as the DS's Indian summer continues.
Last week Ford unveiled the latest incarnation of its world-conquering Focus. The car first appeared in 1998 and instantly galvanised the sluggish family hatchback market, putting Ford's fortunes through a 180-degree spin in the process. The company is now the world's wealthiest car manufacturer, worth an estimated $41.8bn. The Focus went on to spend most of the subsequent decade as Europe's bestselling model, though its crown slipped a couple of years ago and is now worn with a certain swagger by VW's mighty Golf. The Focus, however, still remains Ford's heaviest hitter and has sold more than 10m.In an industry battered by fault recalls and an economic slowdown which is proving as hard to extricate itself from as a cold cheese fondue, it is essential that Ford gets the new Focus absolutely right. It could well be Britain's most important new vehicle of 2011 – which rather neatly also happens to be Ford's centennial year.The all-new Focus goes on sale in the UK in March (in time for the "11" registration plates) and then in a further 80 countries, though America won't get it until 2012. Early reviews are very promising. It&nbsp;is being described as sporty, sleek, efficient, agile and technologically sophisticated. Far from being middle Britain's default car, the Focus is now a technocrat's playground. It'll come with a touchscreen interface, automatic parallel parking, adaptive cruise control, accidental lane-change and speed-limit warnings and a low-speed anti-collision system.Important though the launch is to Ford, it is just one of the new models planned for 2011, which is set to be a&nbsp;bumper year despite the pummelling the car industry has taken. In total 117 new vehicles will be rolling out on to our roads. Some good, some bad, all hopeful. Here are 10 to look out for:1. RENAULT TWIZYA great name for one of the year's strangest offerings. The Twizy is an electric two-seater which can be driven by anyone over 16. Your passenger sits behind you, so it's a&nbsp;tandem for the moped generation.2. ASTON MARTIN'S CYGNETThe ultimate executive toy. The £30,000 Cygnet is a gussied-up Toyota iQ and is the supercar maker's attempt at a&nbsp;city runaround. Slightly ridiculous in the same way that small dogs are.3. RANGE ROVER EVOQUEThe newest recruit to join Range Rover's 4x4 stable will be the smallest, greenest and by some way hippest offroader the firm has ever made.4. VW UP!Volkswagen bounces into the urban car market with this perky number. And yes the exclamation mark is part of the name! And no it doesn't float beneath a bunch of balloons!5. AUDI RS3The luxury car maker's first ever compact, four-wheel drive RS model. The hot hatch reloaded.6. BMW 6 SERIES CONVERTIBLEComposed, classy, clever… The new 6 gives grown-ups the chance to let out a&nbsp;discreet mew of pleasure while they sit in a cocoon of "class-leading driver-assistance technology".7. CITROËN DS4The DS3 was the outstanding car of 2010; now Citroën is sprinkling the same stardust over the car's big sister.8. NISSAN LEAFNissan's biggest launch in the coming year. The Leaf is an all-electric family car with real staying power which is as ground breaking as it is dull to look at.9. PEUGEOT 508France's Mondeo. The 508 saloon is everything family guys and executive minicab firms have been praying for.10. MORGAN THREE-WHEELERSuch fun! Handbuilt in the shadow of the Malvern Hills, this bike/car/bobsleigh combo could have been made a century ago. It will at least make life difficult for wheel clampers.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one placeCut your family fuel billSave yourself a fortune at the pumps by adopting the following "eco driving" techniques as described by the AA.Regular servicing– Get the car serviced regularly to maintain engine efficiency.Engine oil– Make sure you use the correct specification of engine oil.Tyre pressures– Check tyre pressures regularly and before long journeys. Under-inflated tyres create more rolling resistance and so use more fuel.Lose weight– Extra weight means extra fuel so if there's stuff in the boot you don't need take it out.Streamline– Roof racks/boxes create extra wind resistance and increase fuel consumption. If you don't need it take it off. If you do, pack carefully to reduce the extra drag.Combine short trips– Cold starts are inefficient so avoid multiple trips by combining errands such as buying the paper, dropping-off the recycling, or collecting the kids.Leave promptly– Don't start the engine until you're ready to go. In winter, scrape ice rather than leave the car idling for a long period to warm up.Easy does it– Drive smoothly, accelerate gently and read the road ahead to avoid unnecessary braking.Decelerate smoothly– When you have to slow down or stop, decelerate smoothly by releasing the accelerator in time, leaving the car in gear.Rolling– If you can keep the car moving all the time, so much the better. Stopping then starting again uses more fuel.Change up earlier– Change gear as soon as possible without laboring the engine – try changing up at an engine speed of around 2000 rpm in a diesel car or around 2500 rpm in a petrol car.Cut down on the air-con– Don't leave air conditioning on all the time – it increases fuel consumption, especially at low speeds.Turn it off– Any electrical load increases fuel consumption, so turn off your heated rear windscreen, demister blowers and headlights when you don't need them.Stick to the speed limit– The faster you go the greater the fuel consumption. According to the Department for Transport, driving at 70mph uses up to 9% more fuel than at 60mph and up to 15% more than at 50mph. Cruising at 80mph can use up to 25% more fuel than at 70mph.Don't be idle– If you do get caught in a queue, turn the engine off if it looks like you could be waiting for more than three minutes.
So the BBC is slimming down, in response to government pressure.  The World Service is to lose five of its foreign-language services, and a quarter of its staff. And BBC Online's budget will be cut by a quarter to £103m and the unit will lose 360 staff, at the same time as it embarks upon a radical "redesign" of the website and its navigation. Introducing these developments, the corporation's director general explained that the hatchet-work was part of a broader strategy to do "fewer things better".  The changes to BBC Online would, he maintained, make the corporation's web services "more focused and more valuable".What links these two victims of corporate surgery? Answer: they're not television. And that's highly significant.  What the cuts to BBC Online signify is that the internal battle within the corporation between the few who understood that push media represent the past, and the many who think that the Wibbly Wobbly Web (as Terry Wogan used to call Tim Berners-Lee's invention) is really just the newest way to convey visual stimuli to couch potatoes, is over. And the past has won.I was a TV critic for 13 years in the 1980s and 90s, and at that time knew the industry pretty well. What always struck me about its senior executives – in both the commercial and public sector – was how smug and self-satisfied they seemed. In a way, this was understandable: they were masters of a particular universe, rulers of a medium that dominated the information ecosystem, dictated the political agenda, and determined the daily habits of a large chunk of the population. At that time, the most powerful apparatchiks in the BBC and ITV were the schedulers – the planners who designed ways of holding the attention of a mass audience. Their craft included tricks like not scheduling some things against stronger competitors; making sure that one had a follow-on that would keep audiences from switching channels over the 9pm watershed; winning the ratings war over the Christmas period and so on.  Watching them at work, one realised that effectively they were playing chess – and that the pawns in their arcane games were the viewers.Embedded in the corporate DNA of push media like broadcast television is the assumption that viewers are, if not exactly idiots, then passive consumers.  The deal is thattheyreceive gratefully whatwe, the broadcasters, decide to create. The couch potato is thus the paradigmatic product of broadcast television. So you can see why television executives were so puzzled by the web, and particularly by the rise in user-generated content like blogs or YouTube videos: to them, the idea of such content is an oxymoron, like "military intelligence". Viewers aren't creative, and even if they were, there's no way anyone would let them publish their crap.Left to its own devices, therefore, the BBC would probably have missed the internet, just as Microsoft nearly did. In fact, one of the few good things to be said about John Birt's tenure of office as director general is that he understood the significance of the network and forced the corporation to engage with it. But even as he did so, most of his colleagues (not to mention at least one BBC chairman) regarded BBC Online as the equivalent of putting flags on the moon.Yet the strange thing was that, even in this hostile atmosphere, BBC Online flourished. It did that by being properly funded and by attracting some talented people who were motivated by the public-service mission and the opportunities for innovation offered by an organisation that did not have shareholders demanding instant returns. The result was an impressive set of innovations, one of which – the iPlayer – has transformed the online landscape.But the biggest achievement of BBC Online has been to ensure that the BBC is by far the most significant UK player in the global online entertainment market. For example,bbc.co.ukis the second most popular entertainment site in the UK (second only to YouTube), and with 35-40m unique visitors a month is one of thetop five news sites in the world,according to the web-metrics firm, Nielsen.None of this has stopped the push-media folks in the BBC from resenting the online cuckoo that has disrupted the nest.The departure of Eric Huggers, the corporation's director of future media and technology, to spend more time with the $3m a year that Intel will be paying him, gives them a providential opportunity to get the online operation back under adult supervision. And what better way to start than with a round of bracing cuts?The BBC needs to spend more, not less, on its online operation if it is to have a chance of being relevant in 20 years' time.  It needs to do more innovation, not less, in technologies beyond the iPlayer. And, given that its top management apparently still doesn't "get" the net, it badly needs a new chairman who does.
Charlie McDonnellCharlie McDonnell stopped being "the most famous British teenager you've never heard of" last October when he turned 20 but he's still extremely famous in a very unfamous way. On YouTube, where he is best known as charlieissocoollike, views of his vlogs, sketches, challenges and songs total over 100 million, he enjoys the celebrity endorsement of Stephen Fry and Phillip Schofield, but this rakishly thin 20-year-old would go largely unrecognised. Here, on his own website, he expands on his video chats to proffer a bit of opinion about file sharing (he's just released his own album, which you can listen to free here), answer questions and confess to his "nerdy tendencies". Engaging, witty and smart, Charlie is inspiring a nation of teens to sing songs about their spots into a webcam.If Charlie Parker Was A Gunslinger, There'd Be A Whole Lot Of Dead CopycatsGunsmoke's Amanda Blake.Although 50,000 new blogs are started every day, many disappear just as quickly. Some, however – like this one – become as permanently fixed in pop culture as newspapers and magazines. Seven years in and its delivery of cool, fascinating and occasionally jaw-droppingly cool images from 50s and 60s music, fashion and film remains unstinting. Among the many themes they riff on are photographs of collaborators, artists with animals (such as Gunsmoke's Amanda Blake, pictured) and classic jazz and film artwork. The aesthetic is such that Hattie Jacques mingles on their pages with Richard Nixon and Crosby, Stills &amp; Nash.Blog roll: Mum &amp; DadI Hate My Parents.I Hate My ParentsFrightening images of a child in a Mr T balaclava and other random acts of cruelty.Mother's PrideHilarious tales of the domestic abyss from a north London mother of four. Like a real life Outnumbered.Father ApprenticeTip, tricks, hacks and stories for new and used dads who want to be better.Dad JokesHow cows do maths (cowculator), what astronauts do when they make a mistake (Apollogise) and other gags of questionable quality.Rock Star ParentsBrilliant pictures from the 70s of rock stars at home with their mums and dads.Sticky FingersThe indignity of having a big-boned Wii Mii and the power of celeb mums, plus a decent recipe for Hungarian goulash.What we learned on the web this weekJulian Assange's next haircut.What Julian Assange'snext haircut should look like.All horoscopesare the same.New Yorkercartoons are funnier with literal captions.It's 50years since JFK's inauguration.Surfaces fixedat right angles to walls are so hot.A historyof Channel 4 idents.A templatefor horrific Facebook debate.Any filmcan be summed up in four icons.Things thatare funny in US sitcoms suck in real life.Lady Gaga'sTelephone works on many levels.
LittleBigPlanet 2, PlayStation 3Importing your sackboy or girl from the original game complete with whatever peculiar melange of materials, clothing, comedy ears and animal stripes it happened to be wearing when you last played, LittleBigPlanet 2 is every bit the evolution of its staggering, groundbreaking forebear. Once again the game's physicality makes it instantly understandable and likable: wood floats in water and catches fire, while electricity gives you a nasty shock. But this time there's more you can do yourself including playing with artificial intelligence, making intro scenes, music and miniature arcade games, much of which would have been impossible with the trickier and narrower toolset of the original. That means that outside story mode's relatively compact introduction, there's a whole universe of player-created content, which is ranked by how many people liked it, as well as add-ons from developer, Media Molecule. It's a peerlessly extraordinary and thoroughly British creation.SCEE, £49.99Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective, Nintendo DSGhost Trick: Phantom Detective.Ghost Trick's hero, Sissel, is an 80s suit-wearing detective who dies in the opening moments of the game. Completely forgetting who he was, what he was up to and who killed him, his disembodied spirit is given one night to find out what happened and save other potential victims. Replete with the kind of offbeat humour for which Capcom is famed (you're briefed on how to play by a possessed table lamp and that's only the start of a cavalcade of weirdos to cross your path), the game itself involves entering the ghost realm to jump between inanimate objects, some of which can be made to perform tricks; umbrellas, doors and curtains open, ceiling fans spin and torpedos do what you'd expect from watching war films. Bizarre, often silly and rarely less than very gripping.Capcom, £29.99Pollock's Toy Theatre, iPadPollock's Toy Theatre.In 1856, toy theatre mania was sweeping London. Even though the fad passed, Benjamin Pollock kept making his increasingly famous toy theatres, complete with the backdrops, characters and stage dressings for a wide variety of miniature productions. Remarkably, in the cynical, media-saturated, ADHD-encouraging 21st-century, his shop is still going and has recently spawned an iPad app. Giving you all the tools to mount your own production of A Midsummer Night's Dream (or your own play using its broad cast of misfits), the app lets you set the stage and move characters around, while recording the action and any voices within earshot for later playback to adoring fans via YouTube. Compared with other £2.99 apps it's exceedingly light on functionality, but unlike most is a thing of rare charm and beauty.Zuztertu, £2.99
I loved Enslaved. I don't care that it wasn'tenormouslychallenging or that all the enemies were effectively the same. I liked the lead characters, I liked the frequently funny script by Alex Garland, I liked the super rich colour pallete, which contrasted so vibrantly with the usual gun metal grey of sci-fi game environments. I loved some of the imagery, too, of a knackered Earth dominated by giant mechs, and of a population enslaved, not just literally, by a mysterious army, but mentally and emotionally, by what they had done to their own planet.So I'm pleased that Namco Bandai seems to be considering a sequel, even thought the game was not a commercial success. According to marketing director Lee Kirton:"It didn't perform as well as we hoped it would, but we're very proud of how it was received by both the media and the gamers who have experienced it. I can't discuss where we are in terms of a sequel, but we're looking at reviews and feedback from the press and because of the gameplay and quality that Enslaved delivered, we see it as a great catalogue title going forward."I agree, and it's always heartening when a publisher responds to acclaim. It's what EA did with Dead Space, which was not an absolutely huge seller, but certainly garnered critical praise. Hence, Dead Space 2, which is almost certain to be a massive hit. Capcom also saw its beautiful adventure title Okami fare poorly on the shop shelves, but we're going to see a sequel anyway in the form of promising DS title, Okamiden. And of course, a follow-up to Ubisoft's under-rated adventure Beyond Good and Evil has been in the works for a few years under the direction of original creator Michel Ancel.This sort of gamble is common in TV where series' tend to take a couple of seasons to bed in and start garnering mainstream attention – Peep Show and The Office being key examples. Enslaved was always going to struggle a little – an original title based on a 16th century Chinese novel. It had high profile talent in the form of Garland and Andy Serkis, as well as an absolutely gorgeous soundtrack from Nitin Sawhney. But it didn't have spec-ops meatheads clambering out of choppers, or monstrous space aliens, or zombies, and it didn't have the cinematic reference points of Uncharted.It's a weird, idiosyncratic title. It uses archaic game systems. It's like the Commodore 64 classic Impossible Mission re-imagined by Terry Gilliam and rendered in 3D. Indeed, if Gilliam made games, they would look like Enslaved – puzzling, daft, flawed, but interesting and compelling, and filled with arresting visual ideas. You may disagree, and that's the beauty of it.So yes, Namco Bandai pleasedoget Ninja Theory to make another one – even if it's a downloadable mini-quest. The industry needs more eccentrics not less.
Announced yesterdayto a generally positive response, Sony is billing its NGP console as the next generation in handheld gaming. Due out at the end of the year, the sleekly designed device boasts a 5in OLED screen, multi-touch control pad, twin analogue sticks, front and rear cameras, and 3G connectivity. But perhaps the most intriguing element is hidden away inside the machine.Crucially, Sony has abandoned the internally developed MIPS architecture that powered the PSP, and has opted for anARM processor, with aPowerVRgraphics processing unit. This puts the machine inline with massive majority of high-end smartphones: ARM reckons 95% of all current mobile handsets have application processors based on its IP, while Imagination Technologies, the developer of the PowerVR graphics chipset, claims 200 current models feature its technology. ARM and PowerVR chips are in the Apple iPad as well as high profile Google handsets such as the Galaxy S.The appeal of both these technologies is obvious: relatively high performance at ultra-low power consumption. The Kings Langley-based Imagination has been developing graphics acceleration hardware since the mid-90s, and the first-generation of the PowerVR GPU chipset in the NGP was developed for the Sega Dreamcast, which, with its watercooled architecture, was a much more power efficient console than its greedy and noisy successors. From here, the company set out to specialise in the mobile market."The 3D technology we supply is different from mainstream desktop 3D technologies," says Imagination spokesman David Harold. "We have an approach named tile-based deferred rendering, which means we only draw objects that are going to be visible to the end-user, and we process the majority of the information on the chip rather than constantly reading and writing off to external memory. That means lower power requirements and a much better performance and efficiency within mobile systems."ARM, too, has a focus on wringing high performance out of lower power. "The Cortex A9 gives an approximate raw performance of 2.5 DMIPS/Mhz," says marketing director Jim Wallace. "If you compare that to an Intel Atom, a dual-core A9 running at 800MGhz gives you a performance that's similar to a hyper-threaded Atom running at 1.6ghz. So you can run the A9 at significantly lower frequency, which means lower power, but the same performance."And the NGP is operating at the upper end of these processor ranges. Its quad-core Arm Cortex A9 processor possibly won't be found anywhere else this year. "Most of the phones currently on the market use the Arm Cortex A8," says Dan Grabham, editor ofTech Radar. "The A9 is just emerging now and the phones we'll see announced at the Mobile World Congress in February will certainly be A9-based. We reckon the NGP will use a Texas Instruments OMAP 4 processor (Arm licenses its IP to chipset manufacturers who then build their own chips around the technology) – certainly dual-core variants of that are coming out soon, and they're already coupled with the PowerVR graphics as well."Even the high-end phones and tablet computers that do feature A9 technology – for example, the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, the Motorola Droid Bionic and the LG Optimus 2 – are all dual-core implementations. Chip manufacturers such as Nufront. Nec and nVidia are working on products that feature quad-core A9 tech, but we're not expecting announcements until much later in the year.Of course, more cores doesn't necessarily equate to more processing power. It's interesting that Epic's Tim Sweeneydeclared at the NGP launchthat the product is four times more powerful than any other handheld device out there – perhaps referring to standards like the Apple iPad, which only uses a single Arm core. But processor performance depends on myriad factors including clock speed and implementation with the OS. At the very least, a multicore set-up allows processing tasks to be shared between cores, which reduces the frequency and voltage and therefore power consumption – good news when battery life is an issue.Meanwhile, the PowerVR SGX543 graphics processing unit is the latest addition to Imagination's SGX range, offering support for Open-GL as well as shader-based graphics – the fundaments of console gaming visuals. It also boasts a real-world performance of 35m polygons-per-second, and promises ultra smooth HD visuals – and that's a single core iteration, the NGP implementation is MP4, a quad-core architecture.And again, very few other manufacturers are implementing multi-core SGX GPUs as this stage. "There are more than 10 chip designs going on using our SGX multi-core technology right now," says David Harold. "But only two of them are in the public domain: a mobile phone and tablet focused product from Renesas – and that's SGX MP2 – and this one from Sony which is MP4."So the NGP specifications are advanced right now. But as we've mentioned, mobile phone development moves fast, and manufacturers will be announcing smartphones, and the emerging new class of superphones, with quad-core ARM and PowerVR chipsets by the end of the year. So should Sony be worried that, at some point in the next few months, a handset is announced that trumps this flagship gaming machine for specs?"I think the brief answer is no," says Harold. "And in fact, what Sony will do is benefit from the huge ecosystem of developers that has built up around mobile phones and mobile phone gaming. They will be able to move these skillsets toward Sony's business model."And actually, it could be this proximity to smartphone design that really aids the NGP and shapes Sony's handheld business model going forward. Through the use of ARM architecture, the company is making its device accessible to a whole new community of developers.As Wallace claims, "ARM has done a tremendous amount of work with Google over the years – we're its lead technology partner. A lot of the technologies that have been implemented in phones are specific to ARM, in terms of the native development kits. There are a whole host of games that work foremost on ARM – the classic example is Angry Birds: a lot of the code is ARM-based."At the same time, Sony's PlayStation Suite concept, which will make PlayStation-quality titles available on Android phones, is a means of capturing a massive audience of casual gamers, currently frustrated by the Android Market. "PlayStation Suite is really interesting," says veteran mobile technology analyst, Stuart Dredge."Android gaming has been a real wasteland. At the Mobile Games Forum in London on Wednesday, developers were queuing up to say how annoyed they are with Android Market, how they couldn't sell games on it. Something like 300,000 new Google Android devices are being activated daily, but gaming has been a real issue. So there's this huge market of Android owners looking for games, and Sony could fill that gap."Dredge also sees the NGP's 3G implementation as a key factor. "I use the Wi-Fi facility on my PSP, but you have to be in one place to use it, you can't be travelling. So the idea of a handheld console with 3G connectivity is really exciting, because as a developer you'll be able to assume connectivity. This should lead to many more highly connected titles, and of course social games – integrating things like Facebook connectivity becomes more viable if you can depend on the fact that the device will be connected to a network."Of course, this issue may well be muddied slightly bythe possibility that Sony will release different versions of the console, some with Wi-Fi only, and some with both Wi-Fi and 3G (just like Apple did with iPad, and Amazon did with Kindle), but with no firm release or pricing details, we'll have to wait and see.Ultimately, those writing the NGP off as another niche piece of gaming equipment for hardcore Sony fans, are being a little unfair. With its smartphone-style architecture, it is opening up the development environment to a vibrant eco-system of Android coders, and with 3G connectivity, there are possibilities for VoIP calls and other connected services. In a marketplace soon to be stuffed with netbooks, tablets, smartphones and superphones, the NGP ill find it difficult to compete on those terms – but then it will also boast high-end console games.Meanwhile, pitching it against the Nintendo 3DS is not really accurate either, just as the old PSP vs DS battle was a total mismatch. The NGP's biggest problem is that its going to be operating in a niche of its own, hovering between high-end handheld console and mainstream feature-rich mobile computing device.The price is likely to reflect this. I'd hazard a guess at £300-350, putting it between the 3DS and the iPad. It will have to draw every single benefit from its superlative architecture to perform in that space.
The five people arrested in the UKin connection with a spate of online attacksin support of WikiLeaks were today released on police bail, while in the US the FBI has issued search warrants as part of its investigation into online group Anonymous.The FBI yesterday issued more than 40 search warrants across the US as part of its Anonymous probe, where the distributed denial of services (DDoS) attacks the group carried out on the websites of companies including MasterCard and Visa are punishable by up to 10 years in prison.Last night Anonymous issued a statement branding the UK arrests "a serious declaration of war" against the group of internet "hacktivists".Yesterday's arrests are the first in the Metropolitan police's central e-crime unit investigation in the UK.Three teenagers, aged 15, 16 and 19, were held along with two others in a series of raids in the West Midlands, Northamptonshire, Hertfordshire, Surrey and London early yesterday. The teenagers have to return to their local police station on 13 April and the two  men the following day.Chris Wood, the 20-year-old Anonymous member whospokeextensivelyto the Guardianunder his online alias Coldblood last month, is understood to be one of those arrested in yesterday's raids.Police are said to have seized Wood's computers, mobile phones, hard drives and other storage devices in the arrest, and did not disclose when they would be returned.The five were arrested in connection with the thousand-strong group known as Anonymous, which last month launched a series of crippling attacks on the websites of companies that had withdrawn support for WikiLeaks, along with a number of government sites in Tunisia and Egypt.DDoS attacks, which bring down sites by bombarding them with repeated requests to load webpages, are illegal in the UK under the Computer Misuse Act and carry a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a £5,000 fine."You can easily arrest individuals, but you cannot arrest an ideology. We are united by a common objective and we can and will cross any borders to achieve that," Anonymous said in its statement."So our advice to you, the UK government, is to take this statement as a serious warning from the citizens of the world. We will not rest until our fellow anon protesters have been released."A Europe-wide investigation being carried out in conjunction with Scotland Yard has so far led to two Dutch suspects being arrested and subsequently released.Anonymous was catapulted into public spotlight last month when it managed tobring down the websites of some of the world's most powerful financial institutions, including Visa and MasterCard. The group targeted these companies after they cut off ties with WikiLeaks, following the whistleblowers' site's release of confidential US diplomatic cables.The group is understood to havegrown significantly in numberand firepower since its support of WikiLeaks, with the overwhelming majority of users simply volunteering their computer to be used in the attacks. Most of those involved in Anonymous operations do not disguise their internet protocol (IP) address, meaning they can be easily identified by police authorities.
LinkedIn, the online service for business professionals, is to go public this year, the first social networking company to float on the New York stock exchange.The nine-year-old website filed documents confirming its formal intention to go public last night, in a move seen as firing the starting pistol for flotations of other highly valued internet companies, such as Facebook, daily deals site Groupon, and Zynga, the games business behind FarmVille and CityVille.The number of LinkedIn shares to be offered and their price range have not yet been determined, according to its Securities and Exchange Commission prospectus. But private shares in the company changed hands at animplied valuation of $2.5bn (£1.6bn)on Friday's SharesPost market.Investor appetite in relatively unproven internet companies such as LinkedIn has boomed in recent months, with Facebook's $50bn valuation opening the door for Silicon Valley to make its mark on the stock exchange once again. Wall Street's renewed interest in the sector has also drawn comparisons, not always flattering, with the dotcom boom and bust of a decade ago."Facebook has definitely escalated people's interest in the sector and I think there's a lot of demand (for more internet IPOs)," said Rory Maher, an analyst with Hudson Square Research.LinkedIn has raised almost $100m in various venture capital funding rounds since its inception. Investors include Sequoia Capital, Greylock Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners, Goldman Sachs and the European Founders Fund.Goldman Sachs and the European Founders Fund also hold a stake in Facebook, with the investment bank also leading an exclusive share offer to its top clients that aimed to raise $1.5bn in funding.However,Goldman Sachs was forced to scrap plans to offer Facebook shares to its super-rich US clientsin the private placement, saying the "level of media attention might not be consistent with the proper completion of a US private placement under US law". Foreign investors are not covered by the same rules and will still be able to participate in the Facebook offering.Founded by the ex-PayPal executive Reid Hoffman in 2002, LinkedIn has 90 million users, with an unknown number opting to pay for premium features on the network. LinkedIn's net revenue nearly doubled to $161.4m in the first nine months of 2010, with $1.85m in profit, according to the company's SEC filing. Last year, the company moved into in profit.Facebook, by contrast, is the world's most popular social network, aiming for mass-market appeal with more than 600 million registered users, according to recent estimates. Facebook had $1.2bn in revenue in the first nine months of 2010 and $355m in profit, according to the company's prospectus released to potential investors earlier this month.Unlike Facebook, LinkedIn has a "freemium" commercial model, offering premium services to paying customers, while basic features and registration are free. Revenue from paying users fell to 27% for the first nine months of last year, from 41% in the previous year. Job listings and recruitment contributed 41% of net revenue in the same period, up from 29%. Advertising revenue remained steady at 32%.Morgan Stanley, Bank of America and JP Morgan are LinkedIn's three lead advisers. A portion of the shares will be issued and sold by the company, while a separate portion will be sold by certain stockholders of LinkedIn, according to the SEC filing.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My Mac laptop. I think before that I had big desktop PC, and like everybody you'd work from home and not take anything with you. I travel loads, and I've written three books on my laptop. It's great to be able to keep in touch with people on the go, and it's made me a mobile worker.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning – I picked up my emails, played on Twitter and looked at the football news on the BBC.What additional features would you add if you could?I would like there to be something that if I'm writing a recipe – so if I type in 25g, say – it will automatically convert it to imperial and American as well. Same with oven temperatures.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes, I do – undoubtedly. While my iPhone is not a great phone, that will be our life – we'll all carry little compact computers.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Technology-speak – I'm a compete and utter neanderthal. I think that Apple have made the language of tech much more straightforward, but I still find that things do still sometimes fly over my head, and I'm completley lost.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I had a Sony Ericsson phone that I really despised. I had 12 months of having to endure this terrible phone – every process you wanted to do was so long winded, it was a nightmare. I do quite hate satnavs as well.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Patience is a virtue. We all do that thing where you get a new piece of kit and you want to be an expert straight away.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A luddite, I would say. Or given the choice of a midway point, I veer toward the luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The first Mac computer I bought was about £1,800 quid, and as slow as old tar. I've never bought really expensive tellies or anything like that.Mac or PC, and why?It's always been Mac – I'm a real style over content type of person. I bought my first Mac about 12 years ago. I liked it because it was pretty.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do a bit of both, really. I tend to download tracks, but I still buy CDs. I've just got rid of all my vinyl, which was a very sad day, but I don't have a turntable any more. I'm a bit of a collector at heart. If it's a band I like, I want the physical item. The last CD I bought was The Gin Blossoms' new album, and the last DVD was the Will Ferrell Collection.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I do like the idea of them – robot butlers and hoverboards are things that everybody will need at some point.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I do want an iPad at the moment, but I'm resisting. With my laptop and my phone, I'm fairly sorted, really.•Simon Rimmerco-hosts and cooks each week on BBC2'sSomething For The Weekend, 10am Sundays
My first thought when I saw the Sony NGP was mild disappointment. Wasn't it just PSP on steroids? Then I saw theUncharted videosand read some more about the controls – now I can't wait.Gamers generally are likely to fall in love once they see the screen and the graphics. But will it help Sony compete against iPhone and Android apps that have made £5.99 feel expensive for a game? The launch of the PlayStation Suite then is a clever move, as for me the pricing of the software is more important long-term than whatever price Sony launches the hardware at.Talking of the launch, Sony Computer Entertainment America boss Jack Trettonthinks a global launch will be unlikelyand would not confirm an annoucement at E3.I think our goal is always to launch holidays when the majority of sales are done. You want to have a worldwide simultaneous launch. Having said that, this'll be our sixth platform launch, and it's very difficult to have the quantities to be able to launch on a worldwide basis on the same date. So while that's the goal, the reality might be something different. I think our goal is, we would get at least one territory out by the end of holiday 2011.Sadly, but not unsurprisingly, Tretton wouldn't talk specifics over the pricing.Suffice to say, we've been doing this a while, we've got a lot of experience – not only in individual markets but on a worldwide basis. I think we'll hopefully strike the balance that will allow us to be successful financially and commercially – and one without the other isn't good.He did talk about competitor pricing though:You know, I'm not an expert on the 3DS. I've seen the screen. I haven't played it. I think that if you could create content that consumers sees compelling, they'll find money that they didn't think they had. I think the more recent example of that was Kinect. I didn't think people would go out and spend $150 for that device and they did – and that's a peripheral at the end of the day. So I think if the quality's there, then the people will find a way to buy it, within reason.Given the tech packed into the NGP battery life will be a concern, which Tretton acknowledges:We listen to all the feedback on our devices, positive and negative. We know that battery life was a concern on PSP, and we certainly look to improve upon that, but no details yet.Overall then it looks unlikely that Europe will see NGP this year. E3 will hopefully have more details, but if I was a betting on this I'd say March 2012 for Europe.What do you think? And would you import first?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Egypt appears to have cut off almost all access to the internet from inside and outside the country from late on Thursday night, in a move that has concerned observers of the protests that have been building in strength through the week."According to our analysis, 88% of the 'Egyptian internet'has fallen off the internet," said Andree Toonk at BGPmon, a monitoring site that checks connectivity of countries and networks."What's different in this case as compared to other 'similar' cases is that all of the major ISPs seem to be almost completely offline. Whereas in other cases, social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter were typically blocked, in this case the government seems to be taking a shotgun approach by ordering ISPs to stop routing all networks."The cutoff appears to have happened around 10.30pm GMT on Thursday night.Only one internet service provider appears to still have a working connection to the outside world: the Noor Group, for which all 83 routes are working, and inbound traffic from its connection provider, Telecom Italia.Protests in Egypt at the government's rulehave been building all week, and Friday was expected to see the largest demonstrations so far.An analysis by Renesys, which provides real-time monitoring of internet access, says that "every Egyptian provider, every business, bank, internet cafe, website, school, embassy and government office that relied on the big four Egyptian ISPs for their internet connectivity is now cut off from the rest of the world. Link Egypt, Vodafone/Raya, Telecom Egypt, Etisalat Misr, and all their customers and partners are, for the moment, off the air."That has caused concern among observers who believe that internet access – which the Egyptian governmentlimited earlier this weekby cutting off social networks – is essential to ensure that government acts responsibly towards its citizens. Tim Bray, an engineer at Google,tweeted: "I feel that as soon as the world can't use the net to watch, awful things will start happening."Renesys found that: "At 22:34 UTC (00:34am local time), Renesys observed the virtually simultaneous withdrawal of all routes to Egyptian networks in the internet's global routing table. Approximately 3,500 individualBGP[Border Gateway Protocol] routes were withdrawn, leaving no valid paths by which the rest of the world could continue to exchange internet traffic with Egypt's service providers. Virtually all of Egypt's internet addresses are now unreachable, worldwide."The company notes that Noor Group is the only working connection: "Why was Noor Group apparently unaffected by the countrywide takedown order? Unknown at this point, but we observe that theEgyptian Stock Exchangeis still alive at a Noor address."
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLinkedIn files registration statement for Initial Public Offering &gt;&gt; The LinkedIn Blog"LinkedIn Corporation announced today that it has filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a proposed initial public offering of its Class A common stock. The number of shares to be offered and the price range for the offering have not yet been determined. A portion of the shares will be issued and sold by LinkedIn, and a portion will be sold by certain stockholders of LinkedIn."Netflix Grades Broadband Internet Providers &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"We do know, because Netflix already told us, that Charter gets the best marks. And it appears that Clearwire, the wireless service co-owned by Sprint and some of the big cable companies, ranks dead last. The news that most of you care about: Time Warner Cable and Comcast, the nationâ€™s two biggest cable companies, appear to be in the top part of Netflixâ€™ rankings"Google Engages in Subtle Form of Censorship &gt;&gt; MashableRemoving links to some filesharing portals, such as BitTorrent, in Auto Suggest feature. View in juxtoposition to the company'sSpanish court battleNo Profits, No Problem: Demand Media IPO Soars 33% On First Day &gt;&gt; Wired.com"Although the company's revenue has grown substantially, it has never turned a profit in its four-year history, a fact the company also warned investors about in its prospectus. "We have had a net loss in every year since inception," the company said. "As of September 30, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $53 million and we may incur net operating losses in the future." "Demand is heavily reliant on web search giant Google to drive its revenue. In the first three quarters of 2010, Demand's advertising agreements with Google accounted for nearly one-third of its total revenue, according to the company. The firm also faces competition from other web publishers, including AOL and Yahoo." Wonder how many articles it has for "How do you identify an internet stock bubble?"Microsoft claims employee stole $460,000 from the company &gt;&gt; Computerworld"Microsoft has sued a former director of business development in state court, accusing him of stealing nearly $460,000 from the company and trying to make off with another $1.5 million before his scheme was uncovered. "In a complaint filed with a Washington State Superior Court, Microsoft alleged that Robert D. Curry created a fake company, Blu Games, then submitted bogus invoices for non-existent services."Welcome Stephen Elop to Best Job in High Tech: New CEO for Nokia &gt;&gt; Communities Dominate BrandsFormer Nokia exec Tomi Ahonen in September 2010: "Except that the job at Nokia in 2010 is actually far better, and far more than those three giants even, two decades ago! What is best, is that the strategy and business basics at Nokia are supremely sound. The new CEO inherits a powerhouse mobile phone maker giant, which is on solid foundations, well positioned to reap benefits of the economic upturn, and well poised to capture a disproportionately large share of almost any conceivable mobile phone industry opportunities that can currently be seen on the horizon, including all flavors of smartphone opportunities from superphones to app stores." Stephen Elop, January 2011: "Nokia faces some significant challenges in our competitiveness and our execution. In short, the industry changed, and now it's time for Nokia to change faster".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Five people were arrested yesterday in connection witha spate of online attacks last monthin support of WikiLeaks.Police said the five males, aged 15, 16, 19, 20 and 26, were arrested in a series of raids at 7am in the West Midlands, Northamptonshire, Hertfordshire, Surrey and London. All five are being held in custody at local police stations.The five were arrested on suspicion of being involved in the group of "hacktivists" known as Anonymous, who temporarily crippled the websites of MasterCard, Visa and PayPal after those companies cut off financial services to WikiLeaks. The attacks followed the whistleblowing site's release of US diplomatic cables.The distributed denial of services (DDoS) attacks, which bring down sites by bombarding them with repeated requests to load webpages, are illegal in the UK under the Computer Misuse Act and carry a maximum fine of £5,000.The arrests were co-ordinated by the Metropolitan police in conjunction with other UK forces and international agencies. "They are part of an ongoing investigation into Anonymous which beganlast yearfollowing criminal allegations of DDoS attacks by the group against several companies," Scotland Yard said. "This investigation is being carried out in conjunction with international law enforcement agencies in Europe and the US."Anonymous leapt to the support of WikiLeaks after Amazon and other companies terminated business links with the site. The 1,000-strong group of activists launched what they called Operation Payback, vowing to give perceived anti-WikiLeaks companies a "black eye".Astatementpurporting to be from Anonymous released last night warned the government that it was making a "sad mistake" in arresting the five men, and that the group considered it a "serious declaration of war"."You can easily arrest individuals, but you cannot arrest an ideology. We are united by a common objective and we can and will cross any borders to achieve that," the statement said. "So our advice to you, the UK government, is to take this statement as a serious warning from the citizens of the world. We will not rest until our fellow anon protesters have been released."More recently, the group has turned its attention to supporting the political uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt, temporarily disabling access to 10 Tunisian and four Egyptian government websites.Anonymous says the cyber attacks are in retaliation for censorship in both countries. Facebook, Twitter and other siteshave been routinely blocked by the authoritiesin Tunisia and Egypt.Ireland's main opposition party's website was alsohacked into this month, with Anonymous claiming responsibility for the attack, which compromised up to 2,000 people's personal details. Authorities across Europe signalled an intention to identify those behind the attacks, the majority of which are traceable by their internet protocol addresses that connect each device to the internet.The more sophisticated hacktivists use technology that makes their connection anonymous on the internet, so authorities and other internet users cannot see who is behind the computer. But most of those involved in the Anonymous attacks are understood to be "average internet citizens", whose location can be discovered through the IP address.
Microsoft saw its quarterly operating profits fall by 4% even while revenues grew by 5% to $19.9bn, boosted by huge sales of its Xbox games console and Kinect controller. Net profit fell slightly to $6.63bn, from $6.66bn.Revenues at its entertainment and devices division, which produces the Xbox and Kinect grew by 55%, to $3.7bn, and profits by 83% to $679m. But revenues were down 30% at its workhorse Windows division, to $5bn, and profits fell by 40% year-on-year to $3.2bn. The principal cause of weakness was slow growth in the PC market, which only grew by 3% during the year; the Windows division relies on sales of its Windows operating sytem.Revenues grew strongly at its other main business, Business, which sells the Office suite and Sharepoint collaboration software: they were by 24% to $6bn, with profits of $3.9bn, up 34%."We are enthusiastic about the consumer response to our holiday lineup of products, including the launch of Kinect. The 8 million units of Kinect sensors sold in just 60 days, far exceeded our expectations," said Peter Klein, chief financial officer at Microsoft. "The pace of business spending, combined with strong consumer demand, led to another quarter of operating margin expansion and solid earnings per share growth."Yet despite the strong sales of the Kinect and Xbox, entertainment and devices contributed less than 20% of revenues, and 8% of profits. The Windows division contributed 40% and the Business division 48% of profits.Analyst reaction was mixed. "Outstanding numbers when you take a first look at it, but when you delve into them, Windows missed expectations by $300 million," said "Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities. "The big surprise is huge strength in the Office business, $600 million above expectations. That is really being driven by the Office 10 release."Colin Gillis at BGC Financial said:  "This company has got some momentum behind it. The core businesses have been setting records. They've got a nice, tight focus on their core marketplaces. They've got discipline in terms of cost controls and driving earnings. They're the best in the space in terms of returning cash to shareholders."Basically, we've gotten over 300 million Windows 7 licenses sold. I mean, PCs are not disappearing. Put that into perspective with 7 million tablets sold last quarter from Apple. Clearly there are disruptions in the landscape, but some of the negative viewpoints are overblown."The darkest spot in Microsoft's figures remains its Bing search engine in its online services division. Although it grew its revenues by 19%, up $112m to $691m, it continued its loss-making run of 14 quarters - with the losses widening by $80m to -$543m. Since the middle of 2007, the Online Services division has lost $6.3bn - and shows no signs so far of stemming the losses.That contrasts strongly with Google, which last week announced quarterly figures in the same sector showing revenues of $8.4bn and profits of $2.54bn.Microsoft also managed to stay ahead of its long-time rival Apple: although its quarterly revenues were smaller than the Californian company's $26.7bn, it beat Apple's $6bn profit handily.
The world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, Nokia, delivered its third profit fall in a row yesterday as it struggles in the booming smartphone sector.Net sales for the Finnish group were up 6% to €12.7bn (£10.9bn) in the last quarter of 2010, while those of its mobile handsets and services division, the largest part of the firm, grew only 4% to €8.5bn – which, after adjustments for currency fluctuations, amounted to zero growth.Pre-tax profits fell by 22% to €833m, and the underlying earnings per share fell to €0.22, excluding a boost from lower than expected taxes.Nokia also warned that results in the next quarter would be weak, with operating profit margins expected to drop to between 7% and 10%, down from 11.3% in the past quarter. That worried analysts, who warned that the company was under attack at both ends of the phone market.At the lower end Nokia faces generic manufacturers making cheap handsets, especially in Asia, the Middle East and Africa. At the higher end it must compete with companies such as RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, and Apple, maker of the iPhone, as well as LG and Samsung, which have seen great success with smartphones based on Google's Android mobile operating system.Nokia's worldwide share of the valuable smartphone market continued to fall, down to 31% for the quarter, compared with 38% in the previous three months.Stephen Elop, theformer Microsoft executive who took over as Nokia's chief executive in September, praised the "solid performance" and "encouraging" growth in mobile devices. But he added that "Nokia faces some significant challenges in our competitiveness and our execution. In short, the industry changed, and now it's time for Nokia to change faster".He has promised to unveil a new strategy for the company on 11 February, before the Mobile World Congress event in Barcelona.Analysts, though, warned that Nokia faces major challenges. Geoff Blaber of CCS Insight said: "Disappointing total volume, including smartphones, emphasises that these are dark days for Nokia. In 12 months Nokia has gone from 38% to 33% market share [in smartphones] and is under sustained attack across all segments. These results point to the daunting task ahead of Elop in 2011."Nicolas von Stackelberg from Macquarie Research said: "What scares the market is the rapid share loss that Nokia seems to have experienced in the fourth quarter. Even more dramatic than the share loss in smartphones is the slide in market share in standard phones. They seem to be affected by a massive attack in the lower price tiers."Nokia sold a total of 123.7m mobiles phones in the quarter, of which 95.4m were standard handsets and 28.3m were smartphones. It is still the largest smartphone manufacturer in the world, ahead of Samsung, LG, Apple (which sold 16.2m in the same period) and RIM (which sold 14.2m). But those numbers were only up 7% from the previous quarter, despitethe launch of the N8and C7 handsets which were meant to boost the company's reputation at the high end.However, the average selling price of Nokia's smartphones fell in annual comparisons to €156 from €186, a 17% drop; Nokia's smartphone business had revenues of €4.41bn for the quarter.By comparison the average selling price for the iPhone in the same quarter was $635 (€462), almost three times as much, while RIM was on $317. That makes the value of Apple's smartphone business, at $10.1bn (€7.35bn), two-thirds larger than Nokia's.For the year though, Nokia remains the world's largest smartphone maker by both volume and sales, having sold 100m, up 48% on 2009, for total sales of €14.7bn."It's a mixed bag," said Carolina Milanesi, vice-president at the research company Gartner. "Looking at the results of all the phone companies for the past quarter together – Nokia, Apple, RIM, LG, Sony Ericsson – it's the high-end phones which drive the Christmas sales. The rest have been hit by a poor quarter."But she said that Nokia needed to restore its brand. "They need something at the high end with a high return. They need a phone that people will connect to in three ways –  viscerally liking it, functionally effective, and reflecting the user's self-image. I have to go back to 2006 and the N95 of think of the last phone from Nokia which fulfilled those criteria."Nokia needs to get its mojo back. We need to hear from Elop what he's going to do – if he's going to jump into bed with Google [and Android] or Microsoft [which offers the Windows Phone 7 mobile operating system]. There's a huge installed base of Nokia users, but the company needs to win back the cool people who have gone on to other platforms. Once there's only a touch screen, it's not about the design – it's about the software. And for Nokia to grow, it needs to attract my daughter, not my mum."A key part of Apple's success with the iPhone has been in the "app" ecosystem, which has brought more than a billion dollars of revenues to its App Store and strengthened users' ties to the phones. Nokia has struggled to have similar impact with its own Ovi Store.Nokia's shares fell by more than 6% when the results were published, but they recovered after Elop's conference call to close 0.8% lower.
Just a quick post to let you know about two events on the near-horizon. First up, this Friday sees the launch party forGameCity Nights season two, a new series of indie-flavoured games nights from the people behind the lovely GameCity Festival. Kicking off at 6pm at the Antenna club in Nottingham, the intro night will feature guest appearances from comedian and game developer Graham Goring, the amazingTheremin HeroandFree Market Economy, Derek Williams' famed music/monologue feature from video game radio show,One Life Left. The GameCity team apparently have some amazing events planned and they're spilling the beans here. So get along there tomorrow.Also, just a reminder that I'll be hosting the first everGamesblog Live eventon February 19 at the Guardian's very own offices. I'll be talking to the chaps behind Need for Speed: Shift 2, Dragon Age 2 and Crysis 2, and there will be demo units so you'll be able to sample the games. It's a great chance for Gamesblog readers to meet up, play EA's latest titles and hear the developers discussing their influences and game design theories. Also, if you witnessed my presenting skills at last year's GameCity 5 Gamesblog breakfast events, you'll already know you're in for an unforgettably slick performance...And I'll have more on several other forthcoming UK games events soon...
The London-based law firm at the heart of a huge row over illegal filesharing this week turned off its overworked photocopier, and vowed to no longer pursue the tens of thousands of Britons it suspects of copyright infringement.From its Hanover Square office, ACS:Law has led the charge in sending letters demanding payment from alleged illicit filesharers, attracting unwanted attention from online activists, industry regulators and privacy commissioners along the way.In a matter of months, the Andrew Crossley-fronted firm may have singlehandedly changed the game for prosecuting infringers in the UK, experts say.The controversial method of so-called "speculative invoicing", in which law firms acting on behalf of copyright owners demand payment from thousands of people accused of illegal filesharing, has found itself in the dock as the industry and law courts scrutinise closer the process of bringing copyright infringers to justice. Judge Birss QC, currently ruling in the case against 27 people brought by the pornography licensee MediaCAT, this week toyed with the unprecedented idea of banning indefinitely that company – and, by implication, its client ACS:Law – from sending out such letters. It would be an "extraordinary order" in "extraordinary circumstances",he said."The interesting legal point here is that the Solicitors Regulation Authority [SRA] and the judges are seemingly uncomfortable with the speculative invoicing idea and it actually looks as if that route will be closed off altogether," says Sarah Byrt, an intellectual property partner at the law firm Mayer Brown."The technology has made it easy to infringe without fear of being caught which in turn is harming creative industries. The SRA and the courts will want to avoid lawyers pursuing a course of action that looks heavy handed."The SRA is presently investigating the practice as employed by ACS:Law – but speculative invoicing is by no means unique to Crossley's solicitors. Davenport Lyons, Gallant Macmillan and others have in the past 12 months targeted  thousands of suspected infringers on behalf of their media clients. A large number of the accusedclaim to be wrongly identified, though it is not clear how many have paid up to avoid the potential for further prosecution.Only 27 of the "tens of thousands" of those accused by ACS:Law have been brought to court, and MediaCAT even attempted an 11th-hour abortion of these Patents County Court proceedings earlier this month. Judge Birss called the situation "absolutely extraordinary", and pointed to the law firm's lucrative commercial arrangement with MediaCAT. ACS:Law keeps 65% of the fines paid by accused infringers, while MediaCAT takes the remaining 35%, it was revealed in court (hours beforeCrossley revealed his company was quitting copyright litigationsaltogether because of "death threats" to his family)."The court was told [on Monday] that ACS:Law, GCB Ltd and all other companies have stopped sending out letters to consumers. This is a welcome step forward, but we also need some comfort for the many people who have already received a letter and continue to protest their innocence," said Michael Forrester, a partner at Ralli Solicitors, which is advising a number of the 27 defendants in the ongoing case."The court may find a way of permanently stopping these firms from pursuing claims of copyright infringement in this way," he said. "We are dealing with cases where consumers have explained how they cannot possibly have uploaded or downloaded copyright protected material, but they are still pursued."The legal basis for the claims made against these alleged file sharers involves complex legal and technical principles. These are extremely difficult for a lay person to understand and can mean an innocent person is being pursued."But it's not just the courts and regulators that are looking closer at these methods. Most of the UK's largest internet providers, including BT and Sky,threw a significant stumbling block into the law firms' pathsin October, when they refused to hand over more customer information to law firms after the personal details of thousands of Britons leaked online during a crippling attack on ACS:Law's website. The leak, which isbeing investigated by the information commissioner, exposed the details of people suspected of illicit filesharing of music, films and pornography.Behind the scenes, these providers are showing a rare united front against such practices, and believe that more needs to be done before Norwich Pharmacal Orders (NPOs) – the court orders used by these firms to obtain customer information for invoicing – become once again viable methods for pursuing filesharers.Firstly, they say, more needs to be done to show that these firms genuinely intend to take the cases to court – not just extract as many fines as possible and drop the rest. Secondly, that the customer information received by these companies is held safely and securely. Thirdly, the thousand-strong "speculative invoicing" claims need to stop – they should focus on the serious infringers, those whose IP address is linked to a generous amount of unlawful uploading/downloading, rather than the odd Lady Gaga number.So, what next? Well, the patents court is expected to rule later this week on whether ACS:Law and MediaCAT should be allowed to discontinue those 27 cases, and whether the copyright owner – understood to be Sheptonhurst, the owner of the UK's biggest sex shop chain, Private – has to join proceedings as a claimant. That could really change the game.After that, there's the small matter of the Digital Economy Act's judicial review, expected 22-24 March. Sit back and enjoy.
Are there any good alternatives to the Mac Mini? I only know of the Asus Eee box. Size is an issue; performance not so much.Basically, I'm starting to think about upgrading my 2007 Mac Mini, and while I like the Mac, I'm wondering if I can get a similar computing experience from a PC alternative. I have no particular attachment to either Mac or PC, and I have a netbook running Jolicloud, so Linux could be considered.I use the computer for everything from photo editing to basic video processing, but mostly for media consumption and web surfing.Chris TaylorThe Mac Mini was "refreshed" last year, but with prices starting at £612, it's expensive for what you get. It's basically a 13in MacBook Pro laptop in a small box, which puts it at the low end of Apple's performance range. The trade-off is that you get an old Intel Core 2 Duo processor but a better graphics chip than the average Windows PC – an Nvidia GeForce 320M – which makes it a good media player.However, the graphics chip shares main memory, and the standard model only has 2GB, which isn't enough. Also, the standard hard drive is small (320GB) and slow (5400RPM). Upgrading to 4GB (£82) and 500GB (another £82) pushes the price up to £776, for which you could buy far more powerful desktop PC. You can easily upgrade the new Mac Mini's memory yourself, but you'd have to really want Mac OS X, or the stylish form factor, to pay this sort of price.For about £350 you could get a mini-tower desktop PC that would be much easier to upgrade (taking another hard drive and your choice of graphics card) and the extra airspace means it should run cooler. For example, a Dell Vostro 230 Mini Tower Desktop measures only 370mm x 170mm x 427mm (14.6in x 6.7in x 16.8in), which is by no means huge.However, if you must have a small form factor, the Windows PC market has hundreds of options, including many Shuttle and "barebones" systems with Mini/Nano/Pico-ITX motherboards. For comparison, a Mini-ITX motherboard measures 17cm x 17cm (6.7in x 6.7in).Perhaps the Mac Mini's most obvious competition is the Dell Zinio HD 410, which is advertised at "from £299". A basic model with a 2.20GHz AMD Athlon II X2, 3GB of memory, 320GB (but 7200RPM) hard drive, ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4250 graphics and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium comes out at £349. However, it would be better to upgrade to 4GB of memory and a 500GB hard drive for only £379 (D00Z4105). This is half the price of an Apple-upgraded Mac Mini.The Dell Zinio HD 410 also offers the option of a built-in Blu-ray player, which you can't get from Apple at any price. A high-spec system with an AMD Phenom II X3 triple-core processor, 6GB of memory, a terabyte hard drive, ATI Radeon HD 5450 1GB graphics card and Blu-ray comes out at £579 (D11Z4111).If you are willing to compromise on performance, the Asus Eee Box, Acer Revo and MSI Wind Box are cheaper alternatives. These are basically Atom-powered netbooks in very small boxes, often using an Nvidia ION graphics processor (GeForce 9400M) to provide good media performance. In fact, ION can decode MPEG-2, VC-1 and H.264 to support Blu-ray playback. This type of PC should be able to handle your web surfing and media playing needs, but of course, an Atom is likely to struggle with photo and, particularly, video editing. I wouldn't be keen to boot Adobe Photoshop on this kind of system, let alone run it.If you do want to take the "box" route, have a look at the new SuperSpeed Zotac Z-Box HD ID34, where the SuperSpeed refers to the two USB 3.0 ports. (It also has four USB 2 ports, and one of those supports eSATA for adding a high-speed external hard drive.) This is a very slim (40mm) barebones system with prices starting at about £150. Also, Zotac does not provide an operating system, so you can install your choice of Microsoft Windows 7 or Linux and the open sourceXBMC(formerly X-Box Media Centre) media centre software.You can buy a ready-built Z-Box HD ID34 that combines Nvidia ION (PureVideo HD) graphics with a 1.8GHz dual core Intel Atom D525 processor, USB 3.0, HDMI, S/PDIF output and a slot-loading Blu-ray player for £405 (including delivery) fromScanor £430 fromPlay.com.The Z-Box gets you a media centre PC with technologies beyond the Mac Mini (USB 3.0, Blu-ray) in a living room-friendly format for a lower price. However, even a dual-core/four-thread 64-bit Atom D525 is not going to rock if you want to do video editing and similar processor-intensive tasks, and I wouldn't expect it to outperform the T7200 chip that I'd guess is in your 2007 Mac Mini.The AMD Athlon II X2 P340 in the low-end Zinio should perform somewhere between the T7200 and the P8600 in the latest Mac Mini, but you should get better overall performance because of the extra memory and faster hard drive. You can get a rough idea fromCPU Benchmarksand more detailed results fromNotebook Check.Whatever you buy will probably involve some compromise on operating system, performance, price and size. You just have to try to find the balance that best suits your needs. However, since you already have a 2007 Mac Mini, a straight swap for the 2010 version would be by far the quickest and simplest replacement, even at the price.
If you think things are bad at the moment, just be thankful you're not Isaac Clarke. To describe the character you control in the second instalment of EA's acclaimed space-survival-horror franchise as "put-upon" would be the mother of all understatements.Dead Space 2 resumes Isaac's story three years after the first game, in the frankly unwelcoming surroundings of the Sprawl, a giant city on one of Saturn's moons. Once again, our poor old hero – who begins the game in a straitjacket – must negotiate double-dealing and deranged behaviour from fellow humans, hallucinations of his dead girlfriend and, most of all, the unwanted attentions of a set of mutants known as necromorphs which are so disgustingly putrid, blood-crazed and brain-lackingly persistent that the likes of Clive Barker would be proud to have created them.That Dead Space 2 happens to be a video game which puts you at the heart of the action is a bonus: it would stand up impressively as an example of non-interactive horror. The ranks of the necromorphs have been impressively added to this time around with the likes of Pukers, who spew acid at you from a distance accompanied by blood-curdling screams, and featureless children with scythe-like limbs who swamp you in a pack.But much of Dead Space 2's impressive scariness derives from more mundane devices, such as vents that unexpectedly blast you with steam, and gloriously chilling music, lighting and sound effects.Appropriately, given the way in which he is a more seasoned necromorph-dispatcher, Isaac gets some great new weapons – such as the Javelin Gun, a powerful speargun which can impale his assailants, and old favourites such as the Plasma cutter have been subtly improved (plus, of course, you can upgrade your favourites via workbenches, or re-spec them if you take an upgrade direction that doesn't work out).Isaac's Kinesis ability to pick up objects and fire them has been made vastly more responsive, so that it now has a part to play in combat. You can, for example, fire severed limbs at necromorphs. Ammo is still in severely short supply during periods of the game, and like its predecessor, Dead Space 2 is challenging and unforgiving to play. Which is just how games like this should be.Once again, it contains some great puzzles that involve manipulating objects with Kinesis and Stasis, and plenty of floating around in zero gravity. And this time around, it has acquired a four-versus-four multiplayer mode, in which four humans try to achieve an objective while four necromorphs try to maul them to pieces. Slightly unexpectedly, it's somewhat reminiscent of Left4Dead.In general, pretty much every aspect of Dead Space 2 has been improved: the combat is slicker and more accurate, the story flows in an exemplary manner (with puzzles occurring just when you're screaming for a break from the relentless necromorph onslaughts), the graphics and sound are fantastic and, in general, production values are sky-high. As long as you're not of a remotely nervous disposition, you'll discover there is a vast amount of pleasure to be found in it.• Game reviewed on PlayStation 3.
Simple pleasures are, they say, the best. In gaming terms, yes, it's just another way of rehashing that old argument that slick graphics can never replace gameplay. In those old, heady days of coin-ops, it wasn't the look of Pac Man and Asteroids and Galaxian that kept you going back for more, it was the simple but addictive nature of the game.Of course, lovely graphics can certainly enhance a game and, happily, that's the case with IloMilo, a charmingly daft puzzler available to download for not very much at all on Xbox Live Arcade.There are no bullets, no spaceships, no toxic weapons involved. Instead your task is the reuniting of Ilo and his best friend Milo, who like to meet every day in the park for a cup of apple tea. Unfortunately, the layout of the park changes every day, and reuniting the friends (and completing the other little challenges presented) is never quite as easy as it sounds.In terms of the look, comparisons with LittleBigPlanet are inevitable – the game board, the various tools and hazards, even Ilo and Milo themselves, have a lovely, squishy patchwork feel to them. There's no level creator, however, although one suspects that may yet appear as additional downloadable content.To play, you control both Ilo (who's red) and Milo (blue) and move them around the grid, to bring them together. In order to do that, you'll have plenty of puzzles to solve. These start out relatively simple but, not very far into the challenge – of a total of 48 levels – the amount of trial, error and character switching will keep you extremely, and enjoyably, busy. You also get the occasional tip from Sebastian, Ilo and Milo's friend who lives in a particular block.The grid itself appears to be made out of felt blocks, suspended in zero gravity, and you will frequently need to think in three dimensions to bring our titular stars together. As you'd imagine, certain blocks have different properties, which allow you to solve the various puzzles between you and your goal. Some blocks can be moved to fill in gaps. Others will extend for three spaces – both horizontally and vertically – to fill in bigger gaps, either for your immediate benefit or to help your blue or red chum. You may also find yourself having to pass such blocks between Ilo and Milo to complete a level.Yet more blocks will float across gaps in the grid, when a switch is pressed, while others will catapult you across the void. In some cases, trapdoors will fling you to the other side of the puzzle, while other blocks contain a path-blocking monster you may need to distract with Ilo so that Milo can get past, or vice versa.Serious puzzlers will plough through the levels in a matter of hours (although there's some family-pleasing, inter-generational mileage in the two player option) but, for the price, it's hard to grumble. It's also hard to grumble about any game that can leave such a big, goofy smile on your face.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
