Web nosesWeb Nose Day is on the way, and schools are being invited to create supporting websites in a competition backed by Becta and the Guardian. Seewww.comicrelief.com/educationandwww.becta.org.ukwebsiteawards/ for resources and details. Schools can also order Comic Relief's Guide to Changing the World, Universe and Everything. a set of 24 lesson plans, fromcomicrelief@dsine.co.uTurn onGot bandwidth to waste? Tune in to the TuneIn Network and watch a couple of episodes of Dragnet, the great old cop show, a Sinatra documentary, Fantastic Planet or other film or video using Windows Media Player. The site also has a pay-per-view section offering such delights as Reefer Madness (Women Cry For It - Men Die For It). Go towww.tuneinnetwork.com.Drop outEven more bandwidth to waste? There's alwaysMedia Inspiration, "a resource to inspire media professionals". It is a fantastic collection of what are called "creative" websites: that is, an orgy of (mostly) stupid and pointless web design. Most depressing aspect: the 25 pages of Flash-infected sites, some of which take lack of usability to new heights. The 99% of users who close pop-up consoles before they finish opening will have to sit on their hands.Tall talesNalyd's Skyscraper Page has won the accolade for the best skyscraper site of the year. The sitewww.skyscraperpage.comlets you see the tallest buildings in the world arranged in order, and enjoy the World's Tallest Diagram.The New York Skyscrapers siteis also topping.Top peopleAn essential site for George Dubya Bush to bookmark is World Heads of State, which lists kings and presidents from the foundation of each country to the present day. It can be hard to answer questions such as who ran Kiribati in 1991-94 without going towww.info-regenten.de/regent/regent-e.Joke contestBritish Web Broadcasting is searching for "the brightest in new comedy talent", and judging by some stuff on its site atwww.bwebb.tv, it needs it. The judges include Robert Llewellyn (Red Dwarf) and Nigel Planer (The Young Ones), and the winner will get his or her own BwebB series for a year plus a video contract with Vision Video Ltd. You can post your entry to British Web Broadcasting Search For A Comic in Brentford, or upload it to the website. The closing date for entries is February 28.All that glittersThe Recording Academy has been in the news this week because of the four Grammy Award nominations for Eminem and The Marshall Mathers LP - an album that ridicules the Grammies. All the nominations for the 43rd annual awards are now online atwww.grammy.com, and the LA Times has thoughtfully provided sound clips with its comprehensive coverage atwww.calendarlive.com/top.But on January 21, well before the Grammies, come the Golden Globe Awards, organised by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. The nominations have just been unveiled atwww.goldenglobes.org/nom.htmIt is noticeable that almost every film and TV show listed has its own website, including Ang Lee's balleticCrouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.Sound trackKaraoke has come to the web, with version3.0 of Paltalk. This   software not only provides internet phone facilities, it supports group conferencing under moderator control, with "hand raising" for when you feel a desperate need to sing My Way. Paltalk is also beta testing a non-conferencing version of its software for Palm OS handheld computers.New &amp; noted&#149;  Net Services has launched a search engine for finding emotional support groups. Seewww.netservs.com/care/&#149;  Sub Sea Explorer is a new website aimed mainly at    divers, and the attractions include a competition to win a dive to the Titanic. Go towww.subseaexplorer.com&#149;www.justgiving.comis being launched by Anne-Marie Huby, a Nobel Peace Prize winner in 1999, to help people donate tax-efficiently.&#149;  Who is hot on the web? Joe Clarke has listed his findings atwww.thetop400.cjb.net&#149;  Famous for 15 minutes? Jiggy over to The Dancing Paul Page:www.users.qwest.net/~pstroot/dance&#149;  Eye-boggler of the week:www.grand-illusions.com/pinwheel.htmSix of the bestCool toolsShields up!http://grc.com/Whoiswww.geektools.com/cgi-bin/proxy.cgiTraceroutewww.opus1.com/www/Pingwww.fifi.org/services/ping-eng.htmlWebsite trackerwww.netcraft.comHacker trackerping-eng.html
A few months back, I was flat on my back coming round from an anaesthetic in a south London hospital, which, with its peeling paint and echoing lift-wells, had the air of something from the Stalinist era in a poor area of Moscow. To pass the time, I thought I would look around for what evidence I could find of the revolution in clinical IT that has, I am told, happened in the past decade. I was in the same hospital eight years ago, and wrote down my impressions of their computer systems. (Computer Guardian, 30 July 1992). Had things changed in the eight   long years since then? No, emphatically no.Eight years ago, I took a dislike to the big trolley carrying the folders of patients' records, the central altarpiece of that relic of Victorian pageantry, the consultant's ward round. I dreamed of a future where the consultant would sit informally at the end of my bed with an Apple Newton or other pen-pad, and bring up my x-rays and ultra-sound scans from my electronic patient-record deep in the hospital's database.In a response to my Guardian article, a health authority in the Midlands wrote to ask where it would find the money to pay for all   this. A paediatric consultant asked in a aggrieved way how hospital staff would find the time to plan, train for, and implement such a system. He was much too busy. A cancer consultant recently relocated to Boston, Mass, said his hospital had all I suggested already. A computer manufacturer, Hewlett Packard, sent me a video of the hospital-of- the-future with everything that I dreamed of, with one or two extras, such as doctors talking directly to computers, and smart cards being used for medical records worldwide. It claimed that the technology was already or nearly available.On my recent visit to the   hospital, I saw nothing of this brave new technology. Not much had changed in the eight long years. A computer had arrived in the nurses' room, which they seemed to use for admissions, ordering drugs from the pharmacy and for recording some tests on a patients' database. This was more than can be said for the consultants' offices and consulting rooms in outpatients, which appeared to be computer-free zones. The trolley full of folders still made its triumphal appearance on some consultants' ward rounds. My folder was about two inches thick. Although I did have suspicions that there was a rudimentary electronic patient record somewhere in the hospital, path-lab reports, doctors' notes, memos between hospital doctors and referral letters were printed out. It was clear that the paper folder on the trolley was still the master record.The defects of such a paper-based system came home to me when I noticed on my first evening that the results of a radio-isotope scan done about a week before my admission was not in my file. I, the patient - albeit that most irritating of breeds, an articulate, stroppy, white middle-class patient - had to point out its absence. It was found quite quickly, but at MY prompting. On the result of this scan depended whether they would do the op. So, it was quite important. Would they have found it if I had not been articulate, white and stroppy?At my routine follow-up with my GP after my operation, I asked him how he had received the hospital's report on my op: snail mail or email? Snail mail of course, and he   launched an attack on all the hospital trusts in our area. Whereas he, working with other like-minded GP practices in the area, had almost achieved a paperless surgery for his internal patient records, he still had to cope with a flood of paper from local hospitals. He showed me my patient record, only three pages of internal paper, but as much as half an inch of path reports and hospital reports coming from outside.He grumbled that either the hospitals had not thought of communicating electronically with him, or they set up systems to suit their own requirements, with no regard for the needs of the area's GPs. Nor indeed are the hospitals compatible with each other. This lumbers the poor GP with several different bits of software to handle those hospitals which do want to communicate electronically with him. Remember that hospitals have expensive IT departments full of IT 'experts'. GPs don't. They're just doctors. And yet, they have succeeded in offloading their administrative and clinical chores to the computer. The hospitals haven't.When I asked my GP to explain why this might be, the first word he used was arrogance. Each hospital wants to follow its own   agenda. So, the hospital trusts develop their computer systems in isolation, reinventing the wheel as they go along. According to my GP, the hospital cannot see the needs of the patient as a whole. Only the GP can do that. And only he can look at what the NHS as a whole has to offer - or fails to offer - and plays the necessary games for the benefit of the patient. To do this effectively, he recognises that all GPs have to develop common systems, and use common software standards and packages. He admits that they haven't got there yet, but they are on the way.What my GP said about arrogance reminded me of a visit I paid with a group of MPs to a teaching hospital two and a half years ago. They showed us a marvellous patient administration system and a cardiothoracic imaging database, and were looking hard at palm-tops on the ward and voice-recognition and many of the other things I had dreamed of eight years ago. They also had admirable ideas about a "continuum of patient care" from primary care (GPs), through secondary care (general hospitals) to tertiary care (teaching hospitals).But, when the parliamentarians asked whether there was any mechanism to replicate such "golden examples" elsewhere, so that the whole NHS benefits, they got a very sharp reply. National standards would inhibit the developers of advanced systems, and general hospitals are so far behind, particularly on their network infrastructure, that "we would be held up waiting for them to implement what we are doing. Besides, our advanced sys tems that our consultants have developed are the responsibility of those consultants. We are happy to show people what we are doing, but that's as far as we will go. And, when we get help for an advanced system, we go to the research councils, not the NHS."With these attitudes from a centre of excellence, it is no wonder that my local general hospital has not got very far in eight years.Then there is the political dimension. After the parliamentary visit, an ex-Secretary of State for Wales told me that he had built up a structure in Wales to encourage hospitals to replicate their successes. But then "John Redwood came along and tore it all down, because he expected hospitals to compete not cooperate in the internal health market." Thus, political dogma, added to the natural arrogance shown by the various tiers in the health service, did not exactly help progress for most of the eight years between my operations.Another inhibitor to progress is the NHS itself. Last year, I was amazed to find that it gave no central guidance on the millennium bug, so that each hospital trust had to research the problem itself, and devise its own plan. The wheel had to be reinvented hundreds of times throughout the NHS. No wonder money ran short last winter.There is another tendency in the health service that stops progress. It funds a pilot in one hospital for, say, research into tele-medicine in dermatology. The research is done, benefits and savings are identified, but no mechanisms are put in place   to generalise the technology across the NHS. The money runs out, the research report is filed, and the project dies. One researcher, who is engaged in such a tele- medicine project, calls such pilots "Ozymandian corpses", which litter the sand of the NHS desert. She admits that restricting her initiative to dermatology is a waste of money on its own, and would like to widen her pilot into other disciplines such as ophthamology. But finding money for cross-disciplinary research is almost impossible.It is difficult to see how, in the present NHS mode, she can stop her project becoming just another trunkless leg of stone.Perhaps most damning is the history of the NHSNet. It was installed almost 10 years ago, but then the NHS failed to show the health community how to use it or even why to use it. And the professional bodies sneered at its lack of security. Today, after five years of hesitating and messing around, only about 50%of GPs are connected.All this is against a backdrop of the internet and world wide web, where far-sighted standards-makers have ensured that all industries and all people have been able to talk to each other across the world for almost   any purpose for the past 10 years. That is the measure of the failure of NHSNet.An NHS Information Authority was set up as late as April 1999, to impose some standards in this Tower of Babel. It hopes to get all GPs connected by 2002, but does not plan to implement a working electronic health record until 2005. There is also a target for implementing telemedicine by 2004. Hardly challenging!Setting targets from the centre is one thing, persuading the hospital trusts to make them happen in the fragmented culture of today's NHS is another. I asked a niece who is a hospital administrator whether there was any hope of speeding things up. She said: "The trouble is that the questions you are asking are too big. There is nobody with a wide enough view to answer you." I fear that in the meantime all the lovely new NHS money granted by kind Gordon Brown will just be spent by small people with narrow vision reinventing wheels.No wonder I saw so little progress from my hospital bed. As a taxpayer and ageing patient, becoming year by year more dependent on the NHS, I object. I am not asking for top-down NHS diktats, just for hospital trusts to talk to each other, and for the NHS Information Authority to be given more teeth.Then perhaps the hospitals will learn to use standards, and even replicate their better systems. And perhaps, on my next visit to hospital, I will see on the ward the technology which was available way back in 1992.
Most new year resolutions are already on the carpet with the last few pine needles. If yours are intact but wavering, a quick detour through the web will have you back to abstinence and boring the pants off your friends in no time.From the thoroughly practical likewww.how-to-keep-your-new-years-resolution.comto a helpful list of resolutions you couldn't break if you tried, (seehttp://hoopla.com/index60.html) helping hands are not in short supply. The question is, what do they ask in return?Smoking: top of most people's resolution list (mine included) is to quit smoking.www.ash.org.ukprovides the most comprehensive guide to kicking online, including reams of news on the twisted legislative and political issues and a variety of programmes to help you off the evil-but-legal weed. As human support is usually the best for fighting addictions, there are also links to Quitline (0800 169 0 169) and other smokeless fuel. For a slightly droller incentive, check outwww.chickenhead.com/truthfor a reminder of how cigarettes were peddled to us in the 40s and 50s. When you hear slogans like "Pleasure helps your disposition. And for more pleasure - have a Camel!"   you have to wonder who was more reprehensible: Rock Hudson for saying it, Dad for believing it, or Blair for still taking tax from it.Weight: particularly popular at this time of year when turkey leftovers have conspired to turn us into makeshift Michelin men.www.uk.weightwatchers.comoffers the same mix of collective responsibility and relentless product placement that attracts followers to more than 6,000 meetings a week in the UK alone. If you can bear the fattist rhetoric ("Become a Leader and show thousands of people how much better life can be when you've lost weight") there is a surprising amount of information here. For a more independent perspective,Yahookeeps most of the latest news, case studies and product information together in one place.Take up something new: why go through the ordeal of giving something up when you could take something up instead. For the adventurouswww.explore.comoffers crash courses in extreme sports such as snowboarding, biking and climbing in locations as far afield as the jungles of Laos and the unintentionally hilarious Crested Butte.Clean and sober: if outdoor pursuits sound too physical,    remember the start of the year is also the start of spring cleaning, so head towww.howtocleananything.comfor the ultimate in stain-removal advice. Those who believe cleanliness begins at homepage could trywww.spamcop.com, which boasts an arsenal of ideas to stop random advertisers, porn merchants and virus spreaders from targeting your system. If you've never been hit by a computer virus this might sound like a pretty lame resolution; if you have, you'll already know that an unsullied inbox is the new virginity, and well worth hanging on to.Making more money: like it or not, steadily increasing wealth is the only objective marker for progress we have and motivates many resolutions. There are only two obvious routes to greater prosperity - making more of what you've already got, or grabbing an armful of someone else's. For the former, there is the excellentwww.saveafortune.net, crammed with money-saving ideas and a few bargain basement shopping links. True capitalists will head straight towww.barclays-stockbrokers.co.uk, still the best share-dealing site, menu-driven to the point of simplicity and with a maximum &#163;40 commission per transaction. Remember, though, for every penny you make, some poor sucker who bet on the Nasdaq is probably   losing. Which should make you feel guilty enough to consider...Self improvement: making money is child's play compared with being an all- round better person. Those who feel they have Christianity sussed but lack the resolve for Islam tend to turn to Eastern religions which are well catered for online.www.sikhs.orgoffers an illuminating background to Sikhism, whilewww.hindunet.orghas a strangely commercialised view of the world's biggest faith (I especially enjoyed the free mobile phone offer fromwww.mobilehindu.com?) andwww.buddhanet.nethas the full lowdown on the great enlightened one. All include listings for support groups in the UK should you decide to follow your new path with more than your mouse.Of course, most roads to spiritual oneness begin with shedding some of the wealth you accumulated in the previous section (perhaps by an online donation towww.oxfam.com). If that seems too extreme, there's always the web's most aggressive cyber-evangelists,www.scientology.org, whose unique balance between pure capitalism and pure science fiction is best illustrated by their own words -"the most effective and practical path to spiritual improvement of any religion this world has seen".Which reminds me, I really have to stop exaggerating.
Ask the average adult what a computer is and they will explain that it is a machine for executing instructions. Ask a child the same question and, although this is probably not the way they will phrase it, you are more likely to be told that a computer is an imagination machine; something that can conjure up an alternative universe before their very eyes.The image in the adult mind owes its origins to serious applications such as payroll and billing systems, while the child is more likely to obtain the metaphor from games.The child's view is the correct one. Alan Turing knew this, although I don't think he could have seen the full implications of it. The computer was conceived as a close approximation to a machine that could become any other machine - a Universal Turing Machine.Any device that carries out a finite mechanical process can be replicated using a computer, so a word processor is what you get when a computer is configured to pretend it is a fancy typewriter. What is special about computer games such as flight simulators and Sim City is that the computer has been configured to behave like many mechanical devices at once - aircraft, clouds, other pilots - and a narrative emerges from the complex interactions between these virtual objects.In my book about life, both natural and artificial, I argue that under the right circumstances, virtual phenomena, including virtual life forms, are just as real as natural ones, even though they exist in a parallel cyberspace. Several people have asserted that I'm claiming that if some thing looks like and quacks like a duck, then it is a duck. They are missing the point.When a computer is programmed to behave like another machine, it does not become an instance of that machine; it is pretending. I know that. But many machines in the physical world are not physical things; they are intangible phenomena derived from the interactions between physical things.Take a company. Companies are things - you cannot point at them but you can count them and label them. And they exhibit behaviour. But a company is not the people or the offices or the legal documents that underlie it. It is defined by the relationships between those parts, not the parts themselves.In my artificial intelligence (AI) work, I'm interested in the fact that a living, intelligent being is like a company. Its parts are in constant flux but the organism remains a coherent, self-perpetuating entity. My argument is that an organism is not the stuff, but the arrangement of that stuff, which in turn depends solely on the stuff's properties. We can replace the physical parts with other machines that exhibit the same or similar properties, and the result will still be a living, thinking being. These other machines can even be simulated in a computer. They will be pretend nerve cells and chemicals, but the emergent organism will be just as real as one built from physical components and, most importantly, its behaviour will be lifelike and intelligent, rather than simply "programmed in".But I think this notion extends beyond AI. We know there are limits to what a computer can do, and as the behaviour we wish to elicit becomes more sophisticated, program complexity grows exponentially. Moreover, the more complex a monolithic program becomes, the more liable it is to break down catastrophically. Yet a human being consists of the relationships between a million, million working components, and for the most part we function well.Our perception of the computer is changing, from instruction-following automation to a cyberspace generator, in which many virtual machines interact to create something bigger, more robust, adaptable and creative. The old monolithic, materialist view has no place in this networked world, and we need to look on the computer as a container for virtual machines, not a mechanical slave. Long live computer games.&#149;   Steve Grand's book, Creation: Life And How To Make It is published by Weidenfeld &amp; Nicolson General
Go NuonWhile the trend is for games consoles (PlayStation 2, Microsoft Xbox) to play movies on DVD, Americans can buy DVD players that also play games. The Toshiba SD2300 NUON-Enhanced   DVD player has joined the Samsung Extiva DVD-N2000 in delivering games using the Nuon chip developed by VM Labs.The first DVD movie to exploit Nuon technology - 20th Century Fox's remake of Bedazzled withLiz Hurley - will be released on March 13.Millions like usWho Wants To Be A Millionaire? topped the Christmas games chart, as expected, in what was the biggest bonanza in UK gaming history.According to estimates from Computer Trade Weekly magazine, "an amazing 8.9 million titles" worth   about &#163;242 million were sold over the six-week "holiday season".WWTBAM? could also go on to reach an even wider game-playing audience. Codeonline Ltd, a wireless specialist based in Espoo, Finland, is developing versions of the game for the SMS (short messaging service) and Wap (Wireless application protocol) mobile phones. Codeonline has also developed a wireless version of Trivial Pursuit Challenge.PS2 is comingLife should soon get easier for would-be PlayStation 2 buyers. Ray Maguire, who runs Sony's PlayStation business in the UK, says 400,000 consoles will be shipped here by March 31. Meanwhile, Microsoft has delayed the European launch of its rival Xbox games console, which may now not appear here until March 2002. The idea is to avoid the product shortages that have plagued Sony.Girls on topAlthough men make up 55% of the gaming audience in the US, most online gamers   (50.4%) are now women, according to a report by research company PC Data. However, men and women prefer different types of games.Men are much more likely to play first-person shooters (38% v 12%), real-time strategy games (33% v 11%), and sports games (30% v 10%). Women prefer board/card games (78% v 51%), gambling themes (36% v 26%), and quiz/puzzle/trivia contests (55% v 25%).The most frequently played games, online and offline, are Solitaire, Free Cell and other games included as part of Microsoft Windows.
KessenSony PlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Koei/EA 	***Although based on a series of historic battles, Koei's Kessen game offers plenty of eye-candy, including attractive young warriors with distinctly un-Japanese bosoms.The visual effects are stunning, as massed armies clash and lancers gallop past. If anyone awarded an Oscar for costumes in games, Kessen would win it by miles.The gameplay is, unfortunately, less engaging. Kessen is a strategy war game of the sort that first became popular with boards and counters, only here your attempts to play the Japanese equivalent   of Napoleon are continually interrupted by cut scenes and set-piece animations. There's nothing like the depth you get with Sid Meier games such as Civilization, or even Gettysburg. It is far too easy to win.In the absence of a two-  player challenge, you are unlikely to play the game more than twice. Western unfamiliarity with the characters and issues involved does not help.Kessen could appeal to war gamers who are fed up with   replaying with the usual scenarios - Eastern Front, Midway etc - and Japanese history boffs. But the stunning graphics are not enough to make this a compelling title for the rest of us.  (JS)Typing of the DeadPC CD Rom	&#163;29.99 Sega/Empire 	***It's the oldest excuse in the book. Child pesters parent for new game, parent says no. Child claims software is "educational", parent shrugs and sneaks off for more Champ Manager. Well, with this new release, the young 'un may have a point.Typing of the Dead is a perfect conversion of Sega's arcade and Dreamcast title, House of the Dead 2, but with one fundamental difference. Instead of blasting the zombies with a lightgun you now use a keyboard. Yup, simply reproduce the onscreen gibberish with nimble fingers and the undead die (again).There are plenty of levels to work through but, with limited time allowed, it soon becomes clear that touch- typing skills are essential. The game includes a comprehensive tutorial, complete with numerous rewarding challenges, that makes learning touch-typing unexpectedly   enjoyable. Even the most one-fingered laggard will improve, but to last more than a few minutes in the game proper you will need speeds resembling those on a PA's job description.Of course the action itself is as simplistically short-lived as the original - blast pretty    much anything that moves - but the end of level sections, which involve quick thinking as well as fingers, help keep you interested. Typing of the Dead won't appeal to everyone - after all, do you want to spend your free time bashing a keyboard if you spend your working day hunched in front   of one? But, despite a steep learning curve, the graphical polish and respected arcade heritage mean you will improve your typing without realising it. A curious mix of chore and enjoyment, Typing of the Dead is a pleasingly different PC release. (GH)Rainbow SixSega/Dreamcast	&#163;39.99 Swing/Red Storm	**One of the more anticipated Dreamcast releases, if only because it's been delayed more times than the Rolling Stones' retirement. Out on PC since time immemorial and long available on PlayStation and N64, Rainbow Six was scheduled to appear in DC form to coincide with the launch of the console. In the US. So what happened?Well, in addition to adapting the PC game, Red Storm has kindly incorporated extra levels from the Eagle Watch missions disk - though this was compensation for, rather than the reason for the wait.The programmers might have been held back by the task of converting the control set. A combination strategy/stealth/first-person   shooter, R6 requires you to master no fewer than 35 commands - which on the Dreamcast joypad uses almost every conceivable combination of buttons. Even after several hours of manual-twitching, a momentary lapse can spell instant death.The look, sound and feel of the game have been preserved remarkably well, although whether this was worth the effort is debatable. Surely this was the ideal opportunity for Red Storm to address the murky lighting, plasterboard environments and unimpressive sound effects? More welcome relics from the original are the cleverly designed levels and varied missions.One thing that can't be blamed for the delay is the multiplayer code - there is none.By the time you've memorised the innumerable controls, navigated the immense planning screens and drummed your fingers raw through the load times, Red Storm might even have finished converting the sequel.  (AB)
Elvis, the Rat Pack and LiberaceThe citizens of Las Vegas are used to mixing it with the stars. However the folks of showbiz city USA were unprepared for an extraordinary double act that debuted at the Consumer Electronics Show earlier this week.In the most unlikely pairing since Marilyn Monroe and Arthur Miller, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates teamed up with WWF wrestling star, Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson in a bid to reassure electronics dealers that in spite of the slide in the Nasdaq, digital technology was still the hottest act in town.Playing Eric to Bill's Ernie, The Rock made the first formal outing of the real star of CES - Microsoft's Xbox console - an event to remember.However, in spite of their showbiz antics neither Gates nor The Rock was willing to volunteer too many details about the games machine. The audience could make out a large (for a console) plastic black box with an X in moulded plastic at the top and a front-loading DVD tray.Gates did confirm that the Xbox would ship in the autumn and that the four   controllers that could be connected to it would all feature force-feedback so the gamer could experience the game's crashes and explosions. Among the first games for the Xbox are the UK-originated Malice and The Rock's favourite, WWF Raw is War.Gates also treated the audience to a sneak preview of the Whistler operating system (the next version of Windows 2000) and demonstrated voice recognition software for Pocket PC Plus handhelds.Intel's chief executive officer Craig Barrett had earlier kick-started the conference by urging dealers not to write off the PC. Barrett predicted that 2001 would be remembered as the start of an "extended PC" era where PC sales would be driven by hi-tech toys such as PDAs (personal digital assistants) and digital audio players.To prove his point, Barrett unveiled a wireless tablet PC that allows several users to surf the net from a single connection, and Intel's debut audio player, the Pocket Concert. The player,   which goes on sale in the US next month, will retail for around $300. It can store either MP3 or WMA (Windows Media Audio) files on its 128MB of flash memory. A UK launch is scheduled for later in the year.Palm boss Carl Jankowski completed a hat-trick of launches from PC-related companies by unveiling the palmtop maker's latest innovation, the E-Wallet.The system, due to be launched later in the year, enables Palm owners to buy products by beaming information from their PDA to specially made terminals.Once a person has agreed to a purchase, they send their credit card details, which are held in the Palm, and key in a PIN number. Jankowski believes that US shoppers will appreciate the speed of the system and the way it does away with the need for a signature.The highlight of Sony's stand was a prototype of its blue laser optical disc recorder. Sony believes that the system, which can archive 22 gigabytes of high- definition video on one DVD (five times as much as current discs), will be on sale within five years.Sony also unveiled a web tablet that is expected to go on sale in the US later in the year for around $3000, and an AV/IT Gateway that comprises a touch-screen monitor and a base station. Owners can use the Gateway to surf the net, send email and watch video from a number of sources. Neither product is expected to go on sale in the UK.Britons will however be taking delivery of several DVD and Super Audio   CD players, a MiniDisc personal recorder that uses MDLP technology to fit five hours of music on one disc, hi-fi and PC CD-R/CD-RW burners, and two Network Walkmans.Several of the impressive    prototypes that Panasonic showed on its stand last year turned up as real-world products this time round. Americans will soon be able to purchase two digital audio/MP3 players that use SD (Secure Digital)   removable storage cards. They take the form of a necklace/wrist band (SV-D75) or a pair of headphones (SV-D05). Both are expected in the UK in the summer.Panasonic also paraded a DVD-ram based camcorder, the VDR-M10 and its first digital camera - the PV-DC3000.Almost all the major players displayed DVD video recorder several of which are already on sale in the US. However a re-run of the Betamax-VHS battle now seems a certainty with recorders using three competing formats/discs - DVD-ram (Panasonic, Samsung), DVD-RW (Pioneer) and DVD+RW (Philips) heading for the UK later in the year.Sony chose to sit on the fence in offering a DVD video recorder that works with DVD+RW and DVD-RW discs. It won't go on sale until 2002.Other Vegas showstoppers included a portable hard disk from Iomega, a removable flash memory format from Dataplay, MP3-equipped sunglasses from Thomson, an internet/email watch from Timex, and our favourite, a smart frying pan that bleeps when your food is cooked, from Digital Cookware.
Staff at the Express Newspaper websites - until recently owned by Richard Desmond - have threatened legal action after being told the sites had been put into liquidation, leaving them without compensation.After a hastily arranged meeting described as "angry but determined" the 46 staff said they were shocked by their treatment. Some had worked at the Express Newspaper group for several years when the sites were still owned by Lord Hollick's United Business Media.The websites were sold to Mr Desmond's Northern &amp; Shell   as part of his acquisition of Express Newspapers in November. They were then sold on to SP Investments, an offshore company owned by his financial advisor Seymour Pierce several weeks later for just &#163;1.January salaries, which were due to be reach bank accounts next week, will not be paid.Michael Streeter editor of one of the sites,Express.co.uk, said: "This bears all the hallmarks of a cynical legal ploy to avoid paying staff any notice or redundancy money. If this is not illegal, it is certainly immoral."We are consulting with lawyers to see whether the deal that Seymour Pierce and Northern &amp; Shell have done is within the law."We now have a situation where three multi-million pound companies - United Business Media, Northern &amp; Shell and Seymour Pierce - have played "pass the parcel" with their financial obligations to 46 staff. When the music stopped, none of them wanted to pay."Staff need to wait in line with other creditors for the sale of assets to see if they will receive any money. The onus will otherwise be on the government to pay any arrears and notice period monies, capped at &#163;230 a week.Staff contracts had been transferred from Express Newspapers to five separate companies last year while still owned by Lord Hollick.
Apple Computer started its fightback yesterday against falling sales and heavy losses by announcing a revamp of its professional range of computers, new consumer-orientated software and a March release date for its long-awaited operating system, Mac OSX.The announcements were made by the company's chief executive officer, Steve Jobs, to an adoring crowd of 5,000 people at the Macworld show in San Francisco.The adulation could not hide the fact that Apple has been struggling recently. In December it forecast a loss for the first quarter of this year, the first since Mr Jobs returned in 1997 to the company he founded.Industry researcher PC Data reported that Apple's US sales in the first half of December fell 40% against an industry-wide fall of 20%. Apple is expected to report this month a last quarter loss of $250m (&#163;168m) due to disappointing sales of its new Cube desktop computer and its colourful iMac machine.Yesterday Mr Jobs admitted: "The last few months have been particularly challenging for Apple and the rest of the industry," but added: "We've decided to start 2001 with a bang."The most gasps were reserved for Mr Jobs's final announcement - a new ultra-thin PowerBook laptop computer called Titanium, the metal from which its case is made. The new machine is only 1in thick, weighs 5.3lb and sports a 15.2in display.There were whoops of delight for a range of G4 machines which take the company's top-rated chip to 733MHz.Perhaps more significant for Apple's long-term prospects was Mr Jobs's declaration of the company's vision, based around what he termed the "digital lifestyle". Included in his presentation was a trio of software packages: iMusic was presented as sophisticated software for handling digital music files, which Apple will give away from its website. He also announced iDVD, a new DVD creation program.
January 2001 could be something of a watershed for the role of the internet in education. The end of the month will see the launch of National Curriculum Online, a much more sophisticated and powerful version of the print version currently available on the web, already one of the UK's most popular education-related websites.Using a system of organising data called metatagging, National Curriculum Online aims to make life a lot easier for teachers. This involves using key words, otherwise known as metadata, to describe the content of the national curriculum on the site and on partner sites. Simply clicking on any statement in the curriculum programmes of study will take you to appropriate internet-based resources, often specific pages, not just whole websites."The national curriculum provides a great mechanism for tailoring a search," explains Roger Davies, head of publishing at the QCA, which has validated the new system. "Traditionally if you want to, say, find something suitable on the Romans, you would go into Yahoo! or another search engine and type in 'Romans' and up would come 10,000 sites."The national curriculum breaks down the curriculum into subjects and key stages, and into programmes of study and teaching requirements; metatagging allows us to underpin each of those with links to resources that support those."Each of those internet resources will be carefully sifted by key stage and theme. These might be worksheets or other information directed at pupils, teaching guidance or background information about the skills, knowledge and understanding referred to in the requirement. They will include government and commercial resources, museums and galleries, and sites created by other teachers."The national curriculum will act as a filter that saves a lot of time in terms of research and evaluation," says Davies. "We want to get away from the sort of hot link that takes you to the home page, where you then have to find your way down to the information you actually want. We will reduce the number of clicks it takes to get you there."Initially there will be at least 10 resources per key stage of each subject - around 440 for the whole curriculum - but in time the site will grow to include resources that touch on every statement, even including examples of pupils' work. And each external resource will be peer-reviewed by other teachers, making sure that the best rise to the top. "One purpose of the site is to become a place where teachers' knowledge is stored and shared," says Jonathan Hollow, senior education consultant at C21, the lead consultancy for the restructuring and design of National Curriculum Online. "Because any teacher can submit their own recommendations on useful websites, it will become a kind of archive of their knowledge and expertise."National Curriculum Online will also form links with other educational content providers, known as "trusted partners". Publishers of any kind producing a lot of curriculum-related content will be invited to use the new metadata standard to index their own content. This will mean that every relevant page on their site will be linked automatically with all the applicable curriculum requirements, while teachers will be able to see at a glance what relevance any particular resource might have to the national curriculum standards.Current trusted partners includelearn.co.uk, the Guardian's education resources website, along with the BBC, Science Museum and the Tidy Britain group's Ecoschools project. "But there could be hundreds," says Hollow. "Basically we've written what we hope will become a British standard. Anyone can now adopt it and link their material to the national curriculum."And good internet resources are not all that National Curriculum Online will offer. Within a few months of the launch it will link into the schemes of work, knitting together all the key government guidance on the curriculum. You will also be able to search the national curriculum text by keyword and collate the results, allowing you, for instance, to search for all the key skills for communication at key stage one.You could also do similar searches to find all the ways to teach any area that cuts across the curriculum, such as thinking skills, citizenship and PSHE, or ICT.It's a mammoth undertaking, but C21 is bullish about its reception. "We do see it as becoming the definitive access point for teachers to access resources for the curriculum," says Hollow. "Basically we think it will have a huge impact on teachers' lives."&#149; National Curriculum Online will be launched on January 22. Seewww.nc.uk.netfor details. It will also be previewed at Bett.
Two leading children's charities are calling on the government to fund internet training for all social workers and criminal justice professionals to prevent paedophiles from using the technology to ensnare children.The joint proposal by the NCH, formerly the National Children's Homes, and the National Society also calls for new legislation to prosecute people who use electronic means, such as websites and internet chat rooms, to misrepresent their age with the view to meeting children.The charities have formed a working party with the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO), the Association of Chief Officers of Probation (ACOP) and the Association of Directors of Social Services, which is meeting on February 19 to finalise the proposals.John Carr, internet adviser at the NCH and co-ordinator of the campaign, said the proposals would extend existing internet training for teachers."We are dealing with a generation of social workers and probation officers for whom the internet is a foreign country," said Mr Carr.He said the first step was to raise professionals' awareness of the technology, explaining what an internet service provider or a browser is.  They would then need to know how to check whether the internet was being used to ensnare children."If there was an internet connection in a home where there was a child protection investigation, a social worker will need to be able to check whether it was being used to download hard core pornography to groom potential victims, for example," explained Mr Carr."Similarly a probation officer working with an offender would need to check whether their use of the internet was likely to lead to them re-offending.""We want adults who misrepresent their age to a legal minor with a view to meeting them in the real world using electronic means to be prosecuted, as a deterrent," he added.But Keith Akerman, chairman of the Association of Chief Police Officers' computer crime working group, said while he agreed with this idea in principle, it was difficult to legislate against paedophiles' grooming techniques.He said: "We would have to look carefully at how this would be introduced into law."Mr Akerman said current legislation was sufficient to tackle paedophiles using the internet but admitted there were limited police resources to tackle the problem.He said:"The medium inhibits traditional police investigation.  We need to establish where the risks lie - chat rooms and email.  How on earth do you monitor that effectively? Internet training has to be the start."
Great Universal Stores yesterday rescuedBreathe.com, the internet access group that collapsed last month with debts of &#163;50m.The Argos stores to Reality outsourcing group said it was paying &#163;1.4m for the assets and technology of Breathe.com but would not assume any of the company's liabilities. At its peak, Breathe was valued at around &#163;100m.News of GUS's move for Breathe.com came as another top UK retailer, Kingfisher, was pocketing &#163;145m in cash and shares from the sale of its stake in French internet service provider Liberty Surf, which is being taken over by Italian group Tiscali.GUS, which will take on 80 Breathe.com staff, said the company's skills and technology would be used to provide easier access to the GUS on-line shopping operations and to increase the services offered by its Reality arm, which provides website designs and logistical services.GUS chief executive John Peace said: "We are very pleased to have the opportunity to use the information and technology we have acquired with Breathe.com. The company has been very advanced in developing multi-device access to the internet, with ease of use the top priority."Breathe.com has over 300,00 registered users, and GUS said yesterday that it expected its acquisition to run   up losses of between &#163;4m and &#163;7m in the next financial year.Kingfisher's sale of its stake is part of a &euro;650m (&#163;412m) bid for Liberty Surf from Tiscali - a deal seen as part of the continuing consolidation among internet service providers in Europe around four leading players: Tiscali, France Telecom subsidiary Wanadoo, Deutsche Telekom's T-Online and Spain's Terra Lycos.Under the terms of the deal Kingfisher and Groupe Arnault's Europ@web will each   be given &euro;2.13 and 0.365 Tiscali shares for every Liberty Surf share."It's been no secret that the shareholding in Liberty Surf was not be a core one in the long term. This is a good time to sell, and the price is right," said a Kingfisher spokesman.Renato Soru, Tiscali's executive chairman, said: "Liberty Surf has been very successful in building up its market position in France and in developing its portal."France is a very important   and fast growing market, and it is a key part of our European strategy.Following this acquisition Tiscali will be the second largest operator in France and will further improve its position as Europe's second largest player - as well as the only one which is truly pan-European."Liberty Surf had been reported to be considering the future of its non-French operations - including a British arm which employs more than 100 people.
The four Express Newspaper websites formerly owned by Richard Desmond will be put into liquidation today at the cost of around 50 jobs.SP Investments, part of Seymour Pierce which is a financial adviser to Mr Desmond, bought the sites several weeks ago for the nominal sum of &#163;1 and said it had hoped to find a buyer for the businesses which include Express.co.uk. A buyer, however, has not materialised and insolvency specialist HLB Kidsons is set to be appointed as liquidator.Staff hoping for redundancy payments are likely to have to wait in line along with other creditors for any proceeds from the liquidation of assets. The shareholders have limited liability.Staff on the websites, some of who had worked for years at Express Newspapers, were furious. "This is a pretty appalling situation for everyone to be in," said one. "A lot of people who have been employed for a long time at the Express are going to end up with zilch."SP Investments sought administration for the businesses to provide some breathing space but at a meeting late on Friday it was decided that there was no real possibility of a sale.The four, which also included Allaboutparents.com, sportlive.co.uk along with   companyleader.com, have been on ice since December. Staff were given notice in mid-December a couple of days before the businesses were sold and have been at home awaiting news.Staff have contracts with the individual companies owning each website and have between one and six months notice. A meeting between staff is due to be held today.The disposal of the websites was a clear example of a tough cost-cutting regime on Express Newspapers imposed by Mr Desmond. The sites were said to be costing &#163;7m to &#163;8m a year to run.He has cut 60 staff from support functions and is keen to reduce editorial head count on the Daily Express by a further 100. The issue has proven the breaking point for editor Rosie Boycott who has consulted her lawyers to begin negotiating terms for an exit. But at the end of last week insiders said there was still a gulf between the two sides.Mr Desmond 's Northern &amp; Shell acquired the newspaper group for &#163;125m in November from Lord Hollick's United News &amp; Media. There has been growing speculation about Mr Desmond's ability to invest the kind of money needed to reverse the Daily and Sunday Express's long circulation decline. He has not been reluctant, however, to spend big money on recruits to the Daily Star, part of the group.
If there is an uglier car on the road than the Citroen Berlingo Multispace, then I would be very keen to see it. A tribute to the elasticity of the welder's art, the Berlingo combines the charm of an electrician's van in a former communist country with the road-tearing elan of a show-dog transporter.Toying daringly with the conventional wisdom on vehicle dignity, the car slowly rises from front to back, without coming down again. It has a sheer, almost vertical rear end, as milkfloats do. An impressed three-year-old remarked that the Berlingo was "like Andy's car" - which turned out to be an allusion to the animated movie Toy Story 2, in which Andy is indeed driven away to summer camp in a vehicle not a million miles away from a Berlingo. And it's quite right that, in reality, the car looks somehow pixellated, a piece of computer guesswork, not quite true.All this  and it seems to have been named after some kind of cassette-based, teach-yourself language course. ("Do you speaka Berlingo? Learn French in 10 days, or your money back.")At the same time, though, check out that price. Go for the smallest engine (1.4) and do without the air conditioning, the sunroof, a few of   the air bags and a couple of the other fripperies, and a Berlingo can be yours for under &#163;9,000. This is a large car we're talking about - one that could happily seat a family of five and its pony. Or even its giraffe, with the sunroof back. (The Berlingo, like the Citroen Picasso, has one of those gigantic, full-length sunroofs that has the effect of peeling the top right off the car.) It's doubtful that your money could buy you a more capacious vehicle.Citroen knows it is up to something challengingly unusual with the Berlingo. As it puts it itself: "Why choose an ordinary car when you could have a Berlingo?" Well, for one thing, because an ordinary car doesn't look like a Berlingo and doesn't have humorously square windows of the kind made famous by   Wendy houses. And because some people like to get about without being laughed at or having others assume they have come to unblock the drains.But Citroen seems to prefer to interpret the Berlingo's difference as a fetching quirkiness. Publicity photographs for the car dare to show it on a beach, pored over by five young people of inordinately sunny dispositions - like you might gather some friends, gas up the Berlingo and take off to St Tropez, just for the buzz.I'm not so sure about this. I find it hard to imagine a journey in a Berlingo that doesn't involve children, livestock and/or some of the larger items of produce from a garden centre. And, even though Citroen has taken the trouble to realise this scenario for me photographically, I find it very hard to imagine someone in a bikini driving one.Personally, I was very well-covered the day I went in my Berlingo to pick up a Christmas tree. (It was on the scale of a gift from the Norwegian people, but it went in the back easily enough.) A man offered to help carry the tree to the car and I found myself saying: "It's that funny blue thing up there." Life with a Berlingo would, I suspect, be like this a lot: you would keep finding yourself having to laugh it off or apologise for it in advance, a bit like with your mother.Better really, if one is going to get involved, to accept the car straightforwardly for what it is - which is not a misplaced fun wagon or thickly disguised dream machine but, rather, a highly effective and deeply affordable means of driving a big lump of space around.Inside, the driver is confronted by the usual prairie of uninteresting plastic and a set of dull but perfectly coherent and usable buttons and clocks. The quietly functional engine was ... well, quiet and functional and at no point tempted me into anything madcap, such as a handbrake turn. But then, one would hardly have stepped into what is, in effect, a high-sided vehicle expecting thrills.The rear passenger compartment appears to have been modelled on an aeroplane's interior (there are seat-back pockets on the seat in front of you and overhead luggage space in the form of nets above the doors). Except, of course, that there's more leg-room in a Berlingo. And you are never far from an emergency exit: the rear doors slide open, which does nothing to decrease the sense that you are in an adapted Post Office vehicle, but which does, clearly, assist one's passage and makes sitting on one side and getting out on the other an easy manoeuvre, rather than an exhausting feat of contortionism.And in the end, I guess, these things matter, far more than the overall comeliness of the car. The fact is, right now, I have a Christmas tree to dump and no Berlingo to dump it with. I miss it.The lowdownCitroen Berlingo Multispace 1.4iPrice:&#163;8,995Top speed:93 mphAcceleration:0-62 in 14.6 secondsConsumption:36.7 mpgAt the wheel:Alan TitchmarshOn the stereo:Melody FMEn route for:Water Features R Us
It took more than a couple of flu epidemics to make December 2000 the viral month it was. An advent which started on a voyeuristic bent, with a private email containing details of a couple's fellatial habits being "e-volleyed" around the world, ended with a deluge of corporate viral advertising on a scale hitherto unknown.Never before have our inboxes been so assaulted with games, prize draws, gifts and a thousand other ways to kill time. They ranged from the genuinely engaging, such as Tongue of Flurry from Icon Medialab - where you have to catch snowflakes on your tongue and spit them out as ice cubes to waste evil snowmen - and freeloader.com's popular Soccermon, to the totally banal: MP3.com's all-singing, all-dancing greetings ("Let it Snow has been composed just for you").  But the bombardment left you thinking, as the season often does, why?One thing is clear: conventional online advertising such as banners and mailshots to free or paid-for email lists no longer works, so companies are having to resort to smarter ways of promoting their brands. New-style approaches often exploit the British appetite for screen games - the UK leisure software market is now the third biggest after Japan and America. According to MXXI Europe, we now spend three times longer on entertainment sites than on sports sites and more than twice as long on them as we do on travel or retail sites. Last year the numbers visiting entertainment sites more than doubled between January and April and the average visit was 28.8 minutes.Thomas Cook's snowboard game Powda, which runs until the spring, has been one of the most successful of the season's campaigns. Created for Thomas Cook by NetCandy, it is presented as a Christmas pressie by way of a weblink from TC to the 300,000 customers on its database, it challenges you to get down a mountain, avoiding any rocks, logs, trees and skiers. The winner of a prize draw gets a free holiday, and so far 25% of customers have played.Alexa Clark, director of customer acquisitions, explains that the direct marketing exercise has threefold benefits. It increases brand awareness among the company's new target group, snowboarding youth, it helps to build up the database as it is passed around among friends (competitors entering the fourth level must pass on their details) and it sweetens up existing punters who think they are being given something for nothing. The high street travel firm says it generated 250,000 new customers through its last viral campaign in the summer, which offered a free booklet about weekend breaks in the UK.Tangozebra, a technology-based sales and marketing solutions company, claims its Xmas Game, which was sent out to 600 industry and media contacts, had 65,000 hits within three hours. By clicking on a noisy parcel, you activated a banner game that required no plug-ins or streaming; you simply had to navigate Santa in his bobsleigh over the flying rooftops and avoid snowballs to enter a draw and win a hamper.Martin Pavey of Tangozebra explains that retro games such as Pacman and the "flying defender" model are back in. This year's game campaigns for WCW wrestling and the Royal Bank of Scotland are based on that old viral favourite, Punching the Monkey. The former asks you to punch a wrestler, the latter a pound sign: if you hit the sign within a second you are told your reaction time is "excellent" and are urged to check out the bank's reaction time by hitting on another click-through. It's not exactly The Weakest Link, but it does at least engage impatient web surfers for more than a split second.The days when people clicked on a flashing banner because it was novel are over, says Pavey. "The thing about email is that it's personal. If you can get some sort of effective reaction from people with a game, then you can start to get them involved."He is working on a viral pre-campaign campaign for a major trainer company which hopes to use a cool game to tickle the details out of potential customers.Now banner fatigue is setting in, conventional advertisers are having to learn youth marketing tactics, adapted to the consumers with the shortest attention-spans. Some amusing examples can be found at greenpeasoup.com (which enables those under-age to spend money on the web without a credit card), such as the e-postcards devised by WARL offering you the opportunity to microwave the heads of Smash Hits pop idols, and Splatt, the strangely addictive game in which you have to splat a fly before it makes a mess all over your soup."Viral campaigns have to be humorous and funny, otherwise people won't bother passing them on," says Adam Hartley, account manager at CruiseControl, which specialises in the kind of guerrilla and "street" marketing favoured  by skateboarding and gaming companies. "Corporate logos are an obvious turn-off for our clients. If they smell a hint of a corporate sell, they'll just press delete."To promote the Dino Crisis 2 PlayStation game, CruiseControl produced a series of spoof newsreels documenting the aftermath of a Tyrannosaurus attack on the M25 with crushed cars and 40ft-wide footprints left in the fields. Hartley traces its origins back to the viral  impact of Bad Day (1999), a 10-minute film of tech-rage in which a man in an open-plan office starts trashing his computer. Staffers tend to make "subverts" because they enjoy them (remember the "I've got liver damage and my wife's just left me ..." send-up of Budweiser's ads?), but Hartley finds that corporates are increasingly interested in these formats as consumers become more jaded.Now that "games" has overtaken "free porn" and "Yahoo" in the top 10 most searched words on the internet, according to Searchterms.com, it's no surprise that the industry is getting joystick-happy. And it's not just the kids who are boosting figures. Many of us office workers now prefer to spend our time popping digital zits or slapping a virtual Spice Girl than getting on with boring work, which is why so many businesses have embargoed open internet access.The viral phenomenon implies that marketing values are changing again. The virtues of Restlessness, Impatience and Rebellion are starting to replace the time-tested aspirational approach built on the values of Loyalty, Glamour and Authenticity. (You only have to look at Thomas Cook's maudlin Tube campaign of rain puddles: "It's time to get out of the country".)   Marketing gurus would give their hind teeth for the kind of viral notoriety that poor old Claire Swire unwittingly earned herself when her  misguided email went global. Maybe next year the H&amp;M underwear campaign will take the form of a "secret" videocam of Claudia Schiffer having phone sex with her latest celebrity boyfriend. Half the population of Europe can only live in hope.
Wallpaper. That's how some see the banner ad - alone and floating at the top of a web page above some - hopefully more interesting - content. It flicks through the mind of the internet user, pleading to be clicked and yet, on average, only 0.3% of us will do so.And so the banner ad tries harder. It pretends to be something else, a game, a warning, a search engine, anything but a banner ad. And who can blame it? The most common advertising medium on the internet, the billboard of the superhighway, remains unclicked.Research published for e-business consultancy Rubus last month indicating that traditional firms are planning to cut their new media budgets even further comes as no surprise   with the limp banner still at the forefront of interactive advertising. As Mark Gibbs wrote recently in Network World: "All signs indicate that the primary online advertising mechanism, banner ads, just don't cut it. Even Yahoo, after announcing earnings a few weeks ago, saw its share price fall because of the company's reliance on revenue from banner advertising."No wonder everyone's in a panic. New media agencies are rushing to find the next big thing, such as pop-up boxes, interstitial messages appearing between webpages, websites, micro-sites and viral messages sent through email. Even the banner is being jazzed up with rich media functions that can throw simple shapes through the small horizontal space to get attention and therefore that all-important clickthrough.So why don't banners work?   "Banner" is just a fancy word for a long, thin poster. The kind that are splashed on poster sites or bus sides all over the country, which seem to do their job without any fuss. And they can't even be animated very well. But most national bus, poster, radio or TV ads aren't measured by "clickthroughs" - the act of taking your mouse to the banner and clicking on it to be taken to another website in the hope that you might buy something.This is where the banner ad is failing. The efficiency of poster and broadcast ads can be measured by how well they are remembered by viewers and by how much sales increase. If the latest Persil TV ad was measured by how many letters viewers wrote to the company headquarters for more information, they'd be off the box before you could say "whiter than white".Ironically, when banner ads were first being sold, one of the appeals for the client was that they could see just how many people had responded to the ad by clicking through. John Wanamaker, the 19th century US retail tycoon, once said: "I am certain that half of the money I spend on advertising is wasted. The trouble is, I don't know which half." Like direct marketing before it, interactive advertising offered a way to track how successful ads were and who responded by clicking through the banner. Sadly, as the novelty of the banner ad wore off for readers, it was soon apparent that approximately 99.7% of the clients' money was being wasted.There have been attempts to recapture this lost audience. For example, because research shows that the words "Click Here" on a banner ad increases the likelihood of clickthrough, most banner ads now seem to have that legend. A number are becoming more desperate in their "tricks" to capture the reader. The most infamous is Punch The Monkey For $20, an advert for sponsored money giveaway website Treeloot.com. Readers were asked to click on a monkey as it jumped from side to side across the banner with a cursor resembling a punchbag. However, those wishing to claim their $20 found increasingly tiresome tasks ahead - most gave up before their promised reward.Banner ads designed to resemble search engines, opinion polls or buttons tricked the reader into trying to use them. But they only led to the advertiser's website. This has taught readers not to trust such executions.   Banner ads are behaving more like mewling babies, attempting to gain the reader's attention and immediate response with every cry and wail at their disposal. And, like good parents, readers are learning not to encourage them.But the fact that readers don't click through a banner doesn't mean they ignore it. You can be aware of a message without having to click on it. It's simply stopped being a medium where readers respond directly, there and then.Adam Jackson, associate creative director at Tribal DDB, wrote for Clickz Today: "For a while, the click-through rate (CTR) was the most important metric. Recently, many online marketers have devised more complex metrics to define the success of an online campaign. Generally, these types of metrics rely on consumer behaviour after the click. Registrations, transactions, and repeat traffic can act as qualifiers to the CTR."While still emphasising the "click" analysis, this is a step in a new direction in measuring the behaviour of readers after they've been exposed to an ad. Could the banner escape its direct response below-the-line trappings and become an above-the-line   medium? Could it work at a brand level, creating desire and excitement for emotional reasons rather than an instant rational response to a sales promotion or special offer?Using only atomic symbols on a periodic table, WiredNews tells us it is a modern day alchemist of the digital age - turning silicon into gold. Jobsonline sells its services within a banner questioning the similarity of the reader's current boss to Joseph Stalin. And one of my own, produced by Grey Interactive, features cartoon character Johnny Bravo doing a Jack Nicholson impression to announce his new Cartoon Network show. While you are still encouraged to "click to go backstage" to a micro-site promoting the character and the show, the reader has already received a message and schedule information.These are all strong branding messages that don't necessarily need a clickthrough to register their impact. Their effectiveness is better measured by how they affect the reader, whether they shift more gear or get more viewers. Just like normal ads.If this becomes a measure of success, we are likely to see more interesting, creatively challenging banner ads, no longer straining to persuade the reader to respond there and then. The banner ad can then concentrate solely on selling the unique benefits of the product or service in question in an entertaining and eye catching way rather than screaming for a fast response.And who knows, a few people might click on them too.&#149; Rich Johnston is a senior advertising copywriter
&#149;   Get ready for February 7, when the Internet Service Providers Association will bestow upon some lucky figure the title of Internet Villain as part of the annual ISPA Internet Industry Awards. It is just one of many awards that will be given out at the annual ceremony, but it has an interesting twist. After a year in which British Telecom has been more maligned and lambasted by the internet industry than any company in history, the telecoms juggernaut has pre-empted critics by sponsoring the villain of the year category. Why? Well the rules for the awards specifically stipulate that a sponsor cannot win a category they are sponsoring. Thanks to clever footwork by BT, the prize may yet go to nominee Andy Mitchell, beloved ex-boss of Altavista.&#149;  Back before Freeserve, or Breathe, or any of the pretenders, there was FreeDotNet, a company that launched free internet service in 1997. This week, however, customers of that pioneering company are furious: they've been unable to access email since December 22, the company's phone is permanently engaged, and its websites are out of commission. This is the same FreeDotNet taken to court last December by the Serious Fraud Office on charges of conspiracy to deceive investors. The SFO, some may remember, had had its own share of blunders with the FreeDotNet case, when it accidentally revealed the name of the whistleblower who had tipped them off to the company's activities. His name mistakenly   appeared in the SFO's annual report as someone charged with offences in connection with the case. With friends like these?&#149;  The tragedy at Edgewater Technologies in Massachusetts on Boxing Day has sent a ripple of sympathy and support through internet companies around the globe, and inspired the big-hearted folk at fuckedcompany.com to start a collection for the families of the victims. The site, which chronicles the metaphoric death of dot.coms (not usually the literal death), has even set up a credit card payment system for net-heads who want to contribute. You may as well leave your sympathy at home, however, if you live outside the US. Irked Britons discovered the system would only accept contributions from within the US of A.&#149;  In the battle of the internet business magazines, the question for many is whose head is next on the block? Fast company made an early exit with a December sale to German publishers Gruner + Jahr while Red Herring has been content to carve some 50 redundancies out of its 300+ staff. Meanwhile, Future Networks, publishers of Business 2.0, has released a bleary statement predicting a sales shortfall for last year. New year's resolution for Business 2.0 staff: brush up your German.
Favourite sites?ferrettigroup-yacht.combecause I'm a boating freak. The site is graphically very good and provides interesting histories about the boat industry.Last online purchase?Books. I purchase books fromAmazon.comonce a week. I live in Switzerland so it's perfect because they arrive within two days. I also purchase vitamins from an American website calledmothernature.combecause they offer products which are unavailable here.Most recent technological faux pas?It is always the same - I buy a technological product because I am excited about it and then I don't have time to use it.Main news source on the web?CNN or FT.com. If I am looking for something specific and I need it quickly, I might just use Teletext rather than starting up the PC.Most persistent spam emailer?This is a major problem which is getting worse. My email address is on my business card, and although I think it should be, the more I distribute it the more spam I get.Time spent on the web?About an hour or two in the office. Half an hour at home and no more.Next boo.com?All dot.coms which are in the business-to-consumer market without an   old economy model behind them will be in serious trouble. If you just create a site where you have to act as a distributor to the internet audience, you will have problems. If you, for example, owned a newspaper or a radio station with an existing staff, and you expand into the internet, then you'll find a way to survive, but there are many more potential boo.coms out there.Least useful site on the web?deathclock.comtells you how many seconds you have left to live.Most useful site?sbb.chwhich is the national railroad website for Switzerland. It gives you the best train schedules and routes anywhere in the country which is great because road traffic is so bad here.Which screensaver do you use?Our company has its own which you can download from our site. It's an animation of how you can do email sniffing, which means reading other people's emails. We don't really show you how to do it because that would be illegal but we show a mock up.Most irritating thing about the web?There was so much enthusiasm in the beginning but in a relatively short time there is a negative sense about it. Everybody talks about the demise of all these internet companies and this has created uncertainty.Do you bother with old media?I watch television and read at least two newspapers a day.&#149;   Peter Rudin is the CEO of business communications siteupaq.com
Mr Nulty made it clear to every reporter who joined the weekly newspaper he ran in rural Cheshire: "Forget about adjectives," he'd say, "what readers want is facts, the five Ws - who, why, what, where and when - that, and the correct spelling of names."He was equally convinced that human curiosity is enough to make people interested in everything - so long as they are directed to the "wow" factor. "What do you mean there's no news this week? We've got 36 pages to fill." Then he'd explain how to elevate a homing pigeon report into a story of champions, hazard and tragedy: Prize birds lost in terror storm.The same rules continue to govern news reporting, and media relations, today. Mr Nulty may have been dead for 20 years, but he and his contemporaries knew how people liked to have their information presented.Armed with the "Five Ws" approach and a Nulty Interest Detector, there seemed absolutely no reason to suspect that the job of publicising Bristol's online advent calendar would cause a reshuffle of my top five list of PR terrors.I am, after all, the woman who pulled in treble-figure audiences for a "lost" German comedy so awful stage-hands blocked gaps in the scenery to (unsuccessfully, alas) stop the lead actor from bolting. I wrote the inadvisably jaunty news release for a planned minor exhibition of the World's Worst Postcards which engaged so much international attention the gallery staff still flinch at the sight of a postbag. Hey! I even managed to keep the Archaos circus company off the front pages, despite the small(ish) accident with the dynamite.True, the calendar project has a geographic drawback. It isn't centred on London. And as every provincial publicist knows, some "national" news outlets develop nervous tics when asked to look beyond the metropolis's borders. But that seemed minor. The site has broad appeal; it's cutting edge and it's a showcase of what new technology can achieve. It's also free.Best of all, in order to enjoy it no one needs to make an out-of-the cosy-indoors journey in these days of rail delays and floods. It's all happening on the web. Turn on, log in and reach out - the project comes directly to you viawww.electricdecember.org.How  wrong could I be? The PR campaign started normally enough - an explanatory press   release to 300 or so named media contacts. Scant response. No non-Bristol takers. A flurry of emails is despatched. The only message in the inbox, a sorrowful "You have no messages". Another press release goes out. Zilch. More phone calls. More knock-backs. The offer of preview CDs attracts a woman in California who is somehow receiving messages meant for the Arts Council of England's new website. Finally, we promise free drink - and drink it ourselves, till morning when the truth dawns.And the truth is that while the media are keen to run stories about the importance of the web and are using it for info sharing and gathering, journalism's five Ws mindset simply can't cope with world wide web news.Television rejects web-related items because people and screens don't mix in accepted ways with, well, people and screens; radio shuns it because it's too visual; photographers stay away because it's not visual enough; the local press see the web as a world apart; the nationals think a site exists in its (too local) place of origin. No medium has adjusted to the fact that who, where and when have different meanings now that we all live in Netville.W hen is "when" for a burst of creativity which will stay live till the server rusts and seizes? Where is "where" if a moderately-sized Bristol arts venue can mount 24 separate exhibitions of new technology art at one time, and accommodate more than 80,000 visits in a week?The irony is that if we really were hosting 24 simultaneous shows it would be news. If 80,000 people were actually coming through the doors, there'd be a page lead in it, (probably "Arts Lovers Trampled In Killer Crush"). But it's all virtual, not quantifiable in five W terms, it doesn't fit the Mr Nulty pattern, it's not where the conventional media are yet at.The danger is that others are further forward. Those 80,000 viewings aren't PR hype. It's what the site achieved within its first week. Despite scant print/broadcast coverage, word of mouth is taking the URL all around the world. And as this parallel e-news universe expands, it raises questions about the future of publications and programmes which haven't worked out how to assimilate it into their columns and airtime.The information revolution isn't just about communicating news at higher speed, it's sparking a revolution in how we communicate and define news itself.&#149; Pam Beddard is a journalist and freelance publicist for arts, media and environmental organisations.
You are sitting at your desk. Your computer boings and the "You have New Mail/Open Mail" icon appears. A friend who works downstairs in your office has sent an email with an attachment and copied it to everyone else who works in your team. Do you stop and think before you open it?You are aware that attachments can be risky but it is from someone you know and everyone else on your desk has got a copy so you click on your inbox and hit Launch. The image downloads from the top down as if it is teasing you, threatening to reveal all and then stopping while your hard disk struggles to keep up with the shapes and colours.The face is familiar. It is Bart Simpson with his trademark yellow spiky hair and toothy grin. So far, so unremarkable. But there's more. There is a cartoon donkey and - oh, how droll - Bart and the beast are doing something that would give Homer and Marge a heart attack. It raises a half-hearted smile. You hit the delete key and think nothing more of it.Looking at pictures of cartoon characters in compromising positions with cartoon farmyard animals may not be the funniest or most original thing to happen in an average working day. Getting sacked for your 30 seconds of animated smut will certainly provoke a serious sense of humour failure.But who would fire someone over such a prank, and how would they know? Your employer, for one. You may not know it, but from the second you log on in the morning to the moment you switch off at night, your boss is looking over your shoulder. If you are reading this article on The Observer website, your IT department will know you are. If you use the email address at the bottom of this article, your boss can read what you write.Every day millions of emails are being intercepted, quarantined, analysed and, if the company e-police do not like what they see, staff are being handed a P45 and a binbag. It happened last week to 10 people who worked at the Royal &amp; Sun Alliance insurance firm in Liverpool. A further 80 have been suspended in the finance and administration departments.Those who lost their jobs were junior clerical staff, but it is not just the vulnerable and low-paid who are being caught out. The Liverpool 10 share their notoriety with four lawyers suspended last month by top City law firm Norton Rose after an email about oral sex circulated around the company before being forwarded to more than 20 million people worldwide. Even the editor of the Mirror, Piers Morgan, has had his inbox examined by his bosses while investigating alleged financial impropriety.In July the Regulation and Investigatory Powers Act was passed. It said employers could read employees' emails, but only with their consent. But in October Department of Trade and Industry guidelines gave employers the right to monitor emails without asking first. With unseemly haste, employers are using the new rules to amend existing employee contracts, inserting new internet and email clauses that state: "Messages are not the private property of employees and there should be no expectation of privacy in any circumstances," or: "Your employer reserves the right to access and monitor all messages created, sent, received or stored on your employer's systems."Some companies are even going so far as to introduce "Spywear" technology, which monitors every key stroke and mouse click an employee makes. It enables bosses to trawl through the text of every email sent or received, every web page viewed, looking for large expanses of flesh tones or simply colourful language. Employers can also flip to what is on any employee's screen at any time.Companies insist the crackdown is necessary because staff are wasting time by surfing the internet and sending emails. Without saying where they get their figures, they claim 60% of online shopping and 90% of hits on pornographic sites are in office hours. They also argue that they are responsible for the content of any messages sent out on their networks. Mike Emmott, of the Institute of Personnel and Development, said: "If people are spending a lot of time at work not working, it is not surprising if managers take action."As recently as a year ago it did not seem to matter much what employers looked at. Email and the internet were still in their relative infancy but over the past year there has been an explosion in e-traffic. Telephone companies announced recently that their networks were carrying more data traffic than voice traffic. The desktop telephone is rapidly being replaced by the desktop computer.More than 15 million people have access to the internet and 36% of employees have an email address supplied by their employer. What's more, email has a peculiar power to get us to open up. Cut off from the face-to-face of normal conversation, we are more informal. Helen Petrie, an internet psychologist at Hertfordshire University, says: "People find email very dis-inhibiting. They bash out a message and send things they would not dream of doing over the phone or in a letter."As more of us communicate by email, IT specialists say firms are overreacting and violating employees' legitimate rights to privacy at work. Dr Simon Moores, an internet expert, said: "The balance is totally in favour of big business. That is wrong. Constant surveillance is sinister and invasive. The world is changing and we need to think hard about employees' rights and privileges in this wired world. We are rapidly becoming the Western world's leading surveillance society."Caspar Bowden, of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, added: "Bullying bosses can intimidate staff and exploit knowledge of their private lives."Workplace snooping is not only intrusive, psychologists say, it is bad for business. "Employees have always chatted in the office," says Cary Cooper, professor of organisational psychology and health at Manchester University. "It is no surprise they use new technology like the internet and email to do so. Employers might think it is a good idea to try to control it but the evidence shows the more people feel monitored and distrusted, the more productivity declines."Employers are winning the battle to control cyberspace but the backlash is growing. Lawyers say the Regulation and Investigatory Powers Act conflicts with the Data Protection Act. It may also be against the spirit of the European Convention on Human Rights, guaranteeing a "right to privacy". The law will be tested in a series of industrial tribunals later this year.In the workplace itself, staff are   using new technology to beat employers at their own game. Free websites such as Hushmail and Safeweb encrypt email and web surfing.Back in Liverpool, the 10 sacked workers will this week fight to get their jobs back. One told  The Observer: "What the company has done is an absurd overreaction. If we cracked a joke or passed a cartoon picture around, nothing would have happened. People have mortgages and children to think about. Just because it is on email everyone seems to have gone mad."Office smut has certainly come a long way from tacky pin-ups of half-naked women and whispered dirty jokes. The battle over who has the right to say what is unsavoury and what is simply harmless banter has only just begun.
Capitalism is an energetic beast, but an uncommonly obtuse one. It can take an awfully long time to get an idea into its thick head - especially if it has to displace another one. That is one of the reasons why the business world finds cyberspace such a puzzling place.Business folks see the net as essentially just an exciting new way of doing business. But that is perhaps the least interesting or important thing about the network, which is first and foremost a medium used by hundreds of millions of people to communicate with one another. Although the bit-traffic associated with browsing web pages accounts for the vast majority of the trillions of bytes shipped daily across the world, most people's active engagement with the net is accounted for by sending and receiving email messages. Because these tend to be short, they don't show up in the data-traffic charts but still represent the most significant use of the net for ordinary users. Online shopping is nowhere by comparison.You'd never guess that from reading the financial press, however, which is obsessed with online economic transactions to the exclusion of almost everything else. But most of the data we have on internet use bears it out. The regular and intensive polling conducted by the Pew Foundation for its project on 'The internet and American Life', for example, shows that whereas 47 per cent of US users send and receive email every day, only a miserly 4 or 5 per cent regularly engage in online banking or shopping.The Pew researchers have just released the results of their survey of online behaviour over the holiday period. The findings are instructive. 'While most analysts and commentators anxiously charted the daily ups and downs of the online retail sector during this season,' they report, 'the bigger story about the internet during the holidays was a social one. People used email to make their holiday plans; they sent online holiday greetings to loved ones and friends; they used the internet to get ideas on how to celebrate the season; and they sought religious material online.'  Well, well. The report goes on to hammer home the message. While 24 per cent of US internet users bought gifts online this Christmas, a whopping 53 per cent (that's more than 51 million people) sent emails to relatives and friends to discuss the holidays or to make plans. Thirty-two per cent (more than 30 million) sent e-greeting cards to loved ones and friends; 24 per cent (more than 22 million) went to the web to get information on crafts and recipes, and to get other ideas for holiday celebrations, while 14 per cent researched religious information and traditions online.The Pew survey has some interesting ethnic dimensions. The figures suggest, for example, that Hispanics sent far more e-greeting cards than other racial groups. And that African-Americans were much more likely than whites to seek religious information on the web - as were parents with children aged under 18.'Clearly,' conclude the Pew researchers, 'the online population sees the internet more as a tool for information gathering and communications than for commercial transactions. Our previous studies have shown that the most powerful impacts of the internet in users' lives fall much more into this social realm than the commercial realm. Substantial majorities of online Americans have told us that the internet improves their connection to family and friends, helps them pursue their hobbies, and helps them learn new things and get answers to questions.'Quite so. This is the underlying reality about the net which explains why those who see it purely as a commercial medium are always likely to get it wrong. Long may they continue to do so.
Mix Anthea Turner, a bunch of silly, six-foot ants and a $100 million advertising budget and what do you get? Another over-hyped, over-spent dotcom, of course, just waiting to go bust.Last week's demise of LetsBuyIt.com will come to be seen as another milestone in the great internet shake-out. The firm's TV campaign may have earned adland's equivalent of Oscars. But troupes of ants running a flagpole up a log and the mantra: 'We all get things cheaper when we buy in a group.com' left millions baffled and irritated (buy what exactly.com?), yet totally indifferent when it came to shopping on the net.As a result, having shut up shop just four days after Christmas and scuttled for cover from creditors, this weekend LetsBuyIt's Dutch administrators are desperately trying to salvage something from the wreckage before all the money runs out. If, that is, they find any real cash in the chaos left to burn.LetsBuyIt, of course, was what the internet was supposed to be all about. Or at least to the 'new paradigmers', the vulture capitalists and fee-hungry City share pushers, if not the rest of us naysayers with memories of Tulipmania and the South Sea Bubble.They rated it more highly than Boo.com, the net's first big casualty when it, too, ran out of cash last June. More than Jungle.com, which sold out in September, as credit to dotcoms from suppliers started to dry up before the Christmas season, and even more than eToys, which also pulled the plug in Europe last week after a disappointing Christmas, LetsBuyIt was going to redefine the 'shopping experience'.Jungle and eToys were straightforward e-tailers of designer labels, electronic gadgets and kidstuff, using e-space to ply their trade.  But LetsBuyIt stood out from the crowd. It trumpeted that most precious of things: a new 'model', a brand new way of doing business. No longer would shoppers buy alone. Instead, this 'internet aggregator' would group customers' orders to negotiate keener prices from suppliers.During 'co-buying events' - some lasting days, some weeks - the more people signing up, the lower the price would be for anything from Obsession perfume to the latest BMW bike or Sony widescreen TV. They were the Rochdale pioneers of the net.What's more, unlike run-of -the-mill e-tailers, LetsBuyIt would never handle the product. Instead ParcelForce shipped it straight from the manufacturer to your home - and at no extra cost, too.  Sounds complicated? A bit too clever by half? Welcome to the real world. 'It was one of those untested models that sound fine in theory,' said a senior executive of one leading 'clicks and mortar' retailer, with far more UK buying power than LetsBuyIt and all its internet lookalikes combined. 'But consumers don't have all the time and patience in the world. Most want to buy now, with delivery in 48 hours.'At its flotation, on Germany's Neuer Markt last July, LetsBuyIt had another key part of the internet dream: a fancy business plan, setting out spectacular growth. Founded in Sweden just two years ago, the firm promised to break even by mid-2002 and move strongly into profit in 2003. But take a closer look at the key assumptions underlying the projections and the dream turns to fantasy.First, compound revenue growth was forecast at a gravity-defying 147 per cent over the first four years. After notching up sales of just 1.4 million in its first 12 months, LetsBuyIt had gullible investors believe it was going to rewrite the record books, with 460m of sales by 2003.Second, from negative territory, gross profit margins would leap to a sustainable 25 per cent by 2002 - dizzy heights of which most retailers can but dream. 'I remember looking at the figures and thinking "you must be on drugs",' says Heidi Fitzpatrick, internet analyst with broker Lehman Bros, one of the few City scribblers to emerge with credit from an all-too familiar saga.To any common sense observer, LetsBuyIt was in deep trouble long before it came to market. For starters, founder John Palmer - who had a background in the Australian toy trade - and his Swedish backers followed Boo.com's lead by setting up in 14 countries all at once. From the outset, with 350 staff, overheads ran ahead of reality. The loss-making Danish operation has yet to make a single kroner of sales, while in Germany - LetsBuyIt's biggest market - its business model was illegal under ancient anti-discounting laws that protect small shopkeepers.By the summer, the firm had already blown most of the 75m it had raised from backers. Despite the recruitment of a heavyweight top team including former Nike boss John Coles, the flotation had also already been put off twice. On the last occasion, in May, the plug was pulled just a day after a juvenile marketing stunt in which Turner and her man-sized ants were barred by the old dears at the Chelsea Flower Show.Not surprisingly, the flotation raised just 41m, less than half what the profligate business plan intended and at half the price per share. LetsBuyIt blames changed sentiment towards dotcoms for its demise: it failed because of events beyond its control.What nonsense. The market's reaction is a logical response to irrational over-exuberance in the first place. But take a look, too, at LetsBuyIt's last results, for the quarter to end September. Sales and gross profits were up 28 per cent to 5.8m and 570,000 respectively.But what's this buried in marketing, advertising and promotions? Just 930,000 of subsidy - more than its profits - for free deliveries which anyone else would deduct from the gross margin. As Lehman's Fitzpatrick puts its: 'If you're losing money every time you ship a product, you're in trouble.'And then came Christmas. For 1999's festive season, LetsBuyIt barely had an offering. The accountants are now investigating how it fared over Christmas 2000, but the omens are not good. The 'trouble' with Christmas is that people want presents now, not in two weeks or a month. So out of the window went the model, and LetsBuyIt started to buy stock directly. By the end of September it already had 1.6m worth on its books. How much unsold - or returned - stock it now has remains to be seen.By October, LetsBuyIt still had to sell another 17m worth of goods to make its 30m flotation forecast. Last week's abrupt resignation and departure of Coles and his team suggests things went badly wrong. Last week, the internet's bulletin boards were abuzz with tales of how LetsBuyIt ruined many a consumer's Christmas.Before it shut down, the firm's website boasted well over a million members. But less than a fifth ever bought anything. Many of the newer recruits were just signing up for the free 5 Amazon books voucher. At the end, however, LetsBuyIt was not even delivering those.
You are sitting at your desk. Your computer boings and the 'You have New Mail/Open Mail' icon appears. A friend who works downstairs in your office has sent an email with an attachment and copied it to everyone else who works in your team. Do you stop and think before you open it?You are aware that attachments can be risky but it is from someone you know and everyone else on your desk has got a copy so you click on your inbox and hit Launch. The image downloads from the top down as if it is teasing you, threatening to reveal all and then stopping while your hard disk struggles to keep up with the shapes and colours.The face is familiar. It is Bart Simpson with his trademark yellow spiky hair and toothy grin. So far, so unremarkable. But there's more. There is a cartoon donkey and - oh, how droll - Bart and the beast are doing something that would give Homer and Marge a heart attack. It raises a half-hearted smile. You hit the delete key and think nothing more of it.Looking at pictures of cartoon characters in compromising positions with cartoon farmyard animals may not be the funniest or most original thing to happen in an average working day. Getting sacked for your 30 seconds of animated smut will certainly provoke a serious sense of humour failure.But who would fire someone over such a prank, and how would they know? Your employer, for one. You may not know it, but from the second you log on in the morning to the moment you switch off at night, your boss is looking over your shoulder. If you are reading this article on The Observer website, your IT department will know you are. If you use the email address at the bottom of this article, your boss can read what you write.Every day millions of emails are being intercepted, quarantined, analysed and, if the company e-police do not like what they see, staff are being handed a P45 and a binbag. It happened last week to 10 people who worked at the Royal &amp; Sun Alliance insurance firm in Liverpool. A further 80 have been suspended in the finance and administration departments.Those who lost their jobs were junior clerical staff, but it is not just the vulnerable and low-paid who are being caught out. The Liverpool 10 share their notoriety with four lawyers suspended last month by top City law firm Norton Rose after an email about oral sex circulated around the company before being forwarded to more than 20 million people worldwide. Even the editor of the Mirror, Piers Morgan, has had his inbox examined by his bosses while investigating alleged financial impropriety.In July the Regulation and Investigatory Powers Act was passed. It said employers could read employees' emails, but only with their consent. But in October Department of Trade and Industry guidelines gave employers the right to monitor emails without asking first. With unseemly haste, employers are using the new rules to amend existing employee contracts, inserting new internet and email clauses that state: 'Messages are not the private property of employees and there should be no expectation of privacy in any circumstances,' or: 'Your employer reserves the right to access and monitor all messages created, sent, received or stored on your employer's systems.'Some companies are even going so far as to introduce 'Spywear' technology, which monitors every key stroke and mouse click an employee makes. It enables bosses to trawl through the text of every email sent or received, every web page viewed, looking for large expanses of flesh tones or simply colourful language. Employers can also flip to what is on any employee's screen at any time.Companies insist the crackdown is necessary because staff are wasting time by surfing the internet and sending emails. Without saying where they get their figures, they claim 60 per cent of online shopping and 90 per cent of hits on pornographic sites are in office hours. They also argue that they are responsible for the content of any messages sent out on their networks. Mike Emmott, of the Institute of Personnel and Development, says: 'If people are spending a lot of time at work not working, it is not surprising if managers take action.'As recently as a year ago it did not seem to matter much what employers looked at. Email and the internet were still in their relative infancy but over the past year there has been an explosion in e-traffic. Telephone companies announced recently that their networks were carrying more data traffic than voice traffic. The desktop telephone is rapidly being replaced by the desktop computer.More than 15 million people have access to the internet and 36 per cent of employees have an email address supplied by their employer. What's more, email has a peculiar power to get us to open up. Cut off from the face-to-face of normal conversation, we are more informal. Helen Petrie, an internet psychologist at Hertfordshire University, says: 'People find email very dis-inhibiting. They bash out a message and send things they would not dream of doing over the phone or in a letter.'As more of us communicate by email, IT specialists say firms are overreacting and violating employees' legitimate rights to privacy at work. Dr Simon Moores, an internet expert, says: 'The balance is totally in favour of big business. That is wrong. Constant surveillance is sinister and invasive. The world is changing and we need to think hard about employees' rights and privileges in this wired world. We are rapidly becoming the Western world's leading surveillance society.'Caspar Bowden, of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, adds: 'Bullying bosses can intimidate staff and exploit knowledge of their private lives.'Workplace snooping is not only intrusive, psychologists say, it is bad for business. 'Employees have always chatted in the office,' says Cary Cooper, Professor of Organisational Psychology and Health at Manchester University. 'It is no surprise they use new technology like the internet and email to do so. Employers might think it is a good idea to try to control it but the evidence shows the more people feel monitored and distrusted, the more productivity declines.'Employers are winning the battle to control cyberspace but the backlash is growing. Lawyers say the Regulation and Investigatory Powers Act conflicts with the Data Protection Act. It may also be against the spirit of the European Convention on Human Rights, guaranteeing a 'right to privacy'. The law will be tested in a series of industrial tribunals later this year.In the workplace itself, staff are   using new technology to beat employers at their own game. Free websites such asHushmailandSafewebencrypt email and web surfing.Back in Liverpool the 10 sacked workers will this week fight to get their jobs back. One told  The Observer : 'What the company has done is an absurd overreaction. If we cracked a joke or passed a cartoon picture around, nothing would have happened. People have mortgages and children to think about. Just because it is on email everyone seems to have gone mad.'Office smut has certainly come a long way from tacky pin-ups of half-naked women and whispered dirty jokes. The battle over who has the right to say what is unsavoury and what is simply harmless banter has only just begun.john.arlidge@observer.co.uk
Toyzone, the e-tailing toy company controlled by PR guru Matthew Freud, this weekend conceded that it will struggle to survive as an independent business.The company, which was launched in a blaze of publicity 18 months ago, is now considered vulnerable following the defection of three key staff members before Christmas. These include  Jo Hall, its former managing director, poached from Toys 'R' Us,  and co-founder Peter Norris.'A standalone internet site operating just in Britain is hard to push through,' admitted the company's chief executive, Paul Miller. He said Toyzone would have to either   broaden its product range or sell out to a medium sized bricks-and-mortar retailer.News of Toyzone's difficulties comes as its main rival, eToys, last week pulled the plug on its European operation, having run out of cash.To cap a gloomy week in the Freud household, his future father-in-law, Rupert Murdoch, is to write off more than 10 million of his ill-fated investment in collapsed internet firm Letsbuyit.com.This weekend, Letsbuyit's Dutch administrators are urgently investigating the firm's accounts to establish if creditors can be paid in full.Last week, Letsbuyit's top management resigned en masse, having closed the company after Christmas in the highest-profile internet crash since Boo.com last summer. Murdoch's BSkyB invested 10m in an undisclosed stake before Letsbuyit's flotation on Germany's Neuer Markt last July. The broadcaster agreed to take over 6m more in shares in a novel 'equity-for-advertising deal'.Letsbuyit raised 120m in its brief but colourful two- year existence. Much of that was blown on high-profile TV advertising campaigns, including one featuring cartoon ants.
French internet service providerLiberty Surf, which is part owned by the UK's Kingfisher group, confirmed yesterday that it is in talks with several potential partners.Speculation is centred on Belgium's state-controlled telecoms group, Belgacom, which is known to be keen to expand its internet operations in France, where it is already represented by Infosources.Speculation about the possibility of a Belgacom bid allowed Liberty Surf shares to shrug off the general malaise affecting hi-tech stocks and close almost 9% higher on the day.Liberty Surf yesterday refused to be drawn on the identities of the companies with which it was holding talks or the prospects of an alliance materialising."Following media reports referring to talks with a telecoms group, Liberty Surf would indicate that, while talks are going on with different partners, they could either reach or not reach a conclusion," the company said in a statement.Belgacom - where the government has a 50% plus one share - is seen by industry analysts as a good partner for Liberty Surf at a time of consolidation among internet service providers.Liberty Surf has said it would make sense for it to join forces with either a media or a telecoms company. A tie up with Infosources - which is 75% owned by Belgacom - would increase Infosources' presence in France, which accounts for a third of its active users.Liberty Surf has some 730,000 users - including 600,000 in France.One problem for Belgacom would be the way in which a deal would have to be financed. Liberty Surf has a market capitalisation of around &euro;550m (&#163;347m) and the Belgian telecoms group would almost certainly have to pay cash to fund a deal to combine the two sets of internet activities.It would be difficult for it to use its own shares because it does not have a stock market quotation so valuation would be a problem. Even if that could be overcome, any new share issue would mean the Belgian government surrendering control - a position it is thought to have accepted in principle but where the practicalities have not been decided.Belgacom could finance a deal by using shares in Infosources, which it bought back in December, but as Liberty Surf has a much larger market capitalisation than Info-sources that would mean it would have to surrender overall control. Yesterday Info-sources shares were down 18% on concerns about the extent of possible dilution for a deal with Liberty Surf."From an industrial point of view, such a deal &#91;between Liberty Surf and Belgacom&#93; would make sense but it does beg the questions about financing," David Cerdan, sector specialist at HSBC-CCF said.Kingfisher, which has around 35% of Liberty Surf shares - the French group's other big shareholder is Bernard Arnault's Groupe Arnault - declined to comment on the day's developments.
Starbucks Coffee Company has teamed up with Microsoft to make customers linger longer over their lattes.The Seattle coffee firm has linked with its cross-town neighbour to offer North American customers a range of broadband internet services designed to improve brand loyalty and revenues.Frappuccino fans will be able to order their favourite drinks over their mobile phones or hook their laptop computers or handheld organisers to the web via a wireless connection when they visit the store for their morning croissant and cappuccino."These new relationships will provide us with a great opportunity to enhance our existing customers' in-store experience as well as attract new customers to our retail locations," said Howard Schultz, chairman of Starbucks. He said 90% of his customers were internet users.Coffee drinkers will be able to log on to Microsoft's MSN network or access their corporate intranet and work remotely. The network infrastructure will be provided by MobileStar. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.Starbucks operates about 150 outlets in Britain though there are no firm plans to export the scheme across the Atlantic at present.Analysts predict that technology that enables devices to be connected to the internet without wires will be made widely available at buildings like airports, conference halls, shopping malls and coffee shops where there is a captive audience.Locally provided networks can be much cheaper than national or international networks and businesses like coffee shops believe that if they can offer customers cheaper or free connections to the web, they will hang around their stores longer and buy more goods.Starbucks is keen to project a progressive corporate image through new technology but in August it was forced to write off a &#163;14m investment in online venture Living.com, a furniture retailer that filed for bankruptcy protection. Other investments have also struggled.
At least 210 internet companies worldwide went out of business last year, according to a survey by webmergers.com.The San Francisco company estimated that as many as 15,000 people lost their jobs as a result of the closures.That does not include all dot.com layoffs, however, because many companies still in business have reduced staff.The rate of companies failing accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2000 with 60%, of closures - 121 - happening towards the end of the year. The closure rate in the last three months of the year was more than one company a day."Shutdowns accelerated in the fourth quarter as dot.coms began to run out of funding that began drying up after the stock market shakeup that began in late March," the report says.About $1.5bn of investment money and 40 companies were lost in December, compared with 46 closures in November.The business-to-consumer sector was hardest hit, with 75% of failures being in that area, according to the study.Hi-tech regional centres bore the brunt of the fall-out with just above 30% of closures taking place in California. New York and Massachusetts each accounted for nearly 10%, while western Europe lost 23 companies, 11% of the total.Most of the companies that failed, 109 out of 210, were e-commerce businesses. Online content sites made up another 30 of the total, with infrastructure and other online service companies accounting for the rest of the failures.Some firms shut in December even before they ran out of money. DeskTop.com and BizBuyer.com, both closed before their funding ran out.The study concluded that: "At least a quarter of December's shutdowns are seeking to sell their assets or to reorganise through bankruptcy filings or some other means."The report was based on data from more than 50 news sources and concentrated on large companies.
Any hopes within the Microsoft Corporation that the new year might prove less legally embroiled than the old one were rudely shattered yesterday when lawyers in Washington DC filed a $5bn class action racial discrimination claim against the huge American software company.The suit, which is the fourth major anti-discrimination legal challenge to Microsoft in the past three months, alleges that seven past and present Microsoft employees suffered racial bias in company evaluations, compensation, promotions and retaliation.The new cases come on top of the historic competition case against the company last year in which Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson ruled that Microsoft had exercised monopolistic powers to control the market in operating systems and internet browsers; he ordered that the company should be split into two.Microsoft has also faced persistent legal complaints from temporary workers about lack of full-time rights.But the latest suit appears to be much the most serious challenge that the embattled corporation has faced on the race discrimination front. Only 2.6% of Microsoft's 21,429 workforce are black, according to 1999 company figures, and black staff make up only 1.6% of the company's managers. Black Americans make up approximately 13% of the US population as a whole."Microsoft has discriminated against African-American employees who made valuable contributions to the company but were not treated with the same dignity, respect and compensation as their white counterparts," alleged the plaintiffs' lawyer, Willie Gary, at a press conference in Washington yesterday."There are glass ceilings and glass walls in place for African Americans at Microsoft."We are stunned and disappointed in their treatment of black employees."The man at the centre of the new case is Rahn Johnson, a former account executive at   Microsoft who worked for the company for four and a half years selling its products to the US Army.Mr Jackson stopped working for Microsoft in October 2000. He alleges that he was repeatdely passed over for promotions despite 17 years of sales experience, and that he contacted several company executives - including the corporation's president, Steve Ballmer, with his complaints. "I was absolutely ignored," Mr Jackson said yesterday.Microsoft spokesman Dean Katz said the company was wholly committed to ethnic diversity. "Microsoft does not tolerate discrimination in any of its employment practices, and we are committed to treating all of our employees fairly," Mr Katz said.But a former Microsoft information technology director, Peter Browne - who at one time was the highest ranking black American in the company workforce - challenged the company position yesterday, saying he was often approached by fellow black workers who were worred about their treatment."I found soon enough I couldn't help them. I couldn't help myself," Mr Browne said.Mr Browne, who is 58, has his own race and age discrimination claim against Microsoft scheduled for trial hearing later this year.Mr Gary comes to the new case against Microsoft with a formidable and high profile record - which includes a successful $720m anti-discrimination damages suit last year against Disney World.He is also acting- along with OJ Simpson's lawyer Johnnie Cochran - in a continuing $1.5bn suit against US drinks group Coca-Cola.
As genuinely 
flattered as I am to be asked by 
the Guardian to reflect on the net for the coming year, I am also nervous. I'm nervous about predictions, giving that I've just read a history of futorological predictions. One of the most notorious of these noted that the British Astronomer Royal, Sir Richard Woolley, dismissed the idea of space flight as "bilge" only a year before the Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1.I have a few options:
There is the "management consultant" option of being so vague as to be impossible to criticise. I was at a conference recently where a management consultant (I'm not making this up) said that if companies want to encourage visitors to come to their web sites, then they need to make the sites "interesting".Or I could try the "analyst" option of spraying around detailed numbers (and being quantitatively wrong, but downstream when people will have forgotten). 
Lehman Brothers are predicting European mobile e-commerce as $400 billion plus in 2005, whereas Forrester put it a about $4 billion (ie, 100 times less). Who'll remember any of this in 2005?The "sci-fi" option is to write about, as Dennis Cass put it in Harper's in July, "the kinds of things you've heard bores like Nicholas Negroponte drone on about in Wired magazine, like shoes that can send email to other shoes".
The realistic option of 
trying to make one or two modest predictions about areas I have been working in.
The last option seems like the best bet, but who am I to make predictions? Being in the middle of the Net revolution doesn't automatically qualify anyone as a visionary. Just to pick one example, Nathan Myhrvold was Chief Technology Officer of Microsoft. In late 1994 he 
was still writing memos downplaying the internet.A couple of years later he said that traditional media companies would be "roadkill on the information highway". Microsoft went on to invest in, for example, Sidewalk (now sold off and defunct) and Digital Entertainment Network (which shut down a few months ago).It's not as if we do better on this side of the Atlantic. At the end of last year, Freeserve was sold to Wanadoo at about one-sixth the price it was fetching a few months earlier, and at about 12p per share less than its launch price. Yet when it was at its peak valuation of 9 billion last year, not one of the 16 London-based investment bank analysts who reported on it gave a sell recommendation. I'm not picking on them. It is just important to remember the so-called "First Rule of Hollywood": no-one knows anything, just as John Browning recently reminded me when reflecting on the $300 billion plus that banks have loaned telecommunications operators to spend on the next generation of mobile phones in Europe.  Hopefully, I can do a little better by setting easier goals: I'm just going to make a few key predictions about the Net as a whole, focusing on the UK and the rest of Europe.These predictions are made easier by the fact that I see 2001 being about the continuation of existing trends rather than radical changes.
First, the shakeout of the B2C (business to consumer) sector will extend into the B2B (business to business) and C2C  (consumer to consumer) sectors. Whereas last year was about the failure of consumer sites - Boo, Pets, Boxman and WebHouse Club - this year will be about the failure of business exchanges (adumbrated by Efdex) and auction sites without critical mass. This doesn't mean that B2C or B2B commerce is in for a downturn: far from it, since US fourth quarter online sales are 70% up on the same period last year and a third of UK households have now bought something online (significantly above the European average).UK B2C commerce (about 1 billion this year) and UK B2B commerce (about 5 billion this year) will continue to grow, but the markets will naturally consolidate.
Second, the "Napsterisation" of many Net-based 
services will continue as the infrastructure for sharing without a central co-ordination begins to take over from the "traditional" client-server model for all such services. Closed communities will develop sharing strategies that are specific to their areas of interest. I can imagine that in a year or so I will no longer log-on to my office server to upload my latest PowerPoint presentations: my laptop will just publish their existence and my colleagues machines will retrieve them from me when they need them (or at least leave a request pending for the relevant files to be sucked off of my machine next time I plug in). 
Napsterisation, alongside the rush of other peer-to-peer (P2P) services coming on stream, will be the focus of genuine innovation.In evidence, I point 
interested members of the general public in the direction of the American NYCE debit card scheme to allow 
consumers to send money to 
each other via ATMs, and Flutter.com, which offers a selection of bets (on sports and various other events) 
that bullish punters can 
take up when emailed bets from other members of the site.Third, as the mobile sector - which is conservatively estimated at 2% of UK GDP and has been attracting 43,000 new users per day over the last six months  - continues to evolve at speed, more and more of us will expect services to be delivered through their phones and other mobile devices such as PDAs. Bluetooth won't make as much impact as others are predicting. The integration of mobile and other channels - such as the web and interactive digital TV (in which the UK leads the world) and others, rather than mobile-only propositions, will be the way forward over the short term. There's no need to try and guess a "killer app" in this field.It doesn't need one (although it does need a killer transactions, revenue-sharing and payments platform, but that's another story).
All in all, it's not a difficult prediction to make that the year will be about evolving revenue and profit models accompanied by a less breathless view of technological change, tempered with more practical experience coming back from the front line. 
A good year for business, 
in fact.
David Elstein  Former CEO of   Channel 5 on the future   of broadcastingSo far, interactive TV isn't truly interactive - you only access things the programmers decide for you - but the future will bring addressable adverts. Instead of seeing a stream of general adverts, your set top box will receive a batch of ads, each targeted to individual consumers. Consumers will select the types of ads they do or don't want to see and be able to click through to more information if interested.A key player in 2001 is Sky. When exactly do they switch to the analogue signal? They've paused to take a breath now they have reached 5-6 million digital subscribers. But they have a half a million remaining analogue subscribers - do they abandon them? When the subsidising of free set-top boxes runs out there'll be even smaller incentives for viewers to convert to digital.Now the BBC and ITV have seen the colour of the governments white paper - it's more green than white - the next year will see them campaigning hard for concessions. We're not likely to see legislation until 2002-3. But does this mean we will see the regulatatory body Ofcom created ahead of the legislation? How long can they juggle these balls for? Fortunately the broadcasting industry is stable. But the for the regulators the situation is very uncertain.Ian Pearson  BT's Futureologist on   mobile phones in 2001A lot of companies are bringing out mobile devices in order to get their hands dirty before the full arrival of third generation &#91;3G&#93; phones in 2002. 3G is an "always on" technology, high bandwidth packet-based system which gives you similar functionality as WAP but you don't have to dial up and wait 30 seconds to connect to the internet. Companies will be bringing out devices with bigger screens.Clicking icons removes the need for people to be IT geeks and I think you'll see a raft of appliances that will bring high functionality at low cost with high ease of use.Phones could be used to "locate" a person. You could have a tracking provider that offers a service you could open to your friends. They could know where you are. If they had gone to the pub and wanted to know whether you were still in the country or had headed abroad for a weekend, they could access the database.Obviously   companies wouldn't let people access your info without your permission, but it would be under your control. The industry comes down very strongly on the side of civil liberties.This year we'll see the disappearance of the boundaries between hand-held devices and mobiles. With 3G or GPRS, your phone is permanently connected to the 'net, if you link it to your palm pilot, your diary could be constantly updated by a secretary in the office. Different systems all become integrated together which gives people flexibility. Position-based services, provided they're authorised, are possible. Passing shops could let you know of the availability of products or offers you've requested. GPRS will allow positional accuracy of within a few metres, more than enough for shop services of this type. There's no limit to the range of services people can invent for this.  For the customer it's just benefits, benefits, benefits.There will be enormous numbers of services coming out at ridiculously low prices to encourage people to use them. I think we'll see more and more adverts coming to phones, especially position-based adverts. There are simply loads of ways of recovering cash from the system, I think we'll even see many new ones being invented by people we haven't thought of during the year.Chris Le Tocq   Research Director-Desktop Software, User Productivity Gartner Research and Advisory Services on the future of computing in 20012001 is looking like an important year for Microsoft. We've seen the arrival of a new President and Attorney General. Will the degree of pressure be kept on Microsoft in the anti-trust legal proceedings? There is some risk that anti-trust lawyers might be told to hold off. Elsewhere, Microsoft are launching Windows 2000 for consumers. A new version of Office will come out. They're launching their web-based Microsoft.net subscription service. Will people go for a service that means you rent programmes per year and not buy them outright? In the long run this won't be cost effective for people. Microsoft are planning to rent it at 50% of the cost of outright buying. I think it should be more like 25%. But Microsoft are trying to get past the problem that people don't update their software as much as Microsoft would like.The hand held devices market is evolving very quickly. There are two types of devices: data first/voice recognition second - in other words PDAs - and phone first/data second. The phone devices have a real leg in the market. But these two should converge. The key players like Palm, Casio and Handspring must find ways to add functionality to their PDAs. There are signs these companies have big plans on the drawing board.Finally, we'll see the emergence of centralised information systems. Large webstores that mean wherever you switch on your device you'll have access to your personalised information.Gavin Robertson   CEO of Music Indie, the commercial wing of the Association Of Independent Musicians &#91;AIM&#93; on the future of Digital MusicI don't think there will be anything of the profile of Napster next year. New media is geared towards a consumption model - paying according to how you consume. The industry has been pushing ownership models, because that's what they understand through retail. The internet and new distribution mediums are pretty unsuitable to ownership models. What Napster did was point out the paradox of trying to force an ownership model onto a distribution medium that's ideally suited towards consumption pricing. To me, that's been truly pointed out. I don't think the industry will be caught off-guard to the same extent.You then have to work out what the value of music is to the consumer and how they're willing to pay for it, and in what way. Rather than assume the way they bought music is the way they're always going to buy it. I think subscription models are key. My only worry is that people won't research it properly and try and use models that don't work. There are very many ways of doing this.  People get excited about music on phones but they don't really understand how they're going to use it. It sounds like a good idea - but does the customer really want it? There's a lot of work going into technology research but not enough going into market research as to what the technology is serving.Businesses get really excited about ideas but forget to ask the consumer if they really want them. It doesn't matter what business-to-business there is, there's a consumer in the end.The next year will see an identification of what people want to listen to and how to serve it to them. I think internet radio has huge potential but I'm still not convinced it's the best use of the bandwidth. The problem with internet radio is the more people listen to it, the more expensive it gets for the company. It's not like radio where you have a flat cost, no matter how many people listen. It means you have to develop a revenue model that's focused far more directly on your audience.But at what point does internet radio become customised jukebox? Radio is more than just music: it's actually communicating with some peer community, that is giving you information, music and everything that is part of your community. To have something geared just to your own dispassionate personal listening is not necessarily what radio is about.I believe, even for the next year, that the internet is an exceptionally good way to find out what CDs you want to buy. It's the biggest problem this industry has: people buy far too many CDs they don't like and then complain they're too expensive. MP3s are a different market. It's the punk of our generation but I certainly believe we don't need the knee jerk reactions that have been happening. If people say, 'I'm going to down load an MP3 and not buy a CD', it is a persuasive argument. But it's not seen any marketing to back it up.Someone on a think tank said to me 'anyone who stands up and says how much they're doing in the internet is as well imagining themselves, in years to come, standing up and proclaiming with great pride that their company uses electricity.' You have to be there with the internet and you should be embarrassed if you're not there - not proud if you are. That's a psychological shift that will go on next year as well. It becomes something you're not doing rather than something you are. As soon as it moves into the main consciousness, the whole relationship and the way the internet develops changes as well. We're at that edge now.Eva Pascoe  Joint managing director of Zoom.co.uk on e-commerce in 2001One tricky area this year will be the integration of e-commerce into government, so you will be able to pay your parking tickets online. Do I get a lot of parking tickets? Oh man, don't even go there!I think the second area is the integration of telephone payments online and upping your credit limit for pay-as-you-go online. Perhaps all the networks were too busy flogging phones to be thinking about elegant customer service which is truly multi-channel. But I can sense it happening - with Chris Smith and Vodafone Interactive - Chris is a smart guy.The third one is utilities, I still can't pay most of my bills online. If you look at British Gas, London Electricity and a number of water people - perhaps Thames Water - they're all looking seriously at it. It'll be market channel payment systems - so you can pay by phone or online. In terms of ease of life, these three are pretty fundamental. We think about e-commerce in terms of the nice things in life. But if you think how much time you spend on hygiene - we could give the average consumer a day a month back - by saving them from queuing in various places. I think this is more important than the nice things online because the nice things will happen anyway.I expect a lot of people to go back to online advertising and emailing this year. With advertising going offline, a lot of agencies made a lot of money but it was completely pointless. If you look at your customers, offline, you're never looking at more than a quarter of them. It's a ridiculously expensive way of building and maintaining the brand. If your customers are online then talk to them online. Online ads will be popular as long as their impact is measurable.Erol Ziya  Spokesman for Campaign for Unmetered Telecommunication &#91;CUTs&#93; on telecommunications in 2001.The Campaign for Unmetered Telecommunications &#91;CUTs&#93; are looking for a stable dial-up market to emerge based on Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination &#91;FRIACO&#93; and FRIACO-single tandem. That is a determination by Oftel which forces BT to sell access to the local loop at a flat rate. This allows ISPs to offer sustainable unmetered products. Unlike the first round of unmetered access, the industry is starting to develop retail products based on those wholesale products, the first being AOL's.Finally we will be able to get down to the business of sorting the good ISPs from the bad. Once you've got a level, wholesale environment where the right products can be offered I think -naturally - the good ISPs will float to the top and the bad ones will sink.The next year should be a much more healthy year for unmetered dial up access. That said, there is going to be great problems with 'local loop unbundling &#91;LLU&#93;' - allowing other operators into exchanges. The availability of broadband, that's the next battle front. There are no options at the moment; you can only buy BT's Ignite. Supposedly, LLU will solve this by allowing a whole range of people to put equipment in the exchanges. But that is going to be a much more tortuous and slower process than people imagine. I don't think you are going to see a proper range of broadband products within a year from now - maybe even longer. Again, BT is the key player in this and one of the key elements is whether they go ahead with this plan of spinning of the network from the retail services: the Netco idea. That could have a serious impact on the speed of roll out of broadband. There's unlikely to be Altavista-style problems because they should be solved by Friaco. People are a lot more cautious now.A lot of fingers got burnt by trying to deliver unmetered narrowband.  I think this is going to be a very interesting area over the next year. Ultimately, it is inevitable that some break up of BT will happen, but the real question is to what degree it's done on BT's terms. Within the ISPs we see the move to focussing on getting some input. At the moment, BT is fairly confident that it can decide the terms on which it could spin off Netco. But again, I think there's a bigger picture there. I think it goes beyond the specific needs of BT's requirements. We may see calls for government and regulatory interference in the process as to how BT splits off the various divisions.James Stevens  co-founder http://Consume.net&#91;Interview by Sean Dodson&#93;The gross commercialisation of the internet has been followed by the inevitable collapse in confidence. It gives us the moment to take stock of our position and consider some options.The Consume initiative is presenting a strategy for user constructed networking. One that short circuits corporate media hegemony and flips the lid on monopolisation of national networks. A growing range of inexpensive wireless products looks set to further dissolve control over telecommunications in particular data network structure and quality of access. Thinking local and acting aware, asserting rights and sharing information, principals that underpin the open source software network, are crossing back over into community and will proliferate.I feel optimistic for the coming year, with the farce of the millennium behind us and corporate slime under closer watch (never close enough), let those with the will and the wit take the initiative to debunk corporatisation and assert the duty of care. The lead for this effort has been taken by the various Indy Media centres around the world (http://www.indymedia.org), with ongoing work of grass roots organisations likeUndercurrentsand legal analystsEcotort. I would also like to mention the work ofwww.lowtech.orgwhose work unlocks the potential of redundant technology and raises issues of pollution in computer manufacture and disposal.The net is rich with the evidence of creative and conscious comment, free from commercial pressure and ready to tangle with the forces of exploitation.
Intel launched its portable audio player yesterday, marking a strategic departure for the world's largest semiconductor manufacturer. Pocket Concert is expected to be the first of several consumer products from the company.Craig Barrett, Intel's chief executive, is due to demonstrate two more gadgets this week at his first keynote address at a consumer electronics trade show in Las Vegas.Several Wall Street analysts yesterday welcomed the strategy as a way of mitigating the impact of a slowing personal computer market. Shares in Intel rose 3%, or almost $1, yesterday morning.The shares have more than halved in the last three months as a series of profits warnings focused attention on weakening demand for personal computers around the world.Gartner Dataquest is among   several research groups to have lowered its revenues estimates for the semiconductor sector this year from 27% to the low 20s.Other evidence of slowing demand came when Dell and Compaq, computer manufacturers which account for about a quarter of Intel's sales, issued profits warnings towards the end of last year.Intel faces an uphill battle in the highly competitive market for portable devices in the US. In launching Pocket Concert, Don Whiteside, general manager of the company's connected products division, said the use of Intel technology in portable music devices would "provide consumers with a trusted brand option and an   enhanced audio experience". The company also hopes to increase the use of personal computers through the adoption of more portable devices which need material to be downloaded to them.Last year, Intel increased its advertising to raise awareness of its brand using its "Intel Inside" slogan. The push into the consumer electronics market, which is expected to include an instant messaging and email device and a wireless mini-laptop, is an attempt to capitalise on this increased consumer awareness.The new products, expected to be launched this year, have been called a ChatPad and WebTablet.The Pocket Concert, which has 128 megabytes of memory, will provide up to four hours of music and more than 20 hours of spoken-word audio. It will also have an FM radio. With an accessory kit, the device is expected to cost $349.99 (about &#163;240).
Two men have been jailed for their part in an email scam that threatened the systems of major internet providers, US authorities said yesterday.Steve Shklovskiy and Yan Shtok, both 23, devised a way to use personal computers to harvest email addresses in September 1999.They then sent over 50 million emails asking recipients for a $35 (23) "processing fee", in exchange for a chance to work at home stuffing envelopes. More than 12,000 people were fooled.Major internet providers - includingAOLandAT&amp;T- were besieged by customer complaints and their systems were threatened by the overload.The two men were sentenced to two years in jail on 27 December - just over a year after they pleaded guilty to fraud charges. Two others were sentenced to probation in July.Shklovskiy and Shtok were also ordered to pay more than $100,000 (67,000) in "restitution" - and, under the terms of their plea agreements, required to reveal to the internet providers how the scheme was accomplished.Useful linksInternet Fraud WatchCoalition Against Unsolicited Commercial EmailRelated storiesSeptember 1 2000: Student held over internet hoaxMay 14 2000: How not to fall victim to internet fraud
Yahoo! is to stop carrying online auctions of Nazi artifacts and other hate-related materials.The new restrictions, which take effect a week from Wednesday, follow November's court ruling from France requiring Yahoo! to block such items from French users.Although Yahoo! has insisted it cannot limit access to certain geographic regions, as the French court ordered, Yahoo! may effectively comply by blocking the items from everyone.The new guidelines will also apply to the site's classified listings and its e-commerce partners. Yahoo! search directories, chat rooms and other areas are not affected.The senior auction producer at Yahoo!, Brian Fitzgerald, said the court order played no role in the new policy, other than to raise awareness internally and speed the decision."We decided we don't necessarily want to profit from items that promote hatred or glorify hatred and violence," Fitzgerald said.He said that while some users support the trade of such items on free speech grounds, the majority of comments received by Yahoo! were in opposition.When the new policy takes effect, Yahoo! will also begin screening items before they are listed. Computer software will reject any item that appears to violate the site's policies. Users will be able to appeal rejections to a human being.Auction sites have typically rejected items only after they are posted.Beginning next Wednesday, Yahoo! will also charge sellers to list an item - although it will not collect a commission on sales. Other auction sites, including eBay and Amazon, already charge for both.The newly banned items at Yahoo! include medals, weapons, uniforms, official documents and other items that carry swastikas or other symbols associated with hate groups. They join a banned list that now includes cigarettes, live animals and used underwear.The leading online auction site, eBay, bans hate materials only in Germany, France, Austria and Italy - countries where such items are illegal. Sellers may not ship such items there, and buyers from those countries may not bid on them.In April, two French groups sued Yahoo! under its old policies, accusing the US company of violating French law barring the display or sale of racist material.A French judge ruled in November that Yahoo! must prevent French users from auctions of such items, or face $13,000 a day in fines. On December 21, the company asked a US court to block the order, saying France doesn't have jurisdiction.Useful links:Yahoo! auctionseBayAmazon UK auctionsRelated stories:November 24: Internet giving hate groups new lease of life, watchdog saysNovember 20: Landmark ruling against Yahoo! in auction caseThe issue explained: regulating the net
Online retailerLetsbuyit.comwas staring into the abyss last night as crisis talks aimed at securing the company's long term future failed to arrive at any positive conclusion.Executives from the UK based, Dutch-registered firm were locked in discussions with officials appointed by an Amsterdam court to see if additional funding could be found or whether the business   should be wound up. Shares in Letsbuyit slumped almost 70% when they resumed trading yesterday after being suspended at the end of last week, and analysts warned that it was unlikely a buyer would come forward."I'd be very surprised if they find &#91;a buyer&#93;," said Heidi Fitzpatrick, an internet analyst at Lehman Brothers."You just have to look at the financials to see that it's a pretty hopeless case."The company, which allows consumers to pool their buying power to purchase cheaper electrical goods, is reported to have just &euro;18m (&#163;11.4m) in cash left and needs about &euro;80m to survive.Marketing spend, staff costs and the expense of fulfiling orders are so great that the business model has become unviable, Ms Fitzpatrick added.A spokesman for the company - best known for its television advertisements showing ants explaining the virtue of strength in numbers - insisted there are parties interested in providing funds but admitted that no quick deal is likely.Traditional retailers seeking to boost their online presence such as German supermarket chain Metro and Argos owner Great Universal Stores have been touted as potential white knights.Last week Letsbuyit.com applied for and won protection   from creditors chasing debt repayments. It also said it would stop taking new orders.Letsbuyit's financial history has been dogged by difficulties despite strong early growth and an innovative business model that won praise from many early converts.It floated on Frankfurt's Neuer Markt at the third attempt in July, raising half the amount of cash it had been hoping for. The shares were eventually placed at &euro;3.50   each and immediately surged to a high of &euro;6.45.Offices have been opened in 14 countries and a user base of 1.1m people built.According to the company's website, some 447,421 prod ucts have been delivered to clients throughout Europe.The shares have fallen steadily since the summer as tech stocks and consumer focused e-commerce firms in particular have lost favour. In August, the company said it would cut 20% of its workforce of 400.Last night, after falling by as much as 70% during the day, the shares closed at 50c.Sales in 2000 are thought to have been around &euro;40m, and   breakeven was forecast for the end of next year.Doubts over long term funding have become a common cause of concern among online retailers after the collapse of high profile firms such asBoo.comandClickmango.ParadoxicallyLastminute.com, the British e-tailer that has of late attracted some of the most negative publicity, is one of very few companies with enough cash in the bank to see it through to profitability.
Fashionmall.com, an American fashion portal which bought the bankruptBoo.comlast year, has started the year in vogue as a takeover target.The New York company said yesterday it was seeking more information about a takeover offer made at the end of last week by GenesisIntermedia, a consumer products marketing group.The offer came just a day after a much lower bid from Narax, a mergers and acquisitions boutique, was promptly dismissed by its target.Anne-Marie Forehand, vice-president of Fashionmall, said the company would consider the GenesisIntermedia offer once more was known about it. The company has promised to announce its official response within 10 days of the bid being officially launched.The GenesisIntermedia offer values Fashionmall at about $7 a share, or $52m (&#163;34.6m) for the entire company. The bid was made in a letter to Ben Narasin, chief executive and largest shareholder in Fashionmail. At the same time Genesis announced it had bought 7%of its target on the open market.Fashionmall hit the headlines in October when it bought failed Boo.com after the sports e-tailer had gobbled &#163;80m of investors' cash.The US fashion portal paid &#163;250,000 for Boo's brand, logo right to use its domain name after the e-tailer went into receivership and gave Kate Buggeln the job of reviving the site.In a statement Fashionmall.com said it was "not seeking to sell itself" but would consider the bid.Shares in the company, a marketing portal for clothing retailers such as Banana Republic and Talbots, fell by a third yesterday to below $3 amid disappointment about the delay as well as profit taking after a sharp increase in the shares last week.Narax, which is based in Beverly Hills, made an unsolicited offer last Thursday which valued the fashion site at $3.50 in cash, or about $26m. That bid represented a 40% premium to Fashionmall's shares on Wednesday but a significant discount to the record high of $8.75 reached in November 1999.Fashionmall, which boasts some $35m of cash in hand, dismissed the Narax bid, going so far as to suggest that the financing for such a deal was not in place.Mr Narasin, a fashion designer who founded the company six years ago, said he had twice tried to contact the head of Narax, Michael Savage, with little success. "It was strange," he told the New York Times. "You'd think they'd want to communicate with me if they wanted to do a deal."The unsolicited bid was immediately followed by the rival share and cash offer from Genesis, which operates the Centerlinq shopping mall information network. Its machines allow shoppers to enroll in rewards programmes and access online services.In its statement Los Angeles-based Genesis stressed potential synergies between its services and those of Fashionmall. Centerlinq claims to reach 35m consumers a month.
A long time ago, God created Eve. Now the French have made their own version. The new Eve likes cats, Gandhi and the footballer Zinedine Zidane. She is 162cm (5ft 4in) tall and wants to be a film star. The only problem is, she isn't real.Eve Solal is being touted in France as the most realistic virtual star yet, capable of expressing human emotions and charming those who see her.Her makers, Attitude Studio of Paris, claim she has a much more expressive face and mobile body than predecessors such as the virtual newsreader Ananova or Lara Croft, star of   the video game Tomb Raider.Since Christmas, Eve has had her own website but she will be officially launched in France next month with great media hoopla, including radio interviews, a five-page women's magazine feature and internet appearances."Soon Eve will appear in a feature film or take on the role of a presenter on an internet site or television," said Marc Viance, 24, head of Attitude Studio.Her (real) agent, Jacques Olivier Broner of the Rouge agency in Paris, is looking for work in films, TV or video games for his client.But Attitude Studio bosses do not want their creation to appear in a fully computer-animated film like Toy Story; rather, they want her to star opposite flesh-and-blood human actors.But why is Eve better than her predecessors? "Ananova only exists on the internet, she's cut off at the shoulders   and she has only two expressions," Mr Viance said. "And as for Lara Croft, she only appears in action situations, and she does not have much in the way of facial expressions."Attitude Studio has used "motion capture" technology to make Eve. Cameras film the movements of an actor from different angles and these are mapped on to the virtual star using sophisticated software.The couturier Thierry   Mugler used similar technology to create a virtual mannequin to show off his spring collection last year.To make Eve's facial expressions convincingly human, a software package called Emotion Mapper was used, which involves filtering video images of each muscle movement of a real face through computer programmes and then grafting them on to Eve's face.Emotion Mapper is particularly easy to use when an actor is replaced in certain scenes by a virtual stunt double.In the film The Matrix, for example, several scenes used a virtual Keanu Reeves constructed with Emotion Mapper and"motion capture" technology. Eve Solal goes one step further in that she is based not on one single human prototype, but on several.Eve costs 2,000F (&#163;190) a minute to produce, which gives her a competitive edge over many real movie stars.She is the latest virtual nubile female star created by men. The first such icon, Kyoto Date, 16, was launched in Japan in 1996. Able to sing and dance, this creation briefly captivated young Japanese   people and her single, Love Communication, reached the top of the Japanese charts.Like Kyoto Date, Eve has a biography and a list of likes and dislikes. She was born on May 3 1978 just outside Paris. She weighs 48kg (7st 7lb). Her father, is a doctor and her mother is a housewife.She exchanged her first kisses with Damien, her first love was Frederic and she has had sexual experiences, but no further details are provided.She lives in the fashionable Parisian clubbing street of Rue de Lappe and works as a waitress. Her favourite film is LA Confidential and she likes ginger.At present, the only way of getting in touch with Eve is by calling her on her mobile phone. "Hi," the caller is told. "This is Eve's answering machine. Leave me a message and I'll get back to you."After leaving several messages, however, I am still waiting for a call.Useful linksEve Solal websiteNews service with virtual newscaster Ananova
Rocketing numbers of political campaigners are embracing the internet with the fervour their parents showed for sit-ins as they try to claw back its independence and make online actions a standard part of modern protests.Computer activists - "hacktivists", as they have become known - are squaring up to governments and corporations who want to restrict their activities. They are not opposed to business, but their immediate political aims, which range from improvements in working conditions to political independence, are fuelled by anger at the commercial dominance of cyberspace. Their tactics range from sending straightforward emails of complaint to crashing websites or diverting visitors to different sites. Some have overwhelmed servers with email "bombs" of thousands of protest messages or launched computer viruses and worms.In the US election both Republican and Democratic sites were defaced with anti-Bush and anti-Gore sentiments, while the Middle East conflict has been fought almost as heatedly online as in the real world. Palestinian and Israeli computer users have defaced websites, set up spoof sites as propaganda and even stolen the credit card details of their enemies.IngeniousBut so far hacktivism has been dominated by social justice and leftwing issues, with the far right using the internet only to organise and recruit. In one case campaigners diverted visitors seeking the Ku Klux Klan site to hatewatch.org instead; public reaction is likely to be very different when someone tries to do the opposite.That day may come sooner rather than later, as new programs make it easy for activists with little computer knowledge to enter systems or crash a website. These newcomers have joined the original hackers: highly skilled and ingenious programmers who share a distaste for authority and belief in freedom of information. Some are malicious; most see their hobby as a technical challenge; and increasingly, many are investigating its political possibilities."People don't like the way the internet is increasingly commercialised," says Paul Taylor, a sociologist at Salford University who has written a book on hackers and is currently researching hacktivism. "Comparisons are made with the land enclosure acts - who owns common land? There are a lot of insidious ways in which corporate power has increased and is pervading the whole social fabric. It's happened within the structure of the internet; big corporations have got an advantage over governments and their values are getting incorporated into government policies."Underlying tensions are coming to a head with the advent of new legislation and information-gathering techniques. In Britain, the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act has given the police and security services the power to collect internet data without a warrant and to demand the keys to encrypted material. In the United States, the FBI is seeking the right to capture all messages sent across the internet with software called Carnivore. This would allow them to trawl for emails containing particular words.In both cases, the authorities insist that the measures are essential to combat international crime and terrorism. But others worry that they will be used to monitor and discourage legitimate political activity and will ultimately ensure that only "acceptable" voices are heard on the net. Hacktivists fear that politicians, often lacking technical expertise, will be easily swayed by business."The prime minister of this country, by his own admission, gets most of his information on the internet from his kids," says Paul Mobbs, co-founder of the UK-based Electrohippies. "Politicians don't know the first thing about it."He fears that individuals may be driven off the net because they have no rights to access. They are dependent on internet service providers who, for commercial reasons, are likely to refuse to host material that is controversial or which could attract expensive legal action and who could block users requesting certain sites."E-commerce has driven the internet over the past few years. Anyone who's not part of that is not supposed to be   there," Mr Mobbs complains. He acknowledges the damage that some hacktivists have caused and accepts the need for policing. But he also says security forces and businesses are scaremongering and believes that the RIP Act and Terrorism Act are a dangerous combination."These new laws, rather than enabling free use of the internet by all, are seeking to blur the distinction between public protest, crime and terrorism in order to provide a 'safe environment' for corporations to do their deals," he says. "The British government is seeking to define a 'virtual corporate free state' where corporations can do business free from public pressure."What delights the protesters - but worries their opponents - is that the internet acts as a magnifying glass for discontent. Individuals using computers can wield   power they could never command on the street: it takes dozens, maybe hundreds, to occupy a building and unveil a banner but only one to hack into a computer system and take over a website. One person can bring down an e-commerce site, disrupting or halting a firm's trading.Oxblood Ruffin, of the respected hacker group Cult of the Dead Cow, suggests that the versatility and technical knowhow of protesters offers them a chance to redress imbalances of power in the real world: "Hacktivism allows us to mount better arguments, rally unseen allies, and take on any tyranny," writes Ruffin, who is based in Toronto. "It shrinks any Goliath down to his true size. Usually puny."Where a large physical mass is the currency of protest on the street, or at the ballot box, it is an irrelevance on the internet. Or more correctly, it is not always necessary ... To think that it takes a lot of people to execute an act of civil disobedience on the internet is naive. Programs make a difference, not people."For that reason, detractors argue that hacktivists are a classic example of power without responsibility. But unlike the original hackers many are happy to discuss their actions openly: Mr Mobbs publishes his address and phone number on the web. The Electrohippies informed the World Trade Organisation before launching an attack on its website in November 1999, and ensured that their own site linked to sites supportive as well as critical of the organisation.They debate their tactics with passion and sophistication, citing Aristotle, Thoreau and Lord Acton. Many, like the Electrohippies, refuse to access other people's computer systems and regard denial of service attacks as a last resort. Oxblood Ruffin goes further and insists they are unforgiveable: "Denial of service attacks are a violation of the freedoms of expression and assembly," he insists. "You do not make a better point in a public forum by shouting down your opponent. Say something more intelligent or observe your opponents' technology and leverage your assets against them in creative and legal ways."It seems inevitable that many of the protesters' tactics will be outlawed. Dr Taylor agrees that some measures may be needed, but suggests that we have overreacted, encouraged by security specialists who have a clear commercial interest in playing up the threat to worried businesses and who may mislead the public with their real world analogies.One firm described the Electrohippies as "terrorists" for their WTO action. Yet the Electrohippies refuse to intrude into computer systems. "I think we have really twisted values," says Dr Taylor. "In the Kosovan war the Pentagon was scared of using cyber warfare in case it was a war crime - but they bombed civilians. It seems to me that it's quite skewed values by which 1,500 lives are less relevant than the legal elements of cyber war. People talk about the Tamils sending email bombs to the Sri Lankan government, but surely that's better than real ones."He predicts that a "cat and mouse" game will ensue as talented hackers find new ways to protest every time governments ban an old tactic. Oxblood Ruffin, one of the most technically advanced of the hacktivists, is currently working on a complex program that could mark the next significant stage in online activism: it focuses on giving people a tool rather than criticising or disabling opponents.Project X, which should be completed by next summer, will enable users around the world to access websites normally blocked by their governments - such as human rights sites - without attracting attention. Ruffin, who has recruited leading underground programmers to assist him, believes it could jump-start a new movement of politically aware hackers."We are trying to keep the internet healthy. The hacking community has been online the longest, outside the military and academia, and we have something to say about how the internet develops."Weapons of online warfareDenial of service attackOne of the most popular methods of attacking websites. Users run a program that makes thousands of requests for a site simultaneously, slowing the speed at which the server fetches pages or in some cases crashing the server totally so that the target site - and others hosted there - cannot be accessedMail bombingInundating an email address with thousands of messages, again slowing or even crashing the server. It inconveniences other server users and prevents the targets finding genuine messages in their inboxesDefacingChanging the information shown on another person's website. It involves hacking into the target's computer system and is therefore illegalHijackingRedirecting anyone trying to visit a certain site elsewhere. Again, it is illegal because it involves accessing the target's computer system without their permissionUseful linksCult of the Dead Cow homepageThe electrohippie collective websiteElectronic Disturbance TheatreHacktivism discussion listAntionline(monitors hacker activity)Internet security firm
This would be nobody's idea of a golden age for the hatchback. Where once Golfs proudly roamed the land looking very young and pleased with themselves, the fun now seems to be elsewhere and the Golf has come to seem, certainly in its new form, a little clumpy and outstripped, just one of the cluster of impersonal, interchangeable and deeply unexciting blobs which characterise the hatchback sector.Elsewhere, people who might once have gone for a hatchback are excitedly bombing about in newly affordable combat vehicles and miniature people carriers which, despite miniaturisation, still have enough room for the children in the back to watch movies, play five-a-side football and have friends over to stay. Meanwhile, all the poor old hatchback can do is hunker down and try to sound enthusiastic while saying: "Look, if you put the rear seats down, you can get four sacks of   garden rubbish inside me." Fashion can be cruel like that.Periodically, though, a hatchback noses its way to the front of this uneasy and quietly lowing herd and makes a claim to be thought dynamic. The Ford Focus was one example and the new Honda Civic is another. It is a stern corrective for anyone who still thinks anything made by Honda should, by rights, be a motorbike.It is less flashy than the Focus (which, for all its brilliance, does still smack slightly of a design seminar staffed by men with ponytails) and more appealing in many other respects. Things that tend now to feel like a drag about hatchbacks in general somehow appear to be pert virtues in the Civic.It seems modest rather than merely anodyne, crisply practical rather than merely boring. It is too much, perhaps, to expect it single-handedly to turn the tide against its heartily established, non-hatchback rivals. At the same time, you look at   the Civic and wonder anew what the fuss is, really, about MPVs and Jeep-alikes. And it has a cute bonnet too.It is unusually roomy, despite taking up little space on the road. Dr Who would be impressed. You can sit in the back without having your knees plugged into your ears; and you can get out of the back without assistance from other people and winches. The result of this emphasis is that there is less boot-space than you might get from other hatchbacks. But this simply means that Honda is placing the needs of humans above sacks of garden rubbish, which cannot be an entirely bad thing.Honda refers to the Civic's "walk-through interior", which, in the context, is ambitious. I would like to see someone try it. The point is, though, that movement around the car is entirely unhampered by lumps in the floor. It's the world's first open-plan hatchback.Even the gear stick is removed to the dashboard, in the manner of ancient Citro&euml;ns, making it altogether easier to climb on top of the passenger next to you, should you need to for any reason. I think we can safely say that, in the matter of space distribution, Honda has thought of everything here.The gear fob looks a little comical   up there on the dash; something like the control from a long since outmoted arcade video game. But, though it feels peculiar to be fiddling about regularly on the dashboard with something which isn't the controls for the radio, I grew to love it and particularly the short distance it affords between gears, which are, highly satisfyingly, just a click apart and which made the sensation of driving the car actually quite sporty.You can sling the car about a bit, too, without enduring muscular-skeletal damage. According to the Honda literature, "ride comfort has been improved by reducing the spring rates of the front and rear compliance bushings". I think we can all be grateful to them for that, even those of us who don't know our rear compliance bushing from our elbow.The problem with most hatchbacks   driven at speed is the noise. It is like perching inside an air-extraction unit; you emerge afterwards feeling deafened and stupid. Surely only someone with a relaxed attitude to the future of their hearing would wish to engage in an extended bout of high-speed overtaking in a hatchback.But even here Honda comes good. No one would suggest that the Civic offers whisper-quiet motoring in the manner of a Rolls-Royce, but at the same time it did, in motorway conditions, sound less like a hand-held vacuum cleaner than other cars of its shape and size.The Civic comes with the usual slew of toys which, until relatively recently, would only have appeared in heavyweight saloons but which now appear everywhere as a matter of course - electric windows, heated mirrors, air conditioning units, hot and cold-running CD players, etc. Extras are the new standards. Soon, in order to distinguish themselves from each other, cars will have to start giving away extraneous white goods: dishwashers, fridge-freezers and so forth.In addition, because this is its first month on sale, the Civic is currently available at challenging launch prices. But it is not the kind of car that needs toys and discounts to speak for it. It can stand on its own.The lowdownHonda Civic 1.4 SPrice:from &#163;11,991Top speed:108 mphAcceleration:0-62 in 12.1 secondsConsumption:44.1 mpg combinedAt the wheel:Charlie DimmockOn the stereo:Kiss FMEn route for:the dump
Those who would forget history are condemned to repeat it. Readers of the lurid accounts of the Great Internet Bubble of 2000 could be forgiven for thinking that this was a folly unique in human history, rather than just one of those periodic outbursts of irrational exuberance to which humans with more money than sense are prone.And as the bubble burst, irrational exuberance gave way to an equally irrational pessimism, and a conviction in some quarters that the whole technology thing was really just a passing fad, with the result that even serious, well-managed companies such as Cisco, Microsoft and Sun have seen their stock market valuations plummet.The strange thing is that we have been here before; with radio in the Twenties. Even the ubiquitous acronym www, nowadays an obligatory part of every beer commercial and billboard hoarding, has been around a long time. It was an integral part of the corporate logo of RCA, the Radio Corporation of America, from 1920 to 1927, though the letters then stood for 'World Wide Wireless' rather than World Wide Web.When radio emerged from military control after the First World War, nobody really knew what to do with the technology. It was initially perceived as a point-to-point   medium and thus a competitor to the (wired) telegraph. It took quite a time before people figured out that it was best employed as a broadcast (few-to-many) medium.This led to a scramble to (a) build receivers and (b) transmit content which would persuade people to purchase them. But for a time, the only people who made money from radio were the manufacturers of receivers. Nobody could work out how to make profits from broadcasting itself, and hundreds of companies went under in the search for a viable business model which could harness the potential of this radical new technology.In the end, of course, the problem was cracked: audio broadcasting became a profitable business which shaped the evolution of mass culture based on national advertising. But it took a long time and there were innumerable casualties on the way.Much the same is happening now with the internet. The business world reckons that the netis the Next Big Thing, but few have yet figured out a viable way of making serious money from it. Many of those who thought they had it sussed have already gone bust, or are in the process of doing so. According to the  Economist, 60 of the biggest internet firms have seen their share   price fall by 90 per cent from their March 2000 peaks, and hundreds more have fallen by more than half.Accordingly, the stock options customarily offered to dotcom employees in lieu of proper salaries are now rarely worth the paper they're printed on, bringing a totally new interpretation to the phrase 'negative equity'. And the original quick-exit route for dotcom investors - the stock market flotation or IPO, which converted stock holdings and options into real money - has effectively been closed off. Cancellations of forthcoming IPOs now exceed new listings. And the Nasdaq has gone through the floor.Does all this matter? No and yes.No, because the bankruptcy of half-baked fantasy firms does not constitute a definitive test of anything. Some of the most spectacular dotcom failures of 2000 were basket cases, managerially speaking, whose only measure of performance seemed to be their 'burn rate' - the speed with which they got through investors' money. Boo.com, an aspirant fashion etailer, consumed $185 million in 18 months and never even managed to get its site working properly.British visitors to San Francisco start-ups returned with awed tales of executive   prodigality. They told of one company which employed FedEx to move parcels from one floor of its building to another. Or of a senior manager in another firm who ordered Mont Blanc pens by the gross because he 'kept losing them'.Publicity surrounding the collapse of such preposterous enterprises has diverted attention from the radical economic and social changes being brought about by the net. So  yes,  all this stuff does matter. Even in the uncool area of online retailing, companies such as Amazon continue to change the commercial landscape. Ask any bricks-and-mortar bookseller. As Bill Davidow, a prominent US venture capitalist, remarked recently: 'There was a tulip business even after the tulip mania.'The internet is bringing far-reaching changes to our economy, in the form of new ways of doing business, greater productivity in important sectors, lower transaction costs as buyers and sellers come together without the intervention of middlemen, new exchanges in which everything from electricity to   broadband capacity can be traded efficiently, and increased consumer the power to resist price rises.These developments represent permanent changes to the economic landscape. And the indifferent commercial performance of early Business-to-Business (B2B) exchanges will not reduce the determination of global firms such as Ford, General Motors, Boeing and General Electric to conduct most of their supply-chain transactions online. Why? Because it costs them about $65 to process a paper-based order and less than $5 to do the same thing online - and to an accountant that's the nearest thing in life to a cast-iron argument.So whatever happens to dotcoms, the commercial world will increasingly adopt the net, and anyone who wants to do business with large firms will have to adopt it too. Andy Grove's prediction that 'companies that are not internet companies by 2005 will not be companies at all' is beginning to look like an understatement.Meanwhile, the underlying technology continues to develop and mutate in unexpected and sometimes subversive ways. A little over two years ago a teenager named Shawn Fanning wrote a program for swapping music files over the net. He then founded a company called Napster to provide a central database enabling subscribers to locate MP3 files on other people's machines, and download from those machines if desired. What he created, in effect, was a system which turned computers used by Napster subscribers into mini-servers, doling out MP3 files on request, using what has become known as 'peer to peer' (P2P) networking.In less than 18 months, Napster attracted 38 million members, which made it one of the fastest-growing enterprises in history. And all on the back of a small program hacked out in a teenager's attic.The record companies eventually sued Napster for copyright infringement in a case which has attracted huge amounts of media attention but is, as yet, undecided. From a long-term perspective, however, the fate of Napster is unimportant: in the end it's just another dotcom. What matters is that it has   spawned an internet technology - P2P networking - which is potentially as revolutionary as the web.We are rapidly moving to an era when millions of people will have broadband connections to the net via fixed and wireless links. If even a fraction of these newly wired users allow their machines to become P2P hosts, which means acting as servers for particular purposes, none of which need have anything to do with pirated music, the collective power of the net will be enormously amplified, with consequences that we can barely imagine.P2P technologies could unravel the elaborate structure of search engines and portals which dominate today's web, and turn it into a system where resources are much more dispersed and distributed. Ten years ago, Tim Berners-Lee invented the web and turned the world upside down. A decade from now, we may be looking back at the emergence of P2P and saying much the same. In the circumstances, the collapse of Boo.com &amp; Co. seems a price worth paying.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
'Diseases desperate grown,' says Claudius in Hamlet, 'by desperate appliance are relieved, or not at all.' Enter BT, the bumbling telecoms giant now thrashing around in its death throes. As it enters its terminal phase, the company has discovered a new set of desperate appliances - Intellectual Property Rights.One sign of this is that BT has begun to do what it ought to have done a decade ago - spinning off start-up companies to exploit inventions made in its Martlesham research labs over the course of the last 20 years. But in their eagerness to prove that they have finally entered the twentieth century, BT executives are apparently determined to make a laughing stock of their company by claiming that BT invented the hyperlink - the underlying technology of the web.At the heart of the matter is United States Patent 4,873,662, 'Information handling system and terminal apparatus therefor'. It was   granted to a BT employee, one Desmond J. Sargent of Felixstowe, on 15 August 1980, but was first filed in 1976. It stemmed from the Post Office's work on the Prestel system and states, in archetypal deathless prose, how 'Information for display at a terminal apparatus of a computer is stored in blocks the first part of which contains the information which is actually displayed at the terminal and the second part of which contains information relating to the display and which may be used to influence the display at the time or in response to a keyboard entry signal'. And so on and so forth until three coats of prime legal verbiage have been expended.Now spool forward two   decades - to 13 December 2000 when BT filed a suit in New York against Prodigy, a large US-based internet service provider, seeking 'appropriate reparations' for the firm's use of hyperlink technology. The case is an obvious attempt to obtain a legal precedent which can then be used to force other ISPs to cough up. It is the kind of stunt that would appeal to a group of brain-dead executives looking for a way of protecting their bonuses and stock options. But it is unlikely to wash with any judge who knows the first thing about the net.The fact is that hyperlinking was old hat long before BT existed. It is clearly described, for example, in Vannevar Bush's celebrated article  As We May Think, published in the  Atlantic Monthly in July 1945. The idea of what Bush called 'associative linking' was then taken up by Ted Nelson - the man who coined the term 'hypertext', in 1965 - and implemented by Douglas Engel bart in a document-handling system he built at Stanford Research Institute in the mid-1960s. In September 1968, at the Joint Fall Computer Conference in San Francisco, Engelbart gave a live demonstration of his system which by that stage included bit-mapped screens, resizeable windows, the use of a mouse - and dynamic hyperlinking between documents.Engelbart's demo made an indelible impression on all who saw it. It changed history because it influenced the people who staffed Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center and invented most of the computing technology we use today. A film was made of the demo, but prints of it have for years been more elusive than the Dead Sea Scrolls.Until now. Some genius at Stanford University has located a copy, digitised it, and is streaming it across the net. (See footnotes link for the URL.) It provides incontrovertible evidence of the 'prior art' which invalidates BT's preposterous claim.'What are these BT guys on?' inquired a Californian friend in an email recently.'Haven't a clue,' I replied, truthfully. Just like BT, in fact.John.Naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
A man was arrested today after he flew his paraglider on to the forecourt of Buckingham Palace.Armed police were waiting to swoop on Brett De La Mare, who was pursued by a police helicopter as he flew low over central London.Mr De La Mare, 36, is an Australian author seeking publicity in an attempt to land a publishing deal. He was taken to a central London police station and faces possible criminal charges for breaching air safety laws.He circled the palace before landing in the forecourt where the changing of the guard ceremony takes place. Mr De La Mare's flatmate Monica Kelly, a 22-year-old Australian public relations executive, said he had been flying the motorised paraglider in an effort to get publicity for his unpublished book Canine Dawn.He has been involved in similar stunts in the past and claims on his website, brettdelamare.com, to have recently flown around New York's World Trade Centre and Empire State building.Police sources said today's incident was apparently a publicity stunt.A palace spokesman said no members of the royal family were in the building at the time. Senior royals are currently at Sandringham, the Queen's Norfolk estate, where they are spending the Christmas and new year period.Today's incident is the second time a flying intruder has breached royal security. In 1994 naked American paraglider Jim Miller landed on the roof of the palace.     A Scotland Yard spokesman confirmed a 36-year-old man was arrested at 1.10pm today in the forecourt of Buckingham Palace today.A police helicopter had spotted the paraglider before it landed and had alerted officers on the ground. The helicopter had tailed the paraglider from Hampstead Heath, over Regent's Park, down Whitehall and the Mall before it landed.Bemused tourists watched as a police helicopter tried to warn the paraglider away. Eric Schmidt, 57, from Berlin, said: "I suddenly heard the helicopter and looked up and saw the man in a parachute. The helicopter was going towards him and he was being given a warning on a loudspeaker, but the man did not seem to take any notice. He landed running on his feet behind the gate and he was quickly whisked away by police."Related articlesGuardian challenges Act of SettlementNetNotes: the monarchy in linksUseful linksBrett De La Mare.comOfficial royal family websiteBuckingham Palace press releasesMovement Against the Monarchy
www.FaxYourMP.comIt came very late in the year, but 2000 finally got a website as classic as Google or UpMyStreet.com. It's the simplest of ideas - it provides an online form that will send a fax to your local MP in just a couple of clicks. But there maybe one snag. The MPs. Possibly overwhelmed by the response, early reports  suggest that few of them can find the time to reply.www.channel4.com/bigbrotherIn the future, historians might look back at the moment when Nasty Nick was evicted from the Big Brother house as the moment when the internet first superseded TV as the mass entertainment medium. Maybe. Groups of office workers logged on to the net on August 17 as news of Nasty Nick's eviction spread hours before the events were broadcast on television. Channel 4 might have pulled the plug for two crucial hours but come that evening's show everybody already knew exactly what was going on.www.amihotornot.comOn the other end of the spectrum we have Am I Hot or Not, the site which spawned a thousand imitators. Probably the most gratuitously useless website of the year in which users are invited to upload pictures of themselves (or sneakily upload pictures of their mates) to be given marks out of ten in terms of sexiness. Wonderfully addictive, spread largely by word of mouth and surely only asking for trouble.www.dumpthepumps.co.uk/Liberals, environmentalists and anyone hoping for some kind of rational transport policy might not like it, but this site offered the most tacit sign this year of how the internet could affect mainstream  politics. 1999 might have been the year of anti-capitalism, but 2000  showed  that counter-revolutionaries could take to the net with the same ease.www.indymedia.orgHowever, not to be outdone, the anti-capitalists launched one or two sites of their own in 2000. Most of them were "indy media centres" - news portals staffed by non-journalists. London got hers just in time for the May Day riots; Prague for the meeting of the WTO and even the Millennium Olympics had its own centre in Sydney.www.ifilm.comiFilm has come into its own this year. By giving filmmakers a free, global showcase for their work. Hollywood discovered some underground filmmakers, while many others simply flourished in the new-found medium of digital film. And some of the films are pretty good too. Just check out Bruce Branit and Jeremy Hunt's excellent short 405 which has already knocked up over two million hits and counting.http://dfn.org/The New Jersey-based Digital Freedom Network did much sterling work to ridicule the inadequacies in net filtering software. In September the site ran a contest encouraging surfers to take to test sites, chat rooms and bulletin boards to uncover the most ridiculous examples of "censorware failure". Users responded in droves reporting that they were kicked off bulletin boards when the censorware recognised the word "whore" in the phrase "who reported".www.hacksdmi.orgHack SDMI the name of the challenge put out by the US record industry to the global hacking community inviting them to hack into their commercial MP3 prototypes. The hackers responded in two ways. Half complained that they were not prepared to do the industry's dirty work for them (and besides the $10,000 prize money was not nearly enough). The other half just went and made mincemeat out of all five of the industry's prototypes overnight.www.tapster.comThis year also saw the welcome return of Spinal Tap and the website to promote the re-release of their film was one of the most inspired Napster parodies the year. It even offered to rip the band's own tracks off.www.fuckedcompany.comNot the only site to gleefully delight in the sound of  internet companies falling off the bandwagon, but undoubtedly the best.http://wap.ukdirectory.co.ukToo much hype, then the wap-lash and now news that users are taking to their Wap phones after all. Still many of them needed the web to find the sites they liked. This site categorised the best and told you how to build your own wap pages.
E-commerceAt the end of 1999, predicting the year ahead for companies involved in e-commerce was easy: explosion followed by implosion. It happened exactly as expected - a surge of new internet start-ups was followed first by a puncturing of some of the ludicrously high valuations put on the bubble.com companies then by the actual failure of some of the first-wave companies like Boo.com, Boxman and Clickmango. Meanwhile in the business-to-business (B2B) sector, accounting for 80% of all e-business, things purred along nicely, apparently immune from the forces that made it difficult if not impossible for any business-to-consumer start-up to make a profit.Next year will be more difficult to call because it will be a mixture of several forces all happening simultaneously. First, web start-ups will continue to go bust or be rescued by Old Economy players plugging the gaps in their own web strategies. Remember, 50% of all (conventional) small companies fail after their first four years. The casualty rate among dot.coms - often run by inexperienced managers - is bound to be as least as great.Second, there will be consolidation as stronger companies (like the providers of free internet access) gobble up their competitors in order to secure a big enough market share to be able to charge for what they are providing. There's still no such thing as a free lunch.Third, we may see the beginning of a fresh wave of start ups - armed with second-mover advantage - who, having learned from the mistakes of first movers, will try to build companies biologically linked to the web rather than glued on to it. It is very difficult to predict what they will be like - but some, like games companies, will use the new location-based wireless technologies so community games can be played.Meanwhile, the problems of the B2C sector will move to the B2B area where there is bound to be a shake-out among the burgeoning electronic market places each trying to undercut the other in the internet world where the consumer id king. There simply isn't room for all of them and rationalisation is bound to take place. Nor will mainstream B2B companies selling to other businesses be immune from the shakeout in all the other sectors. Nor will they be immune from the slowing down of the US economy, the source of so much world economic growth. And if the US slowdown turns into a serious recession then there will only be one bit of sensible advice. Run for cover.Victor KeeganComputersIt would be hard to claim nothing happened in a market where thousands of new PCs were introduced, but most new models were indistinguishable from the ones they replaced. There was progress. Over the year, a typical 699 multimedia PC - actually 875 including VAT - went from a 500MHz Intel Celeron to an 800MHz Pentium III. The standard hard drive also grew from 13GB to 20GB.There were some new options from the PC industry's building block suppliers, too. Microsoft published a new version of Windows, while Intel launched a new processor family. However, anyone running Windows Me (Millennium Edition) on a Pentium 4 would be hard pushed to spot the differences, except for processor speeds reaching 1.5GHz.In other respects, the Wintel duo had a tough year. Intel sometimes struggled to meet demand for chips, leaving its rival AMD to grab market share with cheaper, faster Athlon and Duron processors. Intel also admitted it might have made a mistake by insisting on high-priced Rambus memory chips for the Pentium 4, and it is now developing support for standard chips. Meanwhile, the long-promised 64-bit version of the Pentium, the Itanium, seemed to disappear into thin air.Microsoft suffered worse indignities as it was dragged through the mire by the US Justice Department, and its share price halved. Ironically, the fall in Microsoft's stock, which followed the guilty verdict, initiated a downturn in the whole tech market, wiping hundreds of billions of dollars off the value of IT shares, stock options and pension funds.Threatened with break up - the DoJ wants to replace one powerful monopoly with two powerful monopolies - Microsoft responded with .Net (dot net), a new strategy that involves redesigning all its products to integrate seamlessly over the internet.But Wintel's rivals failed to benefit, in spite of massive journalistic hype. The Linux version of Unix continued to do spectacularly well in the market for small, single-processor web servers but failed to make ground either against Windows on the desktop or Sun's Unix servers in the serious hosting business.Apple suffered from the failure of IBM's PowerPC processor to keep up with Intel and AMD in the megahertz race, and from the market failure of its new fan-free G4 Cube computer, launched in July. It also failed to ship Mac OS X, the long-awaited Unix-based replacement for its aged desktop operating system, and the beta test  version met with a somewhat mixed response.But Apple was not the only company suffering end-of-year blues. Profit warnings from Gateway, Compaq and other PC manufacturers suggest that, at best, the PC market has failed to grow as much as expected, and may have suffered a reverse. Since most leading PC suppliers were planning to grow faster than the market, the result could be a bloodbath in a channel stuffed with unwanted products.The superfast 999 PC that would have seemed astonishingly cheap a year ago may well cost a good deal less in another couple of months.Jack SchofieldHandheldsThe palmtop computer market had a great year, with Palm machines invading the mainstream market. But while Palm's audience was becoming less geeky, some of the geeks were moving on to better things.The rival with most appeal was the expandable Handspring Visor range, developed by the team behind the original Palm Pilot, rather than the disappointing Clie, which Sony launched in the US. The consolation was that both Handspring and Sony adopted the Palm OS operating system under licence, allaying fears that Palm would eventually be isolated and defeated, like Apple.Nonetheless, the summer also saw Microsoft's hardware partners making rapid increases in sales of handhelds, albeit from a very small base. After a miserable start in 1998, Windows CE for palmtops was reborn as the Pocket PC, with colourful products such as the Compaq iPaq, Hewlett-Packard Jornada 545 and Casio E-125 and EM-500 making the Palm IIIc look both underpowered and overpriced.In the UK at least, Psion continued to lead the way in developing handhelds with keyboards. The popular Revo, which looks like a spectacle case, was upgraded to the Revo Plus, and larger Series 7 machines were sold as notebook PC substitutes. However, the Psion Series 5 lost its distinction of having the best keyboard ever built into a pocketable computer: in September, Hewlett-Packard launched the CE-based Jornada 720 Handheld PC, which not only has a better keyboard, but a colour screen too.The year also saw the first glimmers of what could be a new boom as handheld computer technology converges with the high end of the mobile phone business. A Pocket PC or Handspring Visor can be converted into a usable mobile by plugging in a GSM expansion module, and in France, Sagem launched the WA3050: essentially a Pocket PC combined with a dual band GSM/GPRS phone.Microsoft also showed off a slim prototype codenamed Stinger, styled more like a conventional mobile phone. This is intended to compete against mobiles such as the Ericsson R380 smartphone based on Symbian's Epoc - the operating system originally developed by Psion for its handheld machines.Over the year, what was seen as a simple electronic Filofax somehow turned into a combination electronic book reader, MP3 player, games console, camera and GSM phone, to the point where someone loaded the whole Top Gun movie on to IBM's new 1 gigabyte plug-in hard drive (in handy CompactFlash format) and played it on a Pocket PC.Geek heaven? Maybe. But most mainstream buyers would probably settle for a slim monochrome Palm if it cost 99.99 or less - preferably 49.99 including VAT. The barrier to the widespread adoption of handhelds may now have less to do with specification than price.Jack SchofieldGetting onlineIn a year when the rush online has barely abated (around 10 million people in the UK logged on for the first time in 2000), it is ironic that the last 12 months have been marked by the greatest dissatisfaction and confusion about the ways to get online since the net was popularised in the mid 90s.Last year we predicted flat-rate internet access and the arrival of high-speed ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) links. Both would greatly change the way we use the net, making the online experience more enjoyable and offering a boost to e-commerce. Today most users are still waiting, and many who have tried to get either have had their fingers badly burnt.At the centre of the debacle is Britain's telephone monopoly, British Telecom. Perhaps we shouldn't have believed this year would bring much change, after the company's chairman Sir Iain Vallance likened net users to "over-exuberant children". Indeed, that was a theme they persisted with for most of the year, stalling over giving users ADSL and giving rivals access to 'their' exchanges, in order that they might provide what Britain's net community was crying out for.Although, through the summer months, it was possible to have sympathy with Vallance's view. The thought of giving access to the nation's telephone network to eager hopefuls like Breathe.net (the 'lifestyle ISP' which got rid of 500 'heavy' users in July, and called in the receivers in December) and AltaVista (which, in June, said it had 100,000 users, but admitted in August it actually had none) appeared to be the height of folly.But BT's consistent bungling through the year ensures they get most of the blame. Many of those users who have managed to prize ADSL from BT have been badly let down - their connections have failed to work, and support has been non-existant. Oftel, the telecoms regulator often accused of being in BT's pocket, has also finally launched an investigation into alleged anti-competitive moves by BT.Will 2001 bring any change? The "local loop" is finally unbundled next summer, which means BT's rivals will have to be allowed access to exchanges. That should mean more choice for consumers, and lower costs.But, after a year when Britain's internet access has been as unreliable as its trains, announcements of new services - from BT and its rivals - should be taken only with a hefty pinch of salt.Neil McintoshMobile phonesThe big disappointment of 2000 was the explosion that didn't happen. The ridiculously over-hyped Wap (wireless application protocol), phones offering mobile access to the internet, failed to catch the public's imagination. This was the fault of the media as well as the manufacturers and both were impaled on their own wish-fulfilment. Sure, there were one or two interesting applications - like share and football statistics dispatched to you more or less live - but nothing to induce punters to buy a phone primarily for its Wap facility.But mobile phones continued their explosive growth, as did text messages, 10 billion of which were sent world-wide in August (overtaking email in popularity).The telecommunications companies bid a staggering, and staggeringly unexpected, 22.5bn for radio spectrum licences for the so-called third generation (3G) mobile phones. These are planned to be broadband with a permanent "always-on" connection to the internet.Unfortunately, they did this before the Wap-lash had gathered steam and before disillusionment started about the capabilities of 3G phones. By the end of the year the banking supervisory authorities were becoming increasingly worried about the stretched balance sheets of the telcos as a result of over-stretching themselves during the bidding.Next year - in advance of 3G phones - we will see the marketing of mobiles with faster and more powerful access to the internet with services making more use of the mobile phone's ability to tell companies where in the country you are. Expectations have suddenly become very low key. This is a good thing. It means we may be surprised if things are better than our low expectations rather than being disappointed because they didn't reach our high expectations.Although the timetable for high speed, broadband phones with powerful internet capabilities has been pushed into the future interactive, let there be no doubt that the longer-term future for mobiles is still awesome. In a few years time practically everyone in the industrialised world will have a very powerful, interactive, video-streaming consumer product with them all the time. When the technology catches up with our dreams.Victor KeeganOnline entertainmentA year ago, Napster was unknown to most net users, and unheard of to the offline majority. But for those who had downloaded the program, which allows users to share MP3 music files across the net, the realisation was dawning that this was more than just another 'net gizmo'.
Napster pretended to be all about sharing new, copyright-free music, but the reality was that it was the biggest source of pirated music on the planet, with millions of copyright tracks only a download away. Word spread fast online, and today Napster sports over 38 million users, swapping tens of millions of tracks. It has, undoubtedly, been the net application of the year, and is a warning to those who still think the net's capacity to change whole industries is overhyped.Napster is now - finally - leading change among the music industry's biggest labels, working in the one business which had until now been largely resistant to the internet's revolutionary ways. The 'big five' started the year attempting to bottle the genie by suing Napster; by the end of the year they had realised they had better embrace it.In November Bertelsmann of Germany signed a deal with Napster to develop a new music-download system which will allow users to pay for what they pick, while 
Universal and Warner announced within days of each other that they were also looking at ways of delivering their music digitally.Net libertarians are, of course, furious, and insist big business will not be allowed to ruin the party. They reckon Napster clones will make sure music stays free on the net. The record companies could improve on Napster's weaknesses - the variable sound quality of many of its files, the unreliability of many connections and, of course, its illegality. New services which still allow users to "own" copies of tracks, but bring the costs of that ownership down, could appeal to the net's mainstream.That is something which, by contrast, appears to have been recognised much earlier by Britain's smaller independent labels. They have been busy for most of the year with their own digital music initiatives. In October they announced innovative arrangements to allow online music stations to legally play their music, and in November they unveiled a system to encourage the indy labels to sell online. They perhaps recognise they have far less to lose on the net than the majors with their hugely-paid stars, and a lot more to gain.Neil McintoshGamesThe Playstation 2 may have been the "must have" gadget this Christmas, but 2000 has been a transitional year for the games industry. The Sony Playstation and Nintendo 64 have neared the end of their lifespans, while the Sega Dreamcast has suffered as consumers waited for the Playstation 2.The real success story has been the Nintendo Game Boy, which sold over a million last year. And, despite the market earning 1.15billion (combined hard and software sales), it's been a mixed year for most games publishers, with Infogrames' aborted takeover of Eidos symptomatic of an consolidating industry.The biggest development of the last twelve months has been the Playstation 2. Sony launched the machine in November but many were as disappointed with the bureaucratic pre-ordering process as they were with the launch games. However, with 160,000 machines shipped to the UK, it was the largest console launch to date. Sony also chose 2000 to re-design their ageing Playstation. The PSOne, as it is now known, was shrunk to half its size as Sony geared the machine to a younger audience.If success was judged purely on quality of games then the Dreamcast would have been the console of 2000, with titles like Virtua Tennis and Shenmue winning critical acclaim. Unfortunately, delays in setting up its online network - combined with consumers waiting for PS2 - meant Sega's market share remained low and it faces an uncertain 2001.The increasingly Pokemon-reliant Nintendo has also had a mixed year, with sales of Game Boy hardware rocketing while the N64 has slumped. In August the company finally announced its new machines - the Gamecube and Game Boy Advance - due for release in 2001.The PC games market has remained relatively flat throughout the year, although titles like The Sims and Who Wants To Be A Millionaire sold well.Despite a growth in 2000, online gaming was still hamstrung by the same speed/cost problems that blight regular net access. However, the Dreamcast finally become the first console to offer multiplayer internet gaming with Quake 3 running very smoothly.With Microsoft's X-Box due out and the Playstation 2 becoming established, 2001 promises a real upturn in the industry. In comparison, 2000 was the calm before the gaming storm.Greg Howson
Amazonlooks like winning the race to become the UK's number one Christmas e-tailer.Despite recent gloom surrounding the dotcom sector, new research by analysts at market consultancy AC Nielsen shows that in the run-up to the festive period the Amazon.co.uk site saw a 40 per cent surge in visitors.In November the online bookseller became the first UK shopping site to break the  million-user mark, attracting 1.2 million visitors, up from 865,000 in October.RivalBol.comsaw its number of visitors rise dramatically from 134,000 to 219,000 over the same period. Electrical e-tailer Buy.com saw visitors to its site jump from 140,000 to more than 244,000. Overall, visitors to UK online shopping sites increased by 10 per cent between October and November.The last 12 months have seen a number of high-profile e-tail companies collapse. Fashion e-tailer Boo crashed after burning up 100 million, ClickMango, the online cosmetic outfit promoted by Joanna Lumley, followed soon after, while pan-European CD seller Boxman failed to find a buyer.David Day, director of analytical services at AC Niel-sen, said the new figures showed that some e-tailers could have viable business models. 'This time last year there was a lot of hype around e-commerce that didn't live up to the promise. But these figures show that however the sector as a whole performs there will be some winners this Christmas.'He warned that the number of visitors to an e-tail site meant nothing if their visits failed to translate into sales. 'Amazon has had a tough year and will be delighted with its audience growth to date. But the key is whether the lookers translate into bookers.'However, the research will fire a warning shot across the bows of pure dotcom companies. Day said: 'We're seeing established names like Comet and Dixons coming through so strongly now. More and more, trusted brands are finding themselves among the biggest players in UK online retail and this trend certainly will continue .'
The year 2000, you will recall, was going to be the year when humanity was digitalised. The experts told us to invest all our hopes and dreams in the e-revolution. As experts tend to be, they could not have been proved more wrong.While those cutting-edge Americans wasted billions of dollars inoculating their computers against the millennium bug which never bit, the humanly shambolic Italians didn't do a thing and were in the money. Predictions of the perils of new technology did not come true, and neither did the forecasts that it would take over the world. Boom.com turned into Bust.com. Only a minuscule proportion of shopping this Christmas has been done on-line.As they always have, the high streets and department stores heave with herds of gift hunter-gatherers. Could it be that people actually enjoy each other's company? This season's hot toy is not a games console - it is Tracey Island, headquarters of the 30-year-old Thunderbirds family who, even in their remastered form, show their puppet strings attached. FAB. Many families will spend Boxing Day gathered around the old-fangled wireless and tune into the Home Service's day-long broadcast of Harry Potter, a charmingly timeless tale of boy heroes and wizardry.The Observer has never been a Luddite, technophobic newspaper. That doesn't prevent us celebrating the consternation of the ambitions of those who would chop us into atomised digital chunks, hard-wired to terminals and Wap phones, removed from fleshy contact with each other. Technology has an important place in most people's lives, but it is never going to be a substitute for having a life. Indeed, as we report today, new research suggests that one of the most reliable ways to extend your life is to spend this season in the company of friends and loved ones.We wish a merry Christmas to all The Observer 's readers. More than that, we wish you a warmly human Christmas, too.
Branded emailFurther to the article on branded email (Online, November 30) and letters in Feedback, how do I go about putting a logo and live hyperlink at the top of all my emails? Do I need to know HTML coding, or is there a Wizard of some form that will help me? I do not wish to force recipients to be online to see the logo: I want it sent with the email.David FardonDFardon@igroup.co.ukJack Schofield replies:Probably the simplest way is to create a letter with the embellishments you want and save it as stationery. In Outlook Express, do this using the File|Save as Stationery menu command.To create stationery, you must have elected to send HTML mail, which is email in web page format. To set this globally in Outlook Express, go to View|Options, choose the tab for Send, and click the radio button for HTML, which is under Mail Sending Format. However, you can also select this format for an individual email message by using its Format menu to select Rich Text (HTML).With HTML selected, you can use the Format|Apply Stationery menu item to load your own stationery, or one of the pre-written examples Microsoft supplies.With Microsoft Outlook - a different program from Outlook Express - go to Tools|Options, select the Mail Format tab, and set HTML mail. Then click the Stationery Picker button half way down the sheet, and click New to create your stationery.When creating stationery, you can import pictures and graphics such as company logos. It may be simplest to keep these in the stationery directory, which is usuallyC:\Program Files\Common Files\Microsoft Shared\ StationeryAny complete internet address (including the http://) that you type in will automatically be converted into a live link.Alternatively, you can create similar branded email in a word processor such as   Microsoft Word, using your logo and live links, then send the resulting doc file as an attachment. In Word, go to Tools|Options, select the General tab, and click Email Options (in the bottom right-hand corner) for the Personal Stationery settings.However, it is not necessarily a good idea to use branded email. Images and stationery greatly increase the size of the email you send, and you should make sure your messages are as small as possible. Clueless and stupid PRs often send me messages with multicoloured logos that add up to half a megabyte, and this has a very negative impact on my opinion of their company's competence.HTML email is also inconvenient for people whose mail software does not recognise HTML formatting. It should never be used when posting to Usenet newsgroups, writing to mailing lists, or writing to Online.Mail failsTwo months ago we had the KAK virus on our home PC and installed Norton AntiVirus. Since then we have been unable to receive incoming mail via Outlook Express. Mailing out is no problem. Can you advise?Margaret WeaverM.Weaver@derby.ac.ukJS:Norton AntiVirus interposes itself between your email software and your mailbox so as to check email for viruses. If it does not install correctly, this can disable either incoming or outgoing mail, and this seems to be a fairly common problem. Go toSymantec's online support serviceand read a document called How to configure Outlook Express 5.0 with Norton AntiVirus 2000. (It is Document ID: 1999120717064306 but unfortunately Symantec's system cannot find a document from its official ID.) Alternatively, you may findwww.io.com/~robertl/nav-help.htmluseful.Back offIn preparation for transferring material from my old computer, running Windows 95, to its replacement running Windows Me, I prepared a large number of backup discs using the MS Backup program in Windows 95. To my horror, Windows Me does not seem to support msbackup. How can I make use of the discs that I prepared?P T Sherwoodpsherwood@waitrose.comJS:Don't. MS Backup is designed for backing up a particular PC: it is not intended or recommended for transferring files or moving programs between PCs.There are lots of different ways to move files between two machines. If they are side by side, the easiest is to use a    cable to connect the two (preferably via their parallel printer ports) with Microsoft Direct Connection, which is part of Windows. A commercial alternative isLaplink, which is usually used with a Laplink serial cable. The latest version is called PCsync.Do not try to use DCC with a Laplink cable.An alternative is to transfer files using Iomega Zip disks that nominally hold 100MB or 250MB each or CD-R discs that hold more than 550MB. A standalone Zip, CD-R or other high-capacity drive can be plugged into the old PC via its parallel printer port or, better, USB port for copying, then plugged into the new PC to upload the files. However,   your old PC is unlikely to have a USB port and Windows 95 does not support USB.I use aMicroSolutions Backpack CD writer, which is excellent, but expensive unless you do this all the time.Word switchI have installed Microsoft Word 2000. Is there any way by which to transfer my files from MS Works to Word 2000? Sometimes Wordpad is transferred but not MS Works. Any ideas, please?Eric Powelle.e.powell@btinternet.comJS:Word comes with a file called Works432.cnv to load   files created with Works for Windows 4.0. It should be in C:\Program Files\Common Files\Microsoft Shared\ TextConv but if not, install it from your Word CD.A converter for Works 3 files (Works332.cnv) is available in The Microsoft Office Converter Pack on the web atwww.microsoft.com/office/ork/2000/appndx/toolbox.htmYou may have to load earlier files into Works and re-save them in a format that is easier to transfer between programs and between PCs. The best choices are RTF (Rich Text Format) and plain text.It is always a good idea to make RTF and/or text files to back up your work in case   your main program - Works, Word, or whatever - fails.
The Speaker, Michael Martin, yesterday told political parties to stamp out "dirty tricks" campaigns being waged between political rivals on the internet.Mr Martin expressed his "strong disapproval" of such tactics after an MP complained that he had been the victim of "cyber impersonation".Bob Russell, the Lib Dem MP for Colchester, told colleagues that a website had been set up in the name of Bob Russell MP "but I can assure you that is not I who has done so. Inquiries reveal the web page has been set up by a leading member of a political party - of which I am not a member - in my constituency".Rather than taking web users to Mr Russell's own website, a search forwww.bobrussellmp.co.ukallegedly led directly to the Conservative party's own website.The Speaker yesterday expressed his "strong disapproval", adding: "I do not expect officers or employees of political parties to seek to register on the internet names of members of other parties with a view to misleading members of the public."I expect all political parties represented in the house to take steps to ensure that no such activity is undertaken by them or on their behalf."Mr Martin's warning came after Mr Russell raised his complaint as a point of order.
Many of you are probably looking back on the year 2000 as a bad one for the internet. So how could the following optimistic appraisal of the internet's health at what seems like its nadir be anything but cynical gloating? Because, dear reader, and I mean this from the bottom of my solstice celebrating soul, happy days are here again.Here is my personal list of reasons to celebrate the seemingly disastrous events that characterised the (true) last year of the 20th Century.1The dot.com millionaires are returning our calls. I've watched with amazement (and, perhaps, a little envy) as many of my friends earned more money (on paper) over the course of three years than they thought they would in their entire lifetimes. But along with these young CEOs' bursting valuations came responsibilities and misgivings that made them a whole lot less fun to be with, if they were even available for socialising at anything other than an office party. Now, these same young executives have both lighter wallets and lighter hearts. They may be poorer, but they are happier and more fun to be with.2Ponzie has left town. The only internet investing story to get more airplay than the bull market of the late 1990s has been the deflation of the internet bubble in 2000. Everyone has learned that the association of a business with the internet cannot justify infinite earnings estimates. The internet is a communications infrastructure - not a mysterious fuel for making pyramid schemes any more rational than they ever were.3Talent wins. Think back to whenever programs like Photoshop, Director and Dreamweaver first came out. Many feared that real artists   would lose the ability to differentiate their skills from the many untalented people who could now throw together a clean graphic or website in a few minutes. Now that we are accustomed to the slick "professional" output of any decent computer, our attention has returned to the content within it, and those with real talent are rising to the surface once again.4The return of the amateur. On the other hand, now that the internet has passed through its professional "online magazine" phase as well as its e-commerce boom, attention has returned to making real tools that real people can use to communicate with one another. Apple's new push is towards consumer-grade video production. The most promising new web enterprises are exemplified by sites such as www. blogger.com , where users publish their own journals.5The return of the "people's internet". An increased focus on user-generated content has rekindled the internet's decentralised, bottom-up ethos. We are fast approaching a time when people will be less likely to get excited about something they've "found" online than something they've put there. This, in turn, will increase real people's sense of ownership over the interactive space.6Housing costs. The dangerously booming real estate markets in places such as New York and San Francisco are finally settling down. As dot.coms continue their lay-offs, and margin calls yank high flyers back to reality, people being priced out of their own neighborhoods can breathe a sigh of relief.7Good investments. There may never have been a better time for educated investors to get into the technology stock market. Panic selling has robbed many fine companies of their proper valuations, and kept many new ventures from finding the capital they deserve. It is once again a buyer's market.8Techno-fetishism is declining. It has been replaced by a genuine drive towards face-to-face encounters. Not carrying a Palm device or cell phone has become a status symbol, as people strive to demonstrate their freedom from digital slavery. As a result, social interactions will be interrupted less, and everyone will experience better digestion and romance.9Technology is cheaper. In their effort to reach new markets of home users, box-makers and service providers alike are developing even less expensive alternatives to the Wintel machines of the 90s.10A cleaner birdcage. You do not have to read the business section of the newspaper anymore.
eSpecially My BarneyHasbro/Playskool	&#163;49.99  Ages 2 and up Requires a multimedia PC, 16MB Ram, 10MB disk space and Internet Explorer 4 or Netscape Navigator 4All parents with small children know the deep and abiding horror of toys with sound chips - all those plastic ducks that quack a short techno-tune, over and over and over again, until you run screaming from the room, praying for the batteries to run out.Hasbro's eSpecially My Barney, the latest playroom incarnation of the big purple dinosaur of love, offers salvation of a sort, in that you can at least change and customise the songs he sings. To do this, you first need to hook your big cuddly Barney up to the printer port on your PC via the fetching pink cables provided. Then you have to download and install the eSpecially My Barney software. Then, at theMyBarney website, you select   the song, story or educational routine you fancy and add your child's name, favourite colour/animal/food etc.Once you're done, you download the file you've created to your Barney. Then you disconnect, your child comes along, pushes his tummy, listens to the song four or five times, gets bored and asks you to make Barney say something new. So you get back online and start praying for Barney's batteries to run out.OK, things aren't that bad. Though eSpecially My Barney is rather limited when set against other smart toys (such as Microsoft's pioneering Barney toy), its toddler target   market will be genuinely charmed by his ability to address them directly.Parents will also appreciate the fact that it is easy to set Barney up and that the MyBarney website does not try to con you into signing up for spam from the various companies behind Barney. You can also create several customised routines in one online session and download them to your PC in one go. You can then transfer them to Barney as and when you need. If there is a problem, it is that the customised songs, in which you change the words in a song or story to suit your child's preferences,   end up with the choppy rhythms and incongruent intonation of automated voice mail systems.So is it worth it? Well, it depends how much tolerance you have for the purple one's relentlessly sentimental songs. My three-year-old loved hearing Barney say his name, and he enjoyed the songs (though not the stories). However, he liked Barney just as much when I removed his batteries. In fact, one of eSpecially My Barney's real strengths is that, unlike many smart toys, he works rather well as a rather standard dumb old cuddly toy.
The pill of choice for many people in 2000 was one that had no taste, and absolutely no effect on their digestive system: the Combat Boost. Other gamers will fondly remember the year as the one that first let them set up a love triangle in a virtual household, skate along the tops of bus shelters and deface police cars with aerosol paint, or - most bizarrely of all - get a job in an imaginary world.It was also the year that saw much-hyped games failing to deliver on their promises. Jon Romero's Daikatana (PC) turned out to be a fat, stinking dog, while the laudably creative ideas in Shiny's Messiah (PC) or Sega's Shenmue (DC) never gelled into outstanding games. Shenmue (the game where you had to get a job) created a jaw-droppingly beautiful and detailed   environment, but in it you spent most of your time walking up to people and pressing A, or hanging around looking at your watch. It's very clever to simulate the tedium of everyday life, but in the end it's still tedious.Perfect Dark (N64), meanwhile, the long-awaited "spiritual sequel" to Goldeneye that finally hit the shelves in the summer, was fascinating and horribly flawed in equal measure. Its great achievement was an astonishing array of beautifully designed gadgetry. Here were the Combat Boost (a pill that slowed down time to enable you to rescue hostages with John Woo-style headshots to kidnappers), the Farsight (a weapon that could aim and shoot through walls), and the superb Laptop Gun, a rapid-fire weapon that could be deployed on walls as a friendly comrade.But the attempt to characterise the game's heroine, Joanna Dark, as a post-Lara Croft cyberbabe fell laughably flat, and the gruesomely bad cut-scenes attempted to tell an   increasingly absurd and incoherent pulp sci-fi story. What was most galling was the framerate problem: the screen update slowed to a jerky crawl at higher difficulty levels, and all the time in the co-operative and counter-operative mission modes, thus rendering some interesting ideas thoroughly unplayable.Elsewhere, other developers were also asking current videogame hardware to do more than was strictly possible, and gameplay always suffered as a result. Vastly hyped for its pre-Christmas appearance, for example, was 1970s mission-driving sequel Driver 2, a pig-ugly product crippled by laughable pop-ups (with scenery winking into existence about 30 feet away) and a framerate that would have disgraced the original arcade Pole Position.Driver 2 is also a symptom of the burgeoning "sequelitis" of the industry. Game done well? OK, just iron out the bugs and slap a few more features in, and call it a sequel.Trouble is, it's usually only ever what the first game should have been. Stand up and be counted: Ready to Rumble 2, Syphon Filter 2, Medal of Honor Underground.The glowing exception to that rule this year was Nintendo's Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask: a game that matches the depth and variety of ideas in its illustrious predecessor (Ocarina of Time: the Best Game Ever) while being in some ways more tightly focused, and adding an intriguing Groundhog Day-style temporal scenario. Inevitably, it didn't seem quite as fresh or ground-breaking this time round, but the game is still a masterpiece.Also offering an impressive menu of action, but in a very different style of unreality, was Ion Storm's Deus Ex, a dark sci-fi shooter that offered the player   unparalleled freedom in her approach to combat situations. Run in, all guns blazing, confuse them with a gas grenade, or pick 'em off at a distance? Train yourself in lock-picking, sniping, or explosives? Nearly anything you could think of would work. Deus Ex wore its influences very heavily on its sleeve - hello, The Matrix; hello, Half-Life - and if it wasn't a particularly original game, it was a masterful compendium of well-executed ideas.Real conceptual originality was, as always, thin on the ground. The Sims (PC) was an amusing if limited "people simulator" in which little artificially intelligent denizens of chintzy households relied upon you for the success or otherwise of their love lives and their careers. The one spark of creativity in an otherwise terminally dull year for PlayStation, meanwhile, was Sony's own budget oddity Vib Ribbon, which dusted off black-and-white vector graphics (ah, Asteroids_) and had you controlling a cartoon rabbit who had to negotiate obstacles in time to a joyfully eccentric Japanese soundtrack, in order to avoid turning into a worm.For sheer aesthetic origi nality, on the other hand, the best game of the year was undoubtedly Sega's Jet Set Radio. Its "cel-shaded" graphics combined traditional 3D rendering with a fresh, cartoony look, and - this is the magic touch of Sega's in-house developers - the skating 'n' spraying gameplay was simple to pick up but enjoyably challenging to master. Dreamcast was also blessed with a lovely conversion of Crazy Taxi (barking arcade gameplay soaked in American alt-rock), a brace of extremely good-looking driving games (Ferrari 335 Challenge and Metropolis Street Racer), and a very fine conversion of Quake III: Arena. And even though Soul Calibur came out last year, I'm going to mention it here again, because the visual and mechanical genius of Namco's fighter remains thoroughly undimmed.It was also, eventually, the year of PlayStation2, although the sleek super- console almost failed to turn up to its own party owing to chip shortages. Its one early success, Timesplitters, offers a four-way console deathmatch that is unrivalled in the sheer ultraviolent joy of its speedy and fabulously smooth rocket-propelled m l&eacute;es. I'll be playing a lot of that well into the new year.Despite a few stand-out games, 2000 hasn't been a particularly vintage 12 months in the digital arts. In fact, almost the single most exciting videogame moment was the first glimpse of footage from Hideo Kojima's Metal Gear Solid 2 - which is still about nine months away from release. Will it live up to the hype? That's a question for the Ghost of Christmas Future.Steven Poole is the author of Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames (Fourth Estate, &#163;12)My top fiveSteven Poole1Jet Set Radio(DC)2	Legend of Zelda: 			Majora's Mask(N64)3Timesplitters(PS2)4Crazy Taxi(DC)5Deus Ex(PC/Mac)My top fiveGreg Howson1	Legend of Zelda: 			Majora's Mask(N64)2	ISS Pro Evolution(PSX)3	Perfect Dark(N64)4	Resident Evil: 	Code Veronica(DC)5	Metropolis Street Racer(DC)My top fiveJack Schofield1	Championship Manager 		Season 00/01(PC)2	The Sims(PC)3	Legend of Zelda: 			Majora's Mask(N64)4 SSX Snowboarding(PS2)5 Gran Turismo 2(PSX)My top fiveAndy Bodle1	Vib Ribbon(PSX)2	Baldur's Gate II: 	Shadows of Amn(PC)3	Messiah(PC)4	Micro Maniacs(PSX)5	Shenmue(DC)
