IGN hasposted nuggetsfrom an interview with Activision CEO Eric Hirshberg, in which the exec said this about the company's flagship shooter series:"The Call of Duty franchise is a force of nature. I think it is the closest thing this generation has to a Star Wars."I suspect he's talking about the sheer amount of revenue generated and about the numbers of people who have experienced the content. But what about cultural impact? Surely, Call of Duty falls way short?The thing about Star Wars is, much of its popularity lies in the fact that it has generated an imaginative universe in which the movies, books and comics only represent a fraction of the user-experience. Lucas always intended his simply constructed characters and stories to attain a mythological status, and that's exactly what they've done – Stars Wars fans of all ages engage in role-play with the canon, from the simple playground re-enactments I used to indulge in as a kid, to cos-play meetings and real-life reproductions of Jedi vs Sith battles. Star Wars has inspired musicians, filmmakers, fashion designers... even scientists. Star Wars is everywhere.CoD is massively successful, but it hasn't had that same imaginative impact. Partly, that's because it's an adult-rated game so children can't engage with its characters, conflicts and themes – at least not legally. But also because it isn't filled with archetypes and quickly understandable, clearly signposted themes of good vs evil. In fact, with the Modern Warfare titles, these concepts are deliberately blurred; we sort of know that there's a Russian arms dealer running about being naughty, but through levels like 'No Russian' we're not sure if our guys are any better.That's not really a bad thing (though I'm not alone inhatingthe narrative in Modern Warfare 2), but it's a key reason why CoD has not penetrated the wider mainstream imagination. And also, although there are titles that have done it to some degree – Pokemon, Mario, Final Fantasy, perhaps – games in general have yet to settle into the cultural unconscious in the same way as movies have. Maybe their intrinsic interactivity means they never will. We don't have to imagine that we're Soap MacTavish, we pick up the controller and weareSoap MacTavish.What do you think? And just for fun, are there any interesting parallels between the two franchises? I'd be willing to concede, for example, that Captain John Price is this generation's Han Solo: he's roguish, he's tough and grown men consider dressing up like him.
Yup, that's Pete Danks's Apple laptop adapter on fire, right there. The video ison Flickr.This is a known defect with Apple power adapters, I think - it's happened to me as well. The cable wears as it gets bent back and forth during use, and the wires inside break, and next thing... smoke. And, sometimes, flame.Danks says: "I want to make sure that people are aware of this major defect - if this happened unattended on a sofa or in my home office one can only imagine the consequences. While I know this is hardly headline tech news I was hoping through twitter and other networks you may be able to circulate this to other potential powerbook users?... given it's the second unit to fail on me, I assume it's highly likely that these units have a inherent defect that is potentially life threatening." Or certainly house- or office-threatening.He is "very glad I was in front of the machine when it happened". If anyone else has seen this problem, you should be able to get a free replacement - you could argue that the product isn't fit for purpose, though the counter-argument might be that this is wear and tear. However, flaming out really isn't a good way to finish for any piece of consumer electronics equipment.Update:Jared Earle pointed out on Twitter that the new MagSafe adapter which came after this one suffers from the same problem: Ars Technica reports that Apple is being sued over the problem.The complaint, filed in California Northern District Court's SanJose office last Friday, alleges that the MagSafe power adapter isprone to frayed wires and overheating, and as such represents a firehazard."The complaint naturally accuses Apple of being negligent in the design of the power adapter, and claims violations of various consumer warranty laws. The suit also alleges that Apple "has not taken action to remedy the defects," but then notes in brackets this may not be known for sure (actually, the filed complaint contain several notes in brackets that appear to have escaped editing). However, the complaint does citenumerous reviewson both the online Apple Store as well as Amazon.com which note problems with fraying wires, shorting, overheating, and melting."To be fair, Appleacknowledged a problem with strain reliefnear the MagSafe connector last year, and notes in aknowledge base articlethat you "may be eligible for a replacement adapter free of charge provided there are no signs of accidental damage" even if the adapter is out of warranty. Also, these problems aren't for a majority of users. Anecdotally, my own MagSafe adapter has worked well for three years now, and two of those were spent being constantly wrapped up and tossed in a backpack nearly every day."Are there any other power adapter designs out there which have had this sort of problem?
Facebookhas been brewing its 'half a billion users' announcement for months, it seems, waiting for that 500 millionth user to click the 'join' button and sign away their digital soul.Facebook has chosen a US TV interview to mark the moment, putting forward founder Mark Zuckerberg for a prime-time interview with Diane Sawyer on ABC News in the this Wednesday at 18.30 ET (22.30 GMT). Zuck is far more relaxed and confident in interview these days than he was even two years ago, though he never seems particularly comfortable in the spotlight unless talking tech to a tech crowd.Photo byjolieodellon Flickr.Some rights reservedSawyer interviewed Zuck two years ago on 60 Minutes, but this year's interview is likely to be far tougher, fielding questions on Facebook's intensifying battle with concerned users over privacy, use of data and on the safety of younger users too.It is a phenomenal achievement to reach the 500 million users landmark, particularly because most of those users spend a good deal of time on the site, and it is that engagement that gives Facebook its value to advertisers. But Facebook's next 500 million users will be far harder, aswe have written before,and the pressure on Zuck will only get more intense.Perhaps to bolster Zuck a little, theABC News interviewwill be conducted at Facebook's headquarters after a guided tour, putting him on home turf. It's hard to imagine that he could say powerful enough to reverse the Facebook backlash (even if that backlash only really exists in the tech community), so perhaps it is rather more about just not ballsing up.Officially, Facebook will announce the milestone with 'Facebook Stories', as revealed byAllThingsDlast week. Selected420-character text storiesfrom users sum up Facebook's role in finding love, coping with grief and experiencing a natural disaster, amongst others. The idea is to give some personality to what is basically a numbers story.Recet figures taken fromGoogle's AdPlannerservice add a little more detail. That puts Facebook at 540 million users each month with 630 billion page views. That's 34.8% reach of the world's internet population, with an average 34 visits per month of 23 minutes in total. Facebook's last user milestone was 250 million -almost exactly one year ago.
A new cross-industry video initiativeannounced yesterdayin the US aims to help improve interoperability between different retailers.UltraViolet is being adopted by more than 60 consumer electronics firms and entertainment firms including Toshiba, Sony Pictures, Paramount and Netflix. It's a technical standard that all these firms have agreed on, which means you could buy a film from one service, store it in what is effectively a digital locker and watch it on a different games console or through a cable service - even sharing content with a small group.Photo byJohn Steven Fernandezon Flickr.Some rights reservedNotably, Disney and Apple aren't included. Apple, being the mother of proprietary content systems, will be keeping everyone within the iTunes Store, thank you very much. Disney, meanwhile, has its own content store system called KeyChest, though Ultraviolet overshadows that somewhat.UltraViolet is a nod to the 'BluRay' brand. The cloud-based service will begin testing this autumn, and though it is focusing on TV and film now, it is likely to extend into music - which will step competition up a level. The launch is planned for the end of this year.Given the numbers of members in this consortium, it's astonishing they managed to get enough momentum to get this far. This kind of service is long overdue, particularly because DVDs are likely to be the last physical media format - which menas consumers deserve a transferable digital video format.
It was the hands in the air that did it for me. Seeing your Xbox Live avatar perfectly display some old rave moves was enough to convince me that Kinect – Microsoft's upcoming controller-free add-on to the Xbox 360 - will pass the all important easy to understand "mum" test. But will Kinect offer enough over the Wii to get her, and the rest of the non-gamer market, as excited as it was when Nintendo's game-changer arrived? Or will Kinect remain simply a novelty for hardcore gamers? I recently had a hands-on (off?) with the hardware and some of the early software.Seeing your avatar mimicking your motions is a novelty but ultimately it is the games that really count.  First up was Kinect: Adventures.  The initial section saw me and a colleague standing up in dinghy, leaning to steer through the rapids. Jumping – as you would expect – shoots the raft into the air. Co-ordination is key when playing multiplayer but even a lone play was fairly enjoyable, with secret routes and goodies to hunt for.  It looked quite pretty too - Wii owners would certainly be pleasantly surprised. Lag wasn't really noticeable although it did make an appearance on the next level of the game. Here you get to stand on a moving mine cart and need to duck and jump out of the way of incoming obstacles. It may have been the step up in difficulty – or maybe too much coffee -  but it felt like the game wasn't quite keeping up with the movements. Things did improve when you stepped rather than just leant though, and generally Adventures felt like something you would use to show off Kinect.Less impressive was racing game Joy Ride. Holding out your arms to steer and titling left or right was the basic way to play. Turning your hands made you drift while jabbing them forward caused a speed boost.  Easy enough then but it just didn't feel fun to play. The lack of any feedback was disconcerting and even though the colourful action is clearly aimed at all ages, the controls simply didn't feel precise enough.  Joy Ride felt like a novelty.The last game on show was Kinect Sports. As you would expect this is an attempt to match the success of the famous Wii title. I tried the bowling and hurdling and both showed promise. Bowling felt more responsive than the Wii version with the ability to really spin the ball and subtly affect the trajectory.  Meanwhile hurdling bought back memories of '80s style joystick-wagglers – think Daley Thompson's and the rest  - though this time the exercise was even more painful. Running and then timing your jumping was surprisingly tiring.  I was playing two days after a running half marathon so that may have had something to do with it, but clearly you can get a decent workout on Kinect.What else then? Well the hardware looked tech-sexy although the relatively large size of the camera suggests you will need more space under the TV than you anticipated. At least the new slimmer Xbox slim will free up some of that space.It's clear from even a short play then that Kinect is a step forward from the Wii.  The dance game alone  – which I didn't get a chance to try – should help broaden the 360 demographic.  Adventures and Sports have their moments too. The software is crucial then but the key thing is the price.  Get this right - below 100 UKP you would imagine - and Kinect will at least get core 360 fans interested. From them will come the word of mouth that may tempt Wii owners looking for their next bowling game.Kinect certainly feels like a technical step-forward then. But with Playstation's Move likely to be cheaper and the Wii's revitalised release schedule shaping up nicely, the battle for motion-based gaming has a long way to go.What do you think then? Tempted by Kinect or is it all about the price?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Amazon (NSDQ: AMZN)stillisn't saying how many Kindles it's selling, but that isn't keeping the company from shouting how well it's doing. The latest specifics and non-specifics from the company: "The growth rate of Kindle device unit sales has tripled" sinceit cutthe price of the Kindle 2 to $189 from $259 in late June; sales have "accelerated each month in the second quarter - both on a sequential month-over-month basis and on a year-over-year basis;" and "over the past three months, for every 100 hardcover books Amazon.com has sold, it has sold 143 Kindle books."Though thosestatementsmay sound impressive they will continue to be difficult to interpret until Amazon actually says how many Kindles it's selling - which ithas saidit may never do.Indeed, there were reports that, with new competitors like the Nook on the market, growth may not have been so hot prior to the price cut, so as far as we know the growth bar may not have been that high.Photo byoskayon Flickr.Some rights reserved
Sell, sell, sell! Photo byrickon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamScreenshot of Page 13 From the HTC Droid Eris User Manual &gt;&gt; enviable stuffWe won't spoil it for you, but it involves antennas and holding and phones.Microsoft Windows Phone 7 technical preview: A definitive guide &gt;&gt; ZDNetWhere by "guide" he means "book".Sad Pie Chart Illustrates Distribution of Music Revenue &gt;&gt;The Daily SwarmFor every $1,000 in music sold, the average musician makes $23.40. And other jolly facts.Surviving Success &gt;&gt; Red Sweater Blog"I believe Jobs is an idealist product visionary who wants the best for Apple and for its customers. But he's lost his ability to manage his own image, and thus the image of the company. Apple's PR department is in charge of manipulating how the company is perceived, but their efforts are being drowned out by the live-wire personality at the helm of the ship. Jobs needs to quiet down now and let cooler heads speak. No more arrogant, terse email replies. No more defensive press conferences. No more snarky interview quips. Just chill out and try to get your groove back."At his best, Steve Jobs is a brilliant, inspirational spokesman for the company. At his worst, he is the pompous winner who begs to be taken down a notch. Jobs is the kid who, having been celebrated for the A+ exam grade, reacts by chiding his classmates: "You all are a bunch of idiots." Fans lose their faith, detractors gain momentum. This guy's in for a rough victory."Nokia: 'we prioritize antenna performance over physical design if they are ever in conflict' &gt;&gt; Engadget""In general, antenna performance of a mobile device/phone may be affected with a tight grip, depending on how the device is held. That's why Nokia designs our phones to ensure acceptable performance in all real life cases, for example when the phone is held in either hand. Nokia has invested thousands of man hours in studying how people hold their phones and allows for this in designs, for example by having antennas both at the top and bottom of the phone and by careful selection of materials and their use in the mechanical design.""HTC, RIM and Nokia Challenge Apple's Antenna Claims &gt;&gt; MashableAnyone else want to join in?Media Cache - France's Three-Strikes Law for Internet Piracy Hasn't Brought Any Penalties &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIn the World Cup final between Spain and the Netherlands, the referee, Howard Webb, handed out a record 14 yellow cards. Nonetheless, the game turned nasty, as the players apparently concluded that Mr. Webb was all bark and no bite. Is something similar happening in the French government's high-profile battle against digital piracy of music, movies and other media content?Google's Amit Singhal tells us about the dreams search engines are made of &gt;&gt; Engadget"If that sounds like your phone babying you and potentially controlling your life, then you're attuned to the exact same frequency that we are. We get Amit's point, our devices have come nowhere near to maxing out the intelligence or utility that we can extract from them, but this just seems like another step toward over-reliance on technology. Most people nowadays can't remember their friends' phone numbers -- in spite of being in constant contact with them -- and correct spelling is growing largely irrelevant when doing a Google search with all those ultra-smart (okay, sometimes they can be real dumb too) suggestions. So it's a nice dream and all, but we kinda like things on the search front as they are: functional, predictable, and not too flashy."Google eyes Demand Media's way with words &gt;&gt; FT.com"..a recently granted patent to Google that appears to replicate one part of what has made Demand's approach to content so successful could spoil the party."Google's patent on "identifying inadequate content", co-authored by some of the search group's leading thinkers, including Hal Varian its chief economist, details a similar system that analyses search engine queries to spot topics of high interest which are not readily available from publishers. What Google plans to do with the patent or whether it will build a product is not known."In China, a Boom in Internet TV and Films &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Every month, about 300 million people in China are using a computer to watch Chinese TV dramas, Japanese and Korean sitcoms, and even American films and television series like "Twilight" and "Gossip Girl." Live streaming of the recent World Cup also drew a huge online audience. Analysts say young people in China are even starting to favor free laptop-viewing over TV sets, in part as a way to make an end run around regulators, who often bar state-run TV networks from broadcasting shows that do not meet the approval of the Communist Party."Samsung plans to sell 10m Galaxy S, over million already sold &gt;&gt; Samsung HubAmbitious target but a million is very impressive already. 300,000 of those were in South Korea. (It's an Android phone.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Nineteen websites which were used to perpetrate a phone scam offering "computer support" that defrauded people across the English-speaking world have been closed down by police.In the scam,reported by the Guardiantoday, teams at Indian call centres rang computer users claiming to be from tech support. The computer users were then told there were problems with their PC, which could be fixed.After being told to download a programme that handed over remote control of their computer so the caller could install "fixes", the PC users were told of the £185 charge for subscription to "the preventative service". But the "fixed" computers never had any problems, and the value of the service was dubious.The Metropolitan police e-crime unit acted in April to take such sites down. Among those shut was supportonclick.com, registered to Pecon Software, a firm based in Kolkata. The company has now opened another support website, called onlinepccare.com, which is the subject of numerous online complaints about cold calling, "bullying", and claims that the caller is from Windows PC care.But the police are unable to effect refunds for people who were scammed by the cold callers, though they do class the crime as "obtaining money by deception" – in other words, fraud. "Those who believe they have been mis-sold a product or service online should report the matter to trading standards, via its website (www.consumerdirect.gov.uk)," said the PCEU in a statement. "If a criminal offence has clearly been perpetrated the matter should be reported to the police."The Guardian spoke today  to Pecon's customer relationship manager, Vikas Gupta. He said the firm employed 400 people, of whom about 200 worked in telesales, cold calling to generate business for remote PC support. He would not say from where they derived the lists of names and insisted that none of the callers would say they were from Windows tech support. However he admitted there had been "a couple of instances" where "people [from Pecon] did try to influence the customer [to believe] that they were … from Microsoft", and there was "some quality-related feedback" from agents.Peconset up its remote support scheme in April 2008, saying it had had an "overwhelming response" from customers in the UK, US, Canada and Australia, and used the supportonclick site – now closed by the e-crime unit – for the service.Gupta denied knowing of supportonclick, though it was running before he says he joined and shut while he worked there. He said that, as part of a prepared script, the call-centre teams would show people details from the Windows Event Viewer, a program that can worry uninitiated PC owners. He said this was just to help people decide whether to take Pecon's services.Gupta said he was aware of sites and call centres in Kolkata operating a "support" scam. He said some pretended to call on behalf of onlinepccare.com. "I'd say 80% of the sites are using content stolen from us. They've copied spelling errors from us."Sources close to the Met e-crime unit said there was "clear evidence of criminality" from the sites taken down.
The early previews of Windows Phone 7 - for which reference hardware has started shipping to developers - are in. What to make of them? I think the best way to describe them would be a crouching ovation: people who've tried it like the fact that Microsoft is trying something different with the mobile experience, but they really can't decide if it's going to be a success or not.Engadget'sin-depth preview(an intriguing concept) is sort of positive: "Microsoft still has a few months before it intends to get the first volley of Windows Phone 7-based products to the marketplace, but we've recently been provided with reference hardware -- a not-for-retail Samsung called "Taylor" that's closely modeled on the Symbian-based i8910HD -- to get a feel for where they're at as the clock ticks down."Quick briefs: "We were extremely surprised and impressed by the software's touch responsiveness and speed. In fact, this is probably the most accurate and nuanced touch response this side of iOS4. It's kind of stunning how much work Microsoft has done on the user experience since we first saw this interface -- everything now comes off as a tight, cohesive whole. It really put one of our major fears about Windows Phone 7 to rest. We haven't seen any substantial lag while using the device, and the short transitions between applications or pages are well suited to the overall experience."Although: "the controversial cut-off text is still present, and while we happen to like the way it looks, it's definitely an acquired taste, and there are times when it just doesn't work, like in the Office hub where PowerPoint looks like it reads "PowerPoir." And two other things: "There are two big omissions here, in our opinion. The device won't support copy and paste, and won't support third-party multitasking of apps. We knew this would be the case given what we heard at MIX10, but it doesn't stink any less now. The former really doesn't make any sense to us, especially since Microsoft did a good job of nailing text editing and selection (at least in Word, and really... you guys make Word), and it looks like it would only be a short walk to a contextual pop-over for copy and paste functions. The latter is practically inexcusable in this day and age -- even Apple (which has been a complete laggard in this area) now supports basic multitasking."But they like the keyboard ("the keyboard in Windows Phone 7 is really, really good. We're talking nearly as good as the iPhone keyboard, and definitely better than the stock Android option. It's one of the best and most accurate virtual keyboards we've used on any platform -- and that's saying a lot") and screen resolution ("the Windows Phone 7 standard 480 x 800").Then again, there are points where Engadget's not so happy, which tallies with some of the doubts I expressed earlier (though I must point out that I've not held a WP7 phone, nor seen it demoed): "Windows Phone 7 doesn't have "contacts," per se -- it has a People app, and there's quite a difference. This is a thoroughly social platform, and it doesn't really seek to make any sort of differentiation between people you talk to / text / email, those you just casually observe, and those with whom you're "friends" in name only. If that kind of philosophy reeks of Motorola Blur or Palm Synergy, you're on the right track; as soon as you add a Windows Live, Exchange, or Facebook account, it pulls in every contact associated with that account and disperses associated content throughout your entire phone -- there's nothing you can do about it. That means, for example, that your Pictures app could have a bunch of shots of your ex's aunt's new boyfriend's dog in it (more on that in a bit), and there's not a whole lot you can do to stop that behavior without completely removing your Facebook account from the phone."With Exchange, this strategy is probably fine in most cases -- contact sync is one of the main reasons you use Exchange ActiveSync, really -- but seriously, Facebook is another matter altogether. If you've got a lot of Facebook friends, this renders your People app all but useless as a traditional phone contact list."Over at ZDNet UK, there'sanother previewwhich goes (like Engadget) into plenty of detail: "Microsoft has stripped away all unnecessary information (almost too much, actually — the status bar displaying battery life, signal strength, and so forth goes into hiding after a couple of seconds) and soft buttons, and created a Start screen that consists of 'live tiles', which are essentially dynamic widgets to your favorite apps, contacts and hubs, and also display alerts, such as new email and missed calls. You can rearrange the order of the tiles and remove them by doing a long press on the screen. You can also 'pin' new tiles, but to do so, you must first navigate to the list of apps or the People hub, find the item that you want to add and then pin it to the Start screen."OK, and those hubs... "The names of the hubs are pretty self-explanatory. For example, the People hub merges contact information from your various accounts and then displays them in one long list. A swipe to the right will show you Facebook status updates (unfortunately, Windows Phone 7 will not have Twitter or MySpace integration at launch) and lets you add comments, while another swipe will brings up the people you've contacted most recently.""This type of panoramic UI runs across all the various hubs with bold, attractive text splashed across the top to identify different subsections (a.k.a. Pivots) and in some cases, a small contextual toolbar along the bottom of the screen to help you perform app-specific tasks.""Some might complain that this type of navigation requires too much scrolling and can be overly complicated. Admittedly, this is true when compared to Apple's iOS 4 and Google's Android, and may be a turn-off for consumers. On the other hand, we appreciate the ability to do so many things from one place without having to launch several different apps, so we have to give Microsoft kudos for thinking of this kind of organisation. We also like the consistent UI, which makes it easy to work the other hubs."Another point which has been made elsewhere: "What's interesting about Windows Phone 7, though, is that at times it feels as though you're getting two completely different experiences on one phone. The Start screen/menu list and some apps — such as the phone dialer, email inbox and calendar — are completely minimalistic, while other aspects of the phone, including the aforementioned hubs and multimedia features, are more sophisticated and elegant. It doesn't hurt the navigation, as such, but is doesn't make the phone feel like a cohesive unit either."And the big question: "Will this resonate with users? Frankly, we think it'll be a hard sell initially. Despite all the improvements made to the UI, it's still more involved than other operating systems. That said, we'd also caution you not to dismiss it completely, simply because it's different. Change is scary, but it can also be a good thing."It's a long review, which you're urged to read in detail.Meanwhile theWired Gadgetlabhas put its sticky fingers all over the screen: here's the video. Their principal comment: "Still the lack of any kind of real app store is a major hindrance. Also, Microsoft just will not give up on the Zune marketplace. It's admirable, but maybe they should re-examine their reasoning for keeping it." But surely the Zune Marketplace is Microsoft's leg up to an App Store? Abandoning it would look weird.
Launched into British stores on Friday, the re-designed slimlineXbox 360 Shas been a hit with gamersaccording to industry newspaper, MCV. The console, which has a retail price of £199.99 comes with a smaller casing, a 250GB hard drive, built-in Wi-Fi and a specific Kinect port, which allows you to hook up the motion controller without needing another power plug. (You'll be able to use Kinect with your older-style Xbox 360, but it'll need to be plugged into the mains separately.)Several sites are reporting shortages of the machine across the country. One independent retailertold Electronic Theatrethat it had, "greatly underestimated demand."I now have the new console set up at home. The new angular design, complete with its striking fold down the centre, is in stark contrast to the curvy original, while the move to a gloss black finish puts Microsoft on an opposing aesthetic journey to Sony; the PS3 Slim features the same sort of matt black plastic as the old Xbox 360 Elite. Did I really just use the phrase 'aesthetic journey'?I quite like the metallic-coloured strips around the edge of the machine - very iPhone. I also like the on/off button which is now touch-controlled and emits a pleasing little beep when you hit it. I've placed the new console on a shelf above my original-sized debug Xbox and it makes that thing look rather gigantic and ungainly.As for any sound the machine makes when powered-up, it lives up to Microsoft's 'whisper quiet' boast. Some have found the power block to be just as noisy as its predecessor, but I've got mine up to my ear as I write this and it's absolutely fine. Also, it's not giving me a hot ear, so that's an important box ticked. The Wi-Fi access is super quick to sort out, and for concerned parents, there's an offer to explain video game age ratings amid the initial set-up procedure. I passed on that as my four-year-old son was keen to get on and play Red Dead Redemption. I'm kidding, of course.So anyway, did any Gamesblog readers take the plunge? Thoughts?
The Dragon Quest role-playing gaming (RPG) series is a huge mainstream franchise in Japan but known only to hardcore gamers in Europe.Dragon Quest IX should go some way to change this, especially as it is only available on the family-friendly Nintendo DS. Fans needn't worry about dumbing down, though – this is as deep and time-consuming as any of the older games.As with most Japanese RPGs, the action starts slowly. Expect to plough through some pretty tedious plot and character stories for the first couple of hours. Soon after though, things start to open up as you recruit your first party members. The ever-addictive levelling-up process starts to bite as you find new items and new places to explore.Don't expect a revolution, though. As is usual for this genre, you control a party of up to four characters and start off in a town (basically pitstops and plot advancement areas). Then you are off to the fields and dungeons that make up most of the action. Combat is done in classic turn-based style with orders issues to party members and strategy necessary to choose the best moves. You will need to head out on gratuitous killing sessions – "grinding" – at times to gain the necessary skills to beat the tougher challenges, but the game does feel more forgiving than a lot of similar titles.The plot also feels less important than other Japanese RPGs although at least the localisation – complete with some oddly charming Scottish/Cockney dialogue – is decent. The graphics are cute but underwhelming. Items and clothing can be customised and displayed but the environments are mainly uninspiring. However, the sheer size of the game makes up for it. The scale of what is on offer here knocks pretty much all DS games out of the water. Even 25 hours in you barely feel you have scratched the surface. And that's without the nifty multiplayer mode. Much likeCrackdown 2, players can enter a host's game but can decide whether to help out or do their own thing. Sadly, multiplayer is restricted to local play – the ability to play over the internet would have been hugely welcome.Despite this, Dragon Quest IX is a massive and rewarding undertaking that will keep your DS busy for much of the summer.
UK top 10 games chart, week ending July 16 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Crackdown 2(15+)Xbox 360 (100)22 (4)Dance On Broadway(12+)Wii (100)33 (2)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (30)Xbox 360 (27)DS (24)PS3 (19)44 (3)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)95 (–)Toy Story 3(7+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (25)DS (21)Wii (15)16 (5)2010 Fifa World Cup South Africa(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (36)PSP (9)Wii (7)127 (6)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)68 (7)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 11(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (39)Wii (12)39 (8)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (3)DS (1)3610 (9)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)32Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Not content with heading today'sMediaGuardian 100as the most powerful man (or indeed, woman) in media,Steve Jobshas now been immortalised in both Sims-style animation and as Darth 'Gates' Vader's successor.Here's the iPhone 4 antennagate saga as itreallyhappened.Next Media Animationof Hong Kong has built up something of a followingfor these. The principle of building your own footage if you can't get the real thing is curious; could be interesting when the quality of animation becomes indistinguishable from real life.
What time I got this weekend was spent on the atmospheric - the visuals are monochrome -  and very interestingLimboon Xbox Live. The game is out on Wednesday so more thoughts once the embargo lifts.  What about you though? How was your weekend gaming?
Google has called time on US sales of its flagship Nexus One device, two months afterpulling the plugon direct sales through its website.Photo bymackaruson Flickr.Some rights reservedSales of the Android-powered device had been disappointing since its US launch at the beginning of the year, the unconventional initial point of sale -online-only- putting many customers off. The web store "remained a niche channel for early adopters," admitted Google vice president of engineering in a blog post, adding: "It's clear that many customers like a hands-on experience before buying a phone".Although the Nexus One will be a disappointing setback for Google, the device widely-heralded as a market challenge to the Apple iPhone, work on theNexus Twowill only be hastened.Google's end-of-the-line news was announced in ablogposton Friday, when all eyes were locked firmly on Cupertino with Apple's iPhone 4 showdown.The Nexus One will continue to be sold through Vodafone in Europe, despitestumbling belatedlyinto a competitive market. Developers will still be able to get their hands on the phone, though the web store will discontinue shipping to Europe.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byanomalous4on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGovernment calls for public feedback on data protection laws - 06/07/2010 - Computer Weekly"The UK government has begun a public consultation on the European Union Data Protection Directive and the UK Data Protection Act (DPA). The government is calling on businesses, public sector organisations and individual citizens to give their opinions on how the laws can be improved. The consultation, open until 6 October 2010, is part of government efforts to ensure that the information the state holds on its citizens is proportionate and secure." If you don't think there's huge room for improvement in the data protection laws, you haven't been paying enough attention..Dilbert comic strip for 12/09/2009 &gt;&gt; Dilbert.comWait, is this the strip really from nearly a year ago?'Junkware' comes standard on Verizon, T-Mobile smart phones &gt;&gt; LA TimesThough actually that's been the case pretty much forever on standard phones; my Sony Ericsson has a non-changeable "home" screen with various unwanted apps. Is it that we don't expect it on smartphones?Apple - Smartphone Antenna PerformanceFunny how it's only now that we're learning all this from Apple about smartphone antennas.Motorola Droid X Review &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"The creeping feeling that Android is the new Windows becomes an overwhelming sensation the first time you boot up Droid X. Seven sprawling desktop screens, littered with widgets, oodles of little programsâ€"the vast majority of which you probably don't want or need. It's overwhelming and utterly incomprehensible if you're not the kind of person who's seen at least two non-JJ Abrams Star Trek movies. The minutes lost to clearing them to get to a reasonably clean desktop, one press-and-hold-and-swipe gesture at a time, brought me back to the sullen days of removing crapware from whiny relatives' Sony Vaios. Breathtaking hardware, filled to the brim with crap. Why would Motorola make this the first impression of its phone? Stuttering and confusion?"Facebook blocks, then allow, all Bit.ly links, marks them as abusive &gt;&gt; MashableJust showing who's boss.Please Help Compile a List of UK Police Forces Wildlife Crime Pages &gt;&gt; MabblogAndy Mabbett needs your help. Won't take long.Galactic Plunder &gt;&gt; DougX.netAn attempt to create a side scrolling shooter that looks and sounds like a Flash game, but uses only the capabilities built into an HTML5 compliant browserYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
RIM, maker of the BlackBerry brand, has responded angrily to Apple's claims that "all smartphones" suffer from problems with reception due to antenna placement - and especially to Apple's mention of the BlackBerry brand in its Friday press conference responding to problems with the iPhone 4.Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie, RIM's co-chief executives, issued a joint statement in response, they said, to "misleading comments" by the Cupertino company: "Apple's attempt to draw RIM into Apple's self-made debacle is unacceptable. Apple's claims about RIM products appear to be deliberate attempts to distort the public's understanding of an antenna design issue and to deflect attention from Apple's difficult situation."RIM is a global leader in antenna design and has been successfully designing industry-leading wireless data products with efficient and effective radio performance for over 20 years. During that time, RIM has avoided designs like the one Apple used in the iPhone 4 and instead has used innovative designs which reduce the risk for dropped calls, especially in areas of lower coverage.  One thing is for certain, RIM's customers don't need to use a case for their BlackBerry smartphone to maintain proper connectivity. Apple clearly made certain design decisions and it should take responsibility for these decisions rather than trying to draw RIM and others into a situation that relates specifically to Apple."Apple'snewly-introduced page on smartphone antennassays that "In our tests, the BlackBerry Bold 9700 dropped from 5 bars to 1 bar when held in a way that attenuated the signal" and points out that the antenna is fitted in the base of the phone. It also compares reception effects on other phones, including the iPhone 3GS, HTC Droid Eris and Samsung Omnia II.On Friday Apple announced that it would provide free cases for anyone who purchases an iPhone 4 through to September, acknowledging that "some people" had discovered that the phone had a problem with reception - though Jobs insisted that returns for the phone were much lower, at 1.7%, than for the iPhone 3GS, at 6%, and that 2m iPhone 4s had been sold since its release on June 24.
The scam always starts the same way: the phone rings at someone's home, and the caller – usually with an Indian accent – asks for the householder, quoting their name and address before saying "I'm calling for Microsoft. We've had a report from your internet service provider of serious virus problems from your computer."Dire forecasts are made that if the problem is not solved, the computer will become unusable.The puzzled owner is then directed to their computer, and asked to open a program called "Windows Event Viewer". Its contents are, to the average user, worrying: they look like a long list of errors, some labelled "critical". "Yes, that's it," says the caller. "Now let me guide you through the steps to fixing it."The computer owner is directed to a website and told to download a program that hands over remote control of the computer, and the caller "installs" various "fixes" for the problem. And then it's time to pay a fee: £185 for a "subscription" to the "preventative service".The only catch: there was never anything wrong with the computer, the caller is not working for Microsoft or the internet service provider, and the owner has given a complete stranger access to every piece of data on their machine.An investigation by the Guardian has established that this scam, which has been going on quietly since 2008 but has abruptly grown in scale this year, is being run from call centres based in Kolkata, by teams believed to have access to sales databases from computer and software companies.Matt, a Londoner who has recently set up his own company, had just arrived home at 7pm when the phone rang and someone with an Indian accent asked for him by name, quoting his address. "It's Windows tech support here," said the caller. "We have reason to believe that there's a problem with your computer. There have been downloads of malware and spyware, and they're slowing down your computer."He went along with the caller's demands to log into a website and enter a six-digit code into his computer. "I thought it was a new service from [Microsoft] Windows," he said. "I could see them moving the cursor about. It took about half an hour."The caller could not have obtained Matt's name via HP or PC World, where he bought the machine, because he gave his business address, not his home address, during the purchase.This suggests that the caller was using the phonebook to find names. Patrick McCarthy, who lives in Dublin, received a call from one of the companies – but they addressed him by the name of the apartment block where he lives instead of his own name, a longstanding error in the Irish phone book.Often, the victims are inexperienced or elderly, convinced by the apparent authority of the callers and the worrying contents of the Event Viewer. In fact, such "errors" are not indicative of any problems.Investigators who have spoken to the Guardian on condition of anonymity say that one man, based in the city of Kota in Rajasthan, is behind the centres running the scams.He has provided fake documentation to a number of payment companies including PayPal and Alertpay, a Montreal-based online payment company, to set up accounts which route money to a bank account in Kota with Axis Bank.Though people on dozens of web forums have recorded their experiences with the scammers, police and trading standards officers in the UK are powerless to stop them.UK telephone numbers for contacting the company on the sites are not "geographical" ‑ tied to a location ‑ but instead allocated to voice-over-internet providers.That means that the calls connect internationally, but cost the scammers almost nothing when anyone calls them.In the same way, it costs them virtually nothing to make the calls because the international part of the call goes via the internet.If the payment has been made on a debit card ‑ as many are ‑ there is no hope of reversing the payment. A number of payment organisations used by the scammers have shut down their accounts. PayPal, the eBay-owned credit transfer company, and AlertPay have both taken rapid action against scam sites which used them.In March, site hosting company Hostgator shut down one of the longest-running sites used for the alleged scam, F1Compstepuk.com, after complaints.After confirming with Microsoft that the site was not acting for it, Hostgator immediately shut it down. Josh Loe, Hostgator's co-founder, said that following the initial complaint, "we asked for more information regarding this to confirm. We received a message from a Microsoft representative via this particular person who contacted us first about this. At that time it was enough evidence to close the site and it was done so the same day."But one investigator who has been tracking the growth of the scam says the challenge is that new sites offering the same fake "service" keep popping up "like mushrooms".At first the scammers tried desperately to maintain the reputation of their sites, by flooding any forum which garnered enough criticism of their activities with postings claiming that the site helped fix their machine.But the poor spelling and grammar of the replies – allied to internet addresses which show that the commenters are based in India – contrasted sharply with that of people in the UK, US and Australia complaining about the attempted scam.Now they have shifted to creating multiple sites from templates, using stock phrases and photos. However, investigators are sure that the same man ‑ and central operation ‑ is behind all of the schemes. "I don't think that this could really have spread that far. Even if they can see that some of their friends are making money from this, the calls are too similar every time," said one. "It's got to be the same organisation each time."Microsoft denies any connection with the companies that call people up offering these services.When contacted about the scams, Microsoft said it was "currently investigating a series of instances in which the business practices of an organisation within the Microsoft Partner Network [that] have given rise to significant concerns from a number of sources. We take matters such as these extremely seriously and will take any action that is appropriate once our investigation is complete."Three weeks after being contacted by the Guardian, it issued another statement: "We confirm that we have taken action to terminate our relationship with certain partners who are clearly misrepresenting their relationship with us and using our company name in order to facilitate their telephone scam operations."However, this week, two sites alleged to be involved were still listed as "Microsoft Gold Certified Partners", which Microsoft says means that they must have "demonstrated expertise" and "must employ a minimum number of Microsoft Certified Professionals".The company has noticed the problem. "Microsoft does not make unsolicited phone calls to help you fix your computer," itsays on its website."If you receive an unsolicited call from someone claiming to be from Microsoft Tech Support, hang up. We do not make these kinds of calls."
What happens when one idea meets another idea? They have idea sex. And, when the conditions are right, they conceive and spawn little baby ideas, which go on to have ideas of their own. Or at least that was the theory proposed by science writer Matt Ridley, speaking at TEDGlobal in Oxford last week.Given that TEDGlobal is a conference at which 60 speakers have 18 minutes each to explain their big idea to an audience of 750 individuals, all of whom have had to apply and provide evidence that they are ideas-type people, not to mention the 50 or so speakers who come forth to expound their mini-ideas, and the 20 fellows who have prize-winning ideas, this does raise a certain number of questions.Such as: what happens when you cross a man who believes that the way to save the world is for us to eat insects instead of mammals with a woman who has developed a device to move objects with your mind? And what kind of Frankenstein's monster might you produce if you attempted to mate the idea that plants are as intelligent as animals with one which claims animals experience similar emotions to humans?Ridley believes that social intercourse is to cultural evolution what sexual intercourse is to human evolution, and taken to its logical conclusion TEDGlobal is not so much idea sex as a Bacchanalian orgy of ideas; idea porn. Albeit with slightly better production values – speakers work on their talks for up to six months in advance, aware that they are talking not just to the conference itself but to a potential online audience of millions. Videos of the talks are released on Ted.com and have been one of the biggest internet hits of the past five years, viewed more than 300m times.Talks last week included ideas about science, technology and the potential benefits of a Muslim Spider-Man. Because alongside Dimitar Sasselov, a professor leading Harvard's Origins of Life initiative who announced that Nasa's Kepler telescope has discovered 140 Earth-like planets capable of supporting life (and that "a hundred million planets will be found to have habitable potential"), was Naif al-Mutawa. A clinical psychologist who has worked with victims of torture, he has created a band of Islamic cartoon superheroes, coming soon to a TV screen near you. CalledThe 99, it's a 26-part animated series, written in Hollywood, which he hopes will reinforce positive new stereotypes about his religion.The conference, an offshoot of TED, a non-profit foundation which hosts its main event in Long Beach, and at which Bill Gates and Bill Clinton are regular attendees – "Oxford is Hogwarts and Long Beach is Star Trek University," claimed one delegate last week – is only in its second year here, but it has already spawned its own ideas' progeny.Last year a British inventor called Michael Pritchard bounced on to the stage, filled a drinking bottle with filthy, polluted water, shook it around and then produced a stream of clear sparkling drinking water, and this year we were told that the British army has put one of his bottles into the pack of every soldier on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan.This year Laurie Santos, a cognitive psychologist, explained how her experiments with capuchin monkeys suggested that they make similar miscalculations about financial risk as humans do, and that this might enable us to think up ways of hedging against it. Eben Bayer, a designer, demonstrated how to grow a sustainable alternative to Styrofoam out of mushrooms and discarded grain husks.But the theme of this year's conference was "And Now The Good News", a remarkably upbeat message given the global financial crisis, and the fact that Matt Ridley, the father of idea sex and a new theory he calls "rational optimism", was, until 2007, the chairman of Northern Rock.Of course, this might be because believing in progress in the age of climate change and population mega-growth does indeed require the same kind of willful self-delusion that created the 125% mortgage. We would all like to believe, we really would, but there are the slightly inconvenient matters of declining fossil fuel reserves and global hunger to address.Which is where what Ridley calls "the collective brain" comes in. A brain that includes the gaming theorist Tom Chatfield's belief that data generated from gamers on a daily basis can be used to engage people in education and government. And Tan Le, who has created a low-cost headset that can read brain waves and translate them into physical actions, and which will go on sale this autumn.The CD-Rom and the Apple Macintosh were first unveiled to the world at TED and this year, as well as Tan Le's headset – made by her company, Emotiv – which could be used, for example, to close your curtains by simply thinking about it, or powering an electric wheelchair with your facial expressions, there was also a live demo of what may or may not be a ground-breaking invention by the celebrated games designer, Peter Molyneux. He has taken a new Microsoft product called Kinect, which will be available later this year and contains a camera that picks up your voice and movement, and has used it to mould a virtual being called Milo. A virtual being "in the cloud" that will be developed and enhanced by the collective intelligence of the people who interact with it.But then, as is the way with much of what is heard at TED, it is hard to know if this is completely brilliant. Terrifying. Or really quite rubbish. Francis Keeling, head of digital at Universal Music, tells me that he cannot wait to get the Emotiv headset into the hands of his DJs and musicians: "There's so much they could do with that. I can see all sorts of potential creative uses."However, he also points out that precisely the same technologies were seen 40 years ago in Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C Clarke's2001: A Space Odyssey(to refresh: a computer called Hal 9000 takes on a life of its own after watching and learning from humans) andFirefox, a Clint Eastwood film in which Clint fires rockets from his hi-tech fighter aircraft using the power of thought.Keeling tells me this as though shooting rockets with the power of your thoughts is a good thing. And I have a distant memory of the business with Hal not ending terribly well. What is undisputed, however, is that TED has become a truly global platform for the dissemination of new ideas. For which, it is also become apparent, there is a global appetite. What TED demonstrates most clearly is that it is a symptom, not a cause. "We know that we're part of something much bigger," says Bruno Giussani, the European director of TED. "There's something going on, there are things happening around us. There's some sort of thirst, or hunger, for ideas for ideas' sake."Or, as Jess Search, the chief executive of documentary foundation Britdoc, puts it, in somewhat different terms: "It used to be all about going to clubs and taking E. And then it was about going to music festivals and drinking booze. Now we go to things like this and get high by being intellectually shot up."Because, as well as TED, there are hundreds of smaller events, salons, ideas fests, that have sprung up in the past few years. Stephan Chambers, chairman of the Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship, who runs one of them, the Skoll World Forum, points out that the instinctive British reaction is "to dismiss something like this as just being a bunch of tossers. What's fantastic is that you can see people come here, watch a particular talk and completely turn 360&nbsp;degrees around".And it's not just events. Or the internet. Quantum physicist David Deutsch believes that the Channel 5 showHouseis another example of it. "It's really fantastically popular, which is very odd when you consider that it's basically a programme about epistemology."But then, epistemology, or the study of knowledge, and a lust for knowledge itself, is a rapidly expanding global phenomenon. Or one which we have only just worked out how to tap. Or possibly both. Deutsch teaches only one graduate seminar a year, he tells me, to "possibly 30 students". Launched via TED on to the internet, he's now been seen by hundreds of thousands.One of the most stunning presentations came from the educationist Sugata Mitra, who has discovered that children are capable of teaching themselves almost anything, up to and including biotechnology, in a language they cannot even speak.Education, he says, is a self-organising system and learning is an emergent phenomenon. What Mitra has so brilliantly demonstrated is that children actually like to learn. If they can figure out how to do it among themselves. And adults, too, it turns out. They're having idea sex online. With an Oxford professor in quantum physics. The net's dirtiest secret yet.
The real surprise about this inevitable movie tie-in released to blastToy Story 3into the subconscious isn't that it does a very good job of bringing to life Pixar's virtual world; it's that it's actually rather good as a game in its own right.Developed by Avalanche Software, theToy Story 3console and handheld adventure romp will do little to wow those who find Disney's saccharine world of talking playthings a little irritating, but there's no doubt it outshines almost every game ever conceived to promote a crowd-pleasing family movie. Designed with youngsters in mind, and staking a claim to its own distinct narrative, Avalanche's creation provides a "go anywhere, do anything" template that delicately balances freedom to roam with focused gameplay. There's a brief plot-led story mode largely dominated by platform-jumping and exploration, and a playful "Toy Box" setting that lets users roam as they wish through worlds inspired by the Pixar film. There's less here for older players, but thanks to a keen eye for detail the game delicately evokes a warm sense of blissful childhood hours accompanied by a vivid imagination, a good collection of plastic soldiers, building bricks and well-loved stuffed animals.Experienced gamers and easily irritated pessimists can try all they like to berate this well-crafted title – and it's unlikely to win them round – but for once this absolutely serves as a worthy parallel to its celluloid outing.
When the originalCrackdownlanded on Xbox 360 in 2007, it did so with a resounding crash and multiple secondary explosions. A freebie bundled with theHalo 3beta, it instantly declared itself as a fabulous open-world game with an emphasis on cartoonish fun and flexible mayhem. Your mission: to police the streets of Pacific City. By any means necessary, with extreme prejudice, and by using trucks and girders as weapons.Ten years have passed in Pacific City, and not a lot has changed. It is now controlled by a terrorist organisation called The Cell, and a virus has turned legions of citizens into slavering brutes called Freaks. And yes, they do come out at night… Which is to say thatCrackdown 2is as fun as the original, with just as much leaping, shooting, driving and clobbering as you may have come to expect. Just don't expect much else; it really is more of the same. That said, the online multiplayer does now support up to four agents in a hugely entertaining new co-op mode.Crackdown 2isn't ground-breaking, but it has a lot of fun breaking everything else.
Previous attempts to capture the enduring appeal of Nintendo's pocket monsters in spin-off form have mostly failed, and whilePokéParkis more shallow and simplistic than its portable cousins, it should hold short-term appeal for the younger gamer, especially those with a fondness for its sparky yellow hero.The Poképark itself is split into themed sections, each containing a number of Pokémon to befriend via the rather ironically titled Skill Games. Whether you're chasing, battling or answering quiz questions, few over the age of eight will find their abilities challenged – though as ever there's a compulsion in catching all the featured Pokémon, of which there are close to 200. Motion-controlled challenges are held at the attractions dotted around the park: these offer score-chasing appeal, and players need to complete them with different Pokémon to unlock the best hidden creatures in the menagerie.It's not a game that pushes the Wii hardware, but the graphics are bright and the music suitably bouncy throughout. Curiously, Nintendo has ignored the obvious possibility for multiplayer variations on the Poképark's attractions, and even the least demanding of youngsters will surely tire of the repetition in the game's limited selection of game types. As child-friendly fare goes, it's an adequate, undemanding time-waster, but real Poké fans should hold out for next year's Black &amp; White editions, which promise a significant evolutionary step forward for  the terrific handheld series.
Last month Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, stood in front of an industry conference in Las Vegas and announced that email was on the way out. Figures showed that only 11% of teenagers use email on a daily basis, she said; most preferred to send messages via social networks such as Facebook. Even though she herself couldn't imagine life without it, she predicted that email "is probably going away".Sandberg's figures weren't quite right; they referred to data on how many American teenagers were using email to communicatewith their friendson a daily basis, not how they were using it in general. Given Facebook's enormous success in colonising our online activity, however, there's every reason to take her hubristic ambition seriously. A good way to understand that ambition is to read David Kirkpatrick's new book. In the summer of 2006 Kirkpatrick, a former technology writer forFortune, found himself invited to dinner with Facebook's youthful CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, as part of the company's charm offensive. He subsequently won unprecedented access to Zuckerberg and 39 of his top employees to gather material for this book, a kind of official history of the company and the most comprehensive account of its rise yet.Facebook began life in a student room in 2003, and its original function was to enable Zuckerberg and his fellow Harvard students to rate each other's attractiveness and flirt with each other electronically; thus was born Facebook's signature double entendre, the poke. Before long Facebook had morphed into an all-purpose public facility, allowing students to huddle together in groups and forge whatever electronic connections they liked. To Zuckerberg's surprise – he suspected it might be a fad – Facebook rapidly spread to other universities, then to schools and then to everyone else. The statistics are mind-boggling. In January of this year Facebook claimed 350 million active users, who spend a collective 8 billion minutes there every&nbsp;day.Facebook's arrival was timely, coming as it did just as more of us got used to spending time hooked up to fast internet connections. Kirkpatrick shows us how brilliantly Zuckerberg polished his new machine, constantly cleaning its minimalist look and cultivating its hunger for ever more data. The site's real engine of growth, though, was its built-in network effect. Like any other communications network, Facebook's usefulness grew as more people signed up and found each other; that, in turn, became a powerful incentive for new arrivals to pass the word on.Previous books about Facebook, such as Ben Mezrich'sThe Accidental Billionaires(the film of which,The Social Network, hits the screens in October), have focused on the squabbles and personal relationships of those involved in its early life. Kirkpatrick's wide-ranging access allows him to pay more attention to what Zuckerberg was trying to achieve. In his sometimes oafish determination to realise his vision, Zuckerberg turns out to be as much ideologue as engineer. For him, Facebook is primarily a social movement, not a publishing platform: as he tells it, he is motivated not by money (he consistently refuses to sell up) but by a passion for radical transparency. Sharing our data and making our lives publicly available to each other turns us, he believes, into better people. A narrower gap between public and private reduces the potential for hypocrisy and connivance, making it harder, for example, for people to cheat on their partners.But as critics point out, such "radical transparency" also makes it easier for Facebook to monitor what we're up to, and many people are uneasy with this. "As the service's engineers built more and more tools that could uncover such insights," Kirkpatrick records, "Zuckerberg sometimes amused himself by conducting experiments. For instance, he concluded that by examining friend relationships and communications patterns he could determine with about 33% accuracy who a user was going to be in a relationship with a week from now. To deduce this he studied who was looking at which profiles, who your friends were friends with, and who was newly single, among other indicators."Although Facebook now seems an established fixture of the net, the company is more fragile than it appears. Companies powered by a network effect tend to wilt as quickly as they flower. Concerns about privacy have plagued Facebook for the past few years; if another social networking universe were to come along with a credible guarantee to protect our data, it could wither as quickly as did Bebo and Friendster before it. The company now finds itself sandwiched between the sensitivities of its users and the commercial imperative.Kirkpatrick's story ends with the arrival of Sheryl Sandberg, whose job it is to make Facebook more attractive to advertisers. She has done well. Facebook makes the bulk of its money by helping companies target potential customers more effectively than mainstream media, and last year – the first that it began turning a profit – it took an estimated $800m (£530m) in revenues. The effect of all this on the marketing and advertising industries has only just begun to be felt.Kirkpatrick has written the definitive account of Facebook's breathless rise to power. But the story of how it tries to wield that power without scaring away its 350 million users is going to be even more of a white-knuckle ride.James Harkin is the author of Cyburbia (Little, Brown)
The brainchild ofGrand Theft Autocreator David Jones, APB is a "massively multiplayer online" game (MMO) that sees two factions – Enforcers and Criminals – battling for power on the dystopian urban streets of the fictional city of San Paro. Though Jones claims the game was never intended to be an MMO version of his most famous creation, it's hard to imagine the original pitch being too far away from that ideal. One can only wonder at the reaction of developer Realtime Worlds when its long-in-development title – around five years in the making – was essentially gazumped byGrand Theft Auto IV's Cops'n'Crooks multiplayer modes.At times it seems as if APB has been cultivated in a hermetically sealed bubble, given its apparent disregard for developments in game design over the period of its creation. Car handling can generously be described as clumsy, and seemingly destructible scenery can often bring your vehicle to a sudden, juddering halt; odd, given that ploughing into street lamps has little effect on your speed. There's a low-budget feel to gunfights, with little sense of feedback thanks to the decision to remove locational damage. On the one hand, this reduces the chance of a mission ending with a single sniper shot to the player's skull; on the other, it's frustrating to see an opponent escape when they've taken the best part of a magazine's worth of your bullets.Blending traditional action with the tropes of the role-playing genre is a brave move, but too oftenAPBfeels like it's falling between two stools, its core gameplay a faintly awkward compromise. That said, there's clear potential here. Extensive play reveals previously hidden subtleties, the constant trickle of new items and customisation options for your avatar forever tempting a drive to the next mission point. The suite of options available to tweak your character's appearance is genuinely difficult to fault: both extensive yet user-friendly, it's a textbook setup that other MMO developers would do well to learn from. Then there are times when everything magically clicks into place. There's a tangible satisfaction when a well-organised team of Enforcers takes down a group of panicking Criminals; similarly, a perfect raid followed by a thrilling getaway makes a life of crime seem worryingly appealing.APBmight feel more like a work-in-progress than most MMOs, but with new mission types likely to emerge in future as the developer continues to prod and tweak, San Paro may well be worth revisiting in the weeks to come.
I see that Google has launched a new online tool that may eventually make you wish you'd never been born. It's calledApp Inventor, and it's a kind of DIY kit that will allegedly enable non-techies to build applications for Android smartphones. "To use App Inventor," says Google, "you do not need to be a developer. App Inventor requires no programming knowledge. This is because instead of writing code, you visually design the way the app looks and use blocks to specify the app's behaviour."There's a nice video that illustrates this point. It opens with an attractive young woman and her cat, who's walking all over her computer keyboard. So she takes puss on to her lap and sets to work. First she hooks up her mobile phone to the computer. Then she goes into the App Inventor screen and finds a "button" icon and drags that into the area before covering it with an image of a cat. Finally she finds a "sound play" block and adds that before clicking on "download to phone". She then proudly&nbsp;displays her new app: you click on the picture and the phone says&nbsp;"miaow".Now, don't get me wrong. To make this as effortless as the App Inventor appears to do requires a great deal of cleverness. In fact the software underpinning the tool is wonderfully elegant and ingenious. It's based on research originally done at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and on a dialect of the Scheme programming language, which is itself a descendant of Lisp, the original artificial intelligence language. So, software-wise, the App Inventor is lovely. It's what people will do with it that worries me.Two years ago this month Apple launched the iTunes Apps store and in the process triggered an avalanche of small, cheap, downloadable programs designed to run on its iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad devices. As of last month, for example, there were more than 220,000 apps in the store and the total number of downloads since it opened had passed the 5bn mark. Many of these apps are free, and most of the others are priced at impulse-buy levels. Google's Android platform launched later than the iPhone, and its apps market has therefore lagged behind Apple's, but the number of Android apps recently passed the 100,000 mark, and it's clear that the new App Inventor tool is intended to dramatically increase the supply.One result of this is that the market for software has been transformed into one dominated by these bite-sized applications. "There's an app for that," has become Apple's advertising slogan for its iDevices, and the meme is entering our collective unconscious. A recentNew Yorkercartoon showed a depressed-looking guy arriving home. "Bad news, honey," he says. "I've been replaced by an app."Because iPhone apps are relatively easy to write (if you have the requisite programming skills and the free System Development Kit), and even easier to distribute and sell (Apple handles all that), many people saw them as a way to get rich quick. And, in the early days especially, that did indeed seem to be true. Stories abounded of developers earning $150,000 in a month (which some did – for the first month), which fed a development frenzy. But as the stampede grew it became harder to sustain sales revenues because there's always a more interesting impulse-buy in the store. And, of course, it became difficult to get attention for your new app, no matter how clever or ingenious it happened to be.The other thing that became obvious is that, while there are some truly wonderful apps out there, an awful lot are trivial or tacky, or both. A big seller, for example, has been iFart (yes, you guessed what it does). Another is FingerMill Revenge (59p), which turns the iPhone screen into a treadmill for your fingers. There's iMilk (£1.79), an app that enables you to "drink milk and shake whipped cream from the comfort of your trouser pocket". Er, and there's iPee (59p), "a simple psychological and fun tool that presents images and/or sounds of various water scenes to kickstart you into taking care of your business". And&nbsp;so on.Note that these are all iPhone apps, which means that a modicum of serious programming expertise is needed to create them. Which leads me back to my original question about the new Google apps toolkit. If daft apps are what emerge from the level of applied IQ poured into iPhone development, imagine what it will be like when any Tom, Dick or Harriet can have a go. Maybe it will be wonderful, and we will see a blossoming of app-making creativity. Or maybe we will just discover thatGresham's law– stated as "bad money drives out good if their exchange rate is set by law" – also applies to software.
Comparisons are odious. That's why it's usually journalists and marketing people who indulge in them. So indulge me while I pick some apart.QuothKevin Turner, Microsoft's chief operating officer - the man who makes sure that the money is coming in right, who makes sure that the wheels of the company's bank accounts are turning fast enough to satisfy shareholders - earlier this week: "One of the things that I want to make sure that you know today is that you're going to be able to use the Windows Phone 7 and not have to worry about how you're holding it to make a phone call." He said it at Microsoft's Worldwide Partner Conference, adding: "It looks like iPhone 4 might be their Vista."Though Turner wasn't to know it, Apple was even then preparing its press conference to explain what (if anything) it was going to do about the whole iPhone 4 reception issue. 22 days after the release of the iPhone, Jobs led a press conference explaining that anyone who'd bought an iPhone 4 could havea free "bumper". (The office joke: 1 day to diagnose the problem, 21 days to prepare and rehearse the presentation.) Those reception problems? Common to all phones, insisted Jobs, whodeflected lots of questions in his customary expert way.That leaves the "PR experts" who earlier this weektold Cult of Mac that Apple would have to recall the iPhone 4looking pretty stupid. Because they were stupid. Pause for a moment and remind yourself: on what grounds are items recalled? Oh yes, when they cause injury or death, or pose a hazard to the public. Losing your data reception because you (avoidably) covered the exposed antenna definitely likes in the category thatTwitter calls #firstworldproblems. The idea that Apple would recall a device on that basis is simply laughable. In every newsroom, there's a point early in the day when your news edior asks you what's going to happen over some scheduled story: on Friday morning (UK time, before Cupertino was yawning and turning the alarm off) I was asked what would come out of the Apple press conference, and I said that Apple would portray problems with antennas as common to the entire industry, that it would offer free bumpers or cash refunds, or a full refund for anyone who wanted them, and that there was no chance of a recall. Do you think I qualify as a PR expert on that basis?But let's go back to the eminently sane and reasonable Kevin Turner. In his speech, he acknowledged that in the areas both of Vista and mobile phones, Microsoft had a bad patch. He's happy now to praise Windows 7, and is full of expectation for Windows Phone 7. (Others differ, of course, but we have to wait and see.)However, the idea that the iPhone 4 might be Apple's "Vista"? Let's try the comparisons.Vista:fell seriously behind schedule, requiring Jim Allchin to take the project through a "reset".iPhone 4:released on the schedule everyone expected, at Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference.Vista:dropped much-promised features including WinFS as part of the "reset".iPhone 4:we don't know what features were planned for it; we only know what we got, which is a ceramic case to (try to) improve signal reception, and a screen with a remarkable pixel density.Vista:met enormous resistance from consumers, who couldn't understand why it looked and ran so differently from its well-received and hugely popular (if insecure) predecessor, Windows XP.iPhone 4:sold 1.7m in first three days, of whom 75% were owners of the previous version, according to data on both sides of the Atlantic from Bloomberg and AQA.Vista:met even greater resistance from Microsoft's main customers in enterprises, who didn't like the fact that it didn't run a lot of the software that ran on Windows XP.iPhone 4:ran any and all apps that ran on previous iPhones and/or iPod Touches.Vista:offered substantially greater security and reliability than predecessor.iPhone 4:offered the same security and reliability as predecessor, plus cooperative multitasking.Vista:was the subject of acourt battle which exposed internal emailsfrom Microsoft, revealing disquiet inside the company over OEM PCs which described themselves as "Vista-ready" even though they would not be able to run any but the lowest-specified versions of Vista.iPhone 4:is the subject of a claim by the Wall Street Journal that people within Apple knew about problems with the antenna, but that Jobs nixed their criticisms because he liked the design. At the press event on Friday, Jobs called this "total bullshit". Decide for yourself who's telling the truth.Vista:Microsoft never "apologised" for Vista, since it didn't feel the need to.iPhone 4:Jobs admitted that "we're not perfect" but then added that nobody is. You'd be hard-pressed to really call it an apology.Vista:Wouldn't run on some Microsoft execs' machines when they tried to upgrade them.iPhone 4:Worked OK - though some people updating older phones have had problems with the latest (iOS 4.0.1) update "bricking" them.So on balance, is the iPhone 4 really like Vista? It's hard to overstate how monumental a screwup the development of Vista was. The entire development had to jettison key elements, such as WinFS (for search), and try to focus on getting the operating system out of the door. And as soon as it was released, people started complaining about its weird user interface experience; which led a Chinese Australian toset up a site where people could unload about it. (He was snowed under within days.) It's still worth looking at that site, and seeing whether the points that people have made there have been fixed in Windows 7.In short, the iPhone 4 antenna issue isn't Apple's "Vista moment" - despite what Turner might wish. It's an annoyance to people who've spent that money, but Jobs's numbers about the low level of returns (1.7%) compared to the 3GS (6%) - which will be pored over by analysts, and will have the force of a financial statement, meaning that if Jobs has fibbed then he's theoretically liable to be hauled in front of the Securities and Exchange Commission - indicates that unlike Vista, users are actually very happy with it. (That's also the anecdotal response I've had on Twitter.)Sure, you might be annoyed, if you queued overnight or for hours in the baking sun, that the phone isn't perfect. But there are lots of phones; personally I don't have an iPhone or an iPad, because presently I think they're too expensive for what they offer. You could easily choose another. The snark on view on Twitter indicates, to me, a strange sort of envy on the part of many people; a desire to see a company brought down because of its hubris, rather than its failings.Certainly, Apple has never wanted for hubris, but it does try to live up to its own aims.But what about the company that made Vista? There are still challenges ahead for Microsoft: the fact that Google is winning Office customers over to its much cheaper Google Apps products (something that Turneralluded to in his speech- search for the first mention of 'Google'); the fact that it is only managing to grow its Bing search engine shareby spending $1 for every $1 of business it brings in; the fact that Windows Phone 7 remains an unknown quantity which the company has all but staked its reputation in the mobile market on. (Sales of Windows Mobile licences, the previous generation, are dwindling; it would be interesting to see what the licensing revenue is for them. Apparently HTC, once - possibly still - the biggest licensee of Windows Mobile is going to go with Windows Phone 7 - though it seems to be doing rather nicely out of Android at present.)Lastly, the point that so many people overlook about Apple relates to its ambitions for the iPhone. These are rarely stated. When Steve Jobs launched it in 2007, he said the ambition was a 1% share of the entire phone market: "10 million units and we'll go from there."That's not the sort of barnstorming that you expect from most companies; they talk about capturing huge chunks. Apple wasn't looking to get huge share. But you can bet that, being Apple, the plan was to make a lot more than 1% of the profit out there. Apple doesn't necessarily want to dominate the market for smartphones (though it would certainly be happy to do that, just like the market for digital music players, where it effectively has a monopoly). It just wants to dominate all the profit. The cost of issuing these free bumpers to iPhone owners is going to be about $50m at the most (assuming 5m buyers and a $10 cost to Apple for the whole transaction.) The issue might have cost it more - but you can bet it's not going to stop it rolling on. That's perhaps the only way in which the iPhone 4 is really like Vista: it's not going to stop the next stage of its ambitions.
Dragon Quest IX: Sentinels Of The Starry Skies, Nintnedo DSDragon Quest is Square's most successful series, apart from the leviathan that is Final Fantasy, although it has enjoyed far more attention in Japan, where each episode seems to spawn its own universe of offshoot cartoons and, in one case, a real world bar in Tokyo with waiting staff dressed as characters. In Dragon Quest IX, you're an angel who's lost his wings and halo, needing to earn the gratitude of mortals to regain your former glory. What that means in practice is the usual mix of dungeon adventuring, exploration and helping villagers with problems small and large, except this time you can invite up to three friends in over wi-fi either to explore together or just to have someone on hand if you get into a scrap you can't handle. Dragon Quest's sociable gaming comes with the bonus of making previously rare treasures and items more commonplace. Its gentle and surprisingly subtle script has been lovingly translated, giving each of the game's quite separate stories its own simple emotional resonance. Despite the venerability of some its mechanics, this feels invigoratingly fresh.Square Enix, £34.99Ancients Of Ooga, Xbox 360Ancients Of Ooga.The peaceful but easily led Ooganis have allowed themselves to be enslaved by the nasty Boolis (see what they've done there?). As one of the Oogani gods, you possess the bodies of your hapless flock to help free their chieftains and get rid of the Boolis. What ensues owes a nod to Abe's Oddysee for its charming 2D landscapes and characterful representation of the resurgence of a downtrodden people, and The Lost Vikings, as you swap among differently positioned Oogani to trip switches, gates and teleport booths in the right order. With a cheerful sense of cartoon-ish brutality, every Oogani tribesman's greatest wish is to be sacrificed in your honour, and the game's gallows humour remains intact even when the complexity of the puzzles ratchets up. Get past the slightly dodgy artwork of its Xbox Live icon and you'll discover a delightfully executed, determinedly old-school and very reasonably priced piece of action puzzling.Ninja Bee, 800 Microsoft points (download game)Games news: World Of WarcraftWorld Of Warcraft.Blizzard's World Of Warcraft has become a towering institution in the field of online gaming, having brought massively multiplayer games firmly into the mainstream. It's also been a vehicle for millions to live out their quirky Tolkien-esque fantasies with like-minded friends met online. The very last thing you want in this escapist scenario is the intrusion of real life, which is why the recent proposal to compulsorily reveal every Warcraft forum member's first and surname was greeted with such alarm. Amid histrionic posts predicting Warcraft-sponsored stalker armageddon, one of Blizzard's own staff revealed his full name to show how safe it was, at which point forum members replied with his address, phone number and age along with the names of his family, to demonstrate how genuinely unsafe it was. Very sensibly Blizzard has announced that it has now shelved plans for the scheme.
Walkman MuseumSeveral decades before the invention of the iPod, the audio technical wonder of the age was the personal cassette player – given the generic name Walkman after Sony's bestselling model. Rather than MP3s, Walkmans held cassette tapes – a maximum of 120 minutes of music being a far cry from the thousands of hours of albums people now carry around in their pockets without thought. Here, the Walkman in all its clunky wonder is celebrated with photographs and ads of all the bestselling models, the latter usually featuring users involved in rollerskating, skydiving or staring in excited awe – standard activities in the early-80s. Now collectors' items, the museum also houses a value guide and forum so you to can hunt down an Aiwa HS-PO2 just like Marty McFly.Big ThinkBig Think.Can gay rights boost economic prosperity? Should information have an expiration date? Is the internet mankind's most profound achievement? These questions and many others are discussed at this site dedicated to thoughts, opinions, ideas and imagination. Like most good things associated with clever stuff that's not offputtingly high-brow, it's no surprise to see Stephen Fry involved. Here, he's elucidating his favourite philosophers and the importance of unbelief: "If you assume there's no afterlife," he says, "you'll likely have a fuller, more interesting life." Other video shorts include professor of Behavioral Economics, Dan Ariely (pictured), explaining the "Ikea effect" and a paleontologist saying that the chances of no other life existing beyond Earth as "near zero". Elsewhere, a bunch of experts imagine life in 2050, while the blogs contain some intriguing articles on the sex appeal of spies and the medical downside of the vuvuzela.Blog roll: Le TourTeam Sky. Photograph: Bryn Lennon/GettyTeam SkySky boss Dave Brailsford blogs from the tour bus plus videos, photos and news on the only British team in France.Tour de France 2010Official site, with maps, videos, charts and stats.RaphaBlog from the classic cycling brand, including retro films and photos.Road.ccGuide to cycling events across the UK, gear reviews and London's cycling friendly cafes.CyclososmThe redemption of Mark Cavendish and Lance Armstrong's Dial-a-Denial chart.The Road DiariesBehind-the-scenes snaps including the unexpected tools of the Tour teams.Lanterne RougeCelebrating the last-placed rider at the back of the General Classification.Cycling RevealedListing the greatest races of all time and the history of professional cycling.What we learned on the web this weekNever Say No To Panda.Never say noto PandaThis sitewill bring an end to humanityTobias Fünke'swit and wisdomA good reasonto never clap againDimitar Berbatovand Andy Garcia are twinsHorse peecan cure depressionHow to speakwith a British accentWhy power tennisis so boringThe bestarchitecture since 1980Doctor Whoneeds a car
I would never open my boyfriend's post. He wouldn't let me, for one thing. I'm not even allowed to open his copy of Paws – theBattersea Dogs Homenewsletter – until he gets home. And I'd never open his emails either, but I don't have the same privacy taboo about emails that havealreadybeen opened. I&nbsp;have picked over the cobbles of&nbsp;past boyfriends' email trails. It starts with a simple over-the-shoulder visual eavesdrop. When&nbsp;you walk up behind somebody, and they're in the middle of an e-conversation, they hunch. Everybody does this, colleagues do it. It doesn't mean they're cheating on you, it just means it's personal. But this tension, the email that isn't a&nbsp;betrayal but is nevertheless private, is a micro-version of the surveillance debate – "Why do you&nbsp;want privacy, if not to commit crime?"Back to this hypothetical boyfriend who, if I'm honest, was actually a real boyfriend. He hunches when I walk past. So I want to see what he's writing. I can't, he's closed his browser. It does not feel evil to go into his inbox afterwards, although I would strongly dis-recommend that initial breach of couple-protocol. Of course, it's an email to a woman. What are the odds? Fifty-fifty, unless he's a mathematician, or a nitwit. Say it's someone you know (it was), it's probably an ex (it was). Say it's someone you don't know, then it's a strange woman. This is a mug's game; now I'm checking all the time. My nearly ex and his ex chat intermittently. Nothing incriminating happens, but the&nbsp;easy familiarity is annoying. And I'm reading everything I can get away with now, so naturally I&nbsp;catch stuff I'd rather not have seen. It's physiologically compelling (high risk, sweaty palms) and intellectually boring, like reading a Dan Brown novel. Unlike a Dan Brown novel, nothing happens, except I can't stop. I never got caught doing it. But we did split up, for maybe 1,000 reasons, some of which were: well, most obviously, this is an act of war. It also creates confusion – you're having your regular relationship with your regular boyfriend, and a secret, antagonistic relationship with the boyfriend as expressed in his correspondence. Those are two different people, not least because one of them doesn't know you're there.Women snoop a lot more than men – a joint study by the LSE and Nottingham Trent University found that14% of wives read their husbands emails, and10% checked their browsing history(for men, those figures are 8% and 7%, respectively). I know what you're going to say, you'll say, "That's because men look at porn all the time. Women are just looking for evidence of porn, and maybe if they spent more time looking at their own porn instead of spying on their husband's, these figures might be reversed." That's what I'd say.Still, we often talk about the nefarious things men get up to on the internet. You hear about porn addicts. You hear about men who lie to teenage girls onBebo, men who sit on Chatroulette all day. The things you hear about men make them sound so profoundly primitive, you wonder how they hit the space bar without an opposable thumb.There's no doubt the internet creates a new territory of misdemeanour, but notallof it particularly male. When people talk about predatory men, or naive and/or bullying teenagers, they miss the major UK demographic, the one in which we outstrip internet usage anywhere else in the world, which is among housewives. That definition is pretty loose, these days; you don't have to be married, and you're allowed to have a job. It just means women of a certain age. Any given woman who, 10 years ago, would have been out binge drinking: women like me, and possibly you.UK housewives spend 47% of their leisure time online(according to a study by global market information group TNS), which is higher than the Chinese national average (overall theirs is the highest in the world). Our national average is 28%. Some of this is entrepreneurial (almost half of all UK housewives make some money online – one in&nbsp;20 "mousewives" makes over £200 a week), but a lot of it is pointless messing about.And because we're women, and many of us have children, this messing about is billed as an incredibly positive, cooperative force. Indeed,Mumsnethas become the byword for mothers on the internet, as if all we do is have warm, helpful conversations. It's true that Mumsnet has a lot of users (20&nbsp;million monthly page impressions), and everything its founder, Justine Roberts, says about it makes perfect sense: "It's become a very handy, convenient and efficient replacement for real-life communities. People just don't have time for leisurely conversations over the garden fence any more. Women and parents in general don't have time to have a lot of social engagements in the traditional sense and Mumsnet fills that void."There is an unspoken point, though, isn't there? Not having time for social engagements is the same as being lonely. Virtual conversations aren't really the same as real ones: they're so conditional, so easy to pick up and drop, they don't carry the weight of a concrete connection in the world. It's a community and yet the succour isn't real, the responsibilities users feel towards one another are quixotic, evanescent. It's suspended between life and a computer game.Contrary to popular presentation, Mumsnet is not the only site women visit. There are acres of girly chat. Not very much chat-traffic is criminal or exploitative, but check out the Facebook groups for a flavour of how unpleasant some of the supposedly mumsy stuff is. There's a proliferation of vigilante rage directed at child abusers: "jamie bulger's killers should never have been released!"; "i bet i can find a billion people who are against jon venables and r thompson!!!!"; "Don't forget about Maddie"; "Justice for Baby P". The numbers of signatories are enormous – sure, at over 37,000 names, the Venables/Thompson page loses a bet with itself about finding a billion. But 37,000…There are 245 groups calling for the death/life sentence/dismemberment ofVanessa George, the nursery worker who took pornographic photographs of her charges and exchanged them with a&nbsp;man and woman she'd met on Facebook. It is taken as a paradox of George's case that, when you track her Facebook history, before she got involved in online paedophilia, she would sign up to groups like Action Against Abuse. In fact, I don't think it's paradoxical. There's something zealous and savage about the anti-paedophile rhetoric on Facebook that doesn't seem to have anything to do with children, or sex with children – it seems to be about whipping yourself to a pitch of fury that is in itself arousing, it's like rage-porn. The comparison is instructive: like regular porn, this self-generated anger might be elemental, but previous to the internet, it was something you might glance past in the Sun; 37,000 people wouldn't be devoting their leisure time to hating paedophiles.Which brings us back to Vanessa George. The first time she and her co-defendants met was in the courtroom. In her first police interview, Georgetells how she went from Facebook buddieswith the man to sharing images of paedophilia. "I&nbsp;was, like, What would you do for me, if I done that for you? You'd have to put a ring on my finger to make me do things like that." The fact she already had a husband of 20 years standing is the least bizarre element of this self-presentation – as just another young woman, looking for love ever after, who'll do anything for a ring on her finger.Apparently, members of the investigative team privately doubted all three when they claimed to&nbsp;have met on Facebook, thinking it too much of&nbsp;a coincidence that people with such depraved tastes would just chance upon one another on a mainstream networking site. It certainly pushes the boundaries of credulity that there are paedophiles ambling the corridors of Facebook, waiting to meet one another to scale up their perversion. But if you look at the Facebook application these three met on, Are YOU Interested?, you would have no trouble believing it to be just heaving with incredibly lonely, violently angry people, just sitting there, ripe for a toxic relationship with other incredibly lonely, violently angry people.It's a Honeymoon Killers cliché: if you want to find a lonely person, look at the lonelyhearts ads. But the modern version is so blunt, the disappointment and vulnerability so poorly disguised, it's a con-artist's fairground. There's certainly a small-time criminal element, recognising this lonely constituency and tapping them for cash.Joann Wood, 53, caught the tabloid imagination last year due to the fact that she's a lesbian and focused her efforts on lesbian and gay sites. Wood lied to suit every occasion, starting with "I love you" and ending with anything from cancer to an expertise in the gold trade. She made about £100k before she was discovered (and sentenced to four-and-a-half years in prison). But the internet is just the facilitator to Wood; 15 years ago, she would no doubt have found some pre-internet strategy, like working in Nationwide, befriending pensioners with big savings.TheJihad Janecase in America, by contrast, could happen only now, with this timely confluence of global communication and a terrorist movement whose targets are international. Jihad Jane, whose real name is Colleen LaRose, was arrested last year over her plan "to do something, somehow, to help suffering Muslims": it stretched, in the end, to a conspiracy to murder theSwedish cartoonist Lars Vilks. The 46-year-old has been accused of conspiring to provide material support to terrorists, and kill a person in a foreign country. She is also suspected of having trawled the internet looking for other women with US passports who could more easily go about the skirmishes of Jihad undetected. Her boyfriend of five years had no idea of these activities. "She was a good-hearted person. She pretty much stayed around the house," Kurt Gorman told the press. She was active on the site revolutionmuslim.com, and this is not a place you'd stumble into. What led her there is unknown, but behind the sudden veil-wearing and talk about eternal bliss, this looks like a sad story about grief. In 2005, following the death of her father, LaRose tried to commit suicide. Obviously the causal links are complicated, but she wasn't trying to kill cartoonists before then. If LaRose had conceived an irrational hatred against a neighbour, this would have been a containable affair. But there's an Alice in Wonderland effect on the internet, where a person taken out of his or her context can take on epic proportions in an unfamiliar landscape, usually not in a good way. When physical space is collapsed, people can find themselves a long way from home.The main point is Morrissey's: the devil will find work for idle hands. There's nothing idler than people on the internet, wanting nothing in particular, just wanting to be nearer the centre of things.
I can't say for certain, because I've never tried it, but I'm confident that if  you were to feed into a computer comprehensive information regarding my&nbsp;likes, dislikes, sensibilities, anxieties, lifestyle preferences, habits and pleasures, and then ask the computer in which location in the world I'd least like to find myself nursing a hangover on Saturday morning, the answer it would come up with is Aqua Splash atLeisure Worldnear Hemel Hempstead.Which is perhaps one of the reasons the place – a riot of throbbing music, water slides and the preening tattooed forces of youth – is such irresistible heaven to my daughter. And why we found ourselves heading there recently, two adults and a party of five screaming girls.In the normal course of events – ie, with our own average-sized hatchback – that number wouldn't be doable. Well, it would, but only with the kind of arrangements – sitting on laps, etc – that nowadays kids, who are all extensively versed in health and safety legislation, would simply laugh out of court.Fortunately, we were in the new Peugeot 5008 Sport HDi. So you just lift the back row of two seats from the boot, and this sensibly compact MPV fits seven. No problem.The latest addition to the Peugeot stable is spacious, comfortable and, thanks to a large sunroof, generously light filled. Nor is it bad looking. That needs to be emphasised because it is loosely based on thePeugeot 3008, the CUV (crossover utility vehicle) that was defaced by its ridiculous "Jaws" grille. But the 5008 is all clean lines and clear purpose. There is no crossover here, no "hybridisation", no confusion, just a well-made car&nbsp;doing what it's meant to do – conveying a maxi family pack of people with mini effort.What more could you want? Well, actually, nothing. I was content to drive all the way up the M1 to Leeds, and beyond. The car was such a&nbsp;smooth pleasure, with easeful steering and the kind of suspension that insulates you from life's uneven breaks. The sound insulation was good, too, with the engine scarcely audible above the screaming.Given the impressive turn of speed, the commanding driving position and controls laid out for the driver's convenience rather than novelty's sake, I was enjoying myself so much I never wanted to stop, in particular anywhere near Hemel Hempstead.But Aqua Splash is where I did stop. And it was only three hours of infernal joy before I could get back in the 5008 and luxuriate in the southbound M1. "Enjoyed by families, loved by drivers" is the slogan and, for once, that seems about fair. It&nbsp;made a big splash with me.Peugeot 5008 Sport HDi 150Price£21,195Top speed121mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10 secondsAverage consumption48.6 mpgCO2 emissions151g/kmEco rating6/10Bound forLeisure WorldIn a wordFestive
Apple is offering a free rubber "bumper" to owners of the iPhone 4 to head off criticism over problems with its signal reception but dismissed suggestions that the device should be recalled.Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said the problems had affected only "a small batch" of phones, and that it was due to an "inherent problem" with smartphones. "We're not perfect," he said at a press conference at Apple's HQ in Cupertino, California. "We haven't figured out a way around the laws of physics yet."Nevertheless Apple will offer the "bumpers", which cover the sides of the phone, around the exposed metal  antenna which receives the mobile signal. When users have held the phones by the bottom and left sides it has led to a loss of signal. People who have already bought a case are entitled to a free cash refund.Jobs headed off the suggestion that Apple would have to recall the phone, following a media storm which had seen some compare the problems to those faced by Toyota, whose cars suffered problems with the accelerators and brakes. However the iPhone has not met any of the usual criteria for a product recall, such as spontaneously combusting or causing harm through heat or emission.Jobs revealed that Apple has sold 3m of the iPhone 4 since its launch on 24 June. That indicates that the rate of sales has slowed dramatically, after 1.7m were sold in the first three days. But he insisted customer satisfaction was higher than with previous versions: the return rate was just 1.7%, he said, compared to 6% for the previous model, the iPhone 3GS released last summer.The company said it cannot make enough bumpers to satisfy demand, but will keep the offer of the free case open until September.Jobs admitted that there had been complaints about the phone losing signal when held by the left and bottom sides – but said that they were natural for any phone. He acknowledged they were not perfect but insisted that every phone manufacturer had problems with antenna design and interaction with the body's tendency to absorb the phone signal. Apple's stock rebounded as Jobs began speaking at 6pm UK time last night.Apple's share price fell by 4% overnight on Tuesday, knocking $9.9bn (£6.5bn) off the company's $230bn value, as speculation grew that the phone might have to be recalled.Since the iPhone 4's launch, there have been many complaints about the way that the signal appears to drop off dramatically when it is held with a hand wrapped around its left and bottom sides (a problem dubbed the "iPhone Death Grip").Apple this week said that it had made a "simple and surprising" error in the software that displayed the strength of the signal, and on Thursday night issued a software update which changes how many bars are displayed when the signal becomes weaker.The iPhone problems now feature in dozens of jokes. Earlier this week Kevin Turner, the chief operating officer of Microsoft, spoke at a conference about its Windows Phone 7 software."One of the things that I want to make sure that you know today," he said, "is that you're going to be able to use the Windows Phone 7 and not have to worry about how you're holding it to make a call."
It's another double session this week – uniquely, with a fortnight section missing in the middle. Just when you thought we couldn't get anymore random and/or incompetent! First up Apic recalls the heady days of the World Cup, while Office Pest previews this Saturday's Gamesblog Meat-Up.The weekend starts here!Best of June 26 - July 2Edited by APicDon't Mention the FootballBy the time you read this, the World Cup will already have been won by England's Auld Enemy... the Spanish. But back at the beginning of the week England had only just lost thanks to the Uruguayan referee not disallowing four German goals. The ignominy of this decision was taken well by the box, which, light discussion about changing the Absolute Rules Of The Hallowed Game aside, failed to succumb to the general media furore that usually follows England's second round exit. Give yourselves a pat on the back, and a special round of applause to G33kwithCh1c who even managing to crowbar in a gaming reference:"The football was like watching Mortal combat. Fight, Finish Him Humiliation...Germany 4 England 1"My own team, Italy, had disappeared from the scene even earlier so I'll not say another word on the matter, except to point out that everyone should have taken on board herselfthemonkey's advice that:"At least we can now enjoy the World Cup without worrying about England's uselessness."Although, as the standard of games didn't really improve much, SuperSmashIn found that 'Cops With Cameras' on Five provided a suitable alternative.This is What Dreams Are Made OfThe blog made a foray into the metaphysical after HereComesTreble informed us of his frankly terrifying nightmares of paralysis and fat kids with dogs, which Simian countered with a classic chase dream ending with, "me being shot in both legs then butchered with a machette... Woke up and I had cramp."RobLindsay tried to tell us that he had a similar dream that night where he was chasing someone, shot them in the legs and cut them up with a machette but as Be4ch rightly pointed out, that was probably a flashback, not a dream.Sage then told a tale of what seemed like a dream – wantonness, deprivation, rooftop hot tubs and 20-somethings with very little clothing. His claims weren't readily believed and the cry went up for photographic proof, several bloggers (who shall remain nameless) valiantly putting up their email addresses purely for the purposes of validation. Once the evidence had been sent out, Sage appealed to pdmalcolm (oops) to confirm his submission to the next edition of Penthouse Letters. Hopes were deflated (amongst other things) however as, despite confirming Sage as an honourable man, pdmalcolm concluded that, "It doesn't look as much fun as it sounded and Alice Cooper appears to have gotten in on the foreground."It sounded better as a dream.Nostalgia Isn't What It Used to BeA confession from alexp76 that he kept seeing distant birds as UAVs started a spate of various boxers' experiences indicating "You Know You've Been Playing Too Long When..." Worryingly, these mainly involved fantasies about blowing up buildings and shooting people, although I'd quite like to have TheHillman's suggestion of the Final Fantasy victory theme playing whenever I win or accomplish something in life. That and the Time Crisis music whenever danger was imminent.The number of bloggers chiming in with their own tales suggests that we've all been playing too long, especially if, as HereComesTreble pointed out, "You know you've been playing too long when you find yourself spending your days on an internet games messageboard, discussing topics like 'how you know you've been playing too long'."Over these many years, the blog has had a considerable number of names darken its comment box, some remembered fondly, others barely at all and yet all were brought to mind on Tuesday, as the box waxed lyrical about bygone days of ooh, 2008, and names such as DanBob, chubster2O1O and of course, GWX, were uttered with reverant tones. Sage then decided to prod this slumbering beast of blog anamnesis by wondering if the memory of the legendary GWX had been, "exaggerated by misty-eyed Boxers robbed of an easy and ... willing victim."Such cynicism in one so young... Anyway, OfficePest was at hand, as ever, to give a reading from the Book of Weekes, and the faith in His true lunacy was restored. Although to the newer 'boxers, take note of dizzyisnanegg when he says, "You weren't there. You'll never know."Let He Who is Without Sin Cast the First PostWhat better way to wind down on a Friday than a relaxed discussion about religion and homosexuality? Well, I can think of several ways, but this Friday the box decided that this was as good a topic as any to discuss as, well, it's an endless argument and there's nothing we like more than spouting out unproven assertations with no basis in either fact or logic that can't be refuted over an internet message board. Sparked by some errant claim about Twilight, herselfthemonkey coped favourably as the blog united in its condemnation of the Pope and vampire/werewolf lust. Fantomex led the case for the prosecution via his personal brush with Christianity:"I have a very personal anti-religion stance because of some zealots in my family who tried to kidnap me and 'programme' me to accept the love of Jesus as a child, because they believed I was tainted"Hmmm... with powers of prophecy that put Nostradamus to shame, maybe there's something to this Religion thing after all?This being Chatterbox, however, the united front soon split over whether religion was an appropriate topic for the blog and then sidelined into a discussion about the Reformation, despite the best efforts of alimantado to keep it on track. We did learn, however, that the Irish see the Pope as the Max Clifford of the religious world, rather than the Voice of God on Earth as the Roman Catholics do, and that every time HereComesTreble hears the word 'Religion', the chorus of Higher Love by Steve Winwood plays in head, so include it in every post that you're able, we may drive him crazy yet. Bring me a higher love... O-ho.Quotes"I've put the Shakira set on (via the BBC page) Her hip wiggles are very distracting. I don't think I'll be getting much work done."Riadsala enjoys the BBC's Glastonbury coverage."Game staff have a higher level of knowledge on games than Boots staff, but it can be a close-run thing."ImperfectRex practices the fine art of damning with faint praise."Spanish brandy has damaged me. I can remember midgets and some kind of parrot... or maybe a cormorant. I'd better check the local news."alimantado relives his apparance on Cops with Cameras.Best of July 13-17Edited by Office PestEverybody was Kung Fu Fighting!Monday started with talk of the World Cup and De Jong's 'karate kick' which ChairofRust found to be "…immense and horrifying at the same time." General opinion though was that the final was weak, scrappy and not very enjoyable, with some general outrage at both Spain (for diving) and Holland (for constant fouling). Let's face it though – it was still better than seeing England hammered by the Germans.Points go to chubster2010 for this very tenuous games link – "It was almost like watching someone play Final Fight at times wasn't it?"Yeah…Demons' Souls ForumThis seems to be the game of the moment (Tuesday was practically Demons' Souls Day) with many bloggers talking about Red Knights, Fire Lizards, Phantom Eyebrows, Leachmongers and Sticky Compound Long Bows. You couldn't make it up!Seriously though, there was lots of talk throughout the whole week of how to take down certain beasties and although it may sound bizarre and geeky, those in the know assure us that it's really rather good. Time to get involved if you haven't already. If you get stuck (which you assuredly will), at least you'll have lots of help.Decalcomania cracked quite early on in the week – "Dammit, I can resist no longer, think I'll have to pick this up and join in on the impenetrable postings about strategies." I am also nearly there myself – damn you all!Blog Meat-Up #253Planning for this auspicious occasion started early in the week with bloggers discussing meat-up etiquette, such as what geeky t-shirts should be worn and whether you should refer to people by their real names or by their blog names. CunningStunt probably wouldn't mind being called by his blog name, but it could be dangerous, particularly where there's drink involved.There was some breaking of blog protocol though with somebody mentioning that a specific blogger's real name is 'Dave'.  We understand he's had to leave the country.There was also discussion about whether Henrypootle actually wears a monocle, whether Hayers really is as obnoxious in real life as he in the blog world (evidently much worse), whether there would be some cosplay going on (e.g. Cunning in full pirate regalia) and whether Keith really would be attending.[I really am attending. Though I have to head back to Somerset at 9pm, due to family 'commitments' - Keef]Gis a job…Sorbicol admitted on Wednesday that he's applied for 14 jobs in the last three weeks and has not been offered one interview. The blog then did a cracking job of rallying together to try and sort out his problems and find him a job.  The general advice was:Don't tell them you're currently unemployed – at least in your CV.Upload your CV to job sites.Condense your CV a bit.Don't try and get a job in IT.It appears though that this isn't an isolated incident – Shawshank22 also admitted to 38 applications in the last 28 days and no responses. Perhaps they should both remove 'gamesblogger' from the 'current occupation' section of their CVs.Tenuous linksI was fascinated to see on Wednesday how a discussion about a comic convention led to SerenVikity admitting to having seen "…a heavily pregnant lady do 'gymnastics' in a skin-tight neon catsuit at a Girl Guides theatrical show."This somehow led on to a discussion about eating placenta, which then led on to a discussion about other weird foods people had eaten – zebra, crocodile, kangaroo, ostrich, ox phalluses, lambs' testicles, etc.This then led onto[I'm not sure many of us are following anymore - Keef]'great breakfasts' and was swiftly rounded off with a debate over whether you should put brown sauce with egg. No firm decision was made.[Yes. Yes you should. But only Daddies, not HP – Keef]Love thy neighbourThis beautiful story came from Timthemonkey:"Myself &amp; herself were woken last night by the sounds of our upstairs neighbours' passionate lovemaking. Sadly this gave me the barely contained giggles and despite her best efforts, herself joined me. This continued for several minutes until he (who seemed to be enjoying himself a lot more than her) finished with an almighty cry of "YOU TAKE IT!!!!!!!" at which point our resolve cracked and we dissolved into mass hysterics. I look forward to seeing them on the stairwell again."Uncle3en later admitted to hearing, "an old-fashioned but equally odd GRRRRRRR! from the chap upstairs."  Makar27 suggested that (a la Gerald's Game from Stephen King) the woman was handcuffed to the bed and the man had a heart attack.Cruisin'Thursday spawned a discussion about Tom Cruise's acting skills with SageSmith6079 admitting that he'd re-watched The Last Samurai and quite enjoyed it, despite usually despising the man:"Cruise is the spitting image of a friend who has the worst case of small man syndrome I have ever witnessed. I imagine him wearing elevated-heel shoes and standing on boxes for kissing scenes."Some of the 'better' performances thrown into the ether were Top Gun, Collateral, Tropic Thunder and Mission Impossible 2 and 3. CatZilla even admitted to liking him in Platoon. Personally, I thought he was excellent in Braveheart.[Outsiders and Taps were clearly his best performances! – Keef]This inevitably led to a debate about Scientology, but I won't post what was repeated in fear of legal action or aliens abducting us and sucking our brains out.Farewell dear hamster…McBegbie was in a state of mourning on Friday due to his hamster – Dexter – passing away in the night. "Mrs McBegbie is still away so have yet to break the news."Many of the bloggers gave their condolences to McBegbie and suggested suitable funeral arrangements:PDMalcolm:"Surely a shoebox is too big for a hamster, he'd rattle around! A malteasers box is your only man."Milkncheese:"If burial is out, a visit to your nearest park with a pond is in order. Hamsters are ideally sized for an emotional Viking funeral. Invest in a good quality model boat and douse liberally in petrol.  Just keep an eye out for the parkie..."Fantomex:"The Norse funeral is certainly the one. Flaming boats all round. I fully intend to do this with my kids once I have them, and once a pet dies."HereComesTreble:"Why not have it stuffed?"Robotron2000:"Get some fireworks or one of those little rocket kits. First hamster into space. He would be so proud."Good sensitive advice. Well done folks.Favourite arcade machinesWhat would 'Best of' be without a good list to finish it off eh?  Boring – that's what.  Friday's list of choice was 'favourite arcade machines'. Here are a few choice cuts:Space HarrierGolden AxeOperation WolfNBA JamDouble DragonSega RallyDaytonaVirtua CopTeenage Mutant Ninja TurtlesGauntletGalaxians[Jambo Safari! Prop Cycle! Top Skater! House of the Dead! Star Wars! OutRun! – Keef]Ahhhh, such lovely nostalgic memories!  Fantomex even suggested "wandering 10 mins to the Trocadero" at the Saturday meat up for some arcade action. I suspect there would not be enough booze around though – particularly for TonyHayers.Also discussedFavourite fonts (don't mention Comic Sans to Fantomex).[Data 70! – Keef]Whether the person who cast Adrien Brody in Predators was on something.Disney songs (that was painful).Crocs and espadrilles – acceptable footwear?Fan fiction.Hog roasts.Quotes of the week"Chan even says to the kid he will teach him Kung Fu, yet the film is called The Karate Kid!"A good spot by Catzilla."I thought, being the most normal person on here, that I'd be surrounded by freaks, but I was pleasantly surprised by how few webbed hands I shook."Re: the pending blog meat-up – this was posted by a man with a forked tongue."The ultimate breakfast must surely be a wholemeal bap caked in brown sauce with Black pudding, crispy bacon, a poached egg (yes, I said poached) and the still beating heart of an employee from within my company's HR department.  It's only cannibalism if they're human."Catzilla on the other white meat."Oh sh*t BBC News has changed its look. It's horrible, I'm confused, can someone hold my hand?" "Quite. Its disconcerting. I'm comfortably over 30 now. I hate change in all its forms. Technology and progress can stop now, for all I'm concerned."VictoriousCupid and PhilosopherK1ng show just how much we dislike change.Other stuffGames:Demons' Souls, Monkey Island, Monster Hunter Tri, Blood Bowl, Red Dead Redemption, BlurFilms &amp; TV:Predators, Twilight, District 9, MongrelsWelcome to:Tattersail, GrizzlyDeer, Milkncheese (welcome back)And don't forget to check out:The Chatterbox wiki– for everyone's gamertags, clans and more!The Gamesblog Spotify play list– for great inspirational music!See you on Saturday at theGeorge Innfrom 3pm! Get there early if you want to say 'hello' to Keef!
The as-yet unreleased Windows Phone 7 is a "waste of time and money", a "disaster" that Microsoft should kill as soon as possible. So says Galen Gruman of Infoworld, who has watched an in-depth demonstration of the new phone software at Microsoft's Worldwide Partners Conference which has been going on all week at the company's headquarters in Redmond, Washington.Windows Phone uses a "contact-centric" approach, where rather than doing "tasks" (in the iPhone app way), you are presented generally with contacts, and informed when someone has done something (updated their Facebook/Twitter feed, called you, etc). My personal first impression of the screenshots was "that's really not going to scale to the point where you have 300 people in your contacts book and 20 Facebook friends and 50 emails and 100 people you follow on Twitter and 30 apps", but I thought that was just me not following the thinking behind it.But it looks like I may have been right.Gruman started the yearbeing impressed with early demos of Windows Phone 7- but that'sworn off in a big way."Announced to much bravado in February as the platform that would breathe life into Microsoft's mobile ambitions, Windows Phone 7 looked based on very early previews as if it might bring something new and exciting to the table. Back then, I noted thatI was impressed by what I saw-- with the caveat "so far.""No caveats now: Windows Phone 7 is a waste of time and money. It's a platform that no carrier, device maker, developer, or user should bother with. Microsoft should kill it before it ships and admit that it's out of the mobile game for good. It is supposed to ship around Christmas 2010, but anyone who gets one will prefer a lump of coal. I really mean that."Ouch. What's happened, Galen?"The early demos were intriguing due to the use of the card metaphor to organize apps and information, providing a possible fluidity among apps and information that would let users swim through their business and social activities. And the distinct UI -- though based on the unsuccessful Zune media player -- looked as if it would stand out from the crowd of mobile devices that have largely copied the iPhone UI, such as Google's Android, RIM's touch-oriented BlackBerry Storm, and Palm's WebOS."Hmm."But that was just the lipstick. Now, in Microsoft's in-depth demo this week at the Mobile Beat conference, there's no mistaking the big pig behind the gloss. Seeing the UI in action across several tasks, not just in a highly controlled presentation, shows how awkward and unsophisticated it is -- I had the same feeling you get when you got a movie based on a great trailer, only to discover that all the good stuff was in the trailer and the rest of the movie was a mess. A pig, in fact."There's plenty more; it's worth reading in depth. Gruman says that as well as resting on old technology, Windows Phone 7 is simply outdated:"The bottom line is this: Windows Phone 7 is a pale imitation of the 2007-era iPhone. It's as if Microsoft decided in summer 2007 to copy the iPhone and has shut its developers in a bunker ever since, so they don't realize that several years have passed, that the iPhone has advanced, and that competitors such as Google Android and Palm WebOS have also pushed the needle forward. Microsoft is stuck in 2007, with a smartphone OS whose feature checklist might match that era's iPhone but whose fit and finish would look like a Pinto next to a Maserati."Gruman went along to a presentation at WPC (which has been generally described as "lacklustre" - and certainly seems to have been much smaller than in previous years by all accounts) and was worried by what seemed like poor responses to the handful of outside developers who had come along.Arguably, WPC is not the place where you're going to find the hottest WP7 developers; it's more about geeing up the people who will resell Microsoft products. But the fact that only a few months short of the grand launch of WP7 it can't wow even developers for the platform sounds bad. Gruman's description of the presentation makes it sound like one of those uncomfortable events where the tumbleweed was always at risk of rolling past.And as for the "locked in a bunker since 2007" jibe - don't forget theKin,  which seems to have been the victim of political infighting at Microsoft, as the incoming developer team from Danger (which Microsoft bought to produce the Kin) found themselves mired in layers of management that effectively brought them to a dead stop.Read the full horror of it at the Mini-Microsoft blog(by a disaffected Microsoft manager, but the comments are from ex-Danger staff and others).Back to Gruman, who points to the flaws with the "tiles" method:"... the big tiles quickly eat up screen real estate (about four fit), so you don't get the compact access to apps that all the other major mobile operating systems provide. I bet this will depress app sales for those poor souls unlucky enough to get seduced by the Microsoft brand or the inevitable discounts at the cellular stores as the carriers try to dump these devices in January 2011 for $25 (shades of the unlamented Kin)."Plus, Microsoft has done its usual trick of gumming up the UI, even though this one is relatively simple. There are two ways to navigate through tiles: in panorama mode and in pivot mode. In both cases, the tile continues to the right, and you swipe to see more. In panorama mode, cut-off text on the right indicates there's more (at Mobile Beat, a developer asked if users knew what that cut-off text was for, and the Microsoft rep essentially admitted they didn't get it was a way to say "more"). In pivot mode, each tile is self-contained, and there is an icon to indicate there is more. It's a subtle difference: Using a panorama basically means the tile continues because it won't fit on screen, while using a pivot means you have a series of what are essentially pages. I bet developers and users will get confused very fast."Visions of Vista's litter of control panel dialog boxes, Microsoft Bob, the Office ribbon, Clippy, and Windows 3 flew through my head -- not that Windows Phone 7 looks like any of these; it just shares the same flaw of being obtuse."And that's only for starters. Other complaints: the browser, IE7 with a bit of IE8, doesn't support HTML5; there's no multitasking except for Microsoft's own apps (Android and, now, the iPhone both support cooperative multitasking by all apps); there doesn't seem to be interapplication communication for third-party apps; there'sno copy-and-paste(emphasis added) - even though Apple was roundly and rightly criticised for not introducing it until summer 2009, and Windows Mobile 6.1didhave it.Gruman says there's going to be no come-from-behind take-over-the-world for Microsoft if this doesn't succeed: RIM (prepping BlackBerry 6), Android, Apple and Nokia will all eat its lunch and dance on its grave.At this point, people usually begin an ad-hominem, to ask whether Gruman is biased or (sigh) in the pay of company X or Y. Judge for yourself from theInfoworld author bio and item list.Meanwhile, if anyone else has had a hands-on with Windows Phone 7 - via the developer kit or other methods - we'd love to hear about it. Good? Bad? Indifferent? What's it really like?
Despite proudly claiming in 2002 that "This page was generated entirely by computer algorithms without human editors. No humans were harmed or even used in the creation of this page", Google has rolled out a teaser for its new Editors' Pick section to itsGoogle Newssite – featuring the selections of real  human editors, outside of Google, selecting their special stories. Presently the current partners include The Washington Post, Newsday, Reuters, and Slate.Before:After:(pictures from Google).Officially, Google says: "At Google, we run anywhere from 50 to 200 experiments at any given time on our websites all over the world. Right now, we are running a very small experiment in Google News called Editors' Picks. For this limited test, we're allowing a small set of publishers to promote their original news articles through the Editors' Picks section."Even so, that meanshumans choosing news- not the normal Google News approach at all. So does this signal a change for how the site is run? Senior manager Chris Gaither of Google News was cautious in his response "I wouldn't read too much into this small experiment in terms of what it signals for the future".Google has been upgrading its news site over the past few months, with anoverhauled design(still to come to the UK site) which has taken into account user feedback, andFast Flip, for quickly browsing through stories on multiple sites. (There's not much evidence that Fast Flip has taken off though: it may be consigned to the same box marked "not used by many" as Google Wave.)The BBC has also recentlyredesigned its websitefor the first time since 2003, showing that the competition for news portals is hotting up.Having the eye and ear for picking out a good news story is impossible to implement into an algorithm. The current Google News algorithm searches the internet to find newly-published stories on major sites and uses past trends to predict future hot stories. But the algorithm can't tell whether a single item is important, relevant or even interesting; that only emerges when others follow its lead. Adding the human element might help uncover those stories that are presently missed by the machines at the early stage.
Say what you like about Peter Molyneux, the veteran British games designer is unsparingly honest about his mistakes. In his keynote at the Develop conference yesterday, he admitted that his epic RPG sequel Fable II, "had some terribly messy things about it":"As we always do in development, we rushed at the end. And you have this terrible phase, which we all know, where the world looks this beautiful with this many game features, and it slowly transitions into something less beautiful with less gameplay features, because you've got so many bugs. And on Fable II at one point we had about 67,000 bugs. The Microsoft test team rated us 'super black'. No-one had even been black before – they'd had red and orange and green. But we were super black and it was considered utterly impossible for anyone to come out of that. And that's why we had to scale down.But he wasn't finished there."And there were also huge design flaws in Fable II – we had a lot of game features that people just quite frankly didn't use, or just used once. A great example of that was getting married. It didn't mean anything, it didn't add anything to the game, it was just an excuse to have sex; people wanted to find out whether or not sex in Fable was going to be another Hot Coffee. That was a huge problem. There was this piece of research that came out which basically said, more than 50% of the people who played fable only used 60% of the game features. So 40% of the content in Fable II people didn't use."Molyeneux was at the event to run through a new demo ofFable III. Here, you play the son (or daughter) of the hero from Fable II, and must now usurp your evil brother for control of the kingdom of Albion. We'll run a proper preview soon, but things look very promising with a revised combat system (your weapons morph into new variations depending on your individual combat style), and a new visualised inventory: menus and sub-menus have been completely abandoned, in favour of explorable areas in which your items, clothing and power-ups are stored on screen. In the demo, we saw a vast cavern complex, and an icy mountainous forest area, both of which offered up a huge vista of navigable terrain. Certainly, whatever lessons Lionhead have learned from Fable II, they're not cranking down on the epic-o-meter. That Microsoft test team had better brace itself.
Block 61So that's it. Happy with what you've heard? Let us know below - remembering, of course, that it's only a phone. ;-)iPhone 4: no recall but free bumpers– "free" bumpers for iPhone 4 buyers through to September 30– No recall– Refund offered for those who want it– Jobs: return rate far lower than 3GS: 1.7% v 6%Block 607.27pm:Jobs says Apple "will evaluate" whether to extend the bumper offer beyond September 30, wrapping up with: "Okay, so I think this is it. I wish we could have done it sooner, but then you wouldn't have had anything to write about."Block 597.25pm:Jobs doesn't say how people posting his email exchanges to the web has changed his attitude towards engaging with customers, but advises: "Don't believe everything you read."Block 587.24pm:Hmmmm, Jobs: "The formula we use to calculate bars has been off since the beginning and the new update fixes that for the iPhone 4, 3G, and 3GS."Block 577.23pm:Interesting insight on the Apple business mentality from Jobs: "We didn't want to get into any business where we didn't own or control the primary technology - because if someone else owns it, they're going to beat you in the end."In the computer business, we thought software was the most important technology [...] We really made the whole process of being able to update your software an order of magnitude easier than it was before."So we've been able to frictionlessly distribute major updates for the software for the iPhone, continuously, and have been able to fix bugs, improve performance, add new features all for free. And everyone's copying Apple now, but we were the first ones to really do that in a practical way."Block 567.20pm:Jobs says Apple is "constantly asking" AT&amp;T about building more network towers in San Francisco and the bay area: "It's one of the toughest spots to get approvals," he says.Block 557.15pm:What kind of impact do you think this will have on the bottom line, asks Ben Parr from Mashable. "We'll be announcing quarter three results on Tuesday and will be giving guidance on quarter four, and we'll hold financial stuff until then."Block 547.14pm:Jobs: "We are way behind demand [for the iPhone 4]. Probably the only thing we've got more emails on other than this lately is customers who are upset that they have to wait for their iPhone 4."Block 537.12pm:Jobs hits out at apparent falsehoods in the media: "You like to talk to yourselves a lot. But they're just making things up," he says, referencing a New York Times article.Block 527.10pm:People who've been emailing Apple about iPhone woes have had engineers at their front door, in some cases, Jobs says: "We get email from people all over the world about issues. We're really serious about this. We try to figure this out."Mansfield adds: "For the record, we tell them we're coming first!"Block 517.07pm:"But not everyone is seeing this," reiterates Jobs. "A small number encounter it. For those customers we'll get them a case, and if that doesn't work, we'll get them a full refund."And we'll continue to work on antennas that don't have this problem. But I think we're where the rest of industry is right now."Block 507.06pm:Jobs reiterates the hardware problem that has blighted the iPhone 4 is an "industry challenge", saying they would like to be the first technology company to solve the issue. Straight away? "Maybe, we'll see."Block 497.04pm:Apple: "we were not innocents in this" but it's been blown so far out of proportion: "We painted a big target on ourselves. And that someone who had it in for us was going to put videos on their web site and say, do this. So we were not innocents in this."Apple's been around for 34 years. Haven't we earned the credibility and trust from some of the press to give us a little bit of the benefit of the doubt, of our motivations, the fact that we're confident and will solve these problems?"Block 487.02pm:Jobs: "We were stunned and upset and embarrassed by the Consumer Reports stuff that came out this week, but we didn't need that to tell us to take care of our customers."If we'd have done this [press conference] a week and a half ago, we wouldn't have had half the data that we shared with you today."Block 476.59pm:Jobs: "I got an iPhone 4 and reception in my house is way better, but I hold it like this a lot and I've never had a problem with it, so I'm thrilled. That doesn't mean other people don't have problems, but that's been my experience."Block 466.58pm:No refund of third-party cases, because "there's a very small number out there," say Apple.Block 456.53pm:Engadgetreportingthat Jobs called the Bloomberg piece "total bullshit"Jobs: "We're human. We make mistakes, and we figure it out fast. That's why we have the best and most loyal customers in the world."Block 446.51pm:Jobs, on what Apple could have done better: "We certainly could've shipped the phone with a better algorithm to calculate the bars, so it didn't look so dramatic."When you grip them in a typical way they lose some signal strength when you're in a low-signal area to begin with. The iPhone 4 seems no different."Block 436.49pm:AT&amp;T will be giving full refunds on contracts, confirm Apple. No word on the UK operators.Block 426.46pm:Jobs apologises to those who are having problems with iPhone 4 - and the investors? "To investors, you know, you invest in the company we are, so if the stock goes down $5, I don't think I owe them an apology."Block 416.45pm:Question on whether Jobs was told about the antenna problems earlier, Jobs said: "You're referencing the Bloomberg article, and it's a total crock. We talked to everyone about it."We have a great community of scientists. They debate everything. And it's healthy. The best ideas win. I'm sure in some corners of the antenna world that was debated hotly, but if anyone had said, look, this antenna has questions, we're concerned, we would have dispatched the right people and looked at it."Block 406.44pm:Masfield: "When you touch the phone, you put yourself between the signal and your phone, so when you touch that spot you can attenuate the signal, and if you grip it with your whole hand, you can attenuate it even more. We don't build phones with an antenna on top."Block 396.41pm:Jobs on a hardware re-think: "I don't know changing the antenna design would help – I don't know what our next antenna design will look like."That's a maybe, Steve?Block 386.39pm:Jobs: "We made it easy to exploit the issue by showing people where to hold the phone to cover the antenna. But the data supports the fact that the iPhone 4 is the best smartphone in the world, and there is no Antennagate..."Tim Cook and Bob Mansfield join Jobs on stage for the Q&amp;A.Block 376.37pm:"We take this really personally," says Jobs. "Maybe we should have a wall of PR people keeping us away from this stuff - but we don't, we take it really personally."So we've worked the last 22 days on trying to solve the problem. And we think we've gotten to the heart of the problem."Block 366.36pm:Jobs now reiterating Apple's "love" for its customers. Q&amp;A up shortly. That's it for iPhone 4 announcements at the moment, it seems.Bring on the questions.Block 356.33pm:White iPhone 4 released and regular iPhone 4 out in 17 more countries at end of July.Block 346.33pm:Full refund if you return undamaged iPhone 4 within 30 days of purchase.Software update for proximity sensor will be end of July.Block 336.31pm:Jobs: "Apply on Apple website starting late next week. Pick a case, zoom, we'll send it off to you. That simple."Block 326.31pm:"We recommend every iPhone owner update to last night's software upgrade," says Jobs.Every iPhone 4 buyer will get a free case - if you've already bought one, Apple will refund it, Jobs confirms.There's the first big announcement.Block 316.29pm:Jobs: "We think it's affecting a small batch, but it has to do with inherent problems in smartphones. But we want all of our users to be happy."I get emails saying the phone works perfectly, and they can't understand what this is all about."Block 306.27pm:Jobs: "When the 3GS came out, we didn't change the design from the 3G. So there were already lots of cases out there for the phone."More than 80% of new buyers left the store with a case. Now the new phone doesn't fit those cases, and we can't make these bumpers fast enough, so only 20% leave the store with a case - but we're going to figure it out."The free bumpers we've been waiting for?Block 296.26pm:iPhone 4 drops "less than one additional call per 100 than the 3GS", according to data from AT&amp;T that Apple have access to. "This does put it in perspective", says Jobs, who's about to give us his theory...Block 286.24pm:Early days: "return rates were 6% [for the iPhone 3GS] - below average, we were happy with that.""For the iPhone 4? 1.7% – less than a third of the 3GS returns", Jobs exclaims.Block 276.22pm:Jobs: "This is not a large number. [...] So smartphones have weaknesses, and AppleCare data shows only 0.55% have called in about reception issues. [...] Apple has the same thing. So what are our return rates? Well we're going to compare it to the iPhone 3GS..."Block 266.20pm:"Smartphones have weak spots [...] the percentage of all iPhone 4 users who have called AppleCare about this problem? 0.55%", claims Jobs.Block 256.19pm:"We knew you could see bars drop on the phone when you hold it in a certain way," says Jobs. "It's a fact, phones aren't perfect. But people are reporting better reception with this antenna than ever before".Block 246.17pm:It's a "challenge for the entire industry", says Jobs. "We screwed up our algorithm [...] we haven't figured out a way around the law of physics yet".Block 236.15pm:Also tested the Samsung Omnia II Windows Mobile, says Jobs, showing diagrams of various left-handed grips on various devices - will Jobs be introducing a new left-handed iPhone today? The iSouthpaw?Block 226.12pm:Wow - Jobs now showing demo of similar problems with BlackBerry Bold 9700 and HTC DroidBlock 216.11pm:We haven't had our heads in the sand, says Jobs: "We've been working our butts off for 22 days."Refers to the (ongoing) episode as "antennagate", saying the episode is not unique to the iPhone - it happens to lots of mobile devices.We ran our own investigations after seeing YouTube videos reporting problems, says Jobs.Block 206.09pm:Highest customer satisfaction of any iPhone or smartphone, says Jobs.Block 196.08pm:"We're not perfect. Phones aren't perfect", reads the backdrop to Jobs opening remarks. Now the sales figures...Block 186.07pm:We're in for a 15 minute presentation, Jobs says, with questions answered after.Block 176.06pm:The aforementioned (and embedded) iPhone antenna song is reportedly playing now - click to play and imagine you're there.Making light of the issue, nice style. Interesting change of tack.Steve Jobs is taking the stage - stay tuned.Block 166.02pm:Reporters filtering into the conference room as "smooth, smooth jazz" mellows all in attendance.Block 155.51pm:To lighten the mood, Reuters' Franklin Paultweets this pithy video:Block 145.45pm:Unusually, still no word on whether Jobs will front the conference. Or whether representatives (Jobs or otherwise) will take questions after the announcement(s).What do you think?Fifty-two per cent of Huffington Post readers (at time of writing) think Apple should recall the iPhone 4, according tothe site's snap poll.Block 135.38pm:Here we are then, let's be enlightened. Is it safe to imagine Apple, at its most contrite, offering an full apology and exchange deal? Will there be vouchers? How many times with Apple representatives utter the word "hardware"?All this and more remains to be seen. We'll have it here as soon as you can say "there will be no iPhone 4 recall"...Block 125.03pm:One hour to go. Anyone know what Jobs is doing right now? Will he, won't he?Dan Frommer of Business Insider seems to think so, as heforeshadows potential announcements to be made by the Apple chief:"Jobs will NOT announce a total recall of iPhone 4 devices, according to a source -- likely in Apple PR -- who spoke to the WSJ.Jobs may announce that the problem is fixable by a software update, not a hardware update.Jobs may offer some extra compensation to iPhone 4 buyers who feel wronged by the reception problems.Jobs may call some Apple engineers out on stage to explain why, other than the software glitch, the iPhone 4 antenna system is so awesome.Jobs may also distract us with something "big.""Block 114.33pm:Ninety per cent of Mashable readers think Apple has to do something to address issues with the iPhone 4,the technology site reports.With just under 90 minutes until Apple publicly reflect on a bad week for brand reputation, the majority of Mashable readers (43% of 3,505 polled users) think the technology company should offer a voluntary recall of the iPhone 4. Just under a third said Apple should give out free bumpers to all iPhone 4 owners.Block 104.11pm:Channel 4 news veteran Jon Snow has somesage advicefor Apple ahead of the 6pm "antennagate", as it's coming to be known:In the meantime, can we all imagine a world whereApple has acquired Palm?Block 93.32pm:Nik Fletcher, iPhone developer and sometime contributor to theUnofficial Apple Weblog, tells us he thinks today's conference will simply be to clear the air once and for all:"The problem with the iPhone 4 antenna story is that there's been very little evidence of people being so displeased with the phone that they'vereturned it."Whilst there's clearly issues with the device - I've been able to reproduce the issue when in areas of weaker reception - the polarising hype and potential pageview-driving linkbait surrounding any Apple news means that anyone who's anyone has an opinion on what Apple didn't (or should) do. There's plenty of anonymous sources 'not authorised to speak publicly about the matter', but reliable facts seem to be lacking in number."Speaking to non-techie folks, the perception of the iPhone 4 is weak - almost ridicule. Apple's job today is partly to ensure that anyone affected by the issue is able to reliably use the iPhone 4 however they choose, but most importantly (in Apple's eyes) to clear the perception that the iPhone 4 is a dud."Clearly, if the device isn't being returned then the people buying it either don't think it's a dud, aren't noticing the issue (or holding out for yesterday's iOS 4.0.1 software update - maybe even a free bumper case from Apple)."On today's announcement: "The announcement today will likely be a concise explanation from Apple, armed to the hilt with test results and other stats about the device. There'll be an acknowledgement that some folks have been affected, and some experts talking about the phone, but I'd be surprised if there's a great deal more than that."In terms of what Apple offers to those who are experiencing issue, I'm guessing a giftcard to the value of a Bumper case - nothing more. (It's worth remembering that the return period on the iPhone 4 has been extended, and the restocking fee dropped if people do choose that route)."Added into the mix is the iOS 4.0.1 update that arrived last night. I've not had a chance to fully test the update a great deal, however in my limited use the software update has noticeably increased the sensitivity of reception bars. In weaker areas I'm still seeing the reception cutting out - especially the phone's data connection - when holding the device in my left hand whereas my iPhone 3G continues to be impervious to any kind of death grip."Block 82.49pm:First senator Charles E Schumer, now Whoopi Goldberg - see the Sister Act star rail against her new iPhone 4. "There's no fix for it!" she exclaims...Block 71.43pm:More details filtering through about shortcomings now affecting iPhone 3G owners running iOS 4.0.1 software. Bluetooth, voicemail and Excel files all experiencing difficulties, according to theApple support comment threads.The Apple Toolbox (h/tasper84)  site hasa handy listof potential fixes for iPhone 3G owners. Not that they should need them -Apple sayingthe new software update is compatible with iPhone 4, iPhone 3GS and iPhone 3G...Block 612.44pm:Jason Jenkins, editor of technology siteCNET UK, gazes into his Apple-shaped crystal ball ahead of the 6pm conference:"My best guess is that Apple will acknowledge that there is a problem but say it's not that big a deal and talk about how they have millions of satisfied iPhone 4 customers. That won't be enough to put out the PR fire though, so I would also expect them to announce an extended refund period, whereby anyone can get a refund for an iPhone 4 if they are dissatisfied within a period of, say, 90 days. They could also announce they are giving away free bumpers (the £25 bit of plastic Apple sells that sits round the edge of the phone) to iPhone owners."That should be all that's required for this problem – it's really not that big a deal. Phone manufacturers have got away with much worse in the past without any of this fuss."The real problem is the damage to Apple's reputation. The company came across as dismissive and disinterested when the issue was raised, which was a surprise. It's normally very quick to move on anything as big as this. It's not been a great few weeks for Apple, and it's going to have to be contrite to turn the story in its favour."Block 512.17pm:Commenter pedrodelgadopointstothis - as yet unanswered - Apple threadtitled: "iPhone 3G slow after update to iOS4"Masterofspin earlier concurred,saying: "I loaded IOS4 onto my 3G and it's just not very good. The phone runs a lot slower and the animation is very jerky. Also the phone will cease to respond for a short period, perhaps 2s to 5s before catching up with itself. In short. And the battery life seems even worse than before. Rolling back to the version 3 software doesn't seem to be an especially easy thing to do either. What's frustrating was that before the upgrade, it was a very functional device. Now its just not."Another question for Apple to answer tonight?Block 411.45am:BBC News: users are reporting new issues with 3GS devices.As the iOS 4.0.1 update has fixed the methods of displaying signal strength in some iPhone 4 devices, it appears that a past update is causing older models to drop calls mysteriously:"At the same time some owners of the iPhone 3GS are reporting that an earlier update to the handset's operating system made their phone far more likely to drop calls. The dropped calls occur when the phone suddenly reboots during a conversation".The report doesn't make clear which software update caused this problem or whether it affects 3G or 4 devices. Plugging one hole as another appears? Have you updated? Let us know below...Block 311.30am:The clamour for a bigger software update/'iDuct' tape/anything just cranked up a notch: US Democratic senator Charles E. Schumer has written an open letter to Apple chief Steve Jobs,saying:"I write to express concern regarding the reception problem with the Apple iPhone 4. While I commend Apple's innovative approach to mobile technology and appreciate its service to millions of iPhone users nationwide, I believe it is incumbent upon Apple to address this flaw in a transparent manner."[...] The solutions offered to date by Apple for dealing with the so-called 'death grip' malfunction—such as holding the device differently, or buying a cover for it—seem to be insufficient. These proposed solutions would unfairly place the burden on consumers for resolving a problem they were not aware of when they purchased their phones."I also encourage Apple to keep its promise to provide free software updates so that bars displayed accurately reflect signal strength; I further urge Apple to issue a written explanation of the formula it uses to calculate bar strength, so that consumers can once again trust the product that they have invested in."Who's your UK political tip for jumping in? Tom Watson MP? Peter Mandelson?Block 211.20am:So we had a smart pre-emptive move from Apple late last night with the quiet release of the iOS4.0.1 software upgrade. But did it do the trick for you?For some, it appears to have solved the fundamental signalling problem:But for others, the problem remains:Block 110.48am:It must have been quite the week at Apple's Cupertino, California base. iPhone 4 woes have continued, the technology company set to explain all at today's crunch press conference.The much-maligned device has suffered fundamental problems with its mobile reception -growing uncertaintysurrounding a potential recall leading to a dip in Apple's share price and prompting more speculation over the future of the device.While experts look for a recall of devices, customers clamour for a simple fix. We expect to see one or the other at today's impromptu press conference. Seeking to gain the initiative, Apple last night released iOS 4.0.1 - a simple fix we've all being waiting for? All this and more remains to be seen.Stay with us for comprehensive coverage throughout the day ahead of the embattled technology company's6pm summit. Got news? Tip us off.
Load up Toy Story 3 and within moments you're barrelling on horseback through a hazardous canyon, dodging bright red projectiles fired by a pig in a pink spaceship. It's big and colourful fun that's hard to dislike.Sadly, it's not long before the cartoony action is undermined by frustrating level design and dodgy controls. Jumping over large gaps or firing at enemies is impossible to judge accurately with the fixed camera angle offered. Finish the stage through a combination of persistence and luck and the only satisfaction you'll feel is that you'll never have to play through it again.Thankfully this section is only a small part of a varied and commendably ambitious experience. A great deal of effort has been made to make it match up to the quality of its big-screen relation – with mixed results.Befitting the franchise's first seventh-generation release, you can't help but be struck on first impressions by how close the characters are to those you've seen on the big screen, both cosmetically and in their voices and movements. It really feels like you're entering the Toy Story world – the use of licence here is exemplary.Toy Story 3: Buzz hovers above a wild west townMuch critical attention has deservedly been paid to the game's open-world, Red Dead Redemption-like Toy Box mode. It's effectively Red Dead Junior, as your selected character wanders around an Old West-style toytown, helping out locals and unlocking new items and missions. This is a real departure from your standard licensed fare, and developers Avalanche deserve plaudits for trying something different.It's probably here where most of the game's longevity lies, but, while it may be ambitious, it's a poor relation to the games it's trying to imitate. Missions invariably involve searching for things – with no map offered, infuriatingly – or simple repetitive tasks.Meanwhile, as you progress through the story mode elements of the game, the control and camera problems persist – fundamentals for what is, for the most part, a 3D platformer. Regular checkpoints means you'll advance quickly, but not without dozens of deaths you'll blame on the programmer's shortcomings rather than your own.Toy Story 3: Buzz battles ZurgVariety above all else is the focus here: there's a stealth section, flying sections, racing sections – but nothing rises above the level of mediocre pastiche. It flits nicely between set pieces from the film and character-specific stages (such as Buzz Lightyear battling Zurg), and the amount of collectable items and unlockable content means there is a surprising amount of depth – but only for those who can overlook the game's flaws.Toy Story 3 is not without its charm and enjoyable moments, however, especially in multiplayer. Split-screen co-op is available throughout, and playing with a friend does make the aforementioned problems somewhat easier to swallow. It's aimed unapologetically at kids and fans of the series – so it's hard to criticise too harshly when it fails to match the Marios and Grand Theft Autos of this world.Still, you can't help but feel frustrated with a game that has so many good ideas, but executes most of them so poorly. With a bit more thought it could have been much, much better.
Sudden Time Capsule Death. Photo byjimmyroqon Flickr.Some rights reservedWe threw down the gauntlet, and within hours it was picked up - and the problem looks solved.We asked: given that we now have raw serial numbers for Apple's Time Capsule, can we work out how many were made - and so what the failure rate was?First to the barricades was James Firth, who looked at the serial numbers - where the recalled ones had the form 6F807xxxxxx - 6F814xxxxxx - and did his own analysis. We'll look at the failure rate at the end (but his analysis is worth reading).Over to James:"I first loaded all the serial numbers from TCMR into a database with a column for each of the 11 characters. A simple query gave me a count of the number of times each character was used in each field (thisresult available on Google docs)."The serial number contains digits 0-9 and letters A-Z, yet only the 7th and 8th characters in the serial number contain relatively even distributions of characters. I've highlighted that letters 'O' and 'I' don't appear to be used, which makes sense because they can easily be confused with zero and one respectively. A handful do appear in the data set but I've put that down to human error reading or inputting the data."My first assumption is that these 2 characters at position 7 and 8 form a counter usingbase 34 positional notation.  The maximum value that can be represented in this way is (34 x34)-1 = 1157."There's almost certainly a checksum contained in the serial number. Companies use checksums to ensure that customers haven't made a mistake when entering, and also as a first-level of validation. The uneven character distribution in character 11 is consistent with a checksum, given the structured nature of the first 10 characters making certain values of check-character more likely than others, and making some values impossible....."And now to my somewhat rusty maths and digit 6. I've concluded that this together with digits 7 and 8 form part of the counter, even though no character higher than a D appears. (There are 7 instances of 'S' which appears to be an anomaly I've put down to human error confusing the number 5 with the letter 'S') The character distribution is most interesting - it approximates to an exponential decay with 0 occurring in 34% of the sample, 1 in 21%, 2 in 11% and so on until C appears in only 0.45% of the sample and D in a mere 0.05%."My guess is that some batches (or runs) of units were bigger than others. Again, this makes sense since only after the product hits the market will the company get an accurate idea of the demand. Demand will dictate the size of the next factory run, and so on."From the distribution of the 6th character - the most-significant "digit" in the 3-digit base-34 counter - it's possible tocalculate an "average" batch size of approximately 3,900 units[Emphasis added - CA]."To recap: for the challenge we're considering serial numbers 6F807NNNXXX to 6F814NNNXXX, where N represents a base-34 digit and we're probably not interested in the Xs. Because it appears as though we're only dealing with 8 batches there's going to be a reasonably high degree of uncertainty if because of my use of the average batch size of 3,900 - it's possible or indeed likely that batch sizes will be part of a longer-term trend."Round of applause for James, I think. So his final total for the total number of devices made (and presumably sold) in the recalled batch set:32,000 units.(Though that's slightly larger than 8x3900 = 31,200; he's sayingaveragebatch size, and allowing for some extra.Out of that batch of batches, there were at least2261which failed (they'rein the TCMR database). The TCMR database also had 82 entries without serial numbers; if we assume that the failures also fell into the batch range by the same ratio as the rest (ie 93.5%), then you'd expect another 76 in that total, which is 2,337 failed units.That means that your chances of buying a bad Time Capsule, if you were offered them randomly from those batches (which filtered through to shops in April to September 2008, or slightly after), and of it failing around the 19-month marks was2337/32000 = 7.3%, or slightly worse than 1 in 14. Of course, the TCMR only recorded machines that were notified to it - so the failure rate was surely ratherhigher(because we're fairly confident about the number of devices manufactured).For the wider range at the TCMR, which goes from 6F807xxxxxx (assuming a couple of errors) up to 6F949xxxxxx, Firth's analysis suggests that Apple sold 143 x 3,900 = 557,700 units. That sounds like quite a lot, frankly. Note that Firth suggests there could be smaller batches, so we should probably take that as the upper limit.And outside the "recall" range, TCMR recorded 156 failures with serial numbers; but we're also allocating the non-serialed failures, so add another 8 to give 162.In that time, Apple made (and we presume sold) 557,700 - 32,000 =237,700525700(corrected)units. Of those, 162 failed: that's a failure rate of162/237,700 = 0.5%162/525,700 = 0.03%. A much more healthy, and reasonable rate - although again, that's going to be the low estimate, because TCMR won't have been told about every failure.So there you have it: we have a good handle on how many were made, and what the real failure rate was for the bad batch, and for the good ones. Clearly, Apple was right to refund/replace the failed ones. The question still remains of whether it should do that for other failed devices - given that the failure rate of the bad ones was 250 times higher.Obviously, we welcome anyone else who's got an analysis of the serial numbers and what they tell us about sales - but we do think that a base-34 system (24 letters of the alphabet, excluding O and I, plus 0-9) sounds highly likely. It may also apply to all other Apple gear - which would give us a clue about sales of all sorts of other products too.Congratulations again to James Firth: if he finds himself transported back to World War II, he'll know to turn up at the War Office and offer to help them find out how many tanks have been built....Previously:&bull;How many Time Capsules did Apple sell - and how many failed?&bull;Digging deeper into Apple's Time Capsule failures&bull;Apple finally admits problems with Time Capsule and offers replacement&bull;What's killing Apple's Time Capsules after 18 months?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Probablythe Akai MPC4000 beat machine, because it's the machine that got me doing my own beats and producing new and different styles of music.When was the last time you used it, and what for?A few months ago, for a song called Mad. The Akai machine is very exposed on that track.What additional features would you add if you could?There is an MPC5000 that has a bigger screen, and you can see the wave as you hit the beat, so I'd like that. But apart from that, I'd make it smaller. It's quite big, and takes up a lot of space. So, maybe all the same features it has, but on a smaller one.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, because there's beat machines from 10 years ago that people are now using. They're going on eBay for lots of money, so these things really hold their value.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Probably the fact that we rely on it too much.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Probably a PC. I hate PCs, and I hate using the mouse. It's gotta be a good five years now since I bought a Mac, and never looked back.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I'm not really a guy that sits down and reads the manual on how to get started, so I would say to learn from someone who already knows how to use it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm definitely not a nerd … but maybe I'm a bit of a nerd when it comes to music and lyrics and things like that. Other than that, I'm definitley not a nerd. I wish I was, though.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my Mac Powerbook, which cost me about £1,800. I don't think I've ever paid any more than that for a piece of kit.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, definitely a Mac. I think it works much better and it looks much better.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't agree with any form of butler, so definitely not a robot one. It's lazy, so a bad idea.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Probably a 3D TV. I'm waiting to see if that's any good before I buy one.•London Town, the new album fromBritish rapper Kano, is out now
In yesterday's instalment, the trio discussed the influences behind World of Warcraft and how the design process has changed to cope with the emergent activities of the players. Today, we cover the evolution of the game and the future of the MMORPG genre.I've heard balancing an MMOG being compared to the beat of a butterfly's wings in chaos theory – you tweak one tiny stat somewhere and suddenly there are ramifications across the gameGreg Street:Yes, it really does feel like an ecosystem sometimes. A slight perturbation in one slot can have unintended consequences. And then things evolve over time and you have players trying out things you never would have thought of, or thought they could do, and suddenly they make it work. It's fun, you learn a lot and it surprises sometimes. WoW is very hard to control, it's often running off on its own. We try to influence it, but I don't pretend for a moment that we have it captured!And there's also a sort of Darwinian element to how game aspects change over timeGS:Yeah, it very much works like natural selection: good ideas will expand, and things we don't give a lot of attention to will whither away and die. For example, rogues being able to unlock chests is something we've neglected for so long that it's just not a major part of the game any more.So do you find yourself rediscovering game elements that you'd forgotten about?GS:Oh, all the time! We'll be messing with a class spell balance or something like that and then we'll go, "ah wait, people are using that spell, they've rediscovered it! It's really important!" They'll also find old items that we've forgotten about. It'll be like, "hey this item has a chance on hit to cause a stun". And the item stats alone aren't worth it, but the stun is so powerful they'll continue to use this level 40 item when they're level 80.There was the notorious sword that caused magic damage rather than physical damage, which we didn't think would be a big problem, but then when you think more about it, you realise how powerful that might be because it bypasses armour, and breaks all of our rules. That was enormous. It's hard, especially as I'm the person who's expected to know more about the class part of the game than, not only any one player, but also the entire community combined. It's impossible. It's easy to forget stuff. And then they're merciless when you publicly display your lack of knowledge.Do you think people tend to choose classes or races that fit with their own personalities? Is there a psychological angle to these choices?GS:Absolutely. There are definitely certain types of players who gravitate toward certain types of character. The guy who wants to be the hero, to come in and save the day, that's often a paladin; the guy who wants to cause grief to other players, they'll be a rogue, they'll hide and get someone as they go pass; the mage wants to be a loner, but still very useful. Also, when presenting bad news you need to do it in different ways – for a rogue you can present it very mathematically, because they like to number crunch a lot. Paladins have often felt oppressed, very defensive, so they want you to take their feelings into consideration. You go through a lot of, well, I feel your pain, I know what it's like to get nerfed! It's huge generalisation, but those archetypes often come out.So back to Cataclysm specifically, what will veteran WoW players get out of it?Cory Stockton:I think the biggest thing overall will be the guild advancement system, the idea that you'll be able to do new things with the guild that advance you as a group. That's a big new thing for WoW. It's always been, "well, we're going to work together on this raid to kill this boss" and then just five people get the loot out of those 25. Now, you're going to see something like, we're all going to work together to get our guild to level, and then every single person gets the reward for the achievement. You'll see everyone helping each other out. In terms of the game experience, I think that's going to have the biggest impact.Do you think you will keep supporting WoW with new expansion packs while there's still a reasonable audience, or do you see a definite narrative end to the series?Tom Chilton:That's a very good  question and I don't really know the answer. At some point there probably will be an end to WoW, but I think we're far away enough from it, that I don't have a clear vision of what that will be like. For the time being we think more in terms of 'what would make the game fun to keep playing?' or even to start playing.So it's not like Lost? You didn't have a last scene written form the outset?TC:No!How about expanding WoW beyond the PC? There's a lot of talk about cross platform games that take in PC, mobile and console – is that part of your future?CS:That's something we're really interested in – and you can see the beginnings of that with theRemote Auction Houseon iPhone, which just came out. We've been beta testing that for six months in the office and I love that concept. I'd like to see us go further – I'd like to be able to talk to my guild mates, or what if I could check my bank? And we have a dedicated mobile division here at Blizzard that's working on stuff like that. That's definitely a direction we're moving in.Will we ever have an MMOG that presents players with a single open world and which allows all participants to live and play in that same environment together?TC:Partly, that's a technological question – what happens when we have a server that can support 10,000 people or 50,000 or 100,000 people simultaneously? And then there are the gameplay implications. The game world that we create for WoW can only support a certain number of people in the same place before the gameplay experience becomes degraded. If you're all competing against the same quest monsters, it isn't a lot of fun when there are 1,000 players standing around waiting to whack every single one. So there's only so much that the actual content can support.So if you were to build a game to be the way you're describing, you'd have to design the content in a way that would expect that – and that can have a lot of weird implications for how you make the game. It's also very difficult to make predications about how many people are going to play a game. So if you set out to create a world that could support a million players, how does that world feel when only 100,000 people show up to play? The experience they have might not be as good as you were expecting because you thought there were going to be a million.But are these things that you're looking into?TC:Yes.Are they areas you're thinking about for your next generation MMOG?TC:These are absolutely areas that we're thinking about, and the difference we're talking about here, is that sometimes when people refer to that type of game they're actually talking about sandbox games, where it's more that the player's impact on the world is what's creating the content for everybody else versus us creating the content on a first hand basis and entertaining the players. Those are two very different approaches to styling the game design. From a Blizzard philosophical perspective, we've found that, generally speaking, with the sandbox games, they're very interesting from a study standpoint, but when it's the masses of players that are creating the content and creating the fun for other people, the quality that you're getting, the predictability of how good it is, goes way down, because it's just a lot of people doing random stuff you can't control.So what ARE you looking at for the next era?TC:It's too early to make any announcement about that, but sandbox gaming is something we look at and explore and think about a lot. There are good elements of these styles of games that we'd like to integrate.
Built to self-destruct. Photo byMike Licht, NotionsCapital.comon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe CSI Horatio 4 pane comic meme generator with hosting &gt;&gt; KarolinagamesCome on, you must be able to do one with your favourite tech joke involving David Caruso in his CSI:Miami role.Media and brand statistics from the 2010 World cup infographic &gt;&gt; SimplyzestyWe can't see Paul the Psychic Octopus anywhere on it. What sort of infographic is that?Droid X actually self-destructs if you try to mod it &gt;&gt; TechcrunchBut it's Android! It's open! Isn't it?The Trouble at Twitter Inc &gt;&gt; GawkerSuggesting that someone other than Evan Williams - to be precise, COO Dick Costolo - is being prepped up for the chief exec job. Trouble in paradise?TaxPayers Alliance on Speed &gt;&gt; Letting Off SteamAnalysing the Taxpayers' Alliance daft analysis of road traffic accident statistics. "[By the TPA analysis] If it weren't for those darned speed cameras casualty rates would have fallen to zero deaths per km by about 2012, and would continue into the negatives where new people spontaneously appear in places where there used to be accidents."Fake - Mac OS X Web Browser Automation and Webapp Testing Made Simple &gt;&gt; Fakeapp.comMy new favourite app: developed by Todd Ditchtendorf, formerly at Apple, who decided there wasn't something like this around so he should invent it.Selenium web application testing system &gt;&gt; SeleniumhqTest websites remotely in various languages. Multiple platforms, multple browsers.PC rebound continues with growth over 22%, says IDC &gt;&gt; DigitimesPC days are here again. World share: HP, Dell, Acer, Lenovo, Toshiba and Asustek are the top 5 (the last two tied in fifth place). US share: HP, Dell, Acer, Apple, Toshiba.Firefox security test add-on was backdoored &gt;&gt; NetcraftNot good. "The rogue Mozilla Sniffer add-on was included in the Web Application Security Penetration Testing collection. This set of tools is popular within the security community, as it simplifies the process of discovering vulnerabilities in web applications.However, using the Mozilla Sniffer add-on would have introduced an unexpected vulnerability in any application being tested — whenever a login form was submitted, the add-on secretly sent a copy of the URL, password and other details to an IP address presumably controlled by the malicious author."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The lesser-known half of the duo that created the Microsoft technology empire, Paul Allen, has pledged to hand at least half of his estimated $13.5bn (£8.8bn) fortune to charity, taking up a philanthropic challenge laid down by his one-time business partner, Bill Gates.Allen, who is rated by Forbes magazine as the world's 37th richest person, yesterday announced that "the majority" of his estate would ultimately be left to philanthropic causes, with an emphasis on funding not-for-profit scientific research.His declaration came a month after Gates and fellow billionaire Warren Buffett launched a campaign dubbed the "giving pledge" that urges America's richest individuals to commit half of their fortunes to charitable causes.Gates and Buffett have pooled much of their own money into the Gates Foundation, which targets diseases in developing countries.The philanthropic pledge is a rare public statement by 57-year-old Allen, who stepped down from Microsoft in 1983 after being diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease and has recently endured chemotherapy to overcome a fresh battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.Allen said he was making his intentions clear to coincide with the 20th anniversary of his own family foundation."I want to announce that my philanthropic efforts will continue after my lifetime," said Allen."I've planned for many years now that the majority of my estate will be left to philanthropy to continue the work of the Foundation and to fund non-profit scientific research."Still resident in Microsoft's hometown of Seattle, Allen developed a reputation for enjoying the trappings of wealth as his stake in the software company exploded in value.Allen owns one of the largest private yachts in the world, a vessel named Octopus, which is often moored in Monte Carlo. He once dated the tennis star Monica Seles and he bought his hometown American football team, the Seattle Seahawks, in 1997.A science fiction fan, Allen owns the chair occupied by Captain Kirk on the bridge of the Starship Enterprise in the movie series Star Trek.The push to get billionaires to donate more of their money to charity began in earnest in May last year when Buffett and Gates quietly organised a summit meeting on philanthropy, discreetly held at a university in New York, to pitch the idea of their giving pledge.Those present included Oprah Winfrey, the media mogul Ted Turner and the currency speculator George Soros.
The battle to close Britain's broadband divide suffered a blow today when the government pushed back the UK's target foruniversal access to high-speed networksby three years.Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary, said that it was not practical to meet the previous government's target of universal broadband coverage by 2012 – a commitment he had previously dismissed as "paltry". Instead, Hunt said it would take until 2015 before every home in Britain had at least a 2Mbps (megabits per second) connection.Speaking at the start of an industry day that was meant tofind solutions to Britain's broadband coverage problems, Hunt claimed the previous government had not funded its 2012 commitment properly."I have looked at the provision the government had made to achieve this by 2012. And I'm afraid that I am not convinced that there is sufficient funding in place," Hunt told a gathering of telecoms operators. "So, while we will keep working towards that date, we have set ourselves a more realistic target of achieving universal 2Mbps access within the lifetime of this parliament."Sebastien Lahtinen of telecoms site Thinkbroadband.com, described Hunt's move as a shock and a "significant setback for rural broadband users".Jillian Pitt, broadband expert at Consumer Focus, said the decision was a blow. "Often people living in these remote communities are amongst the most disadvantaged in our society, so there is also a wider issue about suppliers ensuring that broadband is not only available, but also affordable," she said.At present, 99% of homes can get some form of broadband connection but about 11% – or 2 million homes – cannot get speeds as high as 2Mbps. This limits their ability to use bandwidth-intensive services such as video streaming and television-on-demand. About 160,000 rural and remote households still cannot get any form of broadband, more than 10 years after the first services were launched.Labour had assigned about £250m from the digital switchover fund to pay for its universal service obligation. It had alsoplanned to introduce a 50p-per-line levyon all phone lines to fund the rollout of superfast networks in rural areas, but this tax was shelved before the election and thenabolished by George Osbornein June's budget.Hunt's message to the telecoms industry was that it was essential that the next generation of broadband networks, which offers speeds upwards of 40Mbps, were made available to "virtually every household". He wants Britain to have the best superfast broadband in Europe by 2015.However, the government also expects the communications sector to take the lead, even though companies such as BT have warned that it is not economically viable to extend superfast broadband across the whole country.BT Openreach's chief executive, Steve Robertson, has predicted that £2bn of state funding would be needed to achieve universal fibre-optic coverage in the future, and avoid a new divide in the future between those who can get the fastest services and those who cannot.Hunt, though, said that innovative solutions were the answer. "I don't want to hear about how to roll out a fibre-optic pipe to every home in Wales," said Hunt, who suggested the water mains and sewers could be opened up if this would cut the cost of building new networks.He also conceded that commercial operators could not solve the problem alone. "There is market failure now so I believe there will be market failure in the future, but I would be incredibly pleased to learn that this is not the case."BT has committed to spending £2.5bn to extend its new fibre network to two-thirds of homes, but has warned that it cannot go further without government support.Broadband is an important subject for many politicians, especially those whose constituencies are riddled with blackspots.Rory Stewart, Conservative MP for Penrith, suggested that telecoms operators should be given access to networks run by state bodies such as the Ministry of Defence, the NHS or the education sector.Caroline Spelman, the environment secretary, said that this idea would raise security issues, but agreed that public-private partnerships could be set up to make better use of public infrastructure.The government also said today that it would start three trials of super-fast broadband networks in rural areas this autumn. These pilots should identify ways of bringing broadband to areas where it is not economically viable – through partnerships, funding support, or by relaxing legislation.Martha Lane Fox, the UK's digital champion, also attended the industry day. She said it was essential that Britain achieved universal broadband coverage at 2Mbps as soon as possible. "I know fibre rollout is important, but I personally think we can do a lot by hitting the universal service commitment," she said.
Tens of millions of Indian mobile-phone users could gain a gateway to the internet through a cloud-based service developed by Hewlett-Packard's research division in the country.HP Labs'SiteOnMobileallows access to the internet using only SMS text messages and voice commands – potentially opening it to India's 600 million users of mostly low-end mobile phones. By issuing commands to so-called TaskLets – the servers of which are based in the cloud – users can perform tasks such as checking the status of an order, requesting a quotation or booking a doctor's appointment.Sudhir Dixit, director of HP Labs India, said SiteOnMobile aims to fill a void left by the high cost of mobile bandwidth and relatively low levels of tech literacy."We felt people consume a lot of content – the newspaper market here is booming, for example – and people are very interested, but they don't know how to consume it" Dixit said. "So we asked how to simplify web access for mobile users – how can we get these mobile users to access the web?"That was the biggest challenge we faced, we felt the fastest way would be to use SMS and voice. The web, as we approached it, should be not of pages but of tasks – you go to the web because you want to want to accomplish a task."SiteOnMobile allows website owners to quickly and easily build applications around these TaskLets, potentially expanding their reach from 60 million registered internet users to more than 600 million mobile phone users,HP says.Dixit adds: "In countries like India and Africa, where as a business owner I have a website but the folks that have the PCs are the only ones that can access my website – now I can generate more business for myself with a bigger mobile market."The product does not yet have a long-term business model, but Dixit is confident of its commercial potential – he suggests partnerships between mobile networks, small business owners and HP. Three companies are currently testing the product.
The government's decision topush back the target for universal 2Mbps broadband until 2015has disappointed some in the communications industry.Jillian Pitt, broadband expert at Consumer FocusWe welcome such a high-level commitment from the government to ensure that broadband reaches rural and remote areas so that everyone can reap the huge benefits being online can bring.We are, however, disappointed that the timetable to provide a universal 2Mbps broadband connection has been pushed back to 2015. Also, the coalition agreement itself acknowledged there are areas where the market alone will not reach. We would like to see a clear government plan on what happens when this is the case. We would like to be reassured the estimated £250m under-spend from the digital switchover budget will be enough to tackle this issue.Often people living in these remote communities are amongst the most disadvantaged in our society, so there is also a wider issue about suppliers ensuring that broadband is not only available, but also affordable.Sean Royce, commercial and finance director at KC, the Kingston-based operatorIt is encouraging to see the government collaborating with industry to improve the telecommunications network in the UK but its target for universal broadband access is nowhere near ambitious enough. We believe there is a business case for broadband providers to deliver universal access and we would welcome greater pressure from the government to ensure they make the necessary investments.Today KC provides 2Mbps or more to 98% of our network area and we have taken the lead in committing to the provision of at least 2Mbps across our entire network, including the most rural locations, by March next year – well ahead of the government's target which has now been pushed back until 2015. We also believe broadband providers will need to go much further than 2Mbps if we are to transform UK plc and make applications like tele-health and high definition on-demand TV a reality.Ian Thomas, director of strategy development at Cable&amp;Wireless WorldwideThere is little doubt that the UK's public broadband network lags behind those found in many comparable economies. However, a clear distinction must be drawn between consumer broadband networks and networks designed specifically for the use of businesses. A lot of the analysis of the state of broadband in this country blurs this distinction and, therefore, draws incorrect conclusions. When it comes to enterprise broadband networks, the UK is actually one of the world leaders.In order to roll out 2Mbps broadband across the country, innovative solutions are called for, such as our recent Wide Area Network (WAN) implementation, which delivered broadband access to the rural Scottish Highlands and Islands.By looking at the business networks on offer today, those involved in the country-wide rollout will get a better understanding of the technologies and service levels that will be required to provide consumers with data-rich applications and services that will be the envy of the world.
The iPhone 4, Apple's Vista? Photograph: Eric Thayer/ReutersKevin Turner, Microsoft's chief operating officer, took aim squarely at theiPhone 4's problemsina speech yesterday."One of the things that I want to make sure that you know today is that you're going to be able to use the Windows Phone 7 and not have to worry about how you're holding it to make a phone call," he told Microsoft's Worldwide Partner Conference, adding: "It looks like iPhone 4 might be their Vista."Certainly, Apple chief Steve Jobs could be said to have invited hubris with hisfulsome descriptionof the iPhone 4's antenna layout, now reckoned to be a key source of the problem.But what else has Turner had to say about Vista – about which he's now apparently so dismissive? Looking back at his speeches, he seems to have thought it was a great idea.Just before it was demonstrated live on stage at the Microsoft Small Business Summit in 2007, hesounded enthusiastic: "I'd really like John Stroiney to come up and really help me demonstrate for you Windows Vista, Microsoft Office, and Office for Small Business 2007, because when you see these products, and the innovation in these products, I think you'll be as excited as I am."He certainly liked it afterwards: "You know, you saw a lot of functionality, and you saw a lot of ease of use that we put into that technology, and a great user interface, and all the different things. Windows Vista and the 2007 Office System is about safe, secure, a great experience, and improving your productivity."His mood had apparently changed by April 2009,ahead of the launch of Windows 7: "The toughness, the tough launch that we had with the release of Vista was very brutal. The first 18 to 24 months in market was tough. Why was it tough? Because we locked that product down to fix a lot of the security problems."And he added: "The reason that Windows 7 will be successful is because of the pain we took on Vista."So on that score, will Apple's soon-to-be-available iOS4.1 software update be it's Windows 7, the "number one product [they've] ever put out from a quality standpoint"?Or, possibly, it's just dangerous to make comparisons with products that you once feted.
Apple has bought the online mapping firm Poly9, according to a report by Canadian newspaperThe Sunwhich says Apple recently bought the Quebec-based firm and moved all but two of its employees to its Californian headquarters.Though Apple has not confirmed the deal, it follows last year's purchase of Google Maps competitor Placebase, indicating Apple is stepping up its mapping technologies to challenge the dominance of Google's products. Apple currently uses Google Maps as the default, native mapping tool on the iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad, but could use a service based on Poly9 to replace this.Poly9 has previously produced maps APIs for Apple, as well as rivals Microsoft, Yahoo, MSNBCanda touch ofChristmas magicfor for Norad, the US aerospace defence agency. Its products include the cross-browser, cross-platform, download-free, 3D Poly Globe - essentially a Google Earth competitor that also collects location and altitude data from the user.From Google's expandingmusic servicesto indications that Apple will block Google's advertising services fromiAd, it's looking increasingly hostile between the two.
