A landmark legal ruling ordering a woman to pay &#163;10,000 in damages for defamatory comments posted on an internet chatroom site could trigger a rush of similar lawsuits, a leading libel lawyer warned today.Michael Smith, a Ukip activist who stood for the Portsmouth North seat last year, became the first person to win damages yesterday after being accused of being a "sex offender" and "racist blogger" on a Yahoo! discussion site.Mr Smith, 53, from Fareham in Hampshire, sued Tracy Williams, of Oldham, for comments posted after she joined a rightwing online forum in 2002.Judge Alistair MacDuff said in the high court that Ms Williams was "particularly abusive" and "her statements demonstrated that ... she had no intention of stopping her libellous and defamatory behaviour".The judge ordered Ms Williams never again to repeat the "unfounded" defamatory remarks, which included calling Mr Smith a "nonce" and accusing him of sexual harassment.Although ISPs have paid out for hosting defamatory comments, this case is thought to be the first time an individual has been found to have committed libel on a internet chat site."The obvious and immediate potential ramification is that there will be more cases like this," said Richard Shillito, a partner at the law firm Farrer &amp; Co. "One sees on these sites particularly unrestrained comments that people make in the heat of the moment without thinking of the legal consequences."A lot of people post anonymously but it is possible to find out people's identity. I think people should read this judgment as a warning to be more careful about their comments."Mr Smith, a chartered surveyor, said Ms Williams' initially "innocent enough" views hardened after they expressed vastly different opinions over the Iraq war. Together with another chatroom user, who settled for &#163;12,500 out of court with Mr Smith, they began a campaign of words against him and his family."That is when it started getting out of control. I was called a lard brain and a sex offender and my wife was called a prostitute," Mr Smith said.Believing he had been libelled, Mr Smith and his solicitors obtained a court order to force the telecommunications company NTL to hand over Ms Williams' personal details. When she failed to provide a defence, they obtained a summary judgment."I'm happy with the judge's ruling, but firms hosting online chat rooms should be prepared to get involved and step in to moderate defamatory statements. I considered suing Yahoo! but their discussion board is hosted in the US and falls outside UK law."I contacted them many times and all they suggested was that I talk directly with the moderator of the forum. It wasn't until a lot later that they agreed to remove the offending posts from the site."The best way forward would be to make it possible to sue for small amounts through the county courts. At the moment you end up in the high court and that makes it very expensive." The former Conservative party member said he agreed with the judge that the comments would have been seen only by a restrictive audience, probably just the 100 or so members of the discussion.Despite using the name MikeUKPO53EX, the other debaters logged into the chat room could still discover his profile and details by clicking onto his name. Mr Smith said he would pursue Ms Williams for the damages and to recover his costs, bankrupting her if necessary.The judge said Ms Williams must not repeat the defamatory remarks, or in any way suggest Mr Smith is a sexual offender, a sexual deviant, a Nazi or a racist or having any such tendencies.In 2000, the internet service provider Demon agreed to pay Laurence Godfrey &#163;15,000 plus legal costs after allegedly defamatory postings about him appeared in newsgroups.Dr Godfrey alleged that the company failed to remove defamatory material. Demon argued the case could affect the entire ethos of free speech on the internet.Yahoo! was not immediately able to comment.
Get chatting.
I should have blogged about this two days ago, but when someone sent me a link tothis story about Microsoft developing an iPod/PSP killerI assumed they were referring to Origami and ignored it. That's what happens when you take three days off after a horrendous deadline - you slip from the loop so completely that you idiotically mistake news of a pocket PC that features cutting edge multimedia capabilities with... a, erm, handheld entertainment device that may well feature cutting edge multimedia capabilities.So - just in case you missed it as well - according to Mercury News and others, Microsoft wants to dominate the handheld entertainment sector and has put Xbox evangelist J Allard in charge of the project. The company must be feeling confident at the moment. It has, after all, just announced that the Xbox Live Marketplace has dealt withten million transactions- "a download rate even faster than the iTunes Music Store,"commentsSlashdot. Butanother'desirable' handheld device? I'm not sure my pockets can cope.What doyoumake of it all?
Two highly contrasting pieces on how games affect behaviour have turned up this week. First, Sims creator Will Wright has writtena rousing editorialfor Wired in which he celebrates the creative thinking engendered by videogames, and how this generation are learning differently because they've grown up in front of PCs and consoles. From the article:"In an era of structured education and standardized testing, this generational difference might not yet be evident. But the gamers' mindset - the fact that they are learning in a totally new way - means they'll treat the world as a place for creation, not consumption. This is the true impact videogames will have on our culture."Did that make you feel all sunny and positive? Checkthisstory on Rawfeed.com. Turns out that American soldiers in Iraq are excelling at using remote-controlled weapon systems, because they've grown up playing games:"CROWS (Common Remotely Operated Weapons Systems) - which are big guns manned remotely by someone inside an armored vehicle with a joystick and live cam - have proved highly successful in Iraq because the soldiers operating them grew up playing (presumably first-person shooter) VIDEO GAMES. Experienced gamers have no difficulty gaining total situational awareness and whipping around the video camera on the guns, spotting hints of trouble and blasting anything that moves."Indeed,this articlesuggests that, not only are soldiers better at using certain weapons because of their videogame experience, the weapons themselves could even have beeninspiredby in-game arms.Games change the way people think and act - that's the shared message. Make of it what you will, but the new ideas generated by a gaming society aren't all going to fit into Wright's interesting but rose-tinted vision. Creativity, as we have always known, is amoral.
(Deep breath.) Bicycle helmets. This is a subject I have avoided until now. But prevarication can take you only so far, and now it's bothering me like a squeaky chain. So what's the problem, you ask - surely wearing a helmet equals safer cycling? Isn't it a no-brainer? Sadly, nothing is so straightforward.As we pedalled out into the Surrey Hills early on Sunday morning, my clubmate Ben told me about a spectacular crash he'd had in a race last year. (If you race, helmets are compulsory.) "My helmet split in half like a walnut," he said - but he walked away from the spill. I've shattered a helmet myself this way. I had to stay in hospital overnight for observation, but I'm in no doubt that my helmet saved me from serious concussion or worse. So I generally keep the habit of wearing a helmet at all times. But Ben just had a woolly hat on.Unless you race, whether or not you wear a helmet is up to you. A few countries have made them compulsory, notably Australia - with mixed results, the main effect being to reduce the number of people who cycle. One study even found that the reduction in head injuries was less than the decline in cycling. This is only to be expected since all the evidence says that cyclists are safer in numbers. In Holland, for example, a quarter of all journeys are done by bike and the average person pedals more than 10 times further per year than we do; yet the Dutch record only twice as many cycling fatalities.The most vociferous pro-helmet lobby is the medical establishment. I have some sympathy, since it's the doctors who have to patch us up. But even they can't agree. A 1989 study of cycling casualties in Seattle concluded that helmets reduce the risk of head injury by 85%, but this paper has been much criticised. Another Seattle study reduced the claim to 69%. A review of over ten years' data extrapolated a risk reduction of only 45%. While, in 2001, a US government agency reported that, as cycling declined and helmet use increased over the previous decade, head injuries rose by 10%. Go figure.Confusion rules. One British paper famously argued that helmet-wearing can cause casualties by making cyclists feel invulnerable and take greater risks. But this is contradicted by another study, which found that people who wear helmets are also more likely to stop at lights and use hand signals. The benefit of helmet use being hard to quantify, the government's own Transport Research Laboratory has not even tried. While the anti-helmeteers may protest too much, the reason they do so is because they fear that if the case for helmets were "proved", then the pressure for compulsory wearing would be irresistible. Net result: fewer cyclists riding at greater risk. And that, as Australians have discovered, is no accident.Bike doctorDear Matt,My granddaughter is six years old and, though petite, weighing 20kg, is becoming too big for her seat fixed to a parent's bike. She can ride her own bike, but her parents wish to take her to school by bike and feel she is not ready to ride alongside them in city traffic. Can you recommend a way of cycling in traffic with a child of that age? Is there some way of attaching a child's bike to a parent's?Catherine King, via emailProbably the best interim solution is for the parents to invest in a "tag-along" or trailer bike. This is a detachable frame with a rear wheel (or pair of wheels, like a trike) that hitches behind the saddle of the adult bike. This gives the child a saddle, handlebars, pedals - and the full sensation of riding the bike, but with the adult in control.Tandems can be great, but you're lumbered with the thing the whole time - the extra weight to haul and the length to manoeuvre. The beauty of the tag-along is that the parent can just unhitch the contraption, lock it up at school until it's time to collect and ride away unencumbered. Oh, and granny could also do the pick-up by bike.
To leaven the Vista gloom (if anyone's feeling gloomy about it. Read on even if you aren't). Frombbspot:Redmond, WA - Microsoft announced today that its new operating system Vista will ship in 33 editions to enable consumers to get exactly which version they need. Barry Goffe, a director of Microsoft's Windows client unit announced this innovative move from Microsoft earlier today."We're trying to make sure we have the right set of offerings for different customers," said Goffe. The impressive list of Vista Editions follows:Vista Professional EditionVista Semi-Professional EditionVista Slightly Professional EditionVista Complete Amateur Edition(..and so on)...."There should be something there for everyone," said Goffe. When asked when the editions would be shipping, Goffe replied, "I can't really say, we haven't finished coding any of this yet."What's scary is that that was put up nearlythree weeksago...
The libertarian Cato Institute has justreleased a paperon America's Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Its site says:Why won't iTunes play on Rio MP3 players? Why are viewers forced to sit through previews on some DVDs when they could have fast-forwarded through them on video? Why is it impossible to cut and paste text on Adobe eBook? In a just released study for the Cato Institute, Tim Lee, a policy analyst at the Show-Me Institute, answers these questions and more.The problem at the root of all of these annoyances, writes Lee in "Circumventing Competition: The Perverse Consequences of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act," is Congressional interference in the market for digital rights management technologies.You can download a159K PDF of the paperfrom that page.Comment: It's American legislation, of course. The problem is that the unpleasant consequences hurt consumers in the rest of the world too.... and it seems only the French have the guts to say non ;-)
Danah Boyd has written an excellent essay onwhy MySpace has succeeded where Friendster failed. In one paragraph:Basically, MySpace evolved with its users, building a trusting relationship, figuring out how to meet their needs and cultural desires, providing them with features and really trying to give them what they were looking for. Friendster did not - it fought its users hand and foot, telling them how to behave.And if you don't knowDanah Boyd....
Likening Role Playing Games to real world situations, the journalism school at University of Minnesota has adapted the RPG Neverwinter Nights for pupils to practice their interviewing techniques. It's a rather novel application of interactivity to real-world skills, aimed at teaching critical thinking, argument development, knowledge management and etiquette. FromOpposable Thumbs:With the help of designer Matt Taylor, the game environment was changed into the fictional town of Harperville. Students are then assigned to cover the story of a train derailment and toxic spill. By exploring their surroundings and starting conversations with the residents, students collect information with which to write their story with. But just like in real life, you can get a "No comment" from your interview subjects; if your in-game attitude is too rude, conversations will end with an abrupt "Excuse me, I don't like your attitude."ViaYahoo
Microsoft dropped a bombshell yesterday with apress releasethat says: "Microsoft Corp today confirmed that Windows Vista, the next generation of the Windows® client operating system, is on target to go into broad consumer beta to approximately 2 million users in the second quarter of 2006. Microsoft is on track to complete the product this year, with business availability in November 2006 and broad consumer availability in January 2007."According toReuters:"We could have just gone ahead, but I didn't think it was the right thing to do," said Jim Allchin, co-president of the company's Platforms &amp; Services Division. "We're setting stringent quality bars on what we do."Microsoft said it delayed the new Windows to improve overall quality, particularly in security, and that PC makers didn't want the operating system introduced in the middle of holiday sales, because a new version would create instability in the market.Comment: The Vista delay is actually one to two months, depending on when you expected it, and won't make any difference to business buyers. But in the consumer marekt, it's serious, because there will definitely not be a Christmas bonanza with people ordering new Vista PCs from Santa. Allchin's suggestion that the PC manufacturers didn't want Vista confusing the market is an interesting one, but I'd certainly like to hear a tape of what Dell and HP actually said behind closed doors when this was discussed.The next question is what's happening at Intel. We're coming to another shift in the PC market, from 32-bit to 64-bit computing, and to a new Intel microarchitecture in the Merom, Crusoe and Woodcrest chips. Your next PC should probably be based on one of these running Vista -- unless it's so cheap that you won't care about it being obsolete.Intel is expected to ship the new chips this year, and if PC manufacturers plan to get them onto the market before Christmas, then the Vista delay is a problem: you'd have a year 2000 operating system running on a year 2007 processor. If PC manufacturers are actually going to ship the new Intel chips in January, then things look different.Microsoft has dropped one shoe. Is Intel going to drop the other?Update: It's clear from what Allchin said in his conference call that some PC manufacturers could have shipped for Christmas and others couldn't. (He says: "In order for all of the industry to be ready instead of just part of the industry... ensure that all of our partners are prepared at the same time.") Reading between the lines, Dell and the small manufactures would have been fine, but HP and Gateway would have had problems. HP, in fact, put out a supportive email statement (quoted from CNet) saying:As Microsoft is one of HP's most valued and trusted partners, we support them in determining the most appropriate schedule for the Windows Vista launch. We continue to work together closely to ensure that we jointly deliver to customers the best total technology experience available, and look forward to an exciting postholiday launch of the new operating system.CNet has also posted an MP3 of the key bit of Allchin's announcementhere
"Are any other readers having problems with Wanadoo?" asks Mandy Ross of Birmingham. "My advice would be Wanadon't." Ross uses that quaint old method of pen and ink to contact me, because the French-owned internet service provider has been busy upgrading her broadband connection to the internet. That's the theory, anyway. Ross never asked for an upgrade and now finds that the new improved service is somewhat minimalist; in short, she's been booted out of cyberspace. Numerous costly calls to the Wanadoo helpline have elicited vague promises, but nothing useful. Nor can she abscond to another provider until Wanadoo finally releases her.And, yes, plenty of others report similar adventures. Londoners Charles Pullen and Lucy Boyd, for instance. They, too, were told that they would receive a free upgrade to increase their broadband speed, but the result was a dead line. Like Ross, they have spent hours on the phone and, on the few occasions they got to speak to flesh and blood beings, were told that the problem must be with their modem.It all began when Wanadoo attempted a tricky feat called Local Loop Unbundling (LLU), the process by which telecommunications companies can install their own kit in telephone exchanges and serve customers without relying on BT's equipment. The operation appears to have left many customers stranded and Wanadoo has either refused to admit the problem or has failed to find a solution. Worse, its adverts boasting of speeds of "up to 8Meg" were condemned by the Advertising Standards Authority because most areas of the UK are not equipped to receive such wonders.Wanadoo admits LLU has caused some technical problems but insists only a few customers have been affected. It says they will be rescued and compensated. Since I spoke to the press office, Pullan and Boyd have been set free from Wanadoo and are to receive compensation. Ross's saga has been referred to the customer action team ("the highest point of customer escalation in the business," says a spokeswoman) and her expenses have been refunded.When is a promise not a promise?John Lewis is proud of its virtuous reputation and assures customers that it is "never knowingly undersold". That translates as a price-match service under which it will refund customers the difference if they find the same goods cheaper in another local store.Graham Price bought a &pound;795 television at the Cheadle store, then noticed the same model for &pound;100 less at a nearby shop called Crampton &amp; Moore. Alas, he was told the latter sometimes offered negotiated discounts and so its prices didn't count. When Price said he had seen the set available more cheaply in two other stores, John Lewis declared them to be on a list of stores excluded from the price match."No mention is made of such a list in its terms and conditions," Price says.John Lewis points out that it employs staff specifically to check local prices, but that its terms and conditions exclude negotiated offers. "There are certain retailers whom we know either do not display prices and/or who routinely negotiate prices with customers," says a spokeswoman. "We will not meet claims from these shops unless it can be established that the price being quoted at the competitor meets our terms."That doesn't seem reason enough to exclude a store entirely from consideration, though. The terms and conditions imply each application is judged on its own merits so perhaps future bargain hunters should take a photo of the shelf-edge price to ensure that John Lewis does what it promises.&#183;Write to Shopping at 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER or emailconsumer@guardian.co.uk
The Mazda5: hail the arrival of an all-new car, and hail the arrival, to go with it, of an all-new acronym. You're thinking: it's a smallish car with a lot of seats in it, so that would make it a small MPV, or multi-purpose vehicle, right? But you're wrong. No such tired and misleading labels for the Mazda5. It's a C-MAV, which translates as "compact multi activity vehicle". (The hyphen, apparently, is silent.)Compact multi activity vehicle: it sounds vaguely military, doesn't it? Kind of capable and attack-ready. Certainly excitingly various. It's the description of a car that's not going to back down in the face of life's glorious challenge. So, let's list, shall we, some of the world-embracing multiple activities you can get up to in your new Mazda5.Well, first up, you can drive five children around in it. Alternatively, you can drive an adult and four children around in it. Or you could drive three adults and two children around in it. You could try driving one child and four adults, beside yourself, around in it, but that would mean that one of the adults was going to have to go in the third row of seats, and there is barely enough room back there to stick a photograph of a fully grown human, let alone an actual fully grown human, so the adult in question might not thank you for it - unless, that is, they enjoy "making themselves as small as they can possibly be", as they say in primary school music and movement classes, and then putting a seatbelt on.Beyond that? Well, you can lose the seats and wedge the back with stuff. But from then on, the Mazda5 is struggling to impress. It's not all-terrain. You can't flip it off the edge of a harbour and power it out to sea. It doesn't, at the touch of a button, sprout tunnelling equipment and bore through hillsides. Its capabilities are pretty much limited to people-carrying. Or, in the absence of people, stuff-carrying.Of course, carrying people and stuff is no mean talent. If we're being honest, it's what most of us are hoping for from a car - a place for our people and our things that has an engine in it. Which makes the energy the motor industry puts into touting even its most modest cars as snowboard-holding, ski-ready, furiously adaptable "lifestyle" choices for people on a permanent endorphin high all the more confusing.The jangly term under which Mazda's entire range of actually rather brilliant cars presently labours is "Zoom-Zoom". Here, courtesy of one of Mazda's glossy showroom brochures, is a definition of "Zoom-Zoom": "Deep inside us all, there's a uniquely human emotion just waiting for an invitation to 'come out and play'. It's a feeling of pure exuberance and exhilaration - the emotion of motion. We call it Zoom-Zoom."Or consider the following fabulous vamping of the Mazda5's inevitably somewhat cramped interior: "All eight models of the Mazda5 feature a six-seat layout which focuses on the interior's central space to promote good communication between all occupants." In other words, there is bugger-all room in there, so you will all be talking directly into each other's ears, whether you like it or not. Zoom-Zoom, indeed.For some reason, on the back door of my perfectly acceptable, perfectly dutiful Mazda5, in chrome letters was the word "Sport". And yet I checked, and the car's top didn't come off and you couldn't drive it with your backside anywhere near the Tarmac. Neither could you put it around corners in such a way as to make your knuckles whiten and your passenger fumble for the doorhandle. And it didn't have a noisy engine - well, no noisier than any other 2.0 litre diesel engine, which is generically the home of the odd raking clank and occasional metallic belly rumble. Driving the Mazda5 was only sport in the sense in which, say, pistol-shooting is sport: ie, we can all agree to call it as much, but we know we don't really mean it because there is absolutely nothing going on there for spectators.Strip away all the puffery and you are left holding the keys to a straightforward car that does a small set of simple and valuable things extremely well. Both rows of rear seating go backwards and forwards on smooth rails and collapse undemandingly into the floor. The car has a nicely weighted set of sliding doors at the back that go back far enough to make entering the very rear of the car plausible without six months of preparation under a yoga specialist. And when you fill the car with people in winter coats with schoolbags, it still moves forwards and doesn't sink with a groan into the road surface. What more could one reasonably ask for? The emotion of motion? Sometimes just motion and an audible stereo will do. ;ModelMazda5 2.0 MZR-CD 143ps SportPrice&pound;17,900Top speed122mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.4secsConsumption44.9mpg (combined)Emissions173g/km (road tax band E)At the wheelAnne DiamondThey'd rather walkAnne RobinsonOn the stereoWill YoungEn route forAndover
"France's lower house of parliament passed a law on Tuesday that could challenge Apple Computer Inc.'s dominance of the online digital music market by making it open its iTunes store to portable music players other than Apple iPods." reportsReuters."The new legislation would require that online music retailers such as iTunes provide the software codes that protect copyrighted material -- known as digital rights management (DRM) -- to allow the conversion from one format to another."Comment: There's some speculation that, if the law is approved by the Senate, Apple might withdraw from the French market. But that would be silly. Apple makes its money selling iPods, and the other side of the coin is that Apple could probably sell more iPods if it shipped them able to read Microsoft's DRM as well as its own. (Not much effort needed there: Apple bought in the iPod technology and Portal Player's chips support Microsoft's DRM as standard.) Any music sales it might lose to iPod owners using, say, Napster 2.0, should be more than covered by, say, Creative Labs and Sony player owners buying music from the iTunes Music Store.And if iTMS is already both the market leader and the best store out there, why should Apple be afraid of facing competition?
Hear that? Listen closely. That gnashing sound is the teeth of senior execs at games publishers and retailers. 2005 was a poor year generally, with a number ofbig titlesfailing to meet sales expectations. And even those that sold well had to rely on heavy discounting over the Christmas period. So it was a surprise to see that a supposed rise in the price of computer games iscited as a big factorin driving up the UK's inflation rate. 360 games are expensive, but my impressions were that prices had generally reduced over the last year as retailers struggled to move stock. And this is before you throw in the huge growth in pre-owned titles. Games generally are still too expensive, mind.
It's time to chat.
Fortune Magazine postedthis interviewwith Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer last week. And was he smug about the recently confirmed PS3 delay? Well, see what you think from this choice quotation:"In every other generation, the first guy to 10 million consoles was the number one seller in the generation... Did we just get an even better opportunity to be the first guy to 10 million? Yeah, of course we did." Later he says, "I think we are absolutely in the game for the market position it would be nice to have."I hate the way corporate big-wigs in the technology sector have started to mimic trendy young Wired writers, using hip slang and trash talk rather than doing what they're supposed to do - i.e. boring us senseless with conservative profit forecasts.Anyway, the 'sort of on track' remark refers to Microsoft's aim of selling 5 million Xbox 360s by June. 'Sort of on track?' doesn't the first half of that phrasecompletelyundermine the second? For example, if a train driver announced that his vehicle was 'sort of on track' would you clamber aboard?ViaThe Inquirer
I'm always very happy to promote games research, andhere'san interesting topic from a professor in the US who's looking to interview the wives/partners/girlfriends of MMOG players.Though the current call is for the wives and girlfriends of male gamers, my full research project will also include the husbands and boyfriends of female gamers, as well as the partners of gay couples. Furthermore, I will also request participation from male and female gamers to talk directly to them about how they negotiate gaming with a relationship. Since this study is (as of yet) unfunded and I have to conduct all the interviews personally, I have to start with one demographic group before I move on to the next. I was concerned that if I put a call out to all the folks I'm interested in interviewing, I'd have to put many of them on hold until the first group was completed, which might be this summer or even fall. If, however, male gamer partners would like to email me now, I am more than happy to hold on to their contact information until I am prepared to speak with them.More information is at theIGDA's Sex in Games SIG. Unfortunately, only those located in or able to get to the Boston-area need apply.
Internet giant Google is launching a financial news, quotes and blogging service in bid to compete with and online broker firms and rivals such as Microsoft and Yahoo!.The company has unveiled a beta or trial version of Google Finance that uses keyword searches to enable users to find information on share prices, company pages, currency prices and other financial news.Google will also incorporate a blog into the service alongside a moderated discussion forum similar to Google Groups and moderated by human editors."We are going to provide quick, easy access to financial information by taking complex financial data and making it more digestible," said the Google finance product manager, Katie Jacobs Stanton.In addition to providing links to finance stories on Google News, the service will also include novel features such as the ability to view historical share price tables, with the news changing as users track back through time.In that way it will let users see what happened to a company's share price when a particular story came out.Google said it would not create its own information for the service, instead relying in a host of financial providers such as Reuters and company data specialists Hoovers.The service will compete against rivals such as Yahoo! and Microsoft in addition to online brokers including Charles Schwab.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
BeforeOblivion- sweet, sweet, Oblivion - arrived last week I had been spending a lot of time with24 The Videogame(I'm reviewing it). Now one of the main reasons you would fail Games Journalism School - if it existed - is excessive use of the term, "fans of the *franchise/licence/insert here* will enjoy this game". In 24's case though, there is no better way to describe it. Other than, "utter tosh", perhaps - 24 is a real disappointment. I love the TV show - Jack, Kim, the ringtone, the ludicrous plot twists - so I was looking forward to the game. And at the beginning, with all the sound effects and real actors, it was easy to get excited. But once the action started it is soon apparent that the budget had clearly been spent on the glitz - the plodding shooting and driving just didn't cut it. Yes, the plot is fairly interesting, which is why fans will probably persevere, but it isn't enough. While not as disappointing a use of licence as Ocean's 1986shocker V, 24 is crushingly dull. Anyone else played it yet?
Just in case you didn't see this in the tabloids yesterday, a bus driver has been sacked for playing GTA on his PSP - while at the wheel.Accordingto The Sun:"Steve Allcock was reported by terrified passengers who heard the screams of characters being butchered as he drove between stops. Bosses fired him after on-board CCTV footage showed he had the handheld device on his knees."
When Gaylia Ashby was diagnosed with a rare form of MS, it was devastating. She had just had a baby when she lost all sensation in her body and her legs became so weak she needed a wheelchair to get around. To compound her problems she found that, with less than 100 cases in the UK, patients with Devic's were guinea pigs for the little treatment available.Rather than despair, Mrs Ashby, of west London, set about finding out as much as she could about the disease. Earlier this month she launched her ownwebsiteto share information with fellow sufferers, and to fight for better treatment and research."It's a very lonely illness because you are unlikely to meet other people with it and there was little useful information about it," she said."Attacks can leave you unable to walk or to see and I didn't know if I would be able to see my children grow up or what might happen to me."I'm trying to change that. I can meet people through the site for support or to swap tips on treatment, and that makes a huge difference. It's somewhere we can meet to give each over the help we need."Although there are a welter of personal sites on the internet, devoted to every conceivable illnesses, 38-year-old Mrs Ashby's is different in that it has direct support from NHS experts, who helped her devise a survey for the site to collect information on sufferers and symptoms.Neurologists at the Walton Centre, Liverpool, hope to harness Mrs Ashby's skills as one of a new breed of expert patient, whose drive, and knowledge of her illness, makes her a powerful ally in the fight for better treatment.Her site is one example of the way the web is transforming doctor-patient relationships. Dr Paul Cundy, the British Medical Association's spokesman on computing in general practice, said that the internet has lifted the burden on doctors to know everything about every possible illness because patients often use the web to research their symptoms before they go to a doctor.Although initially wary, most GPs now encourage patients to look online and expect them to bring their own information to consultations."It used to be the doctor sitting on high but now they pool information with patients," said Dr Cundy. "There is so much information on the internet, doctors are fishing round with the patients. It's been a great leveller."However, Dr Cundy warned people to carefully weigh up the information they find and never rely on only one site. Documents or research should list the authors and their credentials, and need to be verified by checking they can also be found in a journal or library.He also warns people to check the site is updated regularly, to look for any advertising or commercial links, and to be wary of anything that criticises or disparages anyone, offers a miracle cure or an online diagnosis.His warnings highlight the huge variations in quality of personal health websites. Many are just blog-style diaries of "my life with a chronic illness". But sociologist Michael Hardey, of Hull University and Hull York Medical School, said that even they can be a good way for people to find out how others cope with their illness.Mr Hardey, who is writing a book on e-health, said many medical charities include sections on their sites for support groups, where patients can communicate with each other.One charity was specifically set up to facilitate this. The Oxford-basedDIPEx(Database of Individual Patient Experiences) was launched by a group of health managers, directors and doctors to help patients understand difficult health issues.Researchers interviewed patients and put their responses on the web to show how they managed different illnesses. The resulting site is aimed at patients, family and friends, and health professionals, and covers conditions including infertility, chronic illness and skin diseases.The internet is also empowering patients and giving them the tools to manage their own treatment, Mr Hardey said. "For example, people with unusual or difficult to diagnose conditions are making connections with health professionals in the US or elsewhere and are sometimes able to change their treatment."This is what Mrs Ashby found when she first went online. She was in email contact with people in Norway, Australia, and the US, while she tried to find out more."I heard about a new drug in the US and a new test that helps identify those with an auto-immune disorder, so I'm finding out about that," she said."I have to try and think positive and do all I can. I'm not sure they will find a cure in my lifetime but I'm sure my husband will keep on fighting and my children will too."
Wagner James Au, formerlySecond Life's embedded journalist and currentlySlate's games writer and freelancer, socked it to games journalists last week at theSouth By Southwest (SXSW)'sScreenBurngathering in Austin, Texas. He complained that "preview ho's" were bunging up the innards of good gaming journalism - admittedly sometimes out of obligation rather than laziness - and it was because of their poor previewing word choices that "games, for the most part, unrelentingly suck such ass". He expanded his vitriol atKotaku, where he explained,For the thing of it is, game magazine previews are almost uniformly positive, even for the most undistinguished titles. So it unrolls thus: publisher makes mediocre game; press previews depict mediocre game as being good or at least worth a look; excited gamers read previews, foolishly believe them, start making pre-sale orders of mediocre game; driven by preview press and pre-sale numbers based on that press, retailers stock up on mediocre game; publisher makes money from mediocre game, keeps making more games like it.And the circle jerk is complete. All started by the gaming press, in their preview section.Sure, not an opinionnovelto thesepages, but as the proactive guy he is, Au is determined to do something about it.Once a month, Kotaku will call for nominations for "Preview Ho of the Month", asking readers/players to name and shame the journalists they feel have hyped the most. The aim is to transform the gaming industry into a force that produces good games rather than evil.I have my doubts about the effect this will have in the boardrooms of international megacorps, and think that non-hyping journalists will feel the implications of this closer to home when they can't get code from their formerly-friendly publisher (having experienced this myself), and won't get paid for their work.If this approach does do anything, it will force readers to make more critical choices, and to pay more attention to bylines. Not always a bad thing.
Google has launched a beta version of Google Finance athttp://finance.google.com. It's a pretty good version of Yahoo! Finance with the added benefit that most of the info you want appears on a single page, without (so far) all the adverts.For example, compare Google on Google,http://finance.google.com/finance?q=google, with Yahoo! on Google athttp://finance.yahoo.com/q?s=goog. With Yahoo, you have to go clicking down the More On panel on the left hand side.Google also improves on Yahoo by offering some cute Web 2.0/Ajaxing features. For example, go toGoogle's income statementon Yahoo and you have to load two pages for the quarterly and annual figures. OnGoogle's version, the page stays while numbers change in a fraction of a second.*I'm a pretty heavy long term user of Yahoo Finance, but it looks as though using Google involves loading far fewer pages to get the same info. That's the kind of thing that could make me switch....As theReuters story on Google Financepoints out: "Yahoo Finance, the king of online financial sites offers not only many of the features Google Finance does but also links to stock research, retirement planning, bonds, options and downloadable spreadsheets for making finance calculations."That's something to bear in mind if you use those features (which I don't).And finally, from Reuters: "Google Finance started out as a part-time project by Google engineers working in Bangalore, India."* Since the Web is now a GYM world (Google/Yahoo/Microsoft), here's an MSN Finance page for completeness:http://moneycentral.msn.com/detail/stock_quote?Symbol=googUpdate: I've just been scanning the headlines, 14 hours after I blogged Google Finance, and I'm surprised how negative most of them are. "Google Finance Disappoints" (Om Malik), "All Whiz, No Bang" (Paul Kedrosky), "Nice charts, but users won't switch quickly" (Forrester's Charlene Li), "Google Finance Shows that Google is No Longer An Innovator" (Mr Wave Theory), and so on. Wrong, wrong, wrong.Still, a tip of the hat to Henry Blodget, whose headline is:Google Finance: Yawn (Updated: Wow). Fair enough, I went through that this morning, and my first thought for a headline was about Google copying Yahoo. But when you actually use it, you start to appreciate it, and Blodget's third update of the day concludes: "If folks in the Yahoo! Finance department aren't buzzing around figuring out how soon they can duplicate all this, they'd better start buzzing. One glance at some of the charts, blog-links, etc., and you both cheer for the consumer-benefits of capitalism and wonder how on earth Yahoo!'s team could be so asleep at the switch."
Gamesblog has teamed up withiFone, the UK publisher behind the surprisingly excellent Java translation ofSonic the Hedgehog, to offer readers the chance to win a PS2 and a copy of the latest Sonic title, Sonic Riders. There are also ten copies of Sonic Heroes on PC for runners-up. You just have to go to Guardian Unlimited's competition area (here) and answer a very easy question. Be quick though as the deadline is March 26.So, yes, back to the Java version of Sonic - I played it on a Sharp 903 last week and was genuinely impressed. It's fast, the graphics are incredibly faithful and the multi-level layout of the game worlds works pleasingly well on a limited, portrait-format screen. I found the keys a little taxing at first: using up on the 'joypad' to jump is not exactly user-friendly when you have thumbs like jumbo sausages, but I got there in the end. The faithfulness of the conversion suggests that, in 2006, mobile games publishers can afford to be a little more ambitious with their retro conversions, aiming for 16bit era goodies rather than early-eighties staples.
"In a bid to capture the huge audience for handheld entertainment gadgets, Microsoft is designing a product that combines video games, music and video in one handheld device, according to sources familiar with the project," reportsDean Takahashi of The San Jose Mercury News.Normally I wouldn't take that sort of thing too seriously, but Takahashi is a very good reporter and has excellent contacts with Microsoft through writing his book,The Xbox 360 Uncloaked: The Real Story Behind Microsoft's Next-Generation Video Game Console.Microsoft has followed Sony's games console strategy pretty closely (as J Allard told me it would), and it is not unusual for console manufacturers to release handhelds too (Sega GameGear, Atari Lynx, Sony PlayStation Portable, Nintendo DS).And it has one thing that makes it hugely appealing to Microsoft at the moment, which is the ability to do its own hardware, software, and online service. In the markets for mobile phones, notebook and desktop PCs etc, it is reliant on third parties for those, and they don't always do what Microsoft would like -- often the reverse.
An e-learning venture by Oxford University, with Yale and Stanford in the US, has folded after failing to attract enough students.A joint announcement was slipped out quietly by the three universities, which face an embarrassing blow to their prestige. The failure follows the collapse of a series of American university ventures and the &#163;62m debacle of the UK's e-University.Oxford today declined to disclose how much money it lost on the AllLearn project, launched in the heady days of the dotcom boom in 2001.By June 2005, AllLearn had incurred a deficit of $783,410, with a revenue of $2.5m and expenses totalling $3.28m, according to the London-based Observatory on Borderless Higher Education, which monitors international developments in distance learning.In a statement on the AllLearn website, S Kristin Kim, president of the company, said it had offered 110 online courses from Oxford, Stanford, and Yale universities to more than 10,000 participants from 70 countries during the past five years. "As we looked to the future, the cost of offering top-quality enrichment courses at affordable prices was not sustainable over time."AllLearn offered courses in general interest subject areas, such as archaeology or first world war poets, originally targeted at alumni of the three universities. The universities then tried to broaden the appeal to the general public and school students.Ms Kim said the experience gained by AllLearn would be used by the individual universities to improve their own online courses.A spokeswoman for Oxford said today: "Oxford remains fully committed to providing high quality online learning through the university's department for continuing education. In fact, over the next 12 months, 18 new courses will be launched, from statistics for health researchers to northern Renaissance art, and the origins of human behaviour to nanotechnology."Lisa Jokivirta, of the Observatory, said: "From the outset, there were signs that AllLearn's enrolment targets were not being met."Princeton University had initially been an institutional partner, but backed out within a few months following an initial intake of 600 students.The optimism about online learning at the time has not been fulfilled and Oxford follows a series of American universities in getting its fingers burnt following the collapse of NYU Online, Fathom (set up by Columbia University and the London School of Economics), Virtual Temple and University of Maryland University College Online. Unlike them, however, AllLearn was not intended to generate large profits.Fathom closed in 2003 despite attracting 65,000 students to more than 2,000 online courses and $25m in investment. New York University invested $25m to establish the for-profit distance learning company NYU Online, but this collapsed in 2001.Very few financial details have been disclosed, but AllLearn is reported to have been backed by $12m in start-up funding and "operated on a budget that is much smaller than many other online education ventures", noted Ms Jokivirta.She added: "The project's founders appear to have underestimated the costs of designing online courses and overestimated the number of students willing to pay tuition costs. Lack of interest, rather than lack of status or brand visibility, has been cited as the primary reason behind AllLearn's failure to meet enrolment targets."AllLearn attempted to tap into both the pre-university and business markets, but with limited success, said Ms Jokivirta. "As 'edutainment', online learning still finds it difficult to compete with television for consistency and familiarity. Evidence suggests that those enrolled in continuing learning programmes want to watch television-quality broadcasts online, and might find the more cost-efficient audio-taped lectures generally used by online providers less exciting and engaging."Institutions offering non-credit courses must generally charge lower tuition fees than providers operating credit courses leading up to a qualification, and the shorter duration of courses compared to degree programmes suggests less tuition revenue. AllLearn's closure suggests that the 'general interest' market for online provision remains unproven, although this may change over time as the educational value of broadband is further explored."
Happy new week, everyone!
Back in January the print section asked "Will Slashdot be overtaken by Digg?"Now, it seems that has happened. At least, if you look at theranking graph generated by Alexa, then Digg &gt; Slashdot.But that's not the end of the story. If you look at thereach graph, then Slashdot remains ahead. Though then again onpage views, Digg rules.A few caveats here. First, this is only telling you about Alexa's view of the world, which requires people to have its toolbar installed. If you think that Slashdot users and Digg users are equally likely to do that, then the figures might be reliable. But these numbers haven't come from either site itself.Also, multiple visits on the same day by the same persononly count as one page viewto Alexa. So /.ers who go to the site all the time aren't "worth" as much as lots of people who drop by Digg.In the absence of solid figures, though, it's a useful consideration.Alexa's front pagehas plenty more food for thought, including the amazing rise of MySpace.
Accordion Hero game controller"Continuing their Schadenfreudian Slips columns for Gamasutra, notable German developer Schadenfreude Interactive has submitted this exclusive postmortem on their recent smash hit rhythm action game Accordion Hero, in which you must 'Polka your way up from Der Rathskeller to Oktoberfest in Munich!'. We are, as ever, not liable for any carousing caused by perusing this postmortem," saysGamasutra.
Joystiq's coverage of the Games Marketing Conference features a great summary of John Geoghegan's keynote speech "The 12-step plan for the games industry". Geoghegan is Executive Director at The SILOE Research Institute.While a bit bandwagon-jumping (it's sopopularto say that games are "in deep doodoo" sinceCostikyanbroke the seal at last year's Game Developer's Conference), and often ignorant (see number 3), he does make many good points which deserve to be evangelised if the mainstream consumer is to put aside his or her concerns about videogaming:# Promote the ratings system.Geoghegan noted that the industry has a "perfectly good" ratings system maintained by the ESRB. That ratings system needs to be promoted and supported.# Evangelize the benefits of video games.Brandishing a copy of Everything Bad Is Good for You, he noted that there are some people out there who deeply believe that games are good for those who consume them. This message needs to reach non-gamers.# Prove that games are good.Partner with brand-name universities to conduct research that disproves "negative mythology about video games."(Errrrr, that's unethical, unscientific and directly siphoned from a marketer's brain)# Publicize that history shows that new media is never never embraced wholeheartedly at the start.Most people are resistant to change. Mozart was a radical in his day. Elvis was too. Frank Zappa? The Marylin Manson of his day. Comic books. Radio. The novel. Theater. It's natural that games will have its detractors. Helping people understand that this is typical and not a result of some inherent evil in games is critical.# Preach moderation and promote good parenting.The liquor industry promotes responsible drinking, and that's an industry whose product actually kills a large number of people every single year. We need to help parents understand that they should be moderating their kids' interaction with all forms of entertainment, not just games. That's the definition of parenting.# Benchmark against sex and violence in prime network tv and movies."Have you ever watched CSI? the grisly forensic corpses that they turn up each week on that thing? I don't think that videogames have cornered the entertainment market on sex and violence by a long shot."# Embrace the constitution.Most of the proposed legislation is violates constitutional rights.# Lobby."Let's make political donations. Let's play the game like everybody else plays. Maybe we are doing that... but if we are, maybe we're not paying enough or we need to get new lobbyists."# Harness our best spokespeople.Spielberg and Peter Jackson appreciate the games medium. Have these guys help assuage public concern by speaking on behalf of games.# Demonstrate our most creative games.Games aren't just Grand Theft Auto and Halo, but that's what they are to the non-gaming public who no longer chance across games in arcades. It's not all guns-and-boobs anymore. Publicize the creative hits like Katamari Damacy, Guitar Hero and so on.# Put the problem in statistical perspective. Less than 20% of all games released are M-rated, but the general public has been mislead to believe that most games are M-rated.# Be proud. "You're marketing people....Be proud of what you do for a living. Don't be ashamed to say that you like video games. this is a great industry!" The talent, creativity, artistry, technology and sheer heart all on display in the gaming industry are inspiring and praiseworthy. Be proud of that.To action stations, people!
An exasperated father has discovered to his cost that cyberspace is not the ideal arena for family feuds. Two weeks ago Steve Williams became so fed up with his daughter's messy bedroom that he built a website featuring pictures of his slothful offspring's lair in an attempt to shame her into action.But the public humiliation proved a short-lived victory. While it did spur his daughter, Claire, into tidying up her room, it also whet her appetite for revenge. With the help of her father's friends, the 20-year-old business student has now set up a rival website that displays photos of him in a variety of compromising situations."All my friends feel sorry for Claire so they're ganging up on me," said Mr Williams, of Whitehaven, Cumbria. "They've managed to dig out photos of me drunk and dancing round with a handbag at a party, and also put pictures of my garage on to show it's not just Claire who's untidy."The boot's on the other foot now, but I suppose I deserve it."Despite the embarrassment, Mr Williams said he had no regrets."It started off as a flippant remark, with me saying to Claire if you don't sort your room out I am going to put that pic on the internet," he said. "It had the desired effect. Her bedroom is not immaculate, but it's a hundred times better. My son has started keeping his tidy too. He's living in fear of being outed!"Claire is absolutely mortified. She has only just started speaking to me again."Mr Williams' site,www.shameit.com, has proved hugely popular with disgruntled families from all over the world. Nearly 40,000 people have visited the site in its first fortnight."I can't believe it," said Mr Williams, a computer programmer. "I certainly wasn't expecting this kind of response. We've had people from as far as New Zealand, Japan and South Africa. I had to do an interview with a radio station in Brisbane the other day."But it obviously works, because we've had lots of shameful pictures going up one day and taken down the next!"
A month ago, I noted that the Day2Day Activities site had a feature calledHow they named companieswhich was a rip-off of a page inWikipedia. It still hasn't managed to give the piece proper accreditation. There's now a note that says "Source: An Email...Friends say its in wikipedia too", which is both pathetic and ridiculous. It's not "in wikipeidia too", it istaken directly fromWikipedia. That is the source, even if Day2Day Activities actually got it in good faith from somebody else.At the time, I found Day2Day's rip-off via a post on Guy Kawasaki's blog,The Name Game. Unfortunately it turns out that either Guy doesn't read his own comments or can't be bothered to provide correct attribution either. His post still starts with "There's a great article called 'How they named companies' at the Day2Day Activities blog," and he hasn't published a correction in an addendum.AsWikipedia says: "All of the information in Wikipedia is free for anyone to copy, modify for their own purposes, and redistribute or use as they see fit, as long as the new version grants the same freedoms to othersand acknowledges the authors of the Wikipedia article used (a credit or backlink to the original article is sufficient for this)." My emphasis.It's not copyright free information to be plundered at will, and sites like Day2Day Activities should not abuse things that are freely given.
I've mentioned this over on theTechnology blog, but it also relates to Sprayonmud.com's problem,below. Briefly, anAssociated Pressstory says that KinderStart.com has launched a civil lawsuit in San Diego that "seeks to be certified as a class action representing the owners of all Web sites blacklisted by Google ... since January 2001".KinderStart's lawsuit alleges Google's policing efforts have penalized Web sites that have done nothing wrong. To make matters worse, the suit alleges the banished sites can't determine how they can restore their standings because the company doesn't explain its actions.This is, for me, the crux of the issue. Google is not some little pipsqueak company any more: it's a $100 billion multinational corporation with multibillionaire owners, and it's hiring thousands of people a year. Are we supposed to believe they can't find someone to put up a Web page that says which sites they've blacklisted, and why?
"Google Inc.'s mysterious methods for ranking Web sites came under attack Friday in a lawsuit accusing the online search engine leader of ruining scores of Internet businesses that have been wrongfully banished from its index," reportsAP."The civil complaint, filed in U.S. District Court in San Jose by KinderStart.com, seeks to be certified as a class action representing the owners of all Web sites blacklisted by Google's Internet-leading search engine since January 2001."The important bit comes later, as follows:KinderStart's lawsuit alleges Google's policing efforts have penalized Web sites that have done nothing wrong. To make matters worse, the suit alleges the banished sites can't determine how they can restore their standings because the company doesn't explain its actions.Google now occupies a position of enormous commercial power, because its ranking can make or break the finances of millions of small sites -- KinderStart.com says its traffic fell by 70%, and its revenues by 80%. The quesiton is whether it has any responsibility for the way it uses that power. At the moment, it doesn't tell sites it is demoting or blacklisting them, it doesn't tell them what they have done to offend Google, and it doesn't provide a reasonable way they can get their questions answered.As I pointed out in my Ask Jack column re theSprayonMudcase:"Google is the police force, sole witness, judge, jury, court of appeal and executioner."Unlike KinderStart.com, sprayonmud.com was removed completely from the Google index. On behalf of Colin Dowse, who runs the site, I therefore asked Google UK a simple question: "How can he find out what, if anything, he has done wrong?" After almost two weeks, there is still no answer.Comment: It will be interesting to see whether the KinderStart.com lawsuit stimulates any comment. So far, there seems to be a noticeable lack of interest in this topic, which is surprising, considering its implications.Update: There's now a Reuters storyhereorhere. There's also aSlashdot discussion.
Feted as the Steven Spielberg of video games, Shigeru Miyamoto is regarded by computer-game aficionados as just about the most important figure in what is a &pound;20bn industry.As creator of Donkey Kong, Super Mario and the Legend of Zelda - among the biggest-selling games of all time, Miyamoto is revered by gamers. Evidence? More than 3,000 normally hard-bitten New Yorkers chanted his name at a store opening two years ago. A web chat this week hosted in London received a staggering 15,000 questions from gamers.Nintendo's senior managing director and general manager of the entertainment analysis and development division - to give him his full title - was in Europe last week to be knighted by President Chirac for his contribution to culture. The unfeasibly young-looking 54-year-old stopped briefly in London to talk exclusively to The Observer.While he was in the capital, news broke that Japanese rival Sony had postponed the launch of its long awaited follow-up to PlayStation 2, the world's best-selling games console. PlayStation 3 was supposed to hit the shops next month, but computer game fans will now have to wait until November.The markets sent Sony shares down 1.8 per cent, and the delay means it will go head-to-head with Nintendo, which will launch its new console, Revolution, at the same time. It will also allow Microsoft a whole year to bed down its XBox 360 and almost certainly drop prices against the twin launches.But if Miyamoto is worried about the impending clash of the next-generation consoles, he isn't showing it.'For Nintendo we don't care because what we're trying to do is different from Sony,' he said, with the aid of an interpreter, from the comfort of the Charlotte Street Hotel in London's West End. 'For the consumer it might be some issue if Nintendo Revolution and Sony are launched at the same time. They might have to think about the money they can spend. But the announcement was not surprising because everyone in this industry knew for a very long time that Sony was never going to be able to do a spring launch for PS3. If there was a surprise, it's that Sony waited so long to make the announcement.'Maybe it is Sony that should do the worrying. Morale at the firm has plunged, and some doubt whether Sir Howard Stringer, the Welshman charged with turning the firm around, will be able to pull it off.Sony is slashing 10,000 jobs, or 7 per cent of its workforce. Once the world's most resonant electronic brand, it allowed Apple to outmanoeuvre it in the MP3 market, and then it let Korean rivals LG and Samsung dominate the masselling widescreen TV stakes.The PlayStation console is the one area where it has a commanding position. But problems integrating its new high-definition Blu-ray DVD technology into its consoles have caused problems.Miyamoto, though, is more concerned with his own product launch, which he proudly boasts will 'drastically change' the way people approach video games.'The whole way of how to approach television sets by utilising games is going to drastically change. Regardless of whatever contents, we provide, the way you react will be different.'Some analysts say that Microsoft's move into games will eventually sideline Nintendo, and that the Seattle-based goliath could even buy the firm from Kyoto one day.The idea gets short shrift from Miyamoto. 'We are two separate companies with completely different cultures. That's the last question we expected!'There appears to be no love lost between the two firms. 'Nintendo is always thinking of the customer. What is the interesting, unique entertainment we can create for the mass audience. I don't think that concept is shared by Microsoft when they're trying to create their online (game) business.'Stuart Dinsey, publisher of games industry trade bible MCV, attributes Miyamoto and Nintendo's success to appealing beyond gaming's traditional male 18-35 demographic.'Miyamoto has been responsible for the design and direction of a multitude of best-selling products for 20 years,' he says. 'He remains the most revered creative talent in the global gaming business. He really believes in fun and play. That's an incredibly easy thing to say, but Nintendo is going all out to tempt different users.'For Miyamoto, the formula is easy. 'Nintendo asks those who do not play games why they don't. The answer is rather obvious: they are too complicated or not something for me.' That's why the firm has pioneered moves into brain games aimed at the older market and is trying to get more women playing.The key for Miyamoto is focusing on creativity - coming up with games and concepts that entertain first and foremost. 'What we are trying to do is unprecedented, and whenever you're thinking no person has ever done it before, that's great fun and no pressure. Some people may need to think of budget versus revenue, but I never think in such a fashion. That's probably why I don't think in terms of pressure.'It certainly looks to be the case. Dressed in jeans and a Nintendo T-shirt; Miyamoto is relaxed and prone to occasional bouts of wackiness. The only problem he admits to is 'the challenge put on me to absorb something unknown to me'.There was no television for Miyamoto to goggle at during his childhood in 1950s Japan. It enabled him to concentrate on exploring the countryside that surrounded him, feeding his sense of wonder. Won't all that be lost to children today, and aren't the games he produces helping to suppress their creativity?'When I was younger, I was surrounded by nature but I think it was a narrow world that we could explore. Young people nowadays can have close communication and contact with the whole world. And it depends on how they deal with this environment. Today's environment may be more suited for those to eager to absorb whatever information is available. Maybe today's situation is much better than when I was a child.'The future, he says, will see games blurring further the boundaries between computers, televisions, phones, consoles and satellites.But as technology becomes more accessible, 'game creators are going to face huge responsibilities, because what's important is who is going to make the game, what kind of person he or she is, and what's the message'.With Miyamoto, at least there's the comfort that the man behind the game and message seems concerned primarily with good old-fashioned entertainment which, if nothing else, is future-proof.
Ask a liberal to give an example of an oxymoron (a contradiction in terms) and s/he will invariably say 'military intelligence'. Ask an old-style television executive and you will get the reply: 'user-generated content'. That's because in the glory days of broadcast TV, viewers were assumed to be incapable of generating anything, with the possible exception of subscriptions to sports channels. The idea that couch potatoes might create content was deemed ludicrous. And even if the saps could create something, there was no way of publishing it. QED.So here's your starter for 10. Who said this? 'Power is moving away from the old elite in our industry - the editors, the chief executives and, let's face it, the proprietors. A new generation of media consumers has risen demanding content delivered when they want it, how they want it, and very much as they want it. This new media audience - and we are talking here of tens of millions of young people around the world - is already using technology, especially the web, to inform, entertain and above all to educate themselves. This knowledge revolution empowers the reader, the student, the cancer patient, the victim of injustice, anyone with a vital need for the right information.'Answer: Rupert Murdoch, speaking on Monday evening to the Worshipful Company of Stationers and Newspaper Makers. Fact: in addition to being a stationer and newspaper maker, Mr Murdoch recently paid $580m forMySpace.com, a site on which 54 million people generate their own content and engage in online networking.And who said this? 'What we are seeing online now is almost a continuous talent show, with media-savvy consumers using digital technology to express themselves and stand out as individuals in their virtual communities.... If users want to be both author and editor, and technology is enabling this, what will be the role of the media company in the second decade of this century?'Answer: Tom Glocer, CEO of Reuters, a company that specialises in pumping high-priced content to users, in a keynote address to the Online Publishers Association, on 2 March.The invasion of the oxymorons has begun.A writely way and a wrongly wayIn the old days, the founder of technology start-ups had basically two options. Option A was to get venture capital funding and then get screwed and dumped by the VCs, who always wind up owning your life's work. Option B was to design something that Microsoft ought to have, but didn't, and then flog the company to Bill Gates.The first option is hard, dispiriting and impoverishing. The second is hard, dispiriting and enriching. Ask Sabeer Bhatia. He thought up a way that office workers could use email to look for jobs without using their current employer's email systems. He called it Hotmail. Then one day Microsoft came calling and he sold it to them for $400m.Option B is still the best bet - except that now you design something that Google ought to have, and then flog your company to it. This is precisely what Evan Williams did with Blogger. And it is now what the four guys who dreamed up Writely have done. Writely is a neat program that enables you to do word processing in your web browser - and allows other people to work on the document too, from afar. Just over a week ago, it was revealed that Google had bought the Writely operation and its owners now work inside the Googleplex, tweaking their stuff so that it runs on Google servers (and, no doubt, checking out the retail price of Learjets).This acquisition prompted a flurry of speculation about whether Google is preparing to offer an online competitor to Microsoft's Office suite. Well, maybe that is the game plan, but a smarter one might be wait for Office to collapse under its own grotesque (not to mention expensive) weight.Microsoft thinks outside the boxAnd now, an astonishing revelation: Microsoft may have a sense of humour. A lovely spoof video has been circulating on the web for weeks showing how the company would redesign the packaging for the Apple iPod. Out goes the cool minimalism of the Apple packaging, and in comes the traditional heavy-handed Redmond approach. First the box becomes blue. Then comes the segmenting into different level offerings - the 'human ear edition', followed by the 'human ear professional edition (with subscription)', the 'Upgrade to XP edition' and... well, you get the idea. In the end, the box is so plastered with stickers that the product is invisible.It's a clever, beautifully crafted, funny spoof, and we all laughed our heads off. Until a blog called 'The iPod Observer' revealed that the film was, in fact, an internal Microsoft production created to sensitise employees to the idea that their approach to product packaging lacks a certain aesthetic sense. Could it be that the irony has entered Microsoft's soul?
Welcome, because it's change and imagination on a grand scale, toCommentisfree.com- the Guardian and Observer's new blogging paradise, with more than 170 star names from the two papers and the world outside on hand to tap controversy into the system. The nearest US inspiration for it is Arianna Huffington'sHuffingtonPost.comsite and, indeed, St Arianna was there (via words on Guardian newsprint) on day one to tell us the blogosphere 'is the most vital news source in America'.Up to a point, Lady Stassinopoulos. When Hugo Young of the Guardian penned a last memoir before he died, he recalled that when he started in journalism (circa 1961) political columnists didn't exist; indeed, columnists as a whole were barely to be found. The first in the field - such as William Rees-Mogg in the Sunday Times - had rare clout through sheer rarity value. Moggy told Alex Douglas-Home to quit as PM one Sunday and, by golly, he did.We've come a long way from CP Scott's great Manchester Guardian imperative: Comment is free, but facts are sacred. Now even the follow-up version - Comment is free, but facts are expensive - has an ominous ring to it.Latest figures from America show 3,500 reporting jobs gone in five years. Only 14 per cent of radio stations send journalists out on stories any longer.Next year: Comment is free, but facts are totally dispensable?
We are sad to report an outbreak of pain and recrimination in the brave world of the new media. Last week, it was sullied by accusations of editing, cutting, cobbling and massaging, those grand old skills which those of us in Big Media thought were all our very own. The blog, held up as the purest form of debate, allowing anyone to post his or her views without the interference of a meddlesome editor, has been brought into disrepute by the discovery that commentator and socialite Arianna Huffington ghost-wrote an entry on her Huffington Post website, an entry purporting to be by George Clooney, yes, that's right, the lovely, saintly George Clooney.If there is one thing a blog entry should do, it's inspire debate, so is the Clooney incident, which has spawned some 300 replies - a huge response - in fact a great success? Huffington thinks so. She writes, on the site, that the response is 'a testament to the power of blogging, and it's why I remain an unrepentant evangelist' for the medium.Others are less sure. A poster called NYCBear notes: 'Your lack of honesty in this case became part of the message, which has saddened your fans.' Another, going by the name of jurrasicpork - what's with the names in the blogosphere? - writes: 'No matter how much you try to rationalise it, Arianna, you still fucked up', which seems to be a widespread view. Mickeleh says he (or is it she) is 'heartbroken and angry'.Those sad people stuck in the old media world might feel that these are terribly strong feelings to be brought on by a few words found on the internet, which is full of unreliable information anyway. But blogging inspires strong feelings and it attracts those who take their views pretty seriously and want them to be heard.'I'm convinced you did the right thing for yourself in getting publicity for the site,' writes a commentator called screenname. 'But I think you sold a bit of your integrity to do it. The only question is how much you have to left to spare.'Will the anguish ever end?
Skoda Octavia vRS&pound;17,500Spreed: 0-62mph in 7 secsMiles per gallon: 37Good for: comediesBad for: tragediesFor the past decade almost every review of a Skoda has started by rehashing one of those old jokes which revolved around how hilariously useless the brand was and how you'd be hard pushed to tell a Skoda apart from a skip/bin/ashtray/broken sofa. Well, the real joke now is that there's absolutely nothing funny about Skodas. The VW-owned Czech company makes world-beating cars. Cars so good, in fact, that they're in danger of becoming more popular than VW - a bittersweet moment that all parents of alpha- children have to deal with sooner or later.To drive the point home, Skoda has gone and scooped several notable awards in the past few months. In the AA's top 10 hit parade of the most reliable cars in Britain there are only two which aren't from the Far East - Mercedes and, yes, Skoda. The marque has also just become the first manufacturer to achieve a top-five ranking in JD Power's customer-satisfaction survey for 10 consecutive years - ahead of brands such as BMW and Jaguar. And the latest match-clinching volley struck by Skoda comes in the shape of its Octavia vRS, which has just scooped What Car? magazine's hot hatch of the year, beating off Ford's Focus ST and VW's Golf GTi. The awards are the motor equivalent of the Oscars, and if Brokeback Mountain is all about excitable men and horses, then the Octavia is all about excitable men and horse power.Lastly, and by every means least, my wife herself has given the Octavia the thumbs up. She's sat next to me, totally 'unbovvered', in at least 150 test cars over the past couple of years, and the Octavia is one of the few vehicles to prick her curiosity: 'This is nice. What is it?'Skoda's made its name by offering drivers - and my wife - that 'extra bit of car'. The extra bit in the Octavia is a huge helping of sportiness and a big dollop of carrying capacity. This translates into a car which has both 'pace and space'. Or, as you may recall from the ad campaign, a car that's both 'practical and exciting' - which sounds like a job description for Mary Poppins.Though the roomy boot and five proper seats for fully grown adult passengers do justify the 'practical' part of the tagline, it's the 'exciting' part that will get you drooling. The Octavia vRS is the quickest road-going Skoda ever built. Its revolutionary 2-litre turbo engine linked to a six-speed gearbox generates a top speed of 149mph and a 0-62mph of 7.3 seconds. And that's no laughing matter.The car looks the part, too. The front end is dominated by a large air intake and halogen headlamps. There's a distinctive crease line that rises from the centre of the grille to the base of the windscreen, creating a purposeful 'V' shape. There are also deeper bumpers, an arched boot spoiler, 17in alloys and green brake callipers winking through the spokes. The interior features figure-hugging seats, aluminium trim and a three-spoke leather steering wheel. It all smacks, unexpectedly, of precision engineering and high quality.Anyway, so have you heard the one about the Proton driver ... ?martin.love@observer.co.uk
"Stung by recent criticism of the company's actions in recent months, Google CEO Eric Schmidt held a roundtable lunch Thursday with a number of journalists in which he talked a lot about the company, how it is perceived, and where it is headed," reportsPC Magazine.Highlights:Schmidt was most animated in discussing the controversy over its deleting some content at the request of the Chinese government. He said the decision of how to act in China was "one of the most controversial decisions the company has ever made," and it took over a year of internal arguments before the company came out with its policies. "It is a hard call, but it is a clear call" to do business in China, he said, and do as the Chinese government requires it to.Schmidt was quick to say that the acquisition of Writely was not meant to create a competitor to Microsoft Office, which he said solves a complicated and important problem of work productivity. Writely is a server-based editing system where you can move your files around, he said, and there are places where a rich text editor is useful in Google. "Office is not the business we're in," Schmidt said, saying the company wanted to do new things.Re AOL:Schmidt said that while the two companies weren't going to offer full interoperability between their instant messaging networks anytime soon, users could expect a single tool that give you access to both Google Talk and AIM in ways similar to how Trillian treats multiple IM networks.Finally, Schmidt addressed the topic of Google Base, which has been rumored as a potential eBay competitor. Schmidt called that concern an overstated one, and he said Base is instead just a database of structured information, which is easier to index and rank than regular web pages. Most Google Base information points to eBay or similar sites, he added.
To read all this week's posts in one page,click this link.Posts inlcude Origami -- DialKeys for thumbtyping ; Google lands on Mars; Sony finally admits its PS3 will miss spring release date; PS3 press conference reports; Eurotech unveils wrist-worn computer; Microsoft gets "People Ready"; DRM sucks the life from your batteries, and pollutes the earth; and Free Our Data: Guardian Technology campaign has own site.There are also a couple of video clips: If Microsoft packaged the iPod.... and Windows XP on an Intel Mac.For the week before that -- Origami launch week --click this link.
Terry ColeWalthamstow stuntman Terry Cole recently appeared in the Waltham Forest Guardian, who were reporting on his forthcoming attempt to flip 72,000 pancakes in 12 hours under the headline "Terry Wants To Be A Top Tosser". Appearing in the Guinness Book Of World Records appears to be something of an addiction for the self-styled East End superhero - in January he broke the world record for balancing pint glasses on his chin (86), while last year he spent 48 days walking across London carrying a glitter ball. It's all on his site as well as pictures of his successful 2002 "groin break".www.terrycole.co.uk
The OutfitXBOX 360Barring an unfortunate resemblance to the heroically awful Army Men series and some distinct graphical rough edges, The Outfit's cartoon looks and bloodless warfare are reminiscent of Battalion Wars, striking the same balance between tactical positioning of units and actual shooting practice. Set in the second world war, the surprisingly twisty plot includes deaths of major characters and convincing voice acting, but the action's what you come for and, after learning the ropes, The Outfit is a game that can be difficult to put down. Driving vehicles is a clunky menace that never gets better and it regularly slows down when the action gets too intense, but the overwhelmingly solid, well-designed play mechanics do a lot to compensate for its many superficial failings.&#183;THQ, &pound;50Buzz! The BIG QuizPS2Arriving mere months after Christmas favourite Buzz! The Music Quiz, the BIG Quiz uses the same magnificently self-explanatory handheld buzzers and introduces a set of general knowledge questions to replace its former music specialism. It also fixes many of the complaints players had with the first game: rounds are better paced and the high score table works slightly more effectively. It's still way better with four players and somehow never inspires as much tension as you'd like, but as a way of getting resolute non-gamers interested in something your PS2 can do, this is only rivalled by the SingStar karaoke series.&#183;Sony, with buzzers &pound;40, game only &pound;25The GodfatherPC, PS2, XBOXWith a main character so customisable that there are seven separate variables for his nose shape, and Vito Corleone voiced by Marlon Brando in his acting swansong, The Godfather is a very big budget clone of the currently inescapable Grand Theft Auto series. Roam New York, extort money from tradesmen, take over rackets, don't upset rival families until you're ready to take them out, and gradually work your way up from outsider to mafia don. On the way you'll need to wrestle lamentable driving controls (presumably in the name of authenticity) and work your way through shootouts that feel every bit as random as they do in GTA. EA has done a sturdy job, but The Godfather never feels like a classic.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;40, reviewed on Xbox
Unfeasibly lanky Queens Of The Stone Age singer/ beast Josh Homme has a fantastic hobby to while away the hours on tour - he paints new artworks behind the boring production line paintings that hang on hotel walls.Study his exploits atsecretwalltattoos.com. Rikki Rocket, drummer with hair metal group Poison employs a similar hotel-destroying tactic with his toilet seat art (tinyurl.com/jjrng). Yes these days rock'n'roll travel is all about art and, according to the indie rock travel tips attinyurl.com/zm9nx, taking the right vitamins. All a far cry from the extra-curricular activities that used to occur on world tours as documented athollywooddiaries.com.Meanwhile, for details about the hard work that really goes into rock shows visitroadie.netfor everything you'd ever want to know about rigging. Yes, that's rigging.
MondayThe revolution won't come from the indiesSenator proposes total ban on violent videogamesSex in Games machinima submissions now openSony launches video recorder for PSPTuesdayEpisodic gaming - the next stepLast call for MiyamotoPS3 definitely delayed. Really... ApparentlyWednesdayPS3 arriving in NovemberGizmadnessPS3 not in competition with Revolution, says MiyamotoCan Sony manage a global PS3 roll-out?edoc laundry interviewThat PS3 conference in fullXbox 360 goes mainstream with cartoon pet simThursdayMMO and TV convergenceTabloids have PS3 price sortedShigeru Miyamoto interviewTechnology: Origami and PongFridayAnother study commissioned on link between games and violenceOblivion (360) - initial thoughtsPocket kingdomThe three defining videogames
You can now pre-order an HD DVD or a Blu-ray player at Amazon's US store, and it also has stores for movies. TheToshiba HD-A1 HD DVD Playeris listed at $499.99. TheSony BDP-S1 Blu-ray Disc Playeris listed without a price.There's anHD DVD Storeand a very similarBlu-ray Store
Just in case you didn't spot it in the entry on Thursday, Guardian Technology has begun a new campaign aiming to get UK publicly-owned bodies (such as the Post Office, Ordnance Survey, Office for National Statistics and many more) which collect data on our behalf to make it available to taxpayers and companies for free (as in, the cost of distribution, rather as with Linux, where you'll typically only pay for the blank CD on which it's burnt).The original article wasGive us back our crown jewels; the followupWhat price information?The whole campaign now has its own dedicated site atfreeourdata.org.ukwhich I'm trying to keep up to date, and provide useful links and articles. Any comments (apart from "did you put this together with a knife and fork?" Well, pretty much yes, actually) and suggestions are welcome - it's got ablogtoo. Offers of help welcome too.
The Newsweek website has just postedthisinteresting article. It's about how games companies are finally addressing the consumer lethargy that hits at the end of every hardware generation - and not just by bringing out endless film licenses.I'vewritten about thisage-old problem in my Technology column, so it's interesting to hear about some pro-active measures - even though the piece concentrates heavily on EA. The giant publisher has moved into the Korean online gaming market, creating a multiplayer-only version of its FIFA series, and recently purchased mobile veteran, Jamdat, to get a hold on the mobile sector.The most intriguing section though, is where Criterion's shooter Black is analysed:"The first step in navigating the transition is for developers to be a lot more shrewd when crafting games for an increasingly jaded audience. With Black, [Alex] Ward and his team decided to go retro: they stripped the shooter genre back to its essentials--guns and destruction--and built a single-player game where the levels aren't simply a static backdrop, but shatter and crumble as the player empties one ammo clip after another."Of course, this reflects whatreviewers have been saying about the game, but I hadn't thought of Criterion's design as being so intricately targeted - not just at a specific audience, but at a specific audience in a certain state of mind at a single point in time. There's something quite Fin de siècle about it...
After the (non-)excitement of Steve Ballmer's announcements about "people-based" software on Thursday, Nicholas Carr has athoughtful postin which he suggests that Microsoft is trying to position itself in contrast to IBM over its office software rather as Apple did re PCs in 1984.Yesterday, Microsoft launched an assault on IBM using a very similar message. Microsoft, said CEO Steve Ballmer, offers "people-ready" computing. "Our innovations facilitate the power of people," he went on, drawing a direct comparison with IBM: "Their pitch is to let IBM help your company with its innovation. Ours is to empower your people to innovate. The two approaches are striking in their contrast." IBM is The Man - the hidden power behind the hegemony of the centralized, spirit-crushing Corporate IT Department - and Microsoft, like Apple before it, is going to help you stick it to him. "People, people, people," boomed Ballmer, in case anyone missed the point.But as he notes at the end:Will Microsoft's strategy work? Will it erode IBM's hold on corporate computing? I don't know. But it's worth remembering how the earlier Apple-IBM tussle turned out. The victor was neither Apple nor IBM. It was a third company that, at the time, both Apple and IBM viewed not as a competitor but as a benign partner.You can guess the third company's name, can't you?
CNet has been testing MP3 players, and it turns out that thebatteries don't last as longif you play copy-protected tracks, because of the extra processing required. The situation is particularly bad if Microsoft's DRM (Digital Rights Management) is used. The CNet story says:Take, for instance, the critically acclaimed Creative Zen Vision:M, with a rated battery life of up to 14 hours for audio and 4 hours for video. CNET tested it at nearly 16 hours, with MP3s -- impressive indeed. Upon playing back only WMA subscription tracks, the Vision:M scored at just more than 12 hours. That's a loss of almost 4 hours, and you haven't even turned the backlight on yet.We found similar discrepancies with other PlaysForSure players. The Archos Gmini 402 Camcorder maxed out at 11 hours, but with DRM tracks, it played for less than 9 hours. The iRiver U10, with an astounding life of about 32 hours, came in at about 27 hours playing subscription tracks. Even the iPod, playing back only FairPlay AAC tracks, underperformed MP3s by about 8 percent.Comment: If batteries don't last as long, users will have to charge them sooner and more often. Since these batteries have a finite life, they will die quicker, and users will have to buy expensive replacements, which increases the cost of playing music on the go. Finally, the batteries are anenvironmental hazard, so the net result is that DRM is directly increasing pollution.
