Rupert Murdoch has been accused of many things, but rarely half-heartedness. So when he delivered his Road to Damascus address to American editors earlier this year admitting that "most of us have been remarkably, unaccountably complacent" in recognising the impact of the internet and how it would change our media consumption, few expected him to stop there.It therefore came as little surprise when last month News Corp shelled out &#163;332.85m for Intermix, the owner of networking site MySpace.com, and splurged a further bundle of cash on sports site Scout. He is also rumoured to be looking at a bid for IGN, a games and film community network aimed at a laddish audience.The two new acquisitions will sit in Fox Interactive Media, a new division created to house much of News Corp's digital content and drive expansion into Murdoch's new obsession.He has been here before, of course. The last time Murdoch decided to pool all his internet resources was around five years ago. He appointed James, now BSkyB chief executive but then playing chief dotcom evangelist to his father's doubting Thomas, to run it. It ended up costing him a lot of money, as he bought online properties at the top of the market and promptly discarded them or let them wither post-crash.The difference now, according to Murdoch, is the potential of broadband - the final piece of the convergence puzzle that promises to unite News Corp's broadcasting interests with its publishing ones. "There is no greater priority for the company today than to meaningfully and profitably expand its internet presence and to properly position ourselves for the explosion in broadband usage we're now starting to see," he told reporters earlier this month. All the evidence, particularly from the US, suggests that we are moving headlong into a world where television programmes and films will be delivered via broadband, whether to the PC or the TV set. Broadcasters like Sky and the BBC are mulling how to deliver content over broadband and what it means for viewing patterns and behaviour. For News Corp, which runs satellite-based pay TV networks that span the world from Massachusetts to Manchester to Mumbai, this surge in broadband usage and speed presents both a huge opportunity and an enormous threat.The next challenge, said Murdoch, was to create "an original type of portal". To some internet veterans, this may have seemed a little odd. At the height of the boom Disney, for one, poured hundreds of millions of dollars into the doomed internet portal Go, which was supposed to act as an online repository for its own content and as a jumping-off point into other properties.And at a time when rival giant internet portals such as Yahoo! and MSN are diversifying into music, dating, networking or online photo albums, and boosting their search capabilities to compete with Google, why would News Corp try to replicate their model?However, Murdoch wants a new type of portal - one that marries community features, search capabilities and the ability to blog and share all kinds of user-generated content with the entertainment and sports properties on which News Corp has traditionally built its most successful businesses.Yahoo!, Google and MSN are thinking along similar lines - but while they have the technology and the applications, they are light on the music, sport, news, film and entertainment content that will drive users in the broadband world. Murdoch has the content, but not the know-how or users - hence the headlong dash to build a portal from scratch.For that, he needs a clever search engine and the one he has his eye on is widely believed to be Blinkx. The innovative search company, little more than a year old, would make a shrewd purchase. Despite being christened "the new Google" at launch - rather like telling a 12-year-old footballer that he is the next Pele - it has already been marked out as user-friendly and a technological innovator. In particular, it has forged ahead in areas such as searching for video files and podcasts and bringing all search activities together on the desktop.Just as Murdoch triumphed in the TV world by controlling both the access point and much of the most valued content, using one to drive the other, so he hopes to replicate that model in the more subtly shifting sands of the online world.
I've been using the new Google Desktop, which combines an upgraded version of the Desktop Search with a sidebar that handles Web feeds.Guardian Unlimitedhas my short report.ReutersandAPhave longer stories with more details.You can download Google Desktop (beta 2)here.
There could hardly be a more exciting place for a child to grow up - a warren of smugglers' cellars, dinghies in the harbour and rocks on the beach that crack open to reveal fossils dating back millions of years.But in recent decades, the picturesque tumble of houses at Robin Hood's Bay had been all but written off as a "real" community, with non-tourism jobs heading for extinction and wholesale conversion of fishermen's cottages into holiday lets.Not any more. A quiet revolution on the Yorkshire coast means that local children are back in "Bay", with a gang hurtling round the streets and skateboarding by the dock. In at least six homes, working parents and school-age children are settling in and helping to give the village the prospect of a varied working future again."Who wouldn't want to live and earn a living here if they had the chance?" says Paul Johnston, whose home and office windows look straight out over the North Sea.After years running a PR consultancy outside York, he and his wife, Jackie, realised that broadband and quick road and rail links had suddenly made the coast a practical alternative."No commuting, no stress - not much garden but who cares when you've got a beach?" he says.Up a steep flight of stone steps, Tim and Kate Smith feel the same about their new 12-year lease to run the field studies residential centre at Bay's old school. Their nine-year-old, Iona, like the Johnstons' 10-year-old son Charlie, has only a short walk to the replacement school at the top of the hill.The new, young life in Bay is striking backing for a report this month from the Commission for Rural Communities (CRC), Under the Radar, which reveals how "almost surreptitiously" Britain's rural economy is being reinforced by arrivals working from home.The survey finds that one in nine wage-earners in the countryside is now a homeworker or manager of a "home business", many sustained by IT resources that were a daydream 10 years ago."A lot of villages lack an active daytime economy," says the report. "Agriculture is in decline, second homes and commuters are prominent. Can home-based business offer a sustainable alternative?"It certainly can, says Samantha Glaysher, a banker taking a partial break to bring up three children in Bay. While her husband, Toby, boards in the week at Canary Wharf, she runs a holiday business as well as using her expertise as voluntary treasurer of the RHB tourist association."It's a misconception that there's no way you can settle somewhere like this and make a living."That's been proven by the people moving in here," she says.Another couple with two children have taken on the fish-and-chip shop at the bottom of the old town's giddily steep hill.And a former London taxi driver and his wife, also with children, came north to run a deckchair business in neighbouring Sandsend but now supplement their earnings with the former cabbie staging Austin Powers promotional appearances at big company functions all over the country.The newcomers emphasise that Robin Hood's Bay wasn't dead when they arrived; it had plenty of community livewires, especially in "Greater Bay", which includes post-18th century housing just inland and the large neighbouring village of Fylingthorpe.Three cricket teams were part of the attraction for the new young dads; and Iona and her friends quickly found the chance to start a small trade supplying crabs to the Old Coastguard Station visitor centre, which attracts thousands of tourists by the old fishing slipway."There's plenty going on: lectures, meetings, get-togethers," says Tim Smith, who came from an estate in Rossendale, Lancashire, where he worked for a national charity.But the community had faced two dangers: it was ageing without enough of a new generation; and the old port - one of the prettiest townscapes in Britain - was at risk of being Disneyfied into a tourists' museum.The CRC report calls for the government to help the revival with support for home-based business on a scale matching start-up facilities in towns. Bay newcomers welcome that, with another couple, Jason Brine and his wife, Jane, able to point to seven staff taken on at their new bistro, shop and gallery in the old Wesleyan Methodist chapel.The jobs are year-round and Jason, a former lawyer, and Jane, who has taken 18 months off work as a finance executive, have also applied for a licence to run a cinema and concert hall. But the Bay experience also suggests that remote communities can take steps to help themselves."One of the crucial things for us has been broadband," says Paul Johnston. It was the existing community that set up the BBC - Bay Broadband Co-Operative - with a relay mast on the Smiths' house.Children were crucial here too. According to Charlie's gang, a lot of the technical BBC stuff is done by another 14-year-old, whose father runs the ice cream van which drives on to the beach at low tide and spends the day on a small, dry headland until the waves retreat.
The brouhaha surrounding the mainstream awareness of adult content in computer games has spawned an official forum courtesy of theInternational Game Developers Association. TheirSex Special Interest Groupwas launched/announced on 15 August with the following (abridged) opening statement:Sexual content is, of course, found in all forms of media, from Homer'sOdysseyandThe Iliadto movies likeThe Graduate,Sidewaysand evenShakespeare in Love. It is a valid storytelling mechanic and central to the human experience. As such, the Sex SIG embraces sex and sexuality as a natural, healthy and positive force in our lives.At the same time, it recognizes several important points:1. The right of developers to work together to create games that include the full range of the human experience, including representations of relationships, love, intimacy and sexual themes.2. A parent's need to be informed and oversee/control their children's access to content.3. The responsibility we as developers have to make sure that the content that's in the game is reflected in its rating and its rating descriptors.Their blog (the primary window into their world) already features some excellent thoughts from its authors (Console Games that Use Sex or Sexuality as a Reward Mechanism, A Brief History of Romance in Console RPGs, Obscenity in the Digital Age, Games for Couples) and has generated some excellent commentary fromWater Cooler Games, which criticises it eloquently:I think there are interesting and meaningful representations of sex yet to appear in games, but I'm sorry to see the IGDA call the Sex &amp; Games project one of "responsible, age-appropriate content development." It should be one of responsible, motivated expression. The Sex SIG cites The Iliad, The Graduate, and Shakespeare in Love as precursors for sexual content in other media. But the Sex SIG doesn't seem legitimately interested in commercial videogames that hope to make forthright comments on the human condition; rather, they seem interested in facilitating empty titillation through adult content.Whatever loggerheads these two fora may encounter, it's nice knowing that there are people who are dealing with this issue in a more proactive way.
Google is expected to launch a new product today that could give it a significant presence on hundreds of millions of Windows users' desktops, even when they are not online.The announcement could also help sustain Google's share price, which fell after last week's surprise announcement that the US-based search company plans to raise a $4bn (&#163;2.2bn) war chest by selling shares.Google Desktop is a sidebar designed to take up a thin column on the right hand side of a Windows screen. The sidebar includes a number of components such as spaces for news (from Google News), photos, web clips, notes, share prices and weather reports. These are updated automatically when users are online.Google is expected to add other features, and independent software houses will also be able to develop plug-ins.Nikhil Bhatla, the Google Desktop product manager, said the sidebar was "automatically personalised based on the web pages you view". Instead of you having to go to the web, the web comes to you. "You don't have to lift a finger to find out what's going on," he said.Google Desktop incorporates an upgraded version of Google's Desktop Search software. This lets users search their own hard drives, plus network drives, as well as searching the web via Google. It also indexes data from Microsoft's Outlook email and information management program, Microsoft Office and some other software.This raises privacy implications, but all the data is held on the local PC, where it can be encrypted, not on the web. However, while Google Desktop links to Google News and Google's web-based Gmail service, it does not show any advertisements. Mr Bhatla said: "At this moment, we don't have any plans to show ads or monetise the product."The new sidebar continues the Google tradition of targeting people using Microsoft Windows 2000 and XP, who make up the bulk of the desktop market. Other recent launches include Google Earth, which is also Windows only, and a Blogger add-on for Microsoft Word.Although Microsoft provides extensive support for Windows developers, it may have mixed feelings in this case. Google Desktop implements a number of ideas that Microsoft proposed in 2002 in a sidebar planned for the next version of Windows. Microsoft is not expected to launch Windows Vista until late next year.&#183;Jack Schofield has been using a test version of Google Desktop under a non-disclosure agreement (NDA).
Online music fans will for the first time be able to legally share tracks by big names such as Oasis, Beyonce, David Bowie and Elvis Presley after the artists' record label signed a ground-breaking deal with a new internet service provider.In what some see as signalling a dramatic shift in the way consumers buy music, the provider, Playlouder, has licensed acts from SonyBMG, the world's second largest record label, and is confident that the other two big record labels, Universal and EMI, will follow suit.Illegal file sharing, which allows users of software such as Kazaa, Grokster and eDonkey to swap pirated tracks over the internet, has been blamed by the record industry for largely contributing to a 25% slump in global sales since 1999, worth around &pound;1.3bn a year.The record industry has pursued a "carrot and stick" approach, taking legal action against the worst offenders while encouraging the use of legal download sites such as Napster and iTunes.In June, Sylvia Price, 53, of Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, was forced to pay &pound;2,500 compensation for around 1,400 songs downloaded by her daughter, Emily, 14, on the family's home computer; and in March, 23 file sharers agreed to pay &pound;2,200 each in compensation for uploading their music libraries on to the internet for others to copy.Playlouder is offering the first legal alternative with a comparable experience to the "peer to peer" file sharing sites often used to swap pirated tracks.Subscribers will be charged &pound;26 a month for a high speed broadband internet connection, similar to the price charged by BT, with the added attraction of being able to share as much music as they want with other subscribers at no extra cost.Because there will be no restrictions on the format in which the traded music is encoded, users will be free to transfer songs to any type of digital music player, including the market leading Apple iPod, or burn them to CD.However, not only will consumers have to pay for music which they currently acquire free, albeit illegally, but they will also have to change their internet provider.After signing the UK licensing deal with SonyBMG, whose acts also include George Michael, Bruce Springsteen and Dido, Playlouder's chief executive, Paul Hitchman, is confident that its big rivals will follow suit.It has already signed deals with dozens of independent labels affiliated to the Association of Independent Music, representing artists such as the White Stripes, Franz Ferdinand and Dizzee Rascal. AIM's chief executive, Alison Wenham, said the idea was a "simple but radically different solution to the means of accessing music on the internet".Because all Playlouder subscribers will share tracks over its own network Mr Hitchman said that the company could track the files and, through digital fingerprinting technology, make sure that record companies were remunerated accordingly from money set aside from Playlouder's revenues each month.He said he believed that the service, to be launched next month, "could well be the most important development in digital distribution since the invention of the MP3 format".Some record company executives have been wary of such deals because they fear it could reduce their ability to market big selling acts on a global basis. But conversely, it could also increase their revenues from back catalogue tracks.Playlouder claims that if all ISPs adopted its model, the record industry would make an additional &pound;300m a year in the UK alone.Other companies, including one set up by the former Grokster president Wayne Rosso, have been working on legal versions of peer to peer file sharing. But Mr Hitchens claimed that while they would allow sharing, if customers wanted a high quality version, they would have to pay extra.The British Phonographic Industry, which has imposed fines of up to &pound;6,500 each on 60 file sharers found to be making thousands of pirated tracks available to others and is taking five more to court, welcomed the development."Ensuring record companies are adequately and reliably compensated for the use of their copyrights on the internet is the number one issue for our business," said the BPI's chairman, Peter Jamieson.
Certain cars demand a new wardrobe in order to fully appreciate their driving experience.A Land Rover, for instance, requires wellies and a tattered tweed coat; a Mitsubishi Evo would expect a David Beckham white-silk tracksuit and neatly razored facial hair. A pick-up, however, needs a checked shirt, sweat-stained Stetson and a denim jacket embroidered with the words: 'Don't Mess With Texas.' Or maybe: 'Don't Mess With Hackney.'Long the van of choice for farmers, builders and anyone with a ton of baggage (either physical or psychological), the Isuzu Rodeo Denver Max is the sort of vehicle which gives anyone with a conscience palpitations and anyone without eco sensibilities a smirk as long as one of Garth Brooks's rhinestone cowboy boots. Other than muscle cars and souped-up American imports, the Isuzu three-litre turbo diesel is the largest pickup available in Britain.It's a colossal, grunting beast which weighs almost two tonnes and has a three-tonne pay load. The makers are keen to position it as a leisure (or 'lifestyle family') vehicle, which is why it now comes in its traditional guise of two-seater cab with large flat-bed out the back, or as a five-seat double cab with a smaller flat-bed which can be enclosed with a hard cargo top.Effectively, this transforms it from a work vehicle into an over-the-top, steroid-soaked estate car. A motor with abs as well as ABS. The Rodeo starts at &#163;15,802 (which seems remarkably cheap if you buy cars by weight) and does a not totally discreditable 30mpg. It's not a van for speed freaks, however, as it has a top speed of only 99mph. In fact, it's so slow it makes the Big Brother housemates look rather quick.The Rodeo is a multi-awardwinning motor (What Van's best pick-up and the Caravan Club's towcar of the year) and Isuzu hopes to sell about 3,500 vehicles a year. To put that in perspective, the Rodeo already sells 10,000 units a month in Thailand - where it's known as the D-Max. In Australia it wears the Holden badge and in South America it's sold as a Chevrolet.Car bores may already know that the first vehicle built by Isuzu was a locally assembled, British-designed Wolseley A9, made in 1922. Since then, as they say, things have moved on. The Rodeo is the fifth pick-up from Isuzu - the Japanese giant has been perfecting the model for 31 years now, and prides itself on the 'car-like handling' of its bestselling pick-up.And it's true - the Rodeo has aircon, a CD player, an automatic gearbox, tinted windows and a grey, anonymous interior. But to say it handles like a car is like saying the Aussies don't know how to play cricket. It's also missing the point... The joy of the Rodeo is that it has 'truck-like handling'. In fact, make that 'tractor-like handling'. Turn the key and the giant engine jolts into life, rattling and grinding like a demented jackhammer. With its huge wheels and panoramic views, the Rodeo is a grease-and-gilt throne for all budding kings of the road. Just don't forget your Queens of Country compilation CD.martin.love@observer.co.uk
"THE new book Darknet: Hollywood's War Against the Digital Generation, by J. D. Lasica, covers ground that's been pounded before: the often-draconian or clueless ways big entertainment companies try to control content or subvert emerging technologies, and how people work around those efforts by sharing content online often in walled-off, anonymous places like private Internet Relay Chat rooms and the Free Network Project (freenet.sourceforge.net)," reportsThe New York Times.The book was born online athttp://www.darknet.com/
"Apple Computer late Thursday said it was extending the warranty of its first-run iMac G5 desktop computers for a full year because of ongoing power and video problems on some machines," reportsTechWeb."The warranty extension applies only to iMac G5s sold between September 2004, when the line debuted, and June, 2005, that have scrambled or distorted video, no video, or no power. The affected models feature 17- and 20-inch displays with 1.6GHz and 1.8GHz G5 processors."
Thanks to the Kansas School Board, the idea that the universe was created by aFlying Spaghetti Monsteris really taking off. There's a good guide to the cult atWikipedia. The joke, of course, is that it's arguably more rational than Intelligent Design. (See, for example, the Scientific American article,15 Answers to Creationist Nonsense.)Now Boing Boing has launcheda $1m challenge, with the money* going to anyone who "can produce empirical evidence which proves that Jesus is not the son of the Flying Spaghetti Monster".* "Prize to be awarded with Intelligently Designed currency; void where prohibited by logic."Comment:Does Flying Spaghetti Monsterism have pastors?
Gametrak: Real World GolfPS2Gametrak demands you wear a set of neoprene gloves connected to cables attached to a device at your feet, which then detects the movement of your hands and translates it to motion on screen. You'd expect none of it to work but, like Sony's Eye Toy camera, the big surprise is that it does, and in a way that opens up games to friends and family members who have never been comfortable holding a joypad. Real World Golf lets you take on a pleasing selection of 18-hole courses around the world, swinging away to your heart's content using the game's miniature plastic club, and praying that nobody brought a digital camera with them.&#183;In2Games, &pound;30 (Gametrak device sold separately, &pound;20)Hello Kitty Roller RescueGamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxNow it's occasionally warm outside, leaving the house is sometimes preferable to sitting inside it in front of the TV. No bad thing, when games of the calibre of Hello Kitty's Roller Rescue are given shelf space. Having little to do with the character, and almost aggressively uninspired, this has Kitty jumping around, battering happy cartoon bad guys with a pink, heart-shaped wand. Hampered by an atrocious camera, repetitive combat and pointless collection tasks, it also suffers from loud and intrusive music that sounds like someone pressing random notes on a Casio VL-Tone over a selection of the keyboard's many built-in Euro-pop beats. As fun and exciting as screwing lids onto toothpaste tubes.&#183;Explosiv, &pound;20Perfect Ace 2: The ChampionshipPlaystation 2Timed to miss Wimbledon and arriving without even a ripple of hype, Perfect Ace 2: The Championship is a tennis game that engenders only despair. From the selection of lantern-jawed, hollow-eyed freaks in the player options to the robotic-feel shots, to the constant glitches that see your player to pause rather than move at the crucial moment of ball contact, to its wafer-thin manual that refers to backspin as "bottom spin" throughout, to the crude, virtually texture-free graphics, Perfect Ace 2 is utterly, miserably awful in every way. It would be better simply to set fire to &#163;20 of your own money, thereby saving yourself from having to soldier through what the box describes as "a game".&#183;Oxygen Interactive, &#163;20
A wiki is a web application that allows users to add content directly to the site, thus making it an ever multiplying source of information. They're also a lot of fun.en.wikipedia.orgis a free encyclopedia that has grown to contain entries on everything from Baobab trees to Peruvian cuisine. The site is so popular that its spawned a brilliant parody inuncyclopedia.org.Meanwhile,en.wikinews.orgcollects breaking news from various sites as well as those submitted by readers;en.wikiquote.orgis a vast repository of famous quotes;pregnancybirthandbaby.co.uk/wikicontains a wealth of information for new parents andworld66.comis seeking to be a world travel guide based on real experiences in cities from Paris to Las Vegas.
MondayGaming is the new pubUnlikely thrillerTuesdayZelda latePoint and schtickBluetooth to the rescue?WednesdayGo to your PlayStation and do your homework!Xbox 360 UK price detailsFamily of WarcraftReview of the monthThursdayCantina CrawlingThis weekFridayMobile gaming update
"USA TODAY, the largest-circulation daily newspaper in the country, is launching a glossy technology magazine covering consumer electronics and trends, the newspaper announced Thursday. The new 80-page magazine, USA TODAY NOW Personal Technology, will launch Oct. 17 with at least 300,000 copies printed. It will be sold at newsstands across the country with a cover price of $4.95," reportsAP(on the USA Today site).
"As cute as a jellybean, theWALKMAN Beanis equally tasty. The easiest (and smartest) MP3 player you'll ever use, it comes in four candy colours and is as cool on the outside as it is on the inside!" Or so Sony UK claims....According toOnline's news pageyesterday, it offers both MP3 and Atrac playback.
"Each month, Feedster brings you a list of 500 of the most interesting and important blogs. Enjoy browsing to see what people are reading, to find feeds that will bring topics of interest to you on a regular basis, and to discover new voices in the Blogosphere," says the site athttp://top500.feedster.com/Comment:Engadget(54,380 links) takes the top spot, but I would not have guessed most of the top 10. Indeed, I've not even visited six of them....
I haven't done one of these for a while so here's a look at a few Java titles due out over the next few weeks. Those who are sickened to the core by the very thought of mobile games, please turn away now...Metal Slug Mobile ImpactThe second ofi-Play's conversions of the classic horizontally scrolling shoot-'em-up series. This one contains elements of the first three coin-op titles (well the BREW iteration does - the Java one we get in this country will be missing a few levels) and has helicopter and tank driving sections as well as the usual run, jump and shoot bits. Visuals are improved over the original mobile rendition, and there seems to be a more committed attempt to capture the sick humour of the arcade originals (you can, for example, ignite enemy soldiers with your flamethrower and watch them run away on fire... You sort of have to be there).King of Fighters M2SNK's Street Fighter challenger gets its second mobile translation - the first wasn't great, but sold very well apparently. This version provides three play modes - Battle, Survival and Story - and several familiar fighters including Terry Bogard, Mai, Leona and Kim Kaphwan. Most importantly, they've completely re-designed the controls with the mobile handset in mind, providing just one attack button and introducing a new Special Move system, which requires you to complete teeny minigames to pull off Deadly, Super Desperation, Super Guard and Stylish moves. You may, for example, be required to bash in a series of numbers very quickly. It's a sensible idea and works a bit like the quick time events you may remember from Shenmue...Bomberman KartLiving Mobile, the German mobile games publisher that holds a licensing deal with Hudsonsoft has just sent me details of this Bomberman spin-off, previously seen on PS2. It's basically Mario Kart but with Bomberman characters. Knockabout racing, vehicles with different handling attributes, power-ups and weapons including missiles, turbo boosts and cherry bombs, etc. It all comes down to the framerate and the handling, which are usually pretty poor on Java titles. We'll see. This one is rolling out throughout Europe right now.Medieval Combat: Age of GloryA visually impressive beat-'em-up fromGameloft, one of the best mobile developers in the world. With nice big SNES-style sprites, detailed backgrounds and what looks to be a decent selection of combatants this could work alongside King of Fighters M2 in proving that fighting games can actually work on mobile phones. Due out in October, it's inspired by Soul Calibur apparently and features an array of weapons and magical attacks.Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under PressureGluwill be handling the mobile conversion of Atari'sspray paint-'em-up. "It's a game about graffiti and urban culture, and as such it's something that's not been done before on mobile, and not effectively on Console," says Glu's John Ozimek. "Getting it onto operator decks has been a big challenge in Europe, as the whole urban youth culture thing is nowhere near as evolved as it is in the US. But really it makes a lot of sense, looking forward, to create products for this group, for whom mobiles are an everyday part of life." Of course, it would be interesting to include location-based elements here, allowing players to meta-tag real-world locations, but I'm probably getting ahead of myself, technology-wise.Mech BattalionAnother one from Glu, this time a multiplayer turn-based strategy title. As Ozimek explains, "It's a 2-4 player game over GPRS, where users control mechs and try to blast each other - winners can then upgrade their robots and get new weapons, etc. The idea is to introduce a kind of handicap system for mobile multiplayer, where similar-skilled gamers automatically get matched up. There is a load of clever server tech, meaning we can even change the game UI on the fly, depending on what specs the operator has for mobile. One of the big problems with Cannons Tournament was that each time we launched with an operator we'd have to integrate the system from scratch, as no operator runs the same system as another. With this, we can do most of the changes from the server, meaning that the gamer will never know from operator to operator."Speedball 2: Brutal Deluxe and The Chaos EngineThe two Bitmap bros classics are coming to mobile this month - again, courtesy of Glu. Speedball 2 - the superb Amiga future sports sim is to feature a Bluetooth two player mode. No word yet on any multiplayer support for Chaos Engine, the steam punk Gauntlet-style shooter, but 16bit veterans will have their fingers crossed.Pac-ManNamco is running a tournament to discover the legendary game's European champion. It's running in all territories where the company's iMode service is available - which will soon include the UK. Users simply post their high scores to a central server and then the finalists will be drawn together for a grand pill-munching final in London. Namco has said that this will be the first of many cross-Europe gaming competitions. Perhaps Ridge Racer next?
The telltale white wires protruding from dozens of ears on a busy Tokyo street say it all: these are heady days for Apple in Japan. In a world once dominated by Sony, Apple's iPod leads the market in digital music players, with a 36% stake against Sony's 22%.For an already embattled Sony, more unwelcome news arrived earlier this month in the form of Apple's long-anticipated launch of the Japanese version of the iTunes online music store.Within four days, iTunes Japan had sold a million songs, a feat that took a week in the United States. By contrast, Mora, the online music site affiliated with Sony, delivers 450,000 downloads a month.Sony had been expecting iTunes; the only surprise, say industry watchers, was that it took Apple so long to embark on its far east adventure.With 500m songs sold in 19 countries before the Japan launch, iTunes has become the driving force behind the iPod's sweep though the US and Europe. Just under 22m players have been sold worldwide since they appeared on the market in October 2001; by 2009 Apple reckons it will be shifting 104m units a year."The response to iTunes Japan, internationally and domestically, was phenomenal so we really feel like Apple has made its mark here," said Takashi Kakebayashi, PR manager at Apple Japan.Flash playersApple's foray into Japan - which is the world's second biggest market for music in terms of album sales - has sparked talk of a rapid growth in the market in digital music downloads and of a bitter battle with Sony.Analysts agree that the momentum is with the visitor from California. Apple has undercut existing providers by charging &yen;150 (75p) per song for 90% of the content, with the remaining songs costing &yen;200 apiece. That is more expensive than the 99 cents (55p) iTunes charges in the US but still cheaper than Mora, which charges &yen;210 per song.With its library of 1m songs, iTunes dwarfs the 200,000 songs offered by Mora, although the latter, a conglomerate of 42 Japanese record labels, is richer in local content.Faced with those statistics, the game would appear to be up for Sony, but the inventor of the Walkman is not panicking just yet.The iPod may be the most popular hard-drive player in Japan butamong smaller, flash-memory players, Sony leads the Japanese market ahead of the iPod shuffle, which is best suited to online downloads and consequently suffered from iTunes' late introduction."I don't know if talk of Apple dominance is really 100% true," said David Yang, a spokesman for Sony Corporate Communications.Sony has also corrected the costly mistake of producing players that were not compatible with the popular MP3 file format. The firm ditched its proprietary instincts to incorporate MP3 compatibility and its latest digital player, the Walkman Network NW-HD5, is faring better as a result, the firm says."Personal audio is very important to Sony," Yang said. "We are by no means shifting our attention away from this area; we are focusing heavily on the market."There is also irritation at Apple chief Steve Jobs's attempt during his recent visit to Tokyo to rub salt into Sony's wounds before an invited audience of whooping Apple fanatics. The iPod, he said, had outsold the PlayStation Portable (PSP) by 6m units to 2m in the last quarter."I don't know where Steve got that comparison from," Mr Yang said. "The PSP offers a lot more than just audio, and it certainly hasn't been positioned in the market as an audio player."Yang believes Sony is also capable of seeing off Apple's challenge in the software sector: "One of the great benefits of Mora is that a lot of the library caters specifically for the Japanese market. There is a huge library of J-Pop and other domestic titles."Despite impressive early sales, iTunes suffers from a relative dearth of Japanese content. Mr Kakebayashi said there were plans to increase the Japanese representation, adding that the site would appeal to older Japanese with its 10,000-strong library of audio files, including English conversation for businessmen, traditional comedy routines and classic radio shows.Going mobileWhile analysts expect the digital music downloads to receive a boost in the second half of the year, they are sceptical about the market's long-term prospects in the face of competition from Japan's huge, and legal, trade in rental CDs. For a few hundred yen, consumers can rent a CD from their local video store and record the entire disc on their PC, ready for downloading to a digital music player."The full impact iTunes will have on the CD rental market won't be felt for a while, at least not until more advanced mobile phones make it easier to download songs from sites like iTunes," said Hideaki Yokota, the chief researcher at the Multimedia Research Institute in Tokyo.According to the Recording Industry Association of Japan, music downloads on mobile phones easily outstripped those to digital music players during the first half of this year. The downloads, mainly of ring tones but also of entire songs, totalled 108.9m, compared with just 2.2m downloads from the internet, the association said.Although the average charge per song remains high at about &yen;300 a song, downloading music directly to their mobile phone rather than via the internet appeals to the millions of handset addicts.The online digital market's best chance, says Mr Yokota, lies in lowering its prices, and quickly: "As soon as the industry as a whole realises that iTunes' &yen;150 a song should be the standard, then prices will start to come down across the board."In the hardware stakes, the iPod, valued as much for its street cred as its performance, is expected to retain the top spot in Japan for the time being."Sony is bringing out some impressive music players, but for it to make a quick comeback and regain the position it held a few years ago will virtually impossible," Mr Yokota said."It's all about fashion and image and, for the moment, the iPod is winning."
Google yesterday announced plans to raise $4bn (&pound;2.2bn) from a secondary stock offering, cashing in on the steep increase in the internet search engine's share price since it joined the market a year ago.The company said it is to sell 14.2m shares at up to $283.60 each. The result will be to more than double the $3bn it already has in the bank. In a filing lodged with the United States securities regulator, the company said the additional funds will be used as working capital and for possible acquisitions - although it added that there are no immediate deals in the pipeline.The secondary share sale reflects a remarkable turnaround for Google, which struggled to attract investors for its initial public offering 12 months ago amid difficult market conditions and a troubled lead-up to the float.At the time the firm was forced to pare back the number of shares on offer and cut the price to $85, from an initial range of between $108 and $135. The firm's fortunes swiftly changed. It shares have since risen relentlessly and reached more than $300 earlier in the summer. They were yesterday trading 2.6% lower at $277.79. The share sale will increase the firm's class A share equity by 8%.Google, founded seven years ago in a university bedroom by Sergey Brin and Larry Page, has enjoyed enviable success. The company last year had revenues of $3.2bn. In the most recent quarter it recorded profits of $343m, up from $79m a year ago. Analysts expect the company to double both earnings and sales this year. Online advertising spend in the US is expected to increase 25% this year to $12bn and search-related advertising is the fastest growing part.Despite intensifying competition, Google is stretching its lead in the search market. According to research firm ComScore Networks, Google's share of the global search market rose to 56% in June, compared with 48% a year ago. Yahoo!'s share fell to 22% from 26% and Microsoft's MSN increased its share from 10% to 11%.Google's revenue is still overwhelmingly generated by search-related advertising, but the firm is investing in other services. The company has $700m of capital spending planned this year. It has also been investing in overseas offices, including a development centre in China.Its growing services either live or still being piloted include email, a personalised homepage, comparison shopping and Google Earth, a service that allows users to map out routes using 3-D technology.Prudential analyst Mark Rowen has a 12- to 18-month price target of $400 a share. He maintained his "overweight" position in a note to clients yesterday, describing the dilutive impact of the new shares as muted. "We believe the company is building a war chest for future acquisitions," he said.Google has made a number of minor acquisitions, including mapping search service Keyhole Corporation, the Urchin Software Group and Dodgeball.com, which allows mobile phone users to monitor friends' whereabouts. It also has a small stake in Baidu.com, the Chinese search engine.
A year ago Giselle Pakeera saw the killer of her teenage son jailed, and she was convinced that Manhunt, a violent computer game his killer had played was to blame.Last night she called for tighter controls ahead of the release of a new game about bullying at school by the makers of Manhunt.Ms Pakeerah claims Manhunt, produced by Rockstar Games, inspired Warren Leblanc to lure her 14-year-old son Stefan to a Leicester park in February 2004 and kill him with a knife and claw hammer.Some high street retailers, including Game, Dixons, Curry's and PC World, withdrew Manhunt from their shelves after the killing.Ms Pakeerah's new campaign was triggered by a new Rockstar game which features a pupil beating up classmates. Screenshots of Bully released online by the company show a student standing in uniform outside "Bullworth Academy", and later in class, kicking a classmate.After Leblanc had been jailed for life for her son's murder, Ms Pakeera called for a ban on the violent games.She said: "I find it shockingly irresponsible, not only from the point of view of violent media but also because of the issue of bullying, which is in the public eye because of the effect it has on young people's lives."People have been working very hard to stamp out bullying in schools, and now we have a game called Bully. I don't think they should be allowed to release it."This flags up a very important issue, that the computer games industry is not fully regulated. There needs to be an independent watchdog regulating the production of such games."The possible influence of Manhunt was not an element of the prosecution case against 17-year-old Leblanc, who was jailed at Leicester crown court last year for at least 13 years.The defendant, who pleaded guilty, claimed he had only planned to rob the younger boy to repay a &pound;75 debt.But the victim's parents blamed Manhunt, in which players earn points for stealth killings, for the vicious and prolonged attack on their son.Leicester East MP Keith Vaz has backed Ms Pakeerah's campaign for tighter restrictions on violence in games.Ms Pakeerah hopes any controversy over the release of Bully does not boost Rockstar's profits.No one from Rockstar was available for comment last night.Recently the latest version of another Rockstar game, Grand Theft Auto, has been withdrawn from stores across America after it emerged that secret sex scenes contained on the disk could be accessed by children. The game had been given a 17 certificate. This has now been raised to 18 and Rockstar has been forced to issue a special piece of software to disable access to the sexRockstar said last year it extended its deepest sympathies to those affected by Stefan's death, and that it submitted its games for certification to the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC). Manhunt has an 18 certificate.The BBFC said there was no evidence directly linking playing of games with violent behaviour.But some disagree, including Craig Anderson, a psychologist at Iowa State University, who has published a succession of studies making such a link."Violent video games are significantly associated with increased aggressive behaviour," he said"High levels of violent video game exposure have been linked to delinquency, fighting at school and violent criminal behaviour."Earlier this year researchers from the Swedish National Institute of Public Health cast doubt on any link between violence and video games, after reviewing 30 studies from around the world.The study discounted the link between games and violent behaviour or aggressive feelings - although it did find a child who had been playing a violent computer game was more likely to pick up a toy sword or toy gun than a child who had not.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server ...Current host:Chris2Current topic:The government has said it intends to retain the A-level exam in its current form, despite criticism that the qualification has been "dumbed down" after another record pass rate. Are results really improving, or are the tests getting easier? What do you think?BUSHWINS:OF COURSE THEYRE GETTING EASIERL'wren:omg they are not!! They are so totaly hard!Pashmina:u need them to get a job thoLadeezMan:I never got no a levels &amp;amp; ive got loads of jobscapitalistpiglet:the exams have certainly got easier since my dayPashmina:3 years ago!!!Host_Chris2:for once we're on topicLadeezMan:I've had 6 jobs since januaryPashmina:is u still peelin prawnsLadeezMan:no im alergic to their poocapitalistpiglet:I think a diploma system would help employersPashmina:hows cornwall pigletBronco has entered the NewsRoomcapitalistpiglet:raining. That's why I'm in an internet caf&eacute;Bronco:hiPashmina:how abt u bronc is it warm were u areL'wren:I worked hard for my five stared As thank u verry much!!!Bronco:not bad. nice temp, plenty of places to eat. Bit crowded tho.BUSHWINS:YOU'RE A TYPICAL PRODUCT OF THE SYSTEM L'WRENPashmina:were r u TurkeyBronco:no heathrowPashmina:still!L'wren:well bushwins u shd change yr username it's totaly out of date!GO_TIM:I have the same problemPashmina:hi tim didnt see u thereHost_Chris2:we're drifting a bit.TakeThat4Ever:what about my usernameGO_TIM:whoa. respectPashmina:hi TakeThat4Ever - what u been up 2TakeThat4Ever:I haven't left my flat in 8 yearsPashmina:okL'Wren:u people is all so ineducatedBronco:ladeezman wot u doin these daysLadeezMan:sueing the prawn peopleBronco:beats workingLadeezMan:amenGO_TIM:anything we can do to help, TakeThat4Ever?TakeThat4Ever:I'm out of flourconnection to server has been terminated...
You can now read today's paper Online section onlinehere. Gamesblogger Aleks Krotoski writes aboutThe making of machinima(Hollywood storytelling with videogame animation), while Natalie Hanman looks atLogging on to find love. Peter Judge providesThe A-Z of Wi-Fi, while inLost in the system, Michael Cross reports that government plans to create a national database of addresses have been suspended because public agencies failed to meet a deadline for agreement. And, as they say, much more....
Readers are welcome to comment (politely, please) but to stop various types of spamming, we've had to make this harder. However, you only need to click ONCE and your post will appear, albeit after a short delay. Some posts may be held until a mod gets round to reading it and clicking the Approve button. Normally this happens reasonably quickly, but due to a recent deluge, a few got delayed. My apologies.Update:This corrects my misuderstanding from an earlier post. You don't need to register to comment.
The gaming drought continues and is reflected in thisweek's reviews. We've got a game for a machine yet to launch in Europe - MediEvil on PSP - and two low budget PC games, one of which is a Sudoku compilation. Yes, things are that desperate. The good news is that the PSP launch on Sept 1st heralds the start of the Autumn/Winter gaming flood. Until then you can find out how MediEvil is not quite the launch game gem that washoped forand that Polish Splinter Cell clones are as average as you'd expect.
"Nintendo Co Ltd will launch its Game Boy Micro, a portable mobile phone-sized games console, in Europe on November 4 for a recommended price of 99 euros," reportsReuters."The Japanese company hopes to attract women and so-called casual gamers -- those unwilling or unable to spend hours playing games on a PC or console at home -- with the new device, which is available in metallic pink, green, blue and silver."The GBM will be launched in Japan on September 13 with a price tag of 12,000 yen, and in the US on September 19 for $99. More details can be foundherein a Reuters report from Tokyo.
"KANSAS CITY, KS—As the debate over the teaching of evolution in public schools continues, a new controversy over the science curriculum arose Monday in this embattled Midwestern state. Scientists from the Evangelical Center For Faith-Based Reasoning are now asserting that the long-held 'theory of gravity' is flawed, and they have responded to it with a new theory of Intelligent Falling," claimsThe Onion."Things fall not because they are acted upon by some gravitational force, but because a higher intelligence, 'God' if you will, is pushing them down," said Gabriel Burdett, who holds degrees in education, applied Scripture, and physics from Oral Roberts University.Comment:Humour aside, H. Allen Orr demolished the patently silly "Intelligent Design" idea in 1996, in aBoston Reviewreview of Michael J Behe's book Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution. In one sentence: "The latest attack on evolution is cleverly argued, biologically informed -- and wrong."
If your friend has suddenly found love but won't tell you how, then it's highly likely the internet played its part. For despite the perceived stigma of online dating, a recent survey reveals it is now the third most popular way to get a date.The NetRatings online dating survey says that internet dating and personal websites attract more than 3.5 million people per month in the UK - an audience that has almost doubled in the last year alone.Martyn Sedlen, a single college lecturer from Bristol, first began using online dating siteMatch.comin 2003 and, after being in a relationship, has recently returned to the site. He says the public profile of such sites - damaged by people doctoring their images or lying about their age, and the threat of meeting someone dangerous - has improved. "Eighteen months ago, there was still that reputation of people putting fake photos up and lying, but this time around there are a lot of decent people on the site," says Sedlen, 32."I'm perfectly honest with my friends about being on the site. It is now accepted as a decent way to meet people as it's really hard otherwise."Many other Britons feel the same. While meeting your match through friends or in pubs and clubs are still the most popular methods of finding a date, British singletons - be they male, female, young, old, divorced, gay or lesbian - are no longer afraid of logging on to find love.With one in three internet users saying they would use the web to meet a dating partner, the accusation that it takes the romance out of relationships no longer rings true. "While there may appear to be a social stigma that prevents people admitting to using a third party to help get a date, our research shows the reality is very different," says Alex Burmaster, NetRatings European internet analyst.Sedlen's lodger persuaded him to try internet dating. "She was fed up of me moping around the house, and I'm quite a shy person," says Sedlen. "She thought it would be an easy way for me to meet like-minded people."Sedlen finds the "pre-screening" aspect of internet dating a great advantage. Being able to email, or even telephone, someone before meeting them is helpful "because you've got some commonality already".It makes him feel more confident and often leads to a more enjoyable night out. "When you meet them, you know that you want to because you've got their background already," says Sedlen. "To be able to email before meeting makes a very good grounding for a date. If you go out on a blind date, then you are walking in blind and wouldn't have a chance."With last week's UK National Singles Week survey revealing that the singles market is bigger than ever - almost 48% of the adult population are unattached, it says - many argue that our time-pressed, jet-setting, work-heavy lifestyles are also making it harder to meet potential partners. "The problem for singles has been that most jobs demand priority time so social pursuits, which involve searching for a partner, have fallen by the wayside," says Judi James, Match.com's relationship expert. "Searching for a partner has to fit in with existing demands so we can no longer afford to be random, which is why online dating is so effective."The internet has many other advantages over more traditional tactics. It provides unparalleled access to a large number of people, from different backgrounds and varied parts of the country, that you otherwise would find hard to meet. It also provides always-on access at an affordable price - most dating sites let you post a profile and search other members for free, while paying a subscription allows you to contact them via email. As Burmaster says: "You can access a dating site seven days a week but finding friends to go out with every night could be difficult ... When you factor in the cost as well - one night out in the UK could easily cost more than one month's subscription to a dating site - it's easy to see why the web is such a popular option for finding a date."And with dating sites such as Tickle showing a 66% growth in audience in the past six months alone, they are obviously doing something right. "The internet dating companies have been very good at understanding the needs people have in their real lives and have provided an online platform to meet those needs successfully," says Burmaster.But are online dating businesses exploiting people's emotional need for love and relationships? "'Exploiting' is a very dangerous word to use," says Burmaster. "They are providing a service which people are using. People aren't forced to use them."Other research reveals that those who do use online dating sites are likely to have more luck in love than those sticking to traditional methods of finding a partner. Match.com research shows that 88% of its subscribers are likely to be attracted to someone they meet through an online dating service but only 52% are likely to be attracted to someone they meet in a bar or nightclub.And in February this year, Jeff Gavin, a psychologist at the University of Bath, challenged the theory held by other psychologists that people who meet online would have problems sustaining relationships outside of the virtual world. His study found that when couples who had built up a significant relationship by emailing or chatting online met for the first time, 94% went on to see each other again, some having relationships that lasted more than a year. This "online chemistry", it seems, can lead to a more suitable and fulfilling match in real life.The NetRatings survey also reveals some dating differences between men and women. Men were four times as likely to be looking for no-strings flings than women. And while internet dating's most appealing feature for men is the ability to email people they like the look of, women enjoy the potential for pre-screening dates. "Our research does seem to reinforce the stereotypical differences between the genders," says Burmaster. "In particular, men choose their dates based on looks &#91;while&#93; women put far more emphasis on personal characteristics and descriptions."One of the reasons internet dating has a bad reputation is that those taking part can easily lie about themselves, and 33% of respondents admitted to lying to some degree on their profile, women more so than men. But as Sedlen says: "You are honest, because at the end of the day you will be found out and if you get caught, there's no point."And while your internet-inspired date might not lead to love, it can pave the way for a platonic relationship. "I've met a lot of very good friends from it," says Sedlen. "Even if I haven't yet met the one."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukSoulmates:www.guardiansoulmates.com
Wi-Fi wireless networking equipment is selling like hot cakes: if you include access points and laptops, it's shifting at a rate of about 50m units a year.This success is down to both technology and marketing. The equipment works together well, and we expect it to do so. That's because the industry tested for compliance and promoted wireless networking under a single Wi-Fi brand, which is managed by the Wi-Fi Alliance.But behind the friendly logo, there's a mass of detail. Wi-Fi is not, in fact, one single standard but a set of standards thrashed out in the usual manner - via working groups which are organised by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).The IEEE's standards work on wireless networks looks daunting, because it is organised by a framework of numbers like the Dewey Decimal system in libraries. Network standards are handled by the IEEE 802 committee, and wireless Lans (local area networks) by a sub-committee called the IEEE 802.11 working group. Different aspects are then standardised by specific task groups with names such as 802.11r, 802.11s and so on. It's confusing at best."Go into all the IEEE task groups, and you're bombarding people with information they don't actually need," warns Richard Webb, wireless analyst at Infonetics Research. "If task groups come up with necessary features, they will get incorporated in the next super-standard."In other words, the stuff you need is covered by the Wi-Fi brand: this boils down to three speed variations and a set of security options.The basic grade of Wi-Fi is b (or, in full, 802.11b), available on most laptops and at all public hotspots. This has a theoretical speed of about 11 megabits per second (Mbps), but achieves actual throughput of about 4.5Mbps. This is being displaced by g (or 802.11g), which gives a nominal speed of 54Mbps but 18Mbps in practice. It also works with b equipment at b speeds, and is the sensible option to buy now.There's another faster version, a, but it is not widely used. It has the same 54Mbps theoretical speed as g, but it won't work with b equipment, as it operates at a different radio frequency (5GHz, not 2.4GHz). There are more channels and less interference from Bluetooth and microwave ovens at that frequency.Webb says: "802.11a is still around. It's shipped in dual mode products, but rarely used in its own right." Some hardware includes two radios, so it can do a, b and g. "The things that might drive &#91;the use of&#93; a are Voice over Internet Protocol &#91;VoIP&#93;, and mesh networks," says Webb. Some networks use the a standard as a backbone to connect a set of b/g access points, making a wireless "mesh". Others use it for voice in areas where the existing network is already carrying a lot of data.The Wi-Fi Alliance has made two versions of its security brands, each available in two flavours. All are based on the 802.11e security specification, created because the original security features were too weak to protect from eavesdroppers.Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) took the first parts of 802.11e to be completed, and WPA2 included the full standard when it was ratified last year. In each case, there are enterprise versions for products designed for use in large networks, which can use an authentication server running on those networks to determine if users have a right to use the network.The Wi-Fi alphabetHere are the current IEEE 802.11 standards and their status. Some are completely irrelevant to users now, either because they are not yet complete, or because they are bundled into other standards - and there's one we made up.&#183;802.11a, 54Mbps networking on the 5GHz frequency.Not widely used yet (see above), because it is not compatible with 802.11b/g.&#183;802.11b, 11Mbps at 2.4GHz.The basic rate of Wi-Fi, available at all public hotspots.&#183;802.11c, modified MAC bridging.Useful, complete and hidden within Wi-Fi products.&#183;802.11d, multi-country roaming.Completed in 2001, this standard lets access points broadcast what country they are in so Wi-Fi clients can follow any country-specific rules.&#183;802.11e, quality of service.For video and voice, wireless Lans need to be able set priorities and guarantee bandwidth. It's a draft standard, but parts are already branded by the Wi-Fi Alliance as WMM.&#183;802.11F, inter-access point protocol.That capital F shows this is a "recommended practice" not a formal standard. It was intended to allow access points to share data about a particular client connection so users could roam, but vendors went with proprietary methods instead.&#183;802.11g, 54Mbps at 5GHz.The kind of Wi-Fi kit to buy now, as it works with b, but goes faster with other g kit.&#183;802.11h, for harmonisation, an unimportant variation of the 802.11a specification.The European standards community required dynamic frequency selection (DFS) and transmission power control (TPC) on 5GHz 802.11a equipment sold in Europe, to avoid interference with radar, satellites and military bands. Also, arguably, it wanted to give the impression that Hiperlan - the aborted European competitor to 802.11, which included DFS and TPC - wasn't a complete waste of time.&#183;802.11i, security features.Adds more power encryption and allows the use of different authentication methods - all covered under the Wi-Fi Alliance's WPA brand.&#183;802.11 IR, infra-red version.No products have ever been made, but a standard was created to use infra-red instead of radio for Wi-Fi.&#183;802.11j, a version of Wi-Fi designed for Japan, which uses the 4.9 to 5GHz spectrum.&#183;802.11k, radio resource management.A project intended to standardise radio resources, so management can balance the load between different access points. Only relevant in Lans with more than one access point (AP) and not complete yet, anyway.&#183;802.11m, "housekeeping" or standards reduction.The 802.11m task group maintains, corrects and interprets the other standards.&#183;802.11n, high throughput.This is the most contentious Wi-Fi standard, as it's a faster version to follow 802.11g. Some vendors have launched non-standard products labelled "pre-n", which claim 108Mbps (and offer actual throughput of about 30Mbps). The 802.11n task group is working on a compromise that may be available next year.&#183;802.11p, vehicular access, also known as dedicated short range communications (DSRC).It's intended for Wi-Fi access to cars, using yet another new frequency band: 5.9GHz. It's a separate world to the rest of Wi-Fi.&#183;802.11q, for virtual Lans on wireless networks.It allows different kinds of traffic to be separated by tags.&#183;802.11r, fast roaming.Wi-Fi phones in the office need to stay connected, even when the user moves between one access point and another. 802.11r is intended to allow clients to hand-off from one AP to another without breaking security measures. The standard isn't complete yet.&#183;802.11s, wireless mesh.If access points communicate with each other by Wi-Fi, it's possible to cover a big area without wires. Two rival groups - SeeMesh and Nortel's Wi-Mesh Alliance - are the leaders among 15 standards proposals.&#183;802.11t, wireless tests.If you're making wireless kit, you need this to measure its performance. Otherwise, forget it.&#183;802.11u, interworking with external networks.This could make it easier for devices to transmit data between Wi-Fi and other networks such as 3G, but the project is at an early stage.&#183;802.11v, wireless network management.This is still a proposal and not yet off the ground, but it could provide an interface that lets network managers monitor and configure APs remotely.&#183;802.11w, protected management frames.Wireless Lans send system management information in the same format as ordinary data, which makes them vulnerable. This standard will amend the basic protocols to protect that data.&#183;802.11x, generic term, shorthand for any 802.11 task group (or all of them).&#183;802.11z, or zzz, noise heard in very long IEEE standards meetings.LinksIEEE 802 Standardswww.ieee802.org
I interviewed Daniel Foucher for this week'sOnlinesection, in an article about machinima.Machinimais the art of making films from computer game engines, and Daniel's tour de force is using players in online games to create truly engaging and captivating pieces of public performance-as-cinema. His alter ego is Javier, the mastermind behind theCantina Crawlseries inStar Wars Galaxiesin which up to 160 people perform choreographed dance moves. Daniel records the footage and cuts it together, putting it to musical soundtracks. The results are fantastic.I was only able to get a snippet of his words into the paper piece, so continue on to the whole shebang. In the interview he explains why he prefers online games to offline ones and four essentials for building successful machinima films.What is a Cantina Crawl?The Cantina Crawls are events which happen in Star Wars Galaxies, primarily for the entertainment professions and those who support them. I'd like to say we carefully plan them, but trying to get entertainers to move from point A to point B is like herding wet cats. :)We set a night, a time and a place in game to meet. People descend upon the place, and then party and from time to time we "crawl" to a new location, usually player built cantinas within the game world. People jam and have a good time, and I film what goes on, using fraps and as steady a hand as I can muster.When the crawl event finishes (usually about 3-4 hours later), my work is just beginning as I have to transfer all the video footage to a mac, and then edit it to music, performing whatever post production I need to do. This often takes me weeks, as I do have a day job. :)What do you think explains the huge popularity of the Cantina Crawls?Initially, I believe they were successful because of the theme and the concept behind them. It was an event, and it was an excuse to get out of the same old cantina most entertainers seemed to feel stuck in. Once I began to shoot videos, they became a sensation, due to the popularity of the films and the enjoyment people felt at seeing their avatars featured in them.There have been both positives and negatives with the explosive growth of the popularity of the crawls. Some people would probably prefer the time when we did them with 6 people, others enjoy the atmosphere when 160 people join in the fun. In the end it's academic, as they've taken on a life of their own and the growth or decline of the popularity is beyond my control.Why did you start making machinima?It seemed like a natural fit for the events we were running. The crawls dated back about 6 months before the first film was made. I'd already had a video production background, and when I saw that the software existed to capture smooth, full frame video from a game, and saw what others were doing with this technology, I decided to give it a shot.Why did you choose an online game?I've been playing them for years. I didn't actually set out to make "machinima", and in fact would not have even recognized the term if you'd asked me back then. I enjoy online games, and running events and having parties, and presenting a video that captured the magic of an event for people to revisit over and over seemed to be an exciting and fun thing to do.What are the unique benefits and drawbacks of making machinima in an online game?The benefits, I think, are the flip side of the same coin as the drawbacks. It's all about the other people playing the game. When you shoot a video in an online game, other people actually participate, and sometimes on a large scale. The resulting video is very special to those folks. They can also bring their own unique personalities and actions to the process, much in the way real actors do. The drawback is that, like with real actors, people are often unpredictable, and perhaps even more so in a game which they pay to play. It's very difficult to get a commitment out of folks for whom this is not a job, but entertainment. This is primarily why I never managed to finish a dramatic piece. I tried, but could not find people I could depend on for a cast and crew.How is it different from making machinima in an offline space?I have never tried to make machinima in an offline space. I'm an incredibly social person, and while the process of editing and post production is a solitary experience, I want the emotions and activities of real people to infuse my films. Unless I was able to get a bunch of friends to come over and work on a video with me, it would not be much fun for me to shoot a video in an offline space.Who dances with you?In real life I'd love to be at a dance club every night, but sadly I cannot. In virtual worlds, I can more often be found in Second Life currently, where I still dance with some of the friends I made in Star Wars Galaxies, and make new friends all the time.What do you see as the future of machinima?We live in an age where creative minds are suddenly given outstanding tools that put the power of Hollywood in a desktop computer. My movies are all created on a laptop, using software that cost less than a thousand dollars. This trend is only beginning, and we are witnessing an increasingly narrow gap between the raw capabilities of a professional movie producer, and an amateur. It's a truly exciting time to be in this field.As a result, I don't see a ceiling on the future of machinima. Certainly I don't expect to see a Cantina Crawl playing at my local cinema, but certain machinima series (like Red vs Blue) are probably already rivaling some major motion pictures in popularity.I think machinima will always remain an "indy" type art form, and that is perhaps as it should be, but I see it increasing drastically in popularity and perhaps launching some careers directly into Hollywood. In fact, I'd be surprised if that has not already happened.What can machinima creators do to ensure that machinima reaches mainstream exposure?I guess I would have four pieces of advice.First and foremost, pour your heart and soul and all your energy into the film. If it's a hack job, people will see that and it won't go anywhere. Video production of this sort needs to be a labor of love.Second, get the film out there. The web is a marvelous resource for this, with websites that will gladly host your creations and sites that will happily link to it. As with normal movies, it's important to create a buzz. Get it listed everywhere you can.Third, beware the price of success! Shortly after I released my second or third film, the link to the download on my poor website was posted on a very popular news page. My web server died from the massive amount of attention it generated, people got upset, and I learned the hard way to get my movies mirrored on websites that could support the traffic.Fourth, never ever give up. The first film anyone puts out sucks. I look back upon mine and shudder. We all improve with time, but if you give up, you'll never get to see that happen.If this hasn't whetted your machinima-appetite and you're able to get to Edinburgh, theEIEFis hosting some machinima events for the general public. The Conference session (Friday 4:30pm) and Screening (Saturday 2pm) are mini-film festivals, covering the history, culture and platform of machinima, while people who wish to get their hands dirty can come along to the Go Play Games machinima master classes throughout the event.
A turf war has erupted on the internet between competing hackers trying to hijack computers running Microsoft's Windows 2000 operating system to turn them into "zombie PCs".Variants of a "worm" that installs itself on computers connected to the internet so they can be accessed by hackers to send spam or disrupt networks hit several high-profile US companies early on Wednesday morning.US broadcasting networks ABC and CNN were affected as well as the New York Times and Californian bulldozer manufacturer Caterpillar.This side of the Atlantic, printing of Tuesday's edition of the Financial Times was also affected as systems went haywire.Patrick Runald, senior anti-virus consultant at Finnish software security specialist F-Secure said the worms, also known as bots, are part of a new and growing trend among hackers to create zombie PCs. These infected computers can be controlled by hackers, and their computing power sold to the highest bidder for illicit purposes such as sending spam or directing network attacks."Over the last 18 months or so the virus writing world has changed. In the past, people just wanted to disrupt a lot of machines because it was fun. Now it is about making money, where people try and infect a lot of machines and make them into zombies," he said.The current set of worms has been developed to take advantage of a vulnerability within Windows 2000 that Microsoft made public last week. While most home users still use Windows 98 or have switched to XP, analysts reckon half of corporations with more than 250 computers still run Windows 2000.With IT professionals racing to patch the hole in Windows 2000's "plug and play" hardware recognition feature, hackers have to move fast to take advantage of the situation. This has led some hackers to create worms that kill other worms that may already have infected a PC."Essentially, we have a bot war going on," said Mr Runald. "There is a small window of opportunity from now until the majority of PCs are patched when hackers can turn them into zombies."Even when patched, an infected PC will remain infected and users will have to install anti-virus software such as that available free on f-secure.com to remove the worms.
Microsoft is celebrating a coup. Central Scotland police force, which operates in Clackmannanshire, Falkirk and Stirling, has decided to return to Windows software for many of its desktop systems after a five-year dalliance with open source. It announced a three-year enterprise-wide agreement with Microsoft last week. The force says that the move from "free" software will cut costs and help it connect better with officers on the beat.The decision is significant because Central Scotland was previously a showcase for the use of open source in government. The force's apparent about-face raises questions not only about the costs and technicalities of open source, but about the government's "case by case" policy for promoting it.In October last year, when the Office of Government Commerce published its "proof of concept" demonstrations of open source on the desktop, Central Scotland provided one of the most convincing cases for the software. The force's open source strategy went back to 2000, when it decided to standardise desktop systems without the expense of Microsoft Office. The study found that open source had saved money and was in line with the force's "best value culture".Best value is a moving target, however. At the beginning of this year, a review of the police force's IT department concluded that it would do better with off-the-shelf technology that would integrate fully with other organisations' systems. According to last week's statement, an important factor was the need to equip officers with mobile devices.In March, Central Scotland decided to work with Microsoft. In all, the police force says that migrating to Microsoft technology could cut IT maintenance costs by up to 30% and IT staff time by 25%. Good news for the citizens of Central Scotland, who no doubt would prefer their police force to spend money on bobbies rather than IT managers. Also, with the chaotic state of police IT, any step towards standardisation is welcome.Some wider strategic issues should be kept in mind, however. The government's policy on open source is to let each purchasing organisation decide case by case, according to what looks best value for money. The trouble with this approach, open source enthusiasts claim, is that it allows Microsoft to pick out high-profile adopters of open source and make offers that are not just attractive but actually illegal to refuse.(At the London borough of Newham, IT managers received personal hate mail for signing a good deal with Microsoft, despite it being their legal duty to do so.)There is no suggestion that Microsoft is acting improperly - the company rightly wants to engage with pioneering organisations, which are also the ones most likely to be trying out open source. However, if the government is serious about creating competition in the market for public sector desktops, it may need to protect its open source nurseries from predation.Until now, the chief information officer, Ian Watmore, has shown little interest in this question. Perhaps now is the time.
For the second time in two years, a key part of Britain's e-government strategy is in chaos because of uncertainty about who owns postal addresses. The government revealed last week that plans to create a national database of addresses - essential for schemes ranging from the identity card to the reform of the fire service - had been suspended because public agencies had failed to meet a deadline for agreement.Local government minister Jim Fitzpatrick said he is "disappointed" at the failure of talks to create the so-called national spatial address infrastructure. A leading expert in geographical information, Dr Robert Barr of the University of Manchester, described the failure as "the latest, and perhaps the most serious, breakdown" of "five years' bickering ... during which there has been a scandalous waste of public money".The lack of a consistent list of addresses is a burden both to business and to government. Many properties have multiple addresses - "Garden Flat" or "Rose Cottage" - while others, such as church halls or factories, have none. Anomalies may be acceptable when local postmen and ambulance know their way around, but not in the age of remote, IT-based administration.The national spatial address infrastructure, announced in May this year, is an attempt to create a single database from three rival contenders, run by local authorities, the Ordnance Survey mapping agency and Royal Mail. It came after the failure of talks on a previous project, known as Acacia, and set a tight deadline for the first release of the address database, to be run by Ordnance Survey under crown copyright.However the proposals were attacked by local authorities, which are responsible for collecting new addresses and would be heavy users of any database, for everything from collecting council tax to inspecting kebab shops.The main cause of concern was that, under the proposals, councils would have to pay Ordnance Survey for data that they had collected themselves. The prospectus warned that data costs could rise by as much as 50%.More criticism came from a leading expert body, the Association for Geographic Information. In its response to the consultation, it warned that the prospectus failed to clear up questions of ownership, which scuppered previous initiatives such as Acacia. "A repeat of that remains our greatest concern. We cannot have another false start," it warned. It also described the timetable for creating the address infrastructure as "very ambitious".The association's warnings seem to have been prescient. Last week's announcement, from the Improvement and Development Agency, which represents councils' interests and Ordnance Survey, said that plans to transfer the local authority database to Ordnance Survey "had not reached agreement within the original timescales. Further negotiations on the transfer have been suspended whilst all parties consider the implications for the future."A participant in the negotiations confirmed that the sticking point is intellectual property. Much data in the council list, the National Land and Property Gazetteer, was collected with little concern about its ownership, so could not safely be transferred to another owner.Insiders said that they hoped to resolve the issue later in the year and stressed that the breakdown was not acrimonious. Fitzpatrick said in a statement: "I hope the parties will continue to consider options to meet the objectives set out in the prospectus." Other observers were less optimistic. Christopher Roper, a private consultant, said it would be "useless" to ask Ordnance Survey and local authorities to return to the negotiating table. "They have been talking and disagreeing since 1998, to my direct knowledge."Barr is calling on the government to think again about the way it sets up the national address database, which he describes as "more necessary than ever". This would involve the government stopping any public body claiming intellectual property in addresses and creating a "single pooled data set" under the control of the Cabinet Office's Office for Public Sector Information.Access to the dataset would be free for government, business and voluntary bodies, which would encourage its wide use. It could be funded by a fee on property registrations, Barr suggests. He called on ministers to act now. "A reliable modernised national spatial address infrastructure is a key ingredient to modernised e-government. No more delay can be tolerated if the rest of the e-government agenda is not to be held back by this apparently trivial, but vital piece of infrastructure."
Four years ago, a Japanese game called Ico hit the PlayStation 2. An ethereal and elusive opera, it never became a financial success, but it remains deeply respected by gamers and is regarded as one of the few creatively influential PS2 titles. The game's creator, Fumito Ueda - whose next game, Shadow of the Colossus, is due for release in October - says he always planned to be different."When we began to work on Ico, we made sure to gather staff that did not have fixed ideas about video games," he says. "We did try hard throughout the process of making Ico that the game would not resemble anything else as much as possible."The premise behind Ico was deceptively simple: a boy, the title character, is trapped in a castle. He finds a girl, Yorda, who does not speak his language, but they work together to escape. Ico's inclusive design is probably one of its strongest points, and reason enough for its critical success. It is unsurprising, then, that Ueda intentionally created the game this way."There were people around me who did not play games: I very much wanted them and other people to play the game," he says. "When you confront a game that takes 100 hours to clear, your fighting spirits would falter. If a game has a scenario, the best thing for that game is to be neither long nor short. So on Ico, we were thinking about five to six hours' playtime. But it also seems that there are mixed opinions about whether the game is substantial enough."Ico was also a departure from the norm because its gameplay predominantly portrays benign cooperation at a time when most titles tended towards violence."The game is not about antithesis," says Ueda. "I play various types of games myself, and I think that the desire for destruction is also a human instinct."At the same time, it is in our instinct to protect something or someone, as Ico does in the game. I don't think one instinct is good and the other is bad, and I did not regard the element of cooperation so highly. However, this could not be dismissed in terms of game design."The main character in the story is mute, and not by accident. "If conversation had been possible, the player would wish to control Yorda via conversation. I thought that taking one's hand was more meaningful since conversation would be difficult to implement. Therefore, the game is not about good versus evil. Ico has his own reasoning and the queen has hers, too. I wanted to leave the decision whether what Ico did was right or wrong to the player."Ueda was a very inquisitive child. As he explains: "I enjoyed catching and keeping living things, such as fish or birds. Other than that, I liked both watching and making animation. Basically, I seemed to be interested in things that moved."At school, his favourite subjects included art, which still plays an active role in Ueda's life and could have ended up being his career. "If I was not in the games industry, I would want to become a classical artist. Though I regard not only games but also anything that expresses something - be it films, novels or manga - as forms of art."The way Ueda approaches games is rather telling, as is his first meaningful gaming experience. "Lemmings impressed me, as I sensed life on the TV screen for the first time in my life. I often import games from abroad and play them. On such occasions, my imagination sometimes gets stimulated more, as I don't understand the language. Ico is a game that intentionally tries to achieve that."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Battle fatigueMediEvil: ResurrectionPlayStation Portable, &pound;34.99SCEE, **When a new console launches, you can be certain that the first games will include racing sims, sports titles and quirky puzzlers. If your gaming taste veers towards anything with more depth, then you will be frustrated. The upcoming PSP is little different. The launch line-up is littered with sports franchises and other relatively easy-to-develop genres.Of course, the PSP offers films and music as well as gaming, but it is the latter that will pull in the early adopters. MediEvil: Resurrection is one of the few launch titles that offer adventure rather than acceleration. A continuation of a series last seen on PS1, it is a hack'n'slash romp, although some high production values mask gameplay flaws.The action is simple - traverse the pretty, but relatively enclosed, environments, clouting everything you see and picking up keys to progress. Strategy is restricted to tactical use of ranged or melee weapons and the hunt for hidden in-game goodies.This lack of variety is the biggest problem. It doesn't take too long for the incessant combat to drag, and the unhelpful camera makes for some overly difficult sections later in the game. The main pull to progress is the high-quality production - especially the audio, which even the over-exposed Tom Baker can't spoil.MediEvil: Resurrection is not an essential purchase for nascent PSP owners, but if you want a game for your new handheld without cars or sportsmen, then it is worth a look.Greg HowsonStealth warningAurora WatchingPC, &pound;19.99Metropolis/Enlight, ***Stealth games are nearly always fun to play, if executed in a halfway decent fashion. Perhaps it's the satisfaction of not only outsmarting the enemy but seeing it happen from a reassuringly distant perspective - not quite so easy to appreciate when viewed down the sights of a shotgun. So it's easy to forgive Aurora Watching for being merely average in every department, because the resulting game is still fun to play.Plot-wise, it's your standard lone-agent stuff, with a hero who sounds so much like Sam Fisher they must share the same voice coach - or 60-a-day habit. And although your choice of weapons is limited (with ammo in very short supply for some), you do end up using them all. Enemies who are so easy to dispatch at close range develop the ability to hit you with headshots from across the map (and without the sniper rifle you would need to do the same in return). Nevertheless, the contrast between ultra-sneaky and ultra-violent missions is very effective.It's in the detail that the game flounders, with levels that are bland to look at and empty to play. Particularly annoying are the dozens of computers that need to be hacked yet reveal no more than pointless plot details between minor employees.Polish developer Metropolis can be pleased with this debut, but hitting the shelves so soon after Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory exposes it to unflattering comparison. However, there are so few good new games around this month that Aurora could still be worth owning for a few aimless blasts on a long hot day.Mike AnderieszSimply SudokuThe Sudoku ChallengePC, &pound;4.99Play At Joe's/Sold Out, ***Sold Out has, in a rare instance, abandoned its policy of re-publishing PC games of a certain age at the disposable price of &pound;4.99 in favour of putting out an original. All credit to them for moving swiftly as the country still reels in the grip of a Sudoku craze. The Sudoku Challenge makes one think of those Ronseal ads - it offers Sudoku, for sure, but bells and whistles are absent.Fire it up, and you are given the option to select your difficulty. You are then presented with a randomly generated grid that you must fill in with a "virtual pencil". But it can be awkward: there's no way to make notes, for example, in grid squares when you have narrowed them down to one of two numbers. Nor will the software tell you when you have, say, filled in a number in a row already containing that number. Sudoku purists will see that as a good thing but, for beginners, the option should have been included.The good news is that you can print out puzzles and complete them by hand. Ultimately, the gripes pale into comparison with the seductive price, and The Sudoku Challenge does the basics well enough. An ideal and cheap present for puzzle fans.Steve BoxerTop 5 gamesBudget PC1.International Cricket Captain: Ashes 052.Infinite Sudoku3.The Sims4.Sim City 3000: UK Edition5.Sonic 3DLeisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy; 2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Kid-safe emailMy young daughter wants to start using email and I am happy to let her, but would like to keep an eye on her incoming messages. Do you know of any reputable software that could be used to monitor the emails? We use Outlook Express and web-based mail.Nigel BadrickJack Schofield replies:There are a dozen or so programs that can be used to filter a child's internet use and block unwanted actions. Seehttp://internet-filter-review.toptenreviews.com/for a tick-list that shows the capabilities of 10 of the best known examples. However, no net-filtering program is foolproof, and may also block many useful sites.It might be a better idea to try one of the email services designed for children, such as KidMail (www.kidmail.net) or ZooBuh (www.zoobuh.com). Safe2Read (www.safe2read.com) offers up to 10 email addresses with a range of blocking and monitoring options.Most services offer a free trial period. For older children, I likeBluebottle.comfor its challenge/ response system: this blocks spam without putting it into a spam folder where it can still be read. Bluebottle works with standard POP3 email programs such as Outlook Express, Thunderbird and Eudora, and can also be accessed via the web.The Open Directory has a good list of links to child safety advice (egwww.safekids.com) and alternative programs athttp://dmoz.org/Computers/Internet/Child_Safety/Favorite linksHow can you revise your Favourites list in Internet Explorer? Every new Favourite that I add just goes on the bottom of the list.Joy MurphyJS:This is probably this column's most frequently asked question, and has already been answered. The simple answer is to right-click on a blank bit of the Favorites menu and choose the next-to-bottom option, Sort by Name. You can also organise Favorites by clicking Favorites, then choosing the second option: Organize Favorites (sic).However, I prefer to use Windows Explorer to go to Documents and Settings, then All Users and find the appropriate Favorites folder (with a star icon). Each Favourite is a separate 1K file, so you can easily create or rename folders and then move links around using the mouse.Office problemI have Office XP installed and working normally, but on starting my PC, I get pop-ups that say: "Microsoft Office XP Professional. The file you are trying to use is on a CD.ROM or other removable disc that is not available", and "Error 1706: setup cannot find the required file".James PamJS:Microsoft recognised that Office contained lots of features that many people would never use. To save disk space, the set-up therefore allows a selective installation where some features are not installed until you try to use them.It sounds as though this is what has happened. You could restart your PC with the Office installation disc loaded, then, if necessary, go through the options to see what is selected for "install on first use". It's probably a better idea to run Microsoft Office XP Setup and either choose the option for "Repair errors in my Office installation" or just reinstall it.Backchat&#183;Last week, Jane Perrone asked about PDAs suitable for word processing on a train. Lots of you responded, with all but one being recommendations for obsolete (ie out of production) machines. Alan Roblou and others thought the best answer was still the Psion Series 5, with Nick Malone and Peter Bull suggesting the larger Psion NetBook (Series 7), and Mike Woods proposing the smaller Revo. I like the larger Psions a lot, but too many people have had problems with Series 5 breakages for my taste. Nick Malone and Paul Kerr suggested a second-hand HP Jornada 720 as, in Nick's words, "a more modern and robust solution" than the Psion. The clamshell Jornadas are, like Psion's latest NetBook, based on Windows CE. I confess to buying a second-hand Jornada myself, because the keyboard is even better than the Series 5's, and it has a bright colour screen. The downside is that batteries don't last long. Among the less common solutions, Richard Taylor mentioned the Apple eMate, while Linda Marroquin, chief executive of FrogPad Inc, suggested the innovative FrogPad half-keyboard (www.frogpad.com), which we featured in a news item last year.&#183;Dennis Wood asked why the online version of Online was almost two weeks out of date, and I suggested ways to avoid getting an old cached version. But David Harper, Patrick Dodds, John Hopkin, Mike Currie, James Craig and Brian Marsden all pointed out that Dennis had a point, and that following the link from "Read today's paper" really did lead to two-week-old content. The excellent Guardian Unlimited team sprang into action and fixed it. In future, they'd much rather you reported this sort of problem touserhelp@guardian.co.uk, because then they can fix it even quicker.&#183;Send comments and questions toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Letters will be edited but include full details
Any day now the two billionth mobile phone will be switched on. In a generation, mobile phones have gone from being yuppie playthings to mass-market consumer toys, yet the mobile phone revolution is far from over.In many parts of the world, mobile phones aren't a convenient alternative to landlines but the only means of communication: they provide connectivity where there was none before.In Africa, to take the obvious example, mobile phones mean real change. By any development measure, Congo is a pretty poor place. Yet it is heading towards two million mobile users: one network has 850,000 subscribers. Subscriber growth in several sub-Saharan African nations was more than 150% last year, and there are eight mobile phones for every 100 people in Africa, up from three in 2001.The vast growth in mobile phone usage has had an interesting knock-on to other kinds of transaction that we take for granted. Look at payments. If you live in rural Africa, your payment options are pretty limited and so, therefore, is your participation in the wider economy. If you don't live within a hundred miles of a bank, don't have a cheque book and have never even seen a credit card or a PC, then how do you send money (perhaps for goods you want from a market) to someone else?In that environment, mobile phones provide an easy and convenient mechanism: you buy a scratch card, scratch off the panel to get the voucher number and then text that number to your counterparty. Voila! You've now sent $20, or whatever, a few hundred miles across the country for the price of a text message. And the person you sent it to can start using it right away. Try using your UK internet bank account to send &pound;20 from London to Edinburgh: if you're lucky it will take three days.One of the definitions of a currency is that it can be used to pay taxes. Obviously, "taxes" has a broader definition in some parts of the world than here in the UK. But let's run with that definition. In some parts of Africa, mobile phone scratch cards have become an acceptable means of exchange for bribing officials. That makes scratch cards or, more particularly, the pre-paid airtime that they give access to, a kind of currency.According to the Economist, not only can you use pre-paid airtime to pay bribes but you can use it to pay bribes remotely. It gives the example of an office worker whose daughter had been detained in immigration. She bought a scratch card and sent the voucher number to the relevant official, avoiding the trouble of having to collect up the cash and go to the airport: thereby saving time and money.This anecdote supports a long held suspicion of mine that connectivity could become a currency as we move forward into an online world. We're probably already at the point where fining errant teenagers mobile phone minutes instead of money would be a more effective sanction, and as connectivity becomes ever more critical it's only a matter of time before that idea appears in a government green paper.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Digital playersCheap tunesBritish maker Bush is claiming to have driven down the price of personal digital radios with the launch of its new model. The PSDAB2004 is smaller than most of its rivals and, with a retail price of &pound;60, it is also significantly cheaper. It will tune in to all the available DAB stations and features 10 presets to store the user's favourites. The radio features a white rubberised protective shell and a basic LCD dot matrix display, and is powered by a pair of AA batteries. It comes with a pair of inner earphones that also house its aerial.www.bushdigital.co.ukPlay timeJVC's latest digital music players are due to go on sale this week. Both the &pound;99 XA-MP51 and &pound;129.99 XA-MP101, are compact Flash memory-based players that also feature an integrated FM tuner. The key difference between the two is size - the MP101 offers one gigabyte of storage while the MP51 has 512MB. Both models will also play back MP3, WMA and downloaded WMA-DRM files, sport a backlit four line dot matrix display and feature voice recording facilities. The models are powered by one AAA battery, which delivers a playback time of 17 hours.www.jvc.co.ukBean baggedSony, meanwhile, is expanding its range of digital music players with a new series of Flash-based Walkmans. Aimed at the youth market, the Walkman Bean - named after jelly beans, and not kidney beans, as we initially thought - was unveiled today and should be available at the end of the month. The players, which come in blue, pink, black and white, offer MP3 and Atrac playback, and include a pop-up USB connector for easy docking with PCs. Battery life from the onboard Lithium Ion rechargeable is rated at about 50 hours, and the 512MB or 1GB players cost &pound;79 and &pound;99, respectively.www.sony.co.ukDVD playersSee doubleThose wanting to convert their old VHS tapes to digital formats might be interested in Sanyo's new DVD/VHS combo. The snappily-named DVR-V100E is part of the company's new range of DVD players, and allows recording on both video cassette and DVD, and between the two. It's a well-featured machine with a straightforward but uninspiring design that could help those not yet ready to dump their video collections. It's out now and retails for about &pound;200.www.sanyo.co.ukHandsetsDual diallingA cordless handset that can access standard and internet-based telephone services has arrived in the UK. The DU@L phone features a base station that plugs into both a standard landline connection and a USB socket on a PC. This enables users to make conventional calls or to use Skype's Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service. Users can make free calls to other Skype subscribers or use the SkypeOut service, which offers inexpensive calls to landline and mobile phones. They can also assign different ringtones to landline or Skype calls. The phone/base station is on sale now for &pound;80, with additional handsets retailing for &pound;40.www.new-tech-products.co.ukMobile phonesHigh-end hopesThe first phone in Nokia's N series of high-end 3G models launches in the UK this week. Unusually for Nokia, the N90 is a clamshell phone with a swivelling screen. The onboard camera, which is the first on a phone to include high-end Carl Zeiss optics, takes two megapixel images and features a macro mode and a 20x digital zoom. Other facilities include an MP3/AAC music player, web browser, video camera, MPeg4 video playback, POP3 email, Bluetooth and 31MB of internal memory. It runs on the Symbian platform with the Series 60 interface.www.nokia.co.ukSix of the best: Geek blogsBoing Boingwww.boingboing.netDave Winerwww.scripting.comThe Scobleizerhttp://scoble.weblogs.comTechDirtwww.techdirt.comJoHowww.hyperorg.com/blogger/Engadgetwww.engadget.comStat of the week - English leads the webMuch is being made of China's internet adoption, but English remains far and away the most spoken single language on the internet. German and Japanese manage to punch above their weight, but such anomalies are likely to even out as web use continues to spread.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A group of hackers has reportedly had some success in making Apple's Intel version of Mac OS X run on standard PCs, not just the one Apple is renting out as part of its software developers kit. This involves bypassing the TPM (Trusted Platform Module) chip on the motherboard, which is supposed to prevent such obvious acts of piracy.The hacked operating system has been distributed via BitTorrent, the peer-to-peer file-sharing systems, and instructions are available ("only for educational purposes") on the OSx86 website. And according to Wired News, it's impressively quick - a $300 PC beats a $3,000 PowerMac - though no one seems quite sure why.At first sight, this looks like bad news for Apple, which has always charged a premium price for its hardware. German computer science student Michael Steil, maintainer of the Xbox Linux and GameCube Linux Projects, told Wired News: "Apple wants to avoid the word getting out that &#91;MacIntels&#93; are just PCs, and that &#91;OSx86&#93; works on PCs."But the story is far from over. Apple's development kit is a long way from being the final version of either the hardware (which will use different processors) or the software. Apple can still change things to make it harder to run OS X on standard PCs.It can also keep changing things with software updates, as it does with its iTunes music service. In addition, while the cracked version will certainly entertain hackers, geeks and some home users, it's unlikely to attract serious users.When business buyers choose a computer, they are also concerned about support, and the idea that their hardware and software will continue to be supported in the future. They don't want to end up with a system that is, for example, barred from downloading security fixes, can't easily be upgraded to the next version of the operating system, or can't be guaranteed to run expensive software such as Adobe Photoshop.Apple could, of course, take the view that Microsoft appeared to take when its primary focus was on building market share: that pirate versions are free advertising. However, that seems unlikely.Historically, Apple's strategy has been to maintain proprietary control of its systems, and to try to increase that control by competing with its own third-party supporters, such as software houses and computer dealers. In 1985, it declined Bill Gates' offer to help with licensing Mac OS to other hardware suppliers to try to make it an industry standard, and also moved to block people running Mac OS on much cheaper Atari ST and Commodore Amiga computers.Later, Apple quietly abandoned plans for the common hardware reference platform it had agreed with IBM and Motorola to challenge the Wintel duopoly. And although it did try licensing a few Mac "cloners", Steve Jobs quickly closed them down when returned to Apple.When Apple announced its plans for MacIntel systems, it said it would prevent Mac OS X from running on generic PC hardware. It's unlikely to give in without a fight.
Vodafone is certainly milking its Japanese connections for all they are worth, because after enjoying a huge hit with Sharp's range of camera phones, such as the GX30 and 902, it has now enlisted another far eastern mobile giant in Toshiba. The first fruit of the collaboration, the TS 921, is a very Japanese style 3G phone. It goes on sale this week, priced &pound;40. It is a quality camera phone - not only does it take superb images (1.92 megapixels) and sport a very effective autofocus, it has virtually every camera facility seen so far on a phone.Like other Japanese camera phones, such as the Sharp 902, the TS 921 also has excellent secondary features, including a quality MP3 player, large high-resolution screen and solid video-calling facilities. Its icon-based menu system is identical to the 902, although the Tosh's keys and interface are slightly trickier to use. Call quality is excellent.But, like the 902, the TS 921 has one major weakness - its size. Even for a 3G phone, its dimensions and weight are way above the norm. Whether consumers will overlook its bulk and focus on its qualities remains to be seen.www.vodafone.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Al-Qaida manual"The attached manual was located in Manchester (England) by Metropolitan Police during a search of an al-Qaida member's home. The manual was found in a computer file described as 'the military series' related to the Declaration of Jihad," says the US Justice Department, which has made several chapters available online. Material deemed helpful to would-be terrorists has been removed.www.usdoj.gov/ag/trainingmanual.htmFiring linesA blogger called Mark Jen moved from Microsoft to Google and got fired. His story is now featured on a new site called SimplyFired.com, which is a companion to the job site, SimplyHired.com. He'll also be a judge in the SimplyFired competition, which "will challenge site visitors to submit their funniest, saddest, most outrageous stories about getting fired or laid off." The prize includes a "career-themed" Caribbean cruise with people fired by Donald Trump.www.simplyfired.comBlackboard bestWhen Albert Einstein visited Oxford in 1931, they preserved the blackboard after one of his lectures, and it's now a prized relic in the university's Museum of the History of Science. This summer, the museum mounted an exhibition to celebrate the centenary of the special theory of relativity by getting other famous people to fill in the same size blackboard. Contributors include Raymond Blanc, Brian Eno, Bobby Robson and Jon Snow. The physical exhibition continues until September 18.www.mhs.ox.ac.uk/blackboard/Digg thisDigg is a technology news site that, it says, "combines social bookmarking, blogging, RSS, and non-hierarchical editorial control". As with Slashdot, users submit links to news stories. After that, the ones that rise to prominence are the ones that get most reader recommendations, or "diggs".http://digg.com/Dig itTalk Digger is another new site that wants users to "dig it". In this case, the beta test Talk Digger works by digging out links to a site from search engines that cover blogs, such as Icerocket, Bloglines and Technorati. If you are a blogger, it's a quick way to find out if anyone is talking about you. If not, it's another way to find links to interesting stories.http://talkdigger.com/Pod guideToday's other trendy format is the podcast, which is a digital version of taped radio broadcasts, generally downloaded and listened to on portable MP3 music players such as the Apple iPod. But how do you find good podcasts? One answer is to go to a podcast search engine at Podcast.net. Entertainment, including music, is by far the biggest category, but there is a wide range of stuff.www.podcast.net/Locke stepChris Locke, aka RageBoy, is working on a new book, and has started a blog to post work in progress. This time, the Chief Blogging Officer and co-author of The Cluetrain Manifesto is not writing about the net. The book is Mystic Bourgeoisie: Numinous Lunacy and the Sanctimonious Narcissism of the New Age. It deals with the New Age (and earlier) tendency to believe complete tosh. Warning: includes nudity, and may contain nuts.http://mysticbourgeoisie.blogspot.comWikimaniaWhen it became fashionable to have a home page on the web, GeoCities and similar sites sprang up to cater for the need. Today, thanks to the popularity of the Wikipedia online encyclopedia, you might want to have a wiki page instead, and Wiki-cities is one place to do it. I'd missed this extension of Wikipedia, but Tara Calishain's ResearchBuzz newsletter pointed me to the new unofficial Google Wiki. The first Wikicities page was started last November, and the most popular is about Star Trek.www.wikicities.comhttp://google.wikicities.com/wiki/Main_Pagewww.researchbuzz.org&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
People powerNot anyone on Wikipedia can delete an article (Worldwide Wikimania, August 11). Only administrators can - a position anyone may apply for, and one which will be granted to experienced users with a good record. For an article to be deleted, it must be listed on Votes For Deletion (en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:VFD), and it must stay there for at least a week before an administrator may announce a deletion, merge, keep or move to another wiki.If a regular user clears a page (this won't completely work), it would be vandalism and could get them blocked if repeated enough - with a polite cease-and-desist message after each transgression. It could also lose an "admin" - as we lovingly call them - their "admin powers".Geoffrey BellHigh hopesOne reason that South Korea is so far ahead in broadband was not mentioned in your article (Life in the fast lane, August 11). In Seoul, a lot of people live in high-rise apartments, where I assume it is much easier and cheaper to install fibre-optic connections and local hubs. Drive from the airport to the city centre and you will see as many apartment blocks as you are likely to see in a lifetime in Britain.Also, I think broadband connections are much cheaper in South Korea than in the UK, a simple and effective incentive to market growth that would surely be welcomed here.Roger KidleyLondonPain in the neckI was sorry to hear about Jack Schofield's neck strain problem but less concerned about Jeremy Clarkson (Column, August 11). The only surprise was that there have never been any such articles before. In about 1990, management's use of computer terminals and PCs was increasing, and my employer at the time ran seminars to advise on best practice. It was all fairly straightforward stuff: upper arms straight down, elbows bent at right angles, screen at the right height to view without bending your neck.Along came laptops and there was no possibility of complying with these rules.I even saw a photograph in Online of some idiot sitting astride a sun lounger, hunched over a laptop between his knees. If employers don't take notice then it will be like the Repetitive Strain Injury (RSI) farrago all over again.John IllingworthScreen saversI read Jack Schofield's column with interest - and with a pain in the neck attributable to the same problems of using a laptop that you describe. I discussed all this with my chiropractor and thought her advice was worth passing on: the cheapest way of creating better ergonomics when using a laptop is to buy a separate keyboard and raise up the laptop, so that the screen is at eye level.This seems to work - I have placed my laptop on a box and plugged in a spare keyboard. It takes up less space and is easier to clear away than a full docking station, and I don't have a problem with the screen quality of my laptop. I already had a separate mouse.Bernard ThomasonHandy warningIt has been brought to our attention that counterfeit Sony Handycam camcorders are being sold on eBay, other websites and by a small number of street sellers.We are making every effort to remove these from the web, but cannot do this as quickly as we would like. We are also communicating with the Trading Standards Authority regarding the sale of counterfeit products in street markets. We would encourage your readers to always check that they are purchasing a genuine Sony product (referencewww.sony.co.uk) before purchasing a "bargain" camcorder.Emma CrossSony UKBlogbackJack Schofield (Onlineblog) missed Robert Scoble, the Microsoft blogger who stopped writing after being shaken by some comments and posts that turned into personal attacks against him. I think a lot of the bad behaviour is due to people not knowing the current "web medium" that well. Some don't realise what blogs are or that they are even on one. They often treat blog writers the way they would someone in the next car, speeding along and not hearing them, not realising the comments are going straight to email and hitting the bloggers in the jaw.http://i.never.nu/The politicians driving the NHS Connecting for Health vision have been blindly seduced by BigCo IT into believing that rolling legacy systems from across the pond and imposing them on an unwitting NHS would be a piece of cake. Not so. The more egotistical brand it as "the world's biggest IT project". It may well be the largest, centrally- driven, top-down IT project - but that is hardly a category with a history of success. The real contender for the "largest IT project" accolade must be the internet, which is hugely successful.jambalaya.bayswaterfarm.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Linux setbackGartner says it "sees a lack of momentum for desktop Linux and open source office products". It surveyed attendees at its conferences in Florida and Cannes last year, and found just more than 1% of enterprise users were running Linux on some desktops. Separately, it has forecast that only 3.2% of non-consumer PC users will run Linux by 2008. "For most companies, the cost to migrate away from Microsoft Windows is simply too high and outweighs the benefits companies expect they will receive," said Michael Silver, research vice president in Gartner's client platforms group. Gartner has published a research report: Examining Where Desktop Linux and Open Source Office Products Make Sense.www.gartner.com/DisplayDocument?doc_cd=129106Athletics alertPhone viruses may be a serious threat to people attending large business conferences and other events. According to F-Secure, an anti-virus software company, the Cabir virus infected a number of phones at last week's World Athletics Championships in Helsinki. This led the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority to issue an alert covering the event and future large-scale meetings. Telia Sonera, a Finnish telecoms company, set up a scanning and disinfection centre in the stadium area. The Cabir virus infects Symbian-based phones using Bluetooth if the user accepts an installation query.www.f-secure.com/news/items/newsXeons aheadIntel says dual-core, hyper-threaded Xeon processors will be available ahead of schedule. The 64-bit MP version code-named Paxville, for servers with four or more processors, had been expected next year, but will ship later this year. Intel claims it will deliver "more than 60% better performance over previous generations". The Paxville DP version, "targeted at early adopters and evaluators of dual-core technology", will also appear this year.Open virtualisationVMware is opening up its ESX Server source code and interfaces under a new program called VMware Community Source. The aim is to expand support for its virtualisation technologies and accelerate their impact on the market. The move is being supported by AMD, BEA Systems, Broadcom, Cisco, Computer Associates International, Dell, HP, IBM, Intel, Novell, QLogic and Red Hat, among others. They will be working through "a collaborative development model and shared governance process".www.vmware.com/standardswww.vmware.com/communitysourceDouble dyeA dual-layer DVD disc capable of storing 30GB of data is being co-developed by Toshiba and Clariant International, a Swiss chemical company. The breakthrough is a new dye that allows an HD-DVD disc to have two layers holding 15GB each. Toshiba is backing HD-DVD as the next generation disc format, in opposition to Blu-ray, which already promises a dual layer capacity of 50GB. The new dye has been used to produce a prototype but the technology has yet to be approved by the DVD Forum, a DVD standards body. The forum is already examining a triple layer HD-DVD with a 45GB capacity.www.chemie.de/news/e/48166/Server servicesJBoss is moving into the consultancy business to boost sales of its Java-based application server. The Professional JBoss Migration Programme aims to win over organisations by offering standardised assessment heir requirements and an implementation methodology for migrating applications without impacting current systems. JBoss will also provide a toolkit to help with the migration and course material for training in-house administrators and developers.www.jboss.com/services/migrationSpend and savePeterborough City Council is investing &pound;3m on improving its information and communications technology (ICT) to make its services more accessible over the web. The cost of the three-year plan will be recovered through the streamlining of the current systems, according to a review of the current infrastructure. Initial areas for improvement will be disaster recover, intranet services and telecoms. The new system will be built around an existing Oracle database.www.peterborough.gov.uk/page-4539&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Christian Aid has just done something that is, but shouldn't be, unusual: it has chosen its new PCs partly on the basis of their "green" credentials. However, governments have already started to introduce laws that will oblige PC manufacturers to take better care of the environment, even if most buyers can't be bothered.At the moment, a handful of suppliers are leading the way. Dell launched some greener PCs this summer, and it has also launched a UK recycling scheme to collect and dispose of old machines. Fujitsu Siemens Computers, the Japanese-German conglomerate that includes the remains of ICL's old PC business, has just added greener models to its Esprimo range - and completed sales agreements with Christian Aid in the UK, and WWF Deutschland.FSC doesn't yet recycle PCs in Britain, although marketing director Gary Fowle says it has been recycling them in Germany for several years.No one is claiming that manufacturing, operating and recycling PCs does not have an adverse effect on the environment. However, it doesn't have to be as bad as it is today. FSC, for example, claims its green models use much less lead in the motherboard - 1g rather than 12g - and that it uses much less water in their manufacturing.The company says its Scenic "green PC" desktops have motherboards soldered without lead, batteries that are cadmium- and mercury-free, and use halogen-free plastics for housings and other parts. Lead reduction has been aided by AMD's recent release of "green" processors. Fowle says that about 40% of FSC's PC production is now "green" but sales vary by country, and most buyers aren't aware of the issues. "We feel we're having to be very proactive in telling people about the advantages," he says.Dell has also removed flame retardants from plastic parts, and it now gives prototype machines to recyclers to tear apart before it starts manufacturing them, to find out what the potential problems are. This had led the company to label the types of plastic used, in order to simplify recovery.Of course, this isn't just about creating a warm feeling towards multinational corporations. More immediately, it's a response to a European Union directive known as RoHS (Reduction of Hazardous Substances), which targets lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, PBBs (polybrominated biphenyls) and PBDEs (polybrominated diphenyl ethers). All business PCs will be required to meet RoHS standards by the end of this year. Next year, the rules will be expanded to cover consumer PCs.It remains to be seen how much impact this will have in China and Taiwan, because no one is going to be able to fit, for example, lead-free hard drives if they aren't rolling off Asian production lines.Another set of requirements is also coming under the EU's WEEE banner: the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive. This will oblige electronics manufacturers to take back any redundant kit sold after August 13 this year. However, according to Jean Cox-Kearns, Dell's take back and recycling manager, it's far from clear how the various European governments will try to implement it. "Where are the collection sites going to be located? Who's going to pay for them? Can you run independent schemes? How will they ensure compliance? We're working on it," says Cox-Kearns, "but at the moment we don't know what will qualify with the &#91;Department of Trade and Industry&#93;."There's a risk that we could end up with PC and DVD mountains much like today's disastrous fridge mountains. However, given that - according to a Dell survey - about a third of UK businesses just throw their old kit in the bin, even this may be an improvement.Dell has already made a start with free consumer recycling. Cox-Kearns says: "When you buy Dell, you can recycle any type of computer equipment: it's free, it's convenient, and it's available anywhere." Dell also operates a "global asset recovery services" scheme for business users. Cox-Kearns says about 80% of the PCs returned by businesses are suitable for re-use, and Dell's scheme helps them to recover some of that value.But Lena Pripp-Kovac, Dell's European director of sustainable development, says that it's not enough just to think about disposing of old PCs. Like FSC, Dell is tackling the problem in terms of four stages: concept, manufacturing, customer use and recycling. Clearly it's better to build PCs that are easier to recycle, but the life-cycle approach also means trying to build PCs that use less electricity, generate less heat, minimise electrical emissions and last longer, she says.Dell's corporate goals include a 50% increase in "asset recovery" (through recycling) and a 46% reduction in the amount of CO2 generated during manufacturing.One problem is that being greener comes at a cost, and so far, buyers have proved unwilling to pay for the environmental benefits. "There are some ethical organisations, and in some government departments, there is increasing awareness," says Fowle, "but the reality is that the green elements are free."Pripp-Kovac says: "Maybe it's not cost-efficient right now, and there are some costs for Dell, but to do the right things right from the beginning makes things cheaper in the long run. It makes financial sense for us, absolutely."
Is it easy to get online in Baghdad?It's not too bad ... a lot of people have dial-up or satellite connections. Things go down due to electricity cuts and suchlike, but in general it works. One of the hotels I use has a microwave connection, of all things, and there used to be some ISPs that did Ethernet (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethernet), but from what I've heard, most of them were run out of town.How did you get the Baghdad Bulletin magazine off the ground?When we first started that it was a pain because we couldn't afford our own satellite connection and there was only one internet cafe anywhere near us. It got much easier as things went on but the first couple of months were our biggest problem ... that and we couldn't get our damn Thuraya satellite phones to work.What other technology do you take over there with you?Laptop, sat-phone and a cellphone ... Iraqis are really getting into their cellphones. The big regional players such as Orascom (www.ots.com.eg) are in there, and now my phone from Baghdad roams all over the country ... although one of the telecoms is called Iraqna (www.iraqna.com) but people refer to it as IraqNO because of its poor coverage.Do you have to be careful what you blog?Sometimes I'm careful what I write about the military just because I don't want my access cut off.Does the recent murder of journalist/blogger Stephen Vincent worry you?It might have been what Stephen (http://spencepublishing.typepad.com/in_the_red_zone/) wrote that got him killed. The Iraqi blogger Khalid Jarrar (http://secretsinbaghdad.blogspot.com/) was recently taken to prison most certainly because of what he was blogging.There was a growth in Iraqis blogging right after the invasion but I don't know that there has been any recently. Initially, there was Salam Pax (http://dear_raed.blogspot.com/), Riverbend and Khalid, but there aren't so many now. Things such as MSN Chat and Skype are more popular with Iraqis now than blogging. Iraqis really enjoy making contact with people outside Iraq.Is the traditional news media losing ground to the net?Not particularly ... I think that's a generational thing. Twenty years from now, when your digital natives become middle-aged, then I'm sure that will be the case.What services and technologies have proved most useful to you?I really like Gmail. It's extremely convenient that you can save really big files. I also discovered Flash memory drives while I was in Iraq, which we used a lot for the magazine. Email as an archive is brilliant, as my girlfriend saved all the emails I wrote her so I had a really good digital chronicle when it came to start writing my book.Visit:http://david_enders.gnn.tv/andwww.plutobooks.com&#183;Dave Enders' book, Baghdad Bulletin is available nowLinkswww.juancole.comwww.comedycentral.com/shows/the_daily_show/index.jhtmlhttp://riverbendblog.blogspot.com/www.iwpr.net&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Hugh Hancock is deep into the final throes of production on his first feature-length movie, BloodSpell. He has been mulling over this project since late 2003, after a collaborator said his work had lost that "punk edge". His response was to make a movie that defied most of the rules of traditional film-making. BloodSpell isn't even cinema - it's machinima. And as a result it is billed as "a truly independent, zero budget, animated action-adventure feature film, combining the irreverent, aggressive, DIY ethos of punk with the epic scale and power of fantasy".This new form of film-making takes its name from a portmanteau of "machine" and "cinema", and is about creating films by using video game engines instead of live action or traditional animation. Machinima mashes up a passive storytelling aesthetic with the bits and bytes of video games for a fraction of the cost of traditional techniques. What began as an exercise in geek self-congratulation is now being co-opted by artists, film-makers and scriptwriters. Animators are lining up to use computer games and their powerful engines to create new motion pictures.Using the tools that computer game aficionados are already familiar with, directors record carefully choreographed computer game action sequences using in-game cameras to capture the sweeps, pans and pulls associated with traditional film. The recorded videos are then cut together to create emotional and evocative digital art.To date, machinima has been championed at Sundance, the independent film festival, and has been heralded by Hollywood luminaries such as George Lucas and Steven Spielberg. And that's not all: it also has its own MTV show, an Academy of Machinima Arts and Sciences, and is regularly celebrated at film festivals around the world.Machinima's rise has its precedents in other modern methods of independent digital storytelling: blockbuster surprises such as The Blair Witch Project. The success of films like this led to the release of thousands of low-budget, home-made flicks via internet distribution systems, and out of that emerged a new aesthetic of realistic, self-expressive film-making. Machinima is exactly this kind of garage culture, but from the point of view of animation.The scene grew from the modification subculture of computer gaming tribes in the late 1990s. Hackers and modders used their technical prowess to manipulate software and generate backdrops, environments and characters in titles such as Quake and Unreal. Solo players or teams navigated, enacted, recorded, voiced and distributed the films through internet fan channels. These "Quake movies" started to become more elaborate, leaving the hack-and-slash, heavy metal "frag video" culture behind for tight scripting, dark comedy and engaging drama.As the medium has matured, small studios have emerged, and Hollywood high-flyers have used the techniques for quick pre-visualisation on their big-budget blockbusters. Since then, interest in this home-grown cinema has exploded. Machinima resources, such as Hancock's flagship distribution siteMachinima.com, are bulging with shows - their archives swell with more than 1,000 films viewed more than 2m times.The low cost of production is a big factor in its increasing popularity. "If you want to bring your vision to life, and it's an action-packed, epic vision, you basically have two choices," says Hancock. "One is to persuade Hollywood to give you approximately the price of 100 London flats. The other is to use machinima."With a camcorder and a PC or games console, budding but impoverished film-makers can find vessels for their creative juices.The almost immediate gratification of machinima-making has also proved to be an attraction. "To be able to go from concept to finished film within a matter of days is pretty unique," says Paul Marino, executive director of the Academy of Machinima Arts and Sciences, and author of 3D Game-Based Film-Making: The Art of Machinima.Marino discovered the technique while working as a broadcast animator by day and playing computer games at night. "We came across a couple of Quake movies and it just clicked," he says. "We could film inside the game world, much like we would on a live-action shoot."The actors in machinima are computer-generated game characters, costumed and given props that are part of the software or built using the game's programming structure. The choice of game, therefore, can be important. "The Sims 2 is great for human-based drama or comedy, whereas Neverwinter Nights is perfect for a fantasy-based machinima film," explains Marino.And machinima films aren't limited to the genre of their parent game. Experienced machinimators exploit bugs in the high-powered animation engines to broaden the subject matter. Others prefer the possibilities of online 3D virtual worlds. Daniel Foucher is most famous for his Cantina Crawl series, made using the online game Star Wars Galaxies. "When you shoot a video in an online game, other people actually participate, and sometimes on a large scale. They can bring their own unique personalities and actions to the process, much in the way real actors do," he says.Foucher also films in one of the leading online game spaces for machinima, Second Life - a software product that allows users to build and decorate whatever they imagine. There are sets, studios and in-game cinemas that provide machinima entertainment for Second Life residents.Others just use the game's basic programming structure as a pure animation tool. One of Hancock's favourite shows is Fountainhead Entertainment's Anna, which uses the engine of first-person shooter Quake 3. "I just love this film," he says. "It's a wordless fairy tale about the life and death of a single flower. The direction and storytelling are just brilliant, the graphical style really gets the Hans Christian Andersen feel across, and the level of expression that this film achieves really shows what you can do with machinima as a storytelling tool."It's hard to believe that such an evocative piece of art emerged from a game whose object is to destroy things with big guns.The relationship between machinima and games is, say its followers, purely functional. Marino turns to the directors he discovered at school and college for inspiration. "&#91;Terry&#93; Gilliam, the Coen brothers, &#91;Jean-Pierre&#93; Jeunet, &#91;Alfred&#93; Hitchcock - it's obvious when you watch one of their films that a vision really translates to the screen," he says. "Great screenwriting by &#91;Woody&#93; Allen, &#91;Lawrence&#93; Kasdan, &#91;Aaron&#93; Sorkin and &#91;Alexander&#93; Payne are also inspiring, bringing great characters and scenes together. A combination of strong script and vision is always a good place to start."Hancock also says that developing a solid script is essential. "Machinima lives or dies by its storytelling," he says. "You don't have fantastic visuals to lull people into watching a cardboard plot, you don't have amazing human actors to make sense of a leaden script."But if you do have a great story, you've got the scope and the scale to pull whatever you need in order to realise your vision. The quality of the story and script you're using are even more important, if that's possible, than for a conventional film."Both PC and home console games increasingly include software development kits and modding tools for players to develop new levels and personalise characters. The forthcoming release of Lionhead Studios' The Movies will blur the relationship between game and cinema even more by including a powerful "movie-making" toolkit.The founder of Lionhead, Peter Molyneux, is adamant that his product is, at its core, interactive entertainment. "The Movies is a game which allows people to create their own movies," he says. "Both the cinema and games deal with entertainment, but I think games have the potential to entertain people in ways we still cannot imagine. I predict that, in the future, games could completely overshadow cinema and offer everyone their unique form of entertainment."Machinimators are understandably curious about what implications this mainstream, game-centred release will have on their art form."My big worry with The Movies is that the movie-making will be a gimmick and you won't be able to make movies of much substance," says Hancock.Overall, though, he is positive about the resilience of the machinima scene."I do think that this is part of a new wave of creative play coming together," Hancock says. "We're entering the age of ubiquitous creativity in that we're seeing a real democratisation of the process. With the exception of pub bands, role-playing game players and karaoke, we haven't seen creativity as part of our play for a long time."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The annual CES in Las Vegas may be the world's most important consumer electronics exhibition but IFA, which kicks off in Berlin in two weeks' time, runs it a close second.This year the show, held every other year, falls at a pivotal time for the industry, especially as the arrival of High Definition TV services in Europe is less than a year away. Almost all the major players will be at IFA parading flat-screen sets and hoping consumers will soon be tempted to upgrade from traditional TVs to a plasma or LCD set.For some companies, this year's focus will be on new technologies. Samsung's key message at IFA is that it has the hardware ready to launch TV-to-go in Europe. It will display a parade of portable products, from media and DVD players through to camcorders, all of which sport digital TV tuners. The devices work with the DMB (Digital Multimedia Broadcasting) system, a variant of the DAB digital radio format that has already been very successful in Britain.Germany will have a range of DMB channels, including one offering World Cup football next summer, and it is likely that a similar system will begin in the UK in 2007. It will, however, face opposition from the DVB-H system that delivers digital TV to mobile phones and has the support of Nokia.Philips traditionally has a strong presence at the show. This year its emphasis is likely to be on its streaming audio/video products, such as the recently launched Wireless Music System, and also its first video-to-go personal media players. Korea's Humax will also display innovative devices, including a 40in high-def ready LCD TV that incorporates a pair of Freeview digital TV tuners and a 40GB hard disk video recorder.Promising to deliver devices that it claims "could mean curtains for the laptop", U3 will be at IFA displaying its new generation of USB smart drives. The company says it has transformed the USB drive from a dumb storage vehicle into a smart drive that can hold software programs and settings as well as files, thereby enabling users to instantly personalise any computing device.IFA will also chart the evolution of the camcorder from a tape-based device to one that uses hard disk and Flash-based memory. Sanyo will be displaying the Xacti E6, its latest Flash-based video camera, whose key feature is a prominent three-inch screen. Samsung will also be ramping up its Flash memory video camera range.IFA should also see a glut of mobile devices, with plenty of interest on the Vodafone stand in the Sharp VS 903, the latest in its series of highly successful camera phones and its first to feature a three megapixel camera. It is expected in the UK in time for the Christmas season.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
"Xbox 360 will cost £279.99 or EUR 399.99 in Europe, Microsoft has just told an audience at the Games Convention event in Leipzig. That is the main package, including 20GB hard disk, wireless controller, headset, Ethernet cable, high-definition television cable and wireless television-style remote control. The US price is $399.99," reportsEurogamer."A second package, called the Xbox 360 Core System, will be released at the same time, consisting of the bare bones console and a wired controller, for £209.99 or EUR 299.99. The US price for that is $299.99."
...has to bethisintense, passionate and succinct peon to DS rhythm action game,Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan, posted at Geeksonstun.com, which takes a few bitter swipes at the mainstream industry too. Okay, reading it feels like being shouted at by a drunken and dishevelled gamer from across the street, but it's good stuff.
The forum over at worldofwarcraft.com became the unlikely setting for a family set-to yesterday when a WoW-addicted mother caught her WoW-addicted son posting comments at three thirty in the morning:"Pardon me for hijacking the thread, here.. But, Brion - if you don't want your mother to know you were up and on the computer at 3:29 in the morning - DON'T post on a forum that she reads," she wrote before grounding himYou can enjoy the whole sorry episodehere.Is this the family of the future? At some point, will we abandon noisy rows around the dinner table in favour of flaming each other on chat sites? Would that represent progress? Yes, I think it would.ViaThe Inquirer
Following intense speculation Microsoft UK have finally announced the Xbox 360 price point. The basic console is £209.99 while the HD-equipped "premium" model is £279.99. But Microsoft is gambling by splitting its market.By having a dual price point the company risks creating a two-tier 360 ownership that will make it harder for developers to properly know who to target when adding new features. This is especially dangerous when you consider the emphasis Microsoft has placed on Live/online gaming for 360.Also, optional hardware add-ons haverarelyworked in the gaming market.The £279.99 model includes:-- Xbox 360 console (with, ahem, "signature metallic detailing on the console itself")-- 20 GB and detachable hard drive (20 GB)-- Xbox 360 Wireless Controller-- Xbox 360 Faceplate-- Xbox 360 Headset-- Xbox 360 Component HD-AV Cable-- Xbox Live Silver membership-- A bonus Media Remote that lets you access your content on your PC.The standard model includes the console, wired controller, faceplate and standard AV cable.The Xbox 360 will launch "before Christmas".So £280 then? It's a lot of cash, but the core gaming market will pay up and it gives MS scope for a price drop when the PS3 launches.But how punters react to the two price points will be very interesting indeed. Will the hard drive be enough of an incentive to pay extra?
