Eidos, the computer games maker behind the Tomb Raider series, suffered another blow yesterday when Sony admitted to a shortfall of its long-awaited PlayStation 2.The announcement caused shares in Eidos to fall more than 6% to 348.5p, continuing a wretched 12 months for the company. The stock has fallen from a peak of &#163;12.73 after two profit warnings earlier this year caused by delays in getting its own product to market.Sony said it would ship only   half as many PlayStation 2 consoles to the US for its October launch as it had initially planned. In the first weekend 500,000 of the consoles will be available. The British launch is expected in November.The arrival of PlayStation 2 has been much anticipated by games manufacturers who have complained of a drop off in sales while players wait for the new model to arrive in the shops. Eidos sales in the US were 19% lower last year.A spokesman for Eidos said PlayStation 2 was expected to make its biggest impact over Christmas 2001 and played down the effect of the   shortfall. Sony plans to stagger additional shipments of the games console of 100,000 units a week and said it still hoped to meet its targets of 1.3m units in the US by Christmas and 3m by the end of March.The Japanese electronics firm said it was one month behind schedule because of component shortages.Software development has also been slower than Sony had anticipated. There will be 26 games available at launch instead of the 50 promised - though games for the first version of the console will be compatible with the new   model. Shares in Sony were also hit yesterday and slumped by 9% in early trading on Wall Street.The collapse of the Eidos share price earlier this year lead to a takeover approach, understood to be from French rival Infogrames.Eidos said in June that talks had opened with a potential buyer of the business and issued a separate statement last month which said discussions were still ongoing.Eidos is preparing for the launch of the fifth instalment in its Tomb Raider series featuring the iconic character Lara Croft.
Halifax's much-hyped telephone and internet bank Intelligent Finance promises to open this morning, more than two months later than planned.IF, which has bought the rights to Fatboy Slim's hit Right Here, Right Now for advertising purposes, claims to be able to save each household taking out its products   &#163;500 a year.The Edinburgh-based operation, into which Halifax is ploughing &#163;120m over two years, will permit customers to open accounts and buy products only through its call centre at first. Its internet service will be opened to the public later on.It is the Halifax's version of Abbey National's cahoot, which launched earlier this   year and was immediately dogged by technology problems.The advertising campaign, which began in July when it was supposed to have launched, will resume after the weekend. IF, which has been concerned that it could be swamped by customers, said that the first accounts had been opened yesterday, even before its official launch.   IF is starting with a range of products, include current accounts, savings accounts, mortgages, credit cards and personal loans as well as insurance.Jim Spowart, chief executive of IF, lured from Standard Life last year, calculated that 6m people could quality for a nil interest rate on their credit card.
One in 10 women using the internet have made love to a man they first met online at work, according to a survey.Nearly 25% of the 2,000 secretaries, executives and students asked on the website newwomanonline.co.uk had formed a "romantic friendship" over the web.The women, average age 27, would typically devote 102 minutes a day chatting online to their love mates at work.Most of them eventually met, with Londoners being most likely to have sex with their web lovers.Some met strangers in chatrooms, others would eye colleagues at work and strike up relationships by email. The website creators posted the survey, for workers aged 18-40, online. They believed young workers, whose private lives had been squeezed out by longer hours in the office, had been forced to seek romance at their terminal.A spokeswoman for Newwomanonline, Carmel Hayes, said the explosion in internet romance "took the fear of rejection out of meeting people".Press AssociationUseful link:New Woman Online survey
Rupert Murdoch's Music Choice Europe yesterday announced it had raised &#163;50m through a share placing which will value the business at almost &#163;200m.The company broadcasts audio services over digital television platforms, including Sky Digital in   Britain and Stream in Italy, and is aiming to further develop online and mobile phone services.The placing reduces the stake of BSkyB, Mr Murdoch's pay-TV business, from 48.9% to 38.4% of Music Choice.The other large shareholders include music publishers Time Warner and Sony and mobile phone maker Motorola. Some &#163;20m of the proceeds has been earmarked for marketing over the next four years to build the Music Choice brand. A similar amount will be used to develop technologies for interactive TV and webcasting. Simon Bazalgette, Music Choice's chief executive, said the cash would help the business into "potentially lucrative new markets such as broadband and mobile technology".Music Choice has an existing 47 channels based on genres including dance, jazz, classical and country   which are uninterrupted by advertising or DJs.Around 5m people have access to the radio services in 17 countries.The firm was founded in 1993; BSkyB bought into it two years ago. The shares were placed at 162p, and trading is scheduled to begin next Wednesday.
Saving favouritesI have created a vast alphabetical index of website links using Favorites. The trouble is that one has to visit the website in order to store its address. Is there another way to do this?John Cookejohn@onema.comJack Schofield replies:You can always store website addresses in a plain text file using Windows Notepad or another simple text editor, then cut and paste them in to the browser when you want to visit the sites.I take this one step further: I paste them into an HTML document in Microsoft Word, add my own comments, and use the resulting file as my start-up page on Internet Explorer. To do this, double click the .htm file so that it loads into your browser, then   go to Tools|Internet Options and click the Home Page button marked Use Current. To return to this page after visiting a site, click the Home (House) icon, or select View|Go to|Home Page from the menu, or press the Alt and Home keys on the keyboard.Word can automatically turn proper web addresses into live links, so you do not need to know any HTML. If you want to take the idea further, a small, free program calledBookmark Wizardwill convert your current Favorites into an HTML page.The next step would be to put your bookmarks online at a site such asHotsheet, or use a program to organise them. There is a good list of online bookmark managers atwww.dmoz.org/Computers/Internet/WWW/Web_Applications/ Bookmark_Managers. There are comprehensive collections of bookmark programs and other utilites atDave CentralandWinFiles. I don't know which is best, but IC Soft Site Managerwww.ic-soft.com/products/icsiteman.htmlooks powerful but pricey ($34.95).Bookmark Mateis simple and freeLittle windowsSince I upgraded to Internet Explorer 5.5, all new windows in Outlook Express open up very small. How can I make them open up maximised as they always used to?Dr Kambiz Boomlak.boomla@qmw.ac.ukJS:Many Windows programs try to remember how they were when you closed them down, and open up the same way. However, there is a standard way to control how an application opens in Windows. Right-click on the icon and select Properties, then go to the Shortcut page. At the bottom, next to Run, there should be a drop-down menu that offers three choices: Normal window; Maximized, and Minimized. Pick the one you want and click OK.The icon may be on the desktop, in Windows Explorer, or even in the Quick Launch tray usually positioned next to the Start button.BookletsI've written a 36-page booklet, using Word 97, and I want to print it out on standard A4 paper ready to be folded in two to create an A5 booklet. Do you know of any utilities that will let me print it out so that page 1 is adjacent to page 36 and page 2 adjacent to page 35 etc? I am surprised that Word 2000 hasn't addressed this problem. It must be quite common.Alan CurrieWilma.Pooch@tesco.netJS:You are correct: Microsoft is lagging Lotus and Corel (WordPerfect) Office in this area. Richard Keijzer has reportedly written some free macros to do the job, and we are waiting for them to appear atwww.mvps.org/word/FAQs/MacrosVBA/BookletMacro.htm.One alternative is to use a pre-print utility that will work with other programs too.ClickbookandFinePrintare the best known examples. Both cost money - $49.95 and $39.95 respectively - but offer free trial versions.You may also find a desktop publishing program will do the job.Web bitsIs it possible to print just a section of information displayed on my monitor from a website? Sometimes there are many pages but only one is relevant.Peter Olivepeterolive@hotmail.com.JS:FinePrint Web prints from most popular web browsers and from Adobe Acrobat. Like FinePrint 2000, it will preview, print 2, 4, or 8 pages per sheet, create booklets and save web pages. It is available free fromFineprintbut, like Hotmail and other adware, adds its own advertisement.Filofax printingI want to put my Filofax in an Excel spreadsheet so I can print it out, alter it at will, and print labels etc. I have sourced A4 paper perforated and punched with two Filofax pages per sheet, but cannot find a program to print double sided, alphabetical order onto it. Can you help?Chris Walliswatershed@cix.co.ukJS:See above. However, I don't think Excel is the most suitable software for the task. In the days when I still used a Filofax, the only program that   made a creditable job of printing out Filofax pages was Lotus Organiser. Other readers may know better.Attached but unaccessibleI work in Appleworks on my iMac and frequently receive attachments from others (mostly PC users) which I can't open. The attachments I send them are likewise inaccessible. Is there a suitable translator out there somewhere?Anne-Marie QuiggQuiggAM@aol.comJS:Sorry, but I think your best bet is to switch to Microsoft Office. Microsoft tried to tackle the problem by developing the Rich Text Format file format, but your chances of getting everyone to send you .rtf files are close to zero.Too jazzyI want to listen to Jazz FM via the internet but it is transmitted using   Microsoft's Media Player format. Needless to say, that's not available for Linux, which I run.Tony Greentony.green@talk21.comJS:As a Linux user you should be able to hack your own player for WMA (Windows Media Audio) files, or at least convert the Solaris (Unix) version available atwww.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/en/download/.  Alternatively you could join or lobby the happy band working onWine, the long-running project aimed at running Windows programs without running Windows. (Wine stands recursively for Wine Is Not an Emulator.) Since Microsoft wants WMA to become an industry standard, it might even help.
Microsoft yesterday launched a stinging attack on BT, accusing the former state-owned monoply of spoiling the rapid roll out of high speed web connections.Neil Holloway, Microsoft's UK managing director, claimed it was in BT's interest to delay rivals from launching super-fast ADSL net services."It does seem ironic that one minute the government is saying the local loop is going to be opened up in June or July next year and ... the next we hear there's not enough room &#91;in BT's exchanges&#93;, it's the wrong type of carpet, the air conditioning was wrong on a Wednesday afternoon," he said."It's not in BT's interest to get everyone else to roll it out. The longer they can delay it, the better."Earlier this month US telco WorldCom pulled out of the broadband market - after reports that it was "frustrated" with Oftel's handling of the process opening up BT's monopoly to competition.Another player in the high speed web market, RSL Communications, pulled out of the   first stage of bidding and accused the industry's regulator of failing to ensure fair play for rivals to BT.The company was also under fire yesterday after it was revealed that that nearly 40% of the British population - around 23m people - will be excluded from the high speed internet revolution.Leaked BT documents suggested that the company predicts there will be "dead zones" where the new services will be "commercially and technically unviable".Those most likely to miss out were said to be businesses and consumers in Cornwall, Wales, the North East and North West, Scotland and Northern Ireland.But a spokeswoman for BT dismissed the claims and emphasised there was nothing secret or underhand about the roll-out programme.The company, she said, had always maintained the initial roll-out would only cover around 75% of the population as there were technical and geographical barriers."We have always said that beyond next spring it will depend on what demand there is for these new services," she said. "If there was huge provider demand we could invest more in our local network to take it further out."If there is demand, we're not going to sit there and not go for it."The spokeswoman also refuted claims that BT was dragging its feet with the roll-out."We are working to a timetable laid down by the entire telecoms industry in the UK," she said."That is designed to open up BT's exchange to allow even more competition for broadband internet."Mr Holloway also noted that a link-up between Telewest and NTL - in which Microsoft own stakes of 23.7% and 3% respectively - would "speed up competition between cable, ADSL, satellite and wireless".Neither NTL nor Telewest were prepared to comment last night.However, industry sources said the pair were already working closely with each other and suggestions of a merger were being made.A deal would have to attract the support of France Telecom, which owns 23% of NTL and UPC NV, the Dutch cable operator, which has a 25% stakeholding in Telewest.This week's debate over broadband services will be another blow for Tony Blair's plan to get Britain online.It follows in the wake of the farce earlier this year over unmetered internet access after payment of a flat fee.AltaVista, the American internet portal and software producer, was encouraged to take a leading role but had to withdraw its service as it proved to economically unviable.Last week America Online stoked up the war between internet service providers by offering unlimited use of the web and free customer support for &#163;15 a month.
In the UK's cyberjungle, there is only one big lumbering beast which is really feared. It is the American predator. British e-commerce directors are constantly being warned by venture capitalists that if their defences are not strong enough they will be swallowed up by an aggressive US rival.Today, all the legendary internet companies are American. Freeserve might have broken new ground but everyone knows it is an online midget when compared to giants such as Yahoo!, Amazon and eBay.The US dominance of the internet marketplace can be explained by the fact that the Americans logged on quicker and are now streets head of everyone else in terms of   technology know-how and usage. But in recent months, the image of US online supremacy has been slightly dented. There are clear signs that some American online companies are finding it difficult to crack the UK digital marketplace.In June, e-tailerFogdog Sportsclosed its London office and announced it was concentrating on its US operation. At the end of August, blaming heavy losses back home, US broadcaster NBC pulled the plug on the UK launch of its internet operation. And around the same time New York-based UrbanFetch, which delivers goods within an hour, announced it was laying off 18 staff from its London office.UrbanFetchrecently collected an award for being the most exciting newcomer from the European e-commerce association, but rumours still persist that the company is experiencing difficulties."We would be foolish to think London is going to be a walkover," says chief executive Andrew Tsai, who strongly denies that the business is in trouble. "We will be fighting tooth and nail to win market share in London and it's still early days."Tsai argues that the staff cuts were necessary for the business to remain efficient. "We're making sure we get the model to profitability by the end of next year and we are on track to do that. But it is a difficult process."E-commerce consultants point out that UrbanFetch    has a tough fight on its hands. The company offers free delivery and needs to serve a dense population. New York is ideal because lots of people live in skyscrapers. But in London the population is more spread out and to make the economics work, large   orders have to be delivered regularly to substantial numbers of people.UrbanFetch has also not been helped by some pranksters who have been going on to the site just to order one small item such as a bag of nuts which then has to   be delivered free by an express courier. To succeed, e-commerce consultants say UrbanFetch has to get its customers buying more expensive products with higher margins."We are going to expand our gift section enormously.   We are gearing our consumer site up to be an enormous opportunity for Christmas," Tsai says, pointing out that over-crowded London shops should help UrbanFetch.As part of the government's initiative to make the UK a leading digital marketplace, the Foreign Office has been launching a charm offensive in Silicon Valley trying to encourage US dot.coms to set up over here. But it has not all been going smoothly."Most US internet companies vastly overestimate the value of their brand," explains director of Ernst and Young's e-business accelerator service, Jo Enefer, who was seconded to the Foreign Office initiative for two years. "When they are sitting in the Valley, US companies have an idea that their brand is going to be recognised very quickly in the UK. When they get over here, they are often disappointed very quickly."Enefer, who has advised eBay, says the business to consumer sector has now calmed in the UK and the latest US entrants tend to be in the business to business space or provide enabling technologies. She says the most successful ones seek out local partnerships."They are looking for partners who can given them 'traction' quickly. Traction is a new buzzword which means getting a footprint in the marketplace." She adds that any new US entrants are usually helped by the fact that they are less deterred by risk and are generally more flexible than their UK-based rivals."I have noticed since coming back to the UK that relative to the US, there is some nervousness about the extent to which UK internet companies will partner with other organisations to go to market. In the States, everyone is open and keen to get in   bed with everyone else to achieve their objectives."Inevitably there is a lot of money to be made from helping US internet companies into the UK. And specialist London-based incubator services such as eVentures work in partnership with US internet companies writing their business plans and offering them access to a select list of preferred local suppliers."Most US companies we dealt with in the past wanted speed before everything else and wanted to launch very quickly. But that emphasis has changed, and what US companies want now is a more cautious and well-thought out strategy," explains Valerio Massimo, director ofeVentures.Earlier this year, the heavily-discounted shopping site, Buy.com chose to launch into the UK in partnership with eVentures to help them localise their service."The UK consumer is crying out for value and our decision to expand from the US to the UK was based on that," explains Buy.com's chief executive, Murray Hennessy. "We saw that pricing on the UK high street was very high across the board. There was room for the internet in general to offer better value."To make its presence felt and win market share quickly, Buy.com is aggressively   pursuing partnerships. Hennessy says: "We are all over the web with people like AOL, MSN and LineOne and we have 500 affiliate partners."It is clear that US entrants to the UK market have taken a few bruises over the past few months and are now behaving more cautiously. But it is worth remembering that running an internet-based business presents huge challenges to anyone. Irrespective of which country you start from, issues such as ensuring your technology is robust enough, finding and hiring the right people and raising the necessary capital are difficult to solve.Furthermore, it would be unwise of anyone to attempt to write off US entrants to the UK market. Major players in the US, such as the giant online directory service About.com, have only just arrived, and they have been successfully doing business for about four years."In Silicon Valley, they eat, sleep and breathe what they do. I have been to places where they have got sleeping bags under their desks," says Jo Enefer, who has witnessed how aggressive and single-minded US internet companies can be. "When they come over here," she warns, "they do what it takes to get the job done."
Media is a consensus. It's one of the ways we establish what is going on in the world around us. That's why it's so important that the mediaspace remains open and free of censorship. We should all have a say in what it is we think is happening, and a chance to contribute to the conversation.The internet provided us with just such an opportunity - particularly because it was free of the kinds of legal and business pressures that restrict more mainstream and broadcast media.Demonstrative, martyr-making arrests of hackers and college-age Napster users notwithstanding, the greatest enemies to free expression on the internet are not paranoid law enforcement, a greedy recording industry, or even an elitist ICANN board, but us.The emergence of a new, interactive mediaspace offers us an opportunity to redefine the very language of power. Sadly, our readiness to accept the tools we are given, in the form they are given, as well as the rules they come with, reduces our role to passive consumption, and threatens to end the digital revolution before it has even begun.The ability to dictate what we think about is controlled, to some extent, by the people who decide on the content of our media - which headlines will be printed, which groups will win recording contracts, and which stories will appear on the evening news. The ability to dictate  how we think is controlled by the people   who produce the tools of media - the browsers, file-sharing programs, and networks through which all this content is disseminated and, with any luck, discussed.For a long time, the content and context of our media served to maintain the status quo. Interactive media - from computers to camcorders - posed a threat to both. They gave us the ability to fill newsgroups, web pages, and even cable television channels with our own stories, images, and ideas. A gossip columnist like Matt Drudge was able to force Newsweek's hand during the Clinton/Lewinsky scandal, and thousands of young programmers were free to imagine new ways for people to communicate with one another - then create them. It seemed as if no one could control anything, anymore.Those of us worried about censorship focused on government as the main threat to progress. We thwarted their early efforts at limiting the   spread of "objectionable" content, and declared the internet beyond the province of any government agency. The problem with suppressing the role of government is that it gives business free reign. It's like using antibiotics to combat bacteria; when the bacteria are killed, fungus grows unabated.As a result, the internet became a privatised zone, and altogether more insidious forms of censorship emerged.The first, stoked by fear of hackers, spam, and internet porn, was the mass migration towards the internet's safe havens. Many people still believe that using America Online or another corporate-  branded ISP as their access provider protects them from email viruses. These users succeed merely in shielding themselves from the kinds of content that unseen corporate censors feel is dangerous. Like people who buy the edited versions of their favourite music CDs at WalMart, they'll never know what they're missing. And all this, of course, is completely legal.Likewise, the slow conversion of a public telecommunications infrastructure into a privately controlled direct marketing platform turns it into a territory where the only meaningful currency is cash. Ideas spread based on their ability to generate revenue, more than interest or thought. The ultimate broadcasting tool is the business plan, and while certain media pranksters - likeRtmark.comandEtoy.com- are learning to create performance art pieces that exploit this principle, the bottom line on the internet is the bottom line.This is why most forms of online activism concern issues of market. The Napster phenomenon is a consumer revolt. While it may eventually influence the way artists and record companies sign their contracts in the future, since when is our role as a public voice to negotiate on behalf of Britney Spears?In the best light, Napster users are fighting for their right to distribute data that one of them has paid for. It's a business angle, and the more it's fought for, the more like business people its advocates become.So much for the content of new media providing new ways of understanding the world. We're fighting over distribution of the top 40.On an even more fundamental level, the tools we use to navigate and even create the landscape of new media make many assumptions for us, of which we are increasingly unaware. The internet's functional standards are set   by companies like Microsoft, through processes that are anything but transparent. Participating in the internet through a web browser is like experiencing the outdoors through a screen door. Our choices are filtered, and our participation is limited to typing in our credit card numbers and clicking "buy".Artists indirectly censor themselves by using programs like Adobe Photoshop to create graphics, Dreamweaver to design web pages, or Macromedia Director to make interactive environments. Most university courses, understandably, teach students how to use such software (often made by their own donors) rather than how to recognize its underlying agendas. Students graduate with a fine understanding of the media landscape, but haven't a clue that it was assembled quite arbitrarily.Lest we forget, the internet was a mediaspace before it was a marketplace. Now that   monetary values are assigned to our online activities, there's much less room for alternative value systems to be entertained.These days, we get very few reminders that computers are modelling systems, and that the market-driven internet itself is just one of the models they can create. The efforts that do break through our complacency are usually destructive hacks on corporate websites, or viruses that make our email programs go crazy. We unilaterally condemn such attacks because they cost real people real money. They threaten what we think of as the very lifeblood of the internet.But the people who launch these attacks are demonstrating, however maliciously, that the code is not yet set in stone, and that model itself is still up for grabs. It's the only way we can still hear that message. I'm not sure whether this speaks worse of them, or of us.
Mark Crosby has an unusual list of vacancies at the Exhibit IT recruitment fair on October 5 and 6. "We're looking for a systems analyst in the Maldives and a database manager in Ethiopia," he says. As placement advisor for the maths, science and IT team at the Voluntary Service Organisation (VSO), his stand will be sitting between more traditional recruiters like IBM and Logica.His skill requirements may sound familiar to anyone in the IT business. "You need a commitment to sharing your skills - not going out there to change the world. Instead we look for people who can deal with frustrations. Possibly they won't achieve what they want to do in the first three months," he says.The challenge of working in the third world will require similar skills to those his fellow standholders seek. Exhibit -which is being held for the first time at the Business Design Centre in Islington - will be looking for   experienced IT professionals in preference to first-timers because it is some traditional skills that are most in demand."Come another year and we will be looking for the whiz-kids with web skills. But overseas, often they're looking for an entire project team in one person," says Crosby. "Most of the jobs involve an element of training other people, and as well as being able to do your job you'll need some maintenance experience, good general IT skills."Permanent recruitment in the IT sector is struggling, whether for network managers in the Maldives or Marlow. The Recruitment and Employment Confederation's August Report On Jobs, says "the availability of permanent staff deteriorated for the 15th successive month and at the fastest rate since June 1998".The REC report shows that for permanent jobs, the IT sector has a strength of demand second only to the nursing profession. This contrasts with the state of the   contract recruitment market, in which the IT sector ranks only seventh, behind secretarial, catering and construction.According to research by Cisco, by 2002 there will be a shortage of 600,000 qualified networking professionals in Europe. In the UK e-commerce industry alone, the shortage will be 81,000.VSO has 55 IT people overseas, while Reuters has future recruitment targets four times the size. Says Melanie Osborn, manager at Reuters recruitment centre: "We need people with new technologies, people with older skills, good graduates, people with potential."The company cannot get enough experienced project managers with skills in "old-fashioned" languages and applications. "Ideally it's what everybody wants. But with the market as it is, we have to accept we might not get them. Overall, we need 200_ but we will settle for 40 or 50 people immediately," she says.While the UK's workforce is retraining in new languages and applications, the practical   skills and project management experience that companies value cannot be taught quickly. Osborn says in her chosen areas, there aren't 200 people in the UK available.Other recruiters are resorting to unusual solutions. At call centre specialist Datapoint, new chief executive David Berger is calling his old executives back. Having set up Datapoint in 1984, many of Berger's prot&eacute;g&eacute;s left during the 1990s. Now, although call centres are packed with new technology, Berger knows the skills he can't find."Look at the management of Aspect, BT, Siemens, there are ex-Datapoint people everywhere," he says. "The time is now for anyone who wants to come back to us_ very few people have those in-depth skills, and we want people who understand concepts like relationship management."ICL has recruited 20 project managers from the forces, and expects to find another 20 this year. Alistair Johnson, last year a captain in the Royal Engineers, is now a   project manager with ICL. "There are a lot of background skills like decision-making and man-management that come with experience. In the army, we were force-fed those skills from day one," he says.By comparison, he lacked IT skills but with successful projects in data warehousing behind him, he's proved that he can learn new tricks.ICL is only one company making up its shortfall with   staff who don't necessarily have the right certificates, but have the right attitude and experience in the workplace. Johnson keeps in touch with former colleagues now employed at IBM Cisco, NTL and Cable &amp; Wireless.Back at the VSO, Crosby believes it's never too late. "We've just sent someone over to Gambia who's 65," he says. "He's not got any qualifications, just 40 years' experience."
I've been reading Online with interest in the past fortnight because of the articles by David Walker and Richard Sarson on e-government.Both painted a downbeat picture of progress to deliver this agenda and reach the target of 2005 to get all government services online.Granted this is a major programme of change. But across the public sector, there is growing evidence that civil servants are embracing the opportunities, not shying away from them.Momentum has been stepped up considerably in recent months. On September 11, the prime minister launched UK online. This lays out a dynamic way forward, backed up by &#163;1bn funding, to get government online as well as people and business.The centrepiece is a new Performance and Innovation Unit report, e.gov: electronic government services for the 21st Century. It sets up incentives, levers and institutional structures to make sure the transformation happens within Whitehall. It includes new funding and sharpened financial incentives to promote electronic service delivery as well as the creation of a government incubator to develop new service ideas.It also opens the electronic delivery of government service to the private and voluntary sectors to encourage the improvement in service quality, to stimulate innovation and to provide value for money.E-government also requires new skills and cultural change in the civil service. That is why the government's Centre for Management and Policy Studies is rolling out the first programme of e-government courses this month.   leaders@e-government targets senior civil servants to help them develop a knowledge of the human and organisational skills necessary to realise the potential of new technologies.We also have high-level commitment in government. Cabinet Office minister Ian McCartney drives the agenda at ministerial level. And next week we'll announce the appointment of our first-ever webmaster-general, reporting to the e-envoy. As director of e-communications, he will spearhead our drive to ensure we have a world-class internet presence.The way ahead is firmly marked; a third of government services are already online. These are being improved, and new ones developed all the time. For example, within the next year you will be able to learn maths and Japanese, apply for Employment Service jobs, and forecast your pension online. Health, too, is something which concerns all of us. You can already access medical advice through NHS Direct. Within the next year you will be able to have your hospital appointments booked while waiting at your GP's surgery.Repeated assertions of ageing Sir Humphreys blocking change are becoming increasingly tired. Civil servants realise that new technology offers enormous opportunities to improve the services they provide, as well making their own jobs much easier by banishing bureaucracy and cutting paper trails.The targets set for e-government are a challenge, but they are an exciting challenge. People at all levels in the civil service and the wider public sector are increasingly committed to change.
No prize for getting this one rightWho Wants To Be A Millionaire?PC CD-Rom	&#163;29.99  EidosAs the contestants continue to play safe and the ratings subside, it seems an odd time to release a Who Wants To Be A Millionaire? computer game. But sensing perhaps   that the British love affair with trivia remains strong, Eidos has released this unerringly accurate simulation of the TV show. From the distinctive voice of Chris Tarrant to the theme tune and those embarrassingly tough "easy" questions, everything is here. Except, of course, the money.However, even without the filthy lucre, the game is an enjoyable short-term distraction and undoubtedly a more valid pastime than say, playing the board game. This is primarily due to the slick nature of proceedings: from   the off you are in recognisable surroundings with the familiar chair and studio backdrop. Once the game starts there is undoubted tension as the authentic music throbs and Chris sows the seeds of doubt.And, if you get stuck, the lifelines are available - 50/50 and asking the audience may help or you might even "phone a friend" and listen as the PC simulates a number of regional accents.With multiplayer options included, and low PC specs required, there is no doubt that this game will appeal to those whose normal PC   gaming consists of Solitaire; although with only a 1,000 questions it will not last forever. Of course the biggest problem is the lack of prize money with little incentive to play on once the big bucks are finally won.Still, Who Wants to Be A Millionaire is fun while it lasts, especially for pub bores and trivia buffs, though more practical punters will find a virtual million a scant consolation. Overall, this is utterly pointless but oddly compelling and, yes, Chris, that is my final answer.  (GH)Wrestling holds few attractionsWWF Royal RumbleSega Dreamcast	&#163;39.99 Yukes/SegaA Royal Rumble is a free-for-all where the aim is to throw all your opponents over the top rope out of the ring and be the last man standing. The selling point of the Dreamcast version is that up to nine wrestlers can be in the ring at once, with reasonable graphics and not-too-bad animation. After that it's a race against time, and you get a time bonus for every opponent you manage to eliminate.Eventually you run out of time and press for a continue. The selling point of the Dreamcast version is that you don't have to insert a coin.There are more than 20 WWF superstars in the game, including Stone Cold, Kane,   Big Show and so on. There's little difference in the way they fight, but you can start as Chris Jericho - he's fast, so you can run away and stay out of trouble - then switch to Big Show and pound the survivors into submission. It doesn't seem to matter which buttons you push, just don't back into any sucker punches. The tactics should not be beyond any multi-cellular organism.Since this is an arcade game, it does not capture any of the World Wrestling Federation's "depth". There's no back-story, no scene building, no career development, no commentators, no grudge matches, no bottle blondes, no impossibly awful acting. The whole tawdry soap element has gone missing, so there's nothing to rescue the monotony of single-player mode.But if you want to beat up your friends in frantic button-bashing mayhem, then WWF Royal Rumble is a good choice - just play as the only sober member of a foursome.  (JS)The gate opens for another epicBaldur's Gate IIPC CD-rom	&#163;39.99 Black Isle Studios/ Bioware/InterplayOrcs. Spells. Elves. Magic armour. Enchanted swords.  Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons.Right, that's got rid of all the people with lives. Now we can discuss this without fear of interruption.OK, we all know that Baldur's Gate was the best role playing game (RPG) ever. Which makes Baldur's Gate II, in certain enlightened fraternities, the most awaited game of the year. So how does it measure up?Sizewise, there's no comparison. If Baldur's Gate was a strapping 10lb baby boy, its little brother would be a definite candidate for Caesarean.The basic gameplay is almost unchanged; it's still you, and whatever companions you can press into your service, against a nation's worth of animals, wizards, thieves, tricksters and monsters.Progress through the game world is similarly open-ended (unlike stiflingly linear spin-off Icewind Dale), the dialogue    similarly detailed and witty, and the side quests similarly amusing. It's not so much a question of what's changed as what's been added: new character classes (giving a total of 40, not counting combination classes), new spells, new weapons, new companions, new foes, new skills, and a neat touch whereby you can   earn your own castle. Graphically, there's little to separate it from the original, although the spell animations are more impressive.The plot (sort of) picks up where BG1 left off, skipping one important detail: how did you end up in prison? Once you've escaped, and rounded up some of your old muckers in the process, it's business as usual - quests, experience points, and lots and lots of fighting. A little too much fighting, in fact.It's not just that there are too many enemies; they're also depressingly powerful. You may find yourself reloading after almost every battle, and that's a heck of a lot of reloads. Victory is invariably rewarding - the quality of loot is up tenfold on Baldur's Gate - but when it takes a day just to figure out how to win one fight, you're in for a long haul.Anyone who completes this should have no hesitation in putting it on their CV under "notable achievements". If they haven't already retired.  (AB)
Xbox supportMore than 150 software houses have so far committed to developing games for Microsoft's Xbox console, due at the end of next year.The list includes developers in the US, Europe and Japan, with the most obvious omission being the world's biggest independent games publisher, Electronic Arts. The UK par ticipants include Argonaut, Attention to Detail, Codemasters, Core, Eidos, Empire, Gameplay Studios, Lost Boys Interactive, SCi, Rage and Virgin Interactive.J Allard, Xbox general manager, announced this in San Francisco on the eve of the Tokyo Games Show, where Konami promised titles such as Silent Hill X, Metal Gear Solid X and Crash Bandicoot X. Attempting a flourish, Allard also unveiled the console's final name. It will be called Xbox - an idea that will interest Miami-based Xbox Technologies, formerly Nicollet Process Engineering. The new logo and a full list of developers is on the Xbox site atwww.xbox.com.Jez San, Argonaut's chief executive officer, said Argo   naut was considering developing about 10 titles for Xbox but was dropping developments for the Sega Dreamcast.   "We'd be happy to develop more Dreamcast games," he said, "but the publishers don't want them."Franchise funKonami, the Japanese game developer, has signed a five year deal with Universal Interactive Studios to publish games based on Crash Bandicoot, Jurassic Park III, and The Thing, with the Jurassic Park III movie being scheduled for release on July 18 next year.Although Crash Bandicoot started as a PlayStation title, Konami says that the next game "will be developed for multiple next-generation platforms led by PlayStation 2". Presumably it will appear on Nintendo's Gamecube, too.Konami has also secured a licence to develop a PlayStation 2 game based on the WTA women's tennis circuit. It will feature 20 top   WTA registered players including Martina Hingis (SUI), Lindsay Davenport (USA), Ai Sugiyama (JPN), Serena Williams (USA) and Monica Seles (FRA), and should be out next year.More LaraEidos Interactive has just released the first batches of screen shots and a logo wallpaper for the fifth game in the Lara Croft series, Tomb Raider Chronicles.To find them, go towww.eidosinteractive.comand select TR5 Chronicles from the pull-down menu, then click Downloads at the bottom of the page (the screens have yet to show up on the official site atwww.tombraider.com).
At a large security software conference last week in Florida, the most popular T-shirt among the 1,000 delegates was the one you could get for free from the exhibition stand for a company called RSA Security. On the front of the black shirt was printed the RSA algorithm, the formula used to encode information in nearly all security software. Under the equation, the shirt read: "It's just an algorithm."Except it really isn't, and never has been; and the shirt's popularity was a wry acknowledgement of this. For 17 years, the RSA algorithm has been the industry standard for so-called public key cryptography - a system whereby a person can encode and decode emails or other digital information by using special mathematical keys. One is a public key unique to an indi vidual that anyone can use to encode and send that person information, and one is a secret, private key, affiliated with the public key, which lets the individual alone decode it.Because RSA held the licence for the patented algorithm for its full US run of 17 years, many industry figures argue that RSA effectively controlled - and limited - the development of the security software industry.When the patent expired on September 6 (it was due to end on the 20th but RSA unexpectedly released it earlier), many senior industry figures were quick to issue biting comments. "Over the past two decades the RSA patent and other public key patents did more to suppress the deployment of public key cryptography than the NSA (the US National Security Agency)," said Phil Zimmer man, inventor of personal cryptography product Pretty Good Privacy, in a statement. "As long as this patent was in effect, anyone who used it was a sharecropper on someone else's land. Now at last we can implement our own code."Among the loudest critics of RSA was the security software company holding last week's conference, an Irish firm,Baltimore Technologies. Baltimore, which had only six employees in 1996 , has stormed the security technologies market through a series of adept mergers and acquisitions - starting with British firm Zergo in 1998.To the surprise of most US analysts, Baltimore has now stepped into the number three spot in the tough US market behind Verisign and Entrust, and, with about 30% of the US market, is snapping at its two big rivals' heels.Baltimore claims that the way in which the patent was enforced hobbled the growth of the security industry and the adoption of public key cryptography, which has in turn shackled the growth of electronic commerce. "I think patent bodies need to be a lot more careful," in deciding when to issue patents, Fran Rooney, Baltimore's CEO, said in a keynote speech, which took several swipes at RSA.According to Baltimore, RSA's high licence fees for the rights to use the patent, its system of charging companies   additional royalties for products sold, and policy of forbidding non-US companies to sell any algorithm-based products into the US market made it costly for even large competitors to enter the security software industry.Rooney claimed that at one stage the restrictions threatened his business. While he believed companies deserved patents for unique technologies and should be able to charge "reasonable" fees for their use, "no one should be able to put any restrictions on people being innovative".One conference attendee who had headed a security division for a large European competitor had no doubt that RSA's licensing restrictions had been formidable for most non-US companies. His company had found the payments punishing, especially   the additional royalty charge.Despite widespread grumbling among industry insiders, the patent's expiry has drawn little attention, and most delegates in Orlando appeared uninterested. "There are other challenges," said one. The RSA employees staffing the stand shrugged off Rooney's speech. RSA Security is more interested in remaking itself as a security technologies company that can offer not just an algorithm, but "the total solution".Certainly, the whole sector faces enormous challenges in making PKI - public key infrastructure, a global system to support the use of public key cryptography - a reality. Most industry analysts agree that PKI will be the main system in the future, but a bickering industry, with different factions trying to create and own standards, has not advanced the cause.Speakers throughout the conference highlighted problems. A lack of hardware and software standards has limited the development of e-commerce over mobile phones and handheld devices. Interoperability is a huge issue. Smart cards, which seem to be gaining ground as a complementary technology for PKI, are little used in the US and hardware manufacturers aren't adding card readers to PCs and other devices. Many PKI programs are difficult to use. And the security industry has done little to inform either businesses or the public about PKI and its uses.Still, everything indicates that the net - probably delivered over mobiles or small devices - will be the central medium for transactions in the future, so the security software industry has everything to play for.
It's a goal!Websites "devoted" to football are about as commonplace as third-rate Italian forwards in the Premiership, but occasionally a Di Canio crops    up among all those Carbonis.www.Soccer-files.comis one of the stars: a database of statistics and profiles of players from the sepia-tinted, long-shorted 40s, right up to the millionaire bleached-blond heroes of today.There are long, astute profiles of today's big names like David Beckham, with photographs, career details and statistics and a guide to current form. But what really impresses is the careful attention to detail still granted to the lower league's lesser stars, as well as the stars - and journeymen - of yesteryear.I couldn't spot much wrong   with the details for my local side, Swindon Town, and a speculative search for a friend's dad who turned out a few times for West Ham in the 1970s turned up trumps.Behind the site, and this explains the great detail, is Barry Hugman, author of the PFA Footballers' Factfile and PFA Premiership and Football League records 1946-1998. League managers are known to defer transfer decisions until the new edition comes out each August - which makes you think this could become a valuable online resource for fellow addicts of Championship Manager...Drink to thisTruckers: stop protesting about fuel! There's something even more important at stake -the price of your pints.The blockade culture is reaching its natural, surreal conclusion online atwww.dumpthepubs.com, where a hardy band of drinkers is calling on beer lovers the nation over to blockade their local brewery in support of their compaign. Their aim? To get beer tax lowered.The stat-packed website points out that while beer is heavily taxed in this country, none of the tax goes on the   building or maintainance of public houses. Worse, a large proportion goes on schools - although children "generally spend very little on alcohol." It's a disgrace but thank goodness someone's doing something about it. Viva cyber-activism.You'll also find a link to the equally important Dump the Flumps campaign, pushing for a lowering of Britain's scandalously high TV puppet taxes. Resign, Brown!Local serverStill on the subject of beer (and there's a link worthy of local radio) a website has been launched to catalogue Britain's 60,000 pubs. Visitwww.Pubs247.co.ukand type in a postcode or search for pubs with particular attractions - satellite TV etc - and it offers a list of watering holes.Click again and you'll get some details and reviews, and you can ask for a map of the local's locale so that you know how to get there (although the real problem, you'd think, would be finding your way home from a strange hostelry).Such review sites sound good when dreamed up, er, in the pub. But it will take an awful lot of interested visitors to build up a respectable number of pub reviews. So, among the many not rated was your correspondent's dodgy local. But then it's probably just as well nobody awarded marks for "atmosphere" and "food".Book itWith the number of women online surpassing men for the first time this year, and women accounting for 65% of all online book purchases in the UK, it is time a leading publisher of women's literature took to the web.This is exactly what Virago has done atwww.virago.co.ukYou can buy the imprint's books from the site, but the real attraction should be its content. Featured at the moment is an interview with Margaret Atwood, whose new novel comes out this month.New and notedDirectory of (some) mobile phone numbers atwww.mobilephoneno.com, sperm space invaders at the new-lookwww.durex.co.uk, beauty products (and German server error messages) atwww.beautyspy.com, for men, by women:www.BottleSpinner.com.Six of the bestParty seasonLabour onlinewww.labour.org.ukGreetings from the Haguewww.conservatives.org.ukBuy Kennedy's bookwww.libdems.org.ukThe Swinneywww.snp.org.ukSee lots of Mr Joneswww.plaidcymru.orgNew millooniumhttp://freespace.virgin.net/raving.looney
A few years ago, Apple advertised the launch of a new operating system by saying "get a brand new computer for under &#163;100". That also applies to this new system, OS X. The only problem is that the new machine feels little like a Mac.Apple is pushing OS X (pronounced ten not ex) as the way forward, with features such as multitasking, protected memory, more stability, new icons, easier internetting, improved resistance to hackers and so on.The new system, out in beta (test) version now, is due to become the new Mac standard early next year. It will, at best, surprise many.At least putting it into your machine is simplicity itself. Pop in the CD, click install and that's it. Twenty minutes later you're looking at the future of the Macintosh.The first thing that future does is ask you for a user name and password, in no nonsense terms. There is none of the usual happy Mac stuff; no pictures of extensions or anything like that, just a   start up progress bar and then the login and password request.After the login, you are greeted by a group of icons bouncing up and down onto the bottom of your screen on what is known as the Dock. And that's it.Like most Mac users, I have a bundle of things on the desktop, as well as the trash and hard drive icons. On OS X there is nothing - no files, no bin, no computer, which makes for about 30 seconds of hyperventilating as you worry that all your files have been wiped.But to get anywhere with OS X you have to really Think Different, as the advert would say, or to be more honest, think like the PC crowd. To get into the desktop you have to click on the Mac face icon on the Dock at the bottom and then your machine opens up. It's a feeling very similar to using Windows because CDs and other discs appear in this window (confusingly they also appear on what Mac users normally call the desktop) alongside other files.The Dock is the first major alteration to the existing Mac   OS that you notice. Anyone who has used the control strip will think they're getting something similar. They're not. The strip was a good idea and it could be moved, edited and so on. The dock is a tad more stubborn.It stays centred on the screen until it fills up and then it starts to shrink from whatever size you have made it in the preferences folder. To many it may seem like the logical extension of the control strip, but it isn't; it cannot be moved and it doesn't deal with things like sound, internet or monitor settings.It also takes up a centimetre of your monitor's screen real estate. That might not be a problem on 21 inch monitors, but on a 15 inch iMac it's unacceptable, and portable users will feel the same.The next difference is the three coloured buttons in each window: one closes the window, one puts the window in the Dock and one maximises the space given to the window. It is not earth-shattering and it does work, but Apple should consider tinkering with this so that applications do quit when the   last window in an application is closed, instead of staying open and lurking somewhere.And somewhere is quite an appropriate word. This OS, maybe with its Unix roots showing through, needs the user to sit down and think it through. It is not what you expect from a company that prides itself on software that lets humans just get on with it without worrying about the plumbing.Gone is the Apple menu in the top left hand corner of the screen, and there is no Finder or clock in the top right. If you are used to using Macs this is completely disorientating. Those two items, along with the control strip, are my main tools for navigating the system.More changes: icons are pictures now, and they are also an irrelevancy. It is a nice idea, but it provides too much   detail and that can be quite distracting. Pre-OS X icons enlarged by the Dock look horrible.And anyone who thinks they can get through this by just hitting Apple-n to call up a new folder to rearrange things has to think again. Even the key shortcuts have been changed, reinforcing the feeling that this is not your Mac.But enough of the exterior, what of the system's innards? First, nearly everything you own will run thanks to the built-in OS 9 emulator. Every major application seems to work fine and the software had no problems, even running Word 5.1 from many years ago, though it was slow at cutting and pasting.Of my software, most major applications operated perfectly although Norton Anti-Virus refused to work, and games like Deus Ex and Unreal Tournament were very slow performers, despite being run on a 400MHz DVD iMac with 192MB of memory.The only other items that would not work were Apple's own DVD playing software and Virtual PC. CD playback   was choppy while the machine was carrying out tasks, too.Connecting to the internet was problematic because of the way I had previously logged on to Demon Internet, my ISP, but access was eventually managed through the Internet Explorer beta which was enclosed. Surfing was no different from normal though the new Explorer did seem a little faster in responding to commands.Applications did crash, but instead of going through the long hassles of a restart, OS X gives you a number of ways of continuing to work while quitting the crashed application. This was wonderful.It is also easy to get into the Unix that runs the OS, though this may be removed by the final release. I certainly hope so - it was terrifying to watch my girlfriend use her working knowledge of Unix to take control of my iMac, changing passwords and so on without needing the Mac interface. The danger here is obvious; that someone could type in a few codes that could wipe a hard drive. The Unix access might be a selling point for OS X, but it could be   dangerous in malicious, or inexperienced, hands.Something that will infuriate the Mac faithful is that documents are given suffixes, like .rtf, .tiff and so on automatically, making the set up look a little more like a PC.And working out filepaths and where you are allowed to put files -some folders are protected - could leave users bewildered, again.So is Apple making a big mistake? Many of the technical criticisms here will no doubt be addressed by the time of the proper release, but the new user interface will confuse, even put off, potential users.Microsoft's Whistler - the next version of Windows 2000, due out around the same time as OS X - has a more friendly looking interface than the new Mac. That's something I never thought I would see written.I'm a reasonably experienced Mac user, having worked with several incarnations of the system and run networks of the machines as well. But it   still took a few hours to get used to the way things worked in OS X, messing about with settings and working out which buttons did what. Normally on a Mac this all takes about 30 minutes.Worse, OS X takes effort on your behalf to get the best from it, and as Mac users are famed for diving in quicker than others and not bothering with manuals, this could see a lot of frustrated - if not angry - people.If security or having an easier time recovering from crashes is a major concern, or you want a friendly version of Unix, or you like to have the latest thing, then the final version of OS X is for you. But by the time you read this I will probably have deleted it, and the CD it came on will be another a new coaster.In short, Apple has sold the family jewels. This OS comes across as something for business and perhaps geeks. But Apple will struggle to convert the normally evangelical Mac faithful.The computer that used to smile at startup is now simply not friendly enough for the rest of us.
The future of my church - the Elim Pentecostal Church on the High Road in Willesden, North-west London - has been radically enhanced, and, indeed, accelerated by using the net. The web provided invaluable help as it disregarded ineffective hierarchies and local constraints to help us.Three years ago, things were a far cry from today. I despaired at the lack of progress as we failed to buy the church building from Brent Council and gain even a single backer in my bid to buy out the bookies next door. The committee was defunct. This situation was grim, so I dumped the deadwood board, asked my congregation to fast for one day a week, and I got on my bike... online!As well as being a minister, I am a keen motorcyclist. A bike can be used for pleasure, but it can also be used for a purpose. Mine is used for the greatest purpose of all - for my Honda FireBlade is on a Mission from Go, as it says onmy website. So I turned to the biking community for help.Into the night I scoured the   world for motorcycle clubs and magazines that could lend support. One by one, with my neighbour's help, we snailmailed, emailed and faxed magazines and clubs from Japan to Mexico. Thousands of pounds began to pour in as the bike press reproduced photographs and stories. Copies were reproduced and sent to the directors of William Hill, owners of the bookies next door, often with a text from Genesis: "I will not let you go until you bless me!" After a time a reply came from the national chairman, John Brown. He enclosed a cheque for &#163;100 and a letter with the words: "Bless you!"My hours of surfing down contacts had paid off, the Good Bookies relocated and even provided an interest free loan of &#163;30,000 to help us out. But to convert the place we still needed help.I went back to the web.I found numerous Christian Motorcycle clubs and one in particular, Holy Riders of Norway, a bike club with 800 back-patch wearing members, took a particular interest.They sent a scout to check out my story and look over the premises. Then, as a result of   simply finding them on someone's link page, an extraordinary synergy took place. I was invited with my bike to provide training seminars for their chapter leaders, and they raised thousands to enable a major conversion to take place. Now that's surfing!There is a perception of churches being part of an old money establishment or secretly funded from some cult headquarters in America. Then there's that absurd British tradition of referring to "Organised Religion." What's organised about it? If it was organised it wouldn't be going through the floor.In the real world, most local churches are pretty much on their own. To get anywhere, as with a small business, they need outside investment or a mutually benefiting partnership.This is where the internet comes into its own, acting as a huge matchmaking agency. There is no other networking tool that is so international, cross cultural and effective.In the old days you were pretty well confined to members of the same club - hence the need for year books, annual gatherings and the like. Today, through the net, you can be far more abstract and creative in your search for friends. Since the recent   introduction of my own site even the timescale for seeing our vision through has been brought forward as key people are now finding me, including national broadsheets and television. There is no other medium where a small local church in a place like Willesden could afford to call out for help and actually be heard.I occasionally visit sites for research, such aswww.goshen.comorwww.ChristianityOnline.comfor wedding jokes or a look at trends and stats but I prefer an old fashioned book for study which, ironically, I tend to buy online. I'm a regular atGaryrothwell.comas his stunt riding tips are second to none, but to me the internet is more than an online encyclopaedia.I see a great future for training youngsters in essential skills. Our teenagers are soon to start selling particularly funny items over the web to finance their future centre. They'll also put an itemised shopping list of everything needed from nails to sound equipment for folk to sponsor through our Netbanx secure server. This will arm them with business and marketing experience long before they leave school, and I've told them, tongue in cheek, their goal is to be the first dot.com millionaires who never made a penny for themselves!The internet has raised our profile, potential and is helping us to help our kids, thus aiding us to transform our community as well. In a fluid and changing situation, it can move with the flow. That's exactly what we need.
Be tolerantAvedon Carol's piece on filtering software was more a polemic about attitudes towards pornography than a serious discussion of contemporary concerns about the evolution of such programs and their likely impact on the internet.I accept that there is room for more than one view on the issue of pornography. Why can't Avedon? Must we all either agree with her or be denounced?Or perhaps Avedon has just discovered that some filtering software is rubbish and doesn't do what it promises or ought to do. This is hardly unique, and equally it is not a good enough reason for giving up on trying to improve it.If Avedon and her friends want to look at pornography, I have no problem with that. Equally, if I or other parents, or teachers, or office managers, want to make decisions about what is, and is not, acceptable in the home, classroom or workplace, I think we ought to respect that and not seek to imply that they are either the dupes or willing accomplices of people with political agendas, the theocrats or the police.The internet can be many things to many people and good filtering software simply extends our power to choose. I'll have the internet I want and Avedon can have hers. Won't that be nice for both of us?John CarrNCH Action For Childrenjohn.carr@lineone.netI work in a school, teaching IT. Two years ago I was on the plush stand of a very major educational IT provider at a large IT education show in London discussing with one of their reps just what my school's considerable payment to his firm would secure me. One of the main selling points was unbeatable web censoring software which would ensure that nothing dodgy would ever assail the eyeballs of my pupils.I asked to try one of the online computers and typed"nazi" into the search engine as a likely KS3 history   subject which a pupil might be asked to research. The first two responses at the top of the page were about Adolf Hitler. The third one was "Gay Nazi Porn"."Will it let me surf to that, do you think?" I said, and with one click it did. The look on the guy's face, as some rather interesting images downloaded in front of him, on his lovely IT education stand was a picture.Paul Copepaul.cope@chair.prestel.co.ukSerious rivalIn your Web watch column, (Online September 21), you suggested Rivals have a good idea for a site, but the mystery is that they've left room open for a rival.We (TotalFootball.com) may well be Rivals' closest rival. But we have not jumped on a bandwagon. We've been running a football network for a couple of years. And ours is a good idea too: create a network of the very best independent football fan sites. Rival that.Matthew FarrahEditor, Total Football Networkmatthew.farrah@futurenet.co.ukA doctor writesIn answer to the Askdoc letter (Feedback, September 14) all your medical queries can be answered atwww.e-gp.com.It is the only site run by fully qualified GPs. Once your condition is on file they'll update you with news of any new treatments.Dr P Davies(email address withheld)A man's worldWhy should the lack of successful female entrepreneurs, particularly involved in internet start-ups, be such a surprise?If women have particular characteristics which make them more employable in the existing workplace - good negotiators, attention to detail, team-players, more considered decision makers - then these same attributes are the opposite of what is wanted in a new web venture.Decision making is done on the fly, there is far less time for considered discussion and you are building the team not working within it. In short, a life of much higher risk.There will continue to be areas where masculine attributes are demanded for success. This should not be thought of as a problem   (other than there will be fewer female internet millionaires than male, which smacks of envy rather than discrimination).If ever there was a market driven by results and returns rather that sexist prejudice then the internet is it.Richard Rosenrichard@protege.co.ukWell versedWith National Poetry Day on October 5, I hope you'll mention some of the web's finer poetry sites, especially mine, rated by Yahoo! as one of the most popular online poetry mags. I won't mind if you also mentionThe Poetry Society,The Saison Poetry Libraryor ThePoetry Book Societry, or any of the many hundreds of sites that can be accessed fromThe Poetry Kit.Ted Sladetedslade@poetrykit.orgBash bulliesIt is surprising that there was not a more vigorous response from your readers to the IOC's attempts to prevent anyone for whatever reason using the word Olympic (Online, September 14).There needs to be some general way to stop this bullying of small organisations by large, well-financed ones.Clearly it was nonsense that the Sydney Olympic Cafe, so-called for 25 years, should be stripped of its name by the new-in-town IOC.An Anti-Vexatious Nonsense Ombudsman should be appointed. This officer should be empowered, on receipt of an appeal from an individual or small organisation, to order both parties to appear before him or her.Judgment should be given the same day and no appeal should be possible. Any attempt to circumvent a judgment should receive a draconian response.Or in the case of a government department, instant dismissal of the minister and six months, 48 hours per week community service.Finally, the appointment of an effective AVN ombudsman should be a condition of membership of the United Nations where of course the similar procedures should be employed against large countries bullying small ones.Peter Keepingpkeeping@pkeeping.screaming.net
How important is the net to Nasa?For our primary audience,US taxpayers, the net offers us a vast podium to explain how we're spending their money, why we think it's important, and what they're getting for it. We have well over a million public web pages on everything from the spaceshuttle to biology experiments. Instead of having to rely on the media for a 30-second TV story or one photograph from a Mars mission, the public can come to the Nasa web and find as much information as they would care to digest.Is the net still exciting?I can't imagine any area I'd rather be working in. Development is always more fun than maintenance but both are essential. New technologies seem to be coming faster than ever, demanding that we adjust our net strategy to accommodate them. At Nasa, we have to address wireless technology, the convergence of the net and TV, and the improvement of our web offerings to provide more interactivity. We have to streamline and automate our maintenance to the greatest extent possible so that we can focus on improving our offerings. But even the part of the net that has become furniture is still very cool furniture.Is an overhaul of the net's infrastructure long overdue?"Overdue" is a judgment, given that somebody's got to pay for the overhaul and, no matter how much the infrastructure is updated, it will start becoming obsolete as soon as it's completed. Still, until high-speed infrastructure is widely available, the web will remain limited in its offerings. We have to make it faster. Terabyte Ethernet to the desktop. Only then can we move beyond simple text and pictures and start making use of the real interactive possibilities.Is technology catching up with our imaginations?I believe it is, if only because tomorrow's innovation is today's daydream. Only 40 years ago, "global communications" referred to a telephone cable at the bottom of the Atlantic. Now people in industrialised nations can reach almost anyone at any time, over cell phones that look suspiciously like Star Trek communicators. Whether that's a good thing or not is a different question!Any favourite websites?This is where I lose all of my cutting-edge credentials. When people ask, "Have you checked out thus-and-such cool web site?", my answer is almost invariably, "Hadn't heard about it." Then I visit it and feel completely behind the curve. I'm a news junkie, so I've configured theYahooandExciteportals to feed me news.Web Reviewoffers a good download on web issues, styles and standards, and I useCyberAtlasto track audience demographics. Then there's theDiValerio Home Page, which I use to keep up with an old friend from grade school and theSubterranean Theater Company, so I can see how university chums are subverting the minds of the good people of Austin, Texas.&#149;  For more information visitwww.nasa.gov
'Power to the people" may not arouse much passion as a political slogan, but 25 years ago, the idea of "computer power to the people" helped start a revolution. Rather than being controlled by white-coated technocrats working for governments and giant corporations, computers should be available to everyone - which implied they must also be affordable and easy to use.It also implied that, if there was a market for market for personal computers, some people could have lots of fun and become very rich supplying them. Thousands of companies were founded to sell the new types of hardware and software the new industry required. Most promised far more than they could deliver, which is not uncommon with revolutions. Even so, it is impossible not to be impressed by the personal computer's growth in power and performance, and its market penetration.Today, PCs can be found in more than 50% of American homes - a far bigger proportion than any of the pioneers seriously believed. Where California's Silicon Valley has led the way, the rest of the world has followed.Intel made the revolution possible by designing the first microprocessor - a "computer on a chip" - in 1971, but it really started in Albuquerque, New Mexico. That is where a small company called Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems, MITS, run by Ed Roberts, made backyard model rockets and pocket calculators. MITS probably did not develop the first personal computer, but it   put together the first hobbyist construction kit to capture the American imagination. It also came up with a catchy name, Altair 8800, derived from an episode of Star Trek.The MITS Altair helped set standards that encouraged the commercial use of personal computers, and some of them are still visible today. MITS used two products: an Intel 8080 chip, the ancestor of today's Pentium, and Digital Research's CP/M operating system, which could be used today by anyone familiar with MS DOS (Microsoft Disc Operating System).The Altair also ran a version of Basic (Beginners all-purpose symbolic instruction code) written by a teenager called Bill Gates and his friend Paul Allen. They were inspired to write it after seeing the Altair featured on the cover of Popular Electronics magazine. They moved to the Sundowner Motel in Albuquerque to be close to their only customer, with Gates dropping out of Harvard and Allen taking a job at MITS. There, in 1975, they co-founded Microsoft.MITS did not last long, but the Altair inspired dozens of companies to develop similar CP/M machines, most of which could share parts. These came to dominate the small business market for personal computers, but were not really suitable for domestic use.However, dozens more companies targeted home   users with less expandable but better integrated machines. The main ones were the Apple II, Commodore PET (Personal Electronic Transactor) and Tandy TRS-80, all launched in 1977.In 1978, Science of Cambridge (later Sinclair Computers) launched the MK14 microcomputer kit for &#163;39.95 plus VAT, then the ZX80, ZX81, Spectrum and QL. In 1979, another Cambridge company, Acorn, launched the System 1 microcomputer kit for &#163;65 plus VAT, followed by the Atom, the Proton, the Electron, and the Archimedes. Actually, what would have been the Proton became much better known as the BBC Micro, announced in 1982.The BBC's adoption of the Acorn as the basis for a government-backed computer literacy programme shows what a grip the personal computer had already gained over the popular imagination.Unfortunately for Acorn, and dozens of similar start-ups, the future of the computer industry had already been decided. The microcomputer business had grown too big for IBM to ignore, and on August 18, 1981, it launched the IBM Personal Computer.IBM was by far the biggest computer company ever (with $87.5bn in annual sales, it still is) and part of its job was to set standards. That is what it did with the IBM PC. But for whatever reasons, including earlier failures, "time to market" and pressure from a long-running US government anti-trust case, IBM did not take its usual line of shipping a box with an IBM processor,   an IBM operating system, and IBM-everything else. Instead, it based its PC on an Intel 8088 processor and Microsoft's MS-DOS operating system. It was, it turned out, handing its 40-year monopoly of corporate data processing to a couple of upstarts.In 1980, IBM had a turnover of $26bn and annual profits of $3.6bn, so perhaps it felt no need to fear a tiny company like Microsoft, which had only 40 staff. And while IBM realised that Microsoft and Intel would sell their stuff to all-comers, it perhaps didn't imagine that small, unknown companies would make better, faster IBM PC-compatibles and outsell the mighty IBM. But start-ups such as Compaq and Dell were soon on the way to doing exactly that.By setting a standard, IBM did the industry a service. Most personal computers produced up to that point had   been incompatible with one another, even if they used the same chip. The Acorn BBC B, Apple II, Commodore 64 Atari 800,and others all used the MOS Technology 6502 processor, but software houses had to write a new version of their program for each machine. Given the cost and the time required, they often didn't bother, leaving these proprietary machines struggling for applications. By contrast, any PC program would run on machines from hundreds (later, thousands) of manufacturers. This helped propel the growing market for PCs and PC clones.The Altair 8800 and IBM's PC and PC AT (Advanced Technology) computers also led to a fundamental change in the way the industry was organised. Until then, the fashion had been for "vertical integration", with each manufacturer producing as much   as possible in house. This could provide a better integrated system, but also created "lock-in": customers had few alternatives and could not easily "defect" to a rival supplier.Many early microcomputer firms, such as Apple and Commodore, followed this proprietary line.But they could not sustain the huge research and development required, and all struggled, were taken over, or went bust.By constrast, the PC market of the 1980s was based on "horizontal integration". Whatever PC you bought, it had an x86-compatible processor supplied by Intel, AMD, IBM, NEC or whoever, a version of DOS from Microsoft, IBM or Digital Research, and the manufacturer's choice of graphics card, hard drive, keyboard,   memory, and screen. Choosing the "best of breed" created intense competition between parts suppliers, which led to rapid innovation, increased capabilities, and (usually) lower prices.Microsoft was in the thick of the competition in two areas. First, there was the need to replace DOS with a more powerful multi-tasking operating system (one that could do more than one thing at once). Second, there was the long-term aim of introducing a mouse-driven graphical user interface, to make computers easier to use. This had been part of the dream since 1968, when Doug Engelbart of the Stanford Research Institute demonstrated the first mouse, and it continued in the 70s at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Centre (Parc). Xerox's work provided the inspiration for Apple's Lisa and Macintosh computers, Microsoft's Windows, and Digital Research's GEM (Graphical Environment Manager) interface, which also appeared on the Atari ST home computer.In the 1970s, Xerox Parc was a decade ahead of the rest of the world, with its graphical interfaces and networks of personal computers connected to laser printers, which it sometimes showed off to visitors such as Apple co-founder Steve Jobs. But while it did launch some products, such as the Xerox Star 8010 in May 1981,   they were expensive and never achieved commercial success. Instead of making Xerox rich, Parc's ideas enriched the industry, as firms such as Apple and Microsoft hired away their staff.At first, Microsoft had seen AT&amp;T's Unix as the obvious replacement for DOS, and announced its own version, Xenix. But while powerful, Unix was notoriously hard to use, and required more power    than most PC users could afford. It also came in too many incompatible "flavours", of which Xenix was merely one. In 1987, Microsoft and IBM combined to launch OS/2 as a DOS replacement. However, since it didn't control the market and couldn't control IBM, Microsoft also wanted to hedge its bets. It didn't abandon Windows, and it opportunistically hired a group of defectors from Digital Equipment to write another   DOS/Unix replacement, which appeared as Windows NT (New Technology).Some saw Microsoft's actions as treachery. Others recognised that IBM was trying to wrest back its control of the industry from Microsoft, Intel, Compaq and the rest. This plan revolved around OS/2 (later transferred to IBM's sole ownership), a proprietary MCA (Micro Channel Architecture) expansion bus, and Systems    Application Architecture - a schema designed to tie IBM's Personal Systems (PS/2) to large IBM minicomputer and mainframe systems. Compaq   formed a "Gang of Nine" to support a plausible alternative future, and IBM's plan failed.Next, IBM formed an alliance with Apple, which adopted IBM's PowerPC chip. They were still the two biggest personal computer suppliers in the US, and thought they could take on Intel. They were wrong, and later, Apple bottled out of the plan to move to a common hardware reference platform (CHRP) agreed between IBM, Apple, and Motorola. IBM then abandoned the launch of its own Power Personal Systems.The balance of power had already tipped Wintel's way in 1990, when Microsoft shipped Windows 3.0. Unlike OS/2, it was cheap, and easy to adopt. Users could even buy graphical applications such as Microsoft Word for Windows and the Excel spreadsheet (both first developed for the Apple Macintosh) and Corel Draw.At the time, Microsoft's turnover was only $1bn a year while IBM's was $67bn, so Big Blue was not about to admit defeat. It pumped vast amounts of cash into OS/2, promoting it as "a better Windows than Windows", until the stunning success of Microsoft Windows 95 sealed its fate. From that point on, Microsoft was clearly the computer industry's top dog, and sales of Windows-based PCs exploded. Microsoft's turnover grew from $1bn to $23bn during the decade, despite the continuous attentions of the Federal Trade Commission and the US Justice Department.Their investigations culminated in a trial in which Microsoft's business practices were comprehensively damned, leading Justice Penfied Jackson to order the break-up of the company - a decision now pending appeal.What is interesting is that, during the 1990s, despite its monopoly power, Microsoft was no more able to replace the DOS-Windows combination than anybody else.The Windows NT operating system, introduced in 1993, was supposed to do it. NT was designed to run on a range of different processors (Intel, Mips, DEC Alpha, PowerPC), to use more than one processor at once, and to offer the reliability and stability of rivals such as OS/2 and Unix. Despite various inducements, such as letting companies install NT for the same price as Windows 95, sales struggled. Three times, Microsoft has announced that the latest   version of DOS-Windows (Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows Me) would be the last of the line, giving users little choice about moving to NT (now called Windows 2000). So far, it has not made it stick.Apple Macintosh users have been equally conservative, declining to move to technically superior systems such as Steve Jobs's NeXT or Be's BeOS, launched on the dual-processor BeBox. It remains to be seen if Jobs, the Apple co-founder who retuned to the company at the end of 1977, can shift them to an updated version of NeXT's Unix-based operating system, Mac OS X (see page 12 for a review of this system).That's the problem with revolutions: they may be exciting, but most users prefer evolution. They don't what to risk losing what they have in some great leap into the unknown. The result may be boring, but it is a sign of the personal computer's success that what started as a revolution has become the status quo.Which is not to say that progress has stopped. It has, rather, moved to handheld devices such as electronic organisers and mobile phones, to sealed-box "appliances" such as WebTV sets and games consoles, and most importantly, to the internet. And as the growth of the personal computer market has slowed, many PC companies - including Intel and Microsoft - have invested heavily in these new areas in search of the Next Big Thing.For a couple of decades, Microsoft's mission statement summed up the ambition of the PC industry: to put a computer on every desk and in every home.That has been changed to take in every type of device used anywhere at any time. The only argument is about whether we are entering the "Post PC" era, as some pundits claim, or the "PC Plus" era of Microsoft's new .Net (dot.net) vision, where the net, rather than the PC, is the software platform.Whatever happens, I expect companies raised in an industry based on rapid innovation and cut-throat competition will adapt and survive. Old and slow minicomputer and mainframe companies were generally unable to live with PC-based competitors, and old and slow consumer electronics and telecoms companies may be in for a big surprise.Twenty five years of personal computing1975MITS Altair 8800Microsoft Basic1977Apple IICommodore PETTandy TRS-801980Sinclair ZX801981IBM Personal ComputerMicrosoft MS-DOS1982Acorn BBC BCommodore 641984Apple MacintoshIBM PC ATAtari STCommodore Amiga1987IBM PS/2 and OS/21988NeXT Cube1990Microsoft Windows 31991Apple-IBM deal1993Intel PentiumMicrosoft Windows NT1994Apple Power MacsIBM OS/2 Warp 31995Microsoft Windows 951997Apple buys NeXT2000Microsoft.net announcedApple OS X
That's multitainmentIt may look like a bit of hi-fi but the Fujitsu-Siemens Multitainer is a multifunction PC packaged as a consumer electronics product. Connect it to your TV set and hi-fi and it works as a DVD, CD, CD-Video and MP3 player, as a   PC games machine, internet terminal, and telephone/fax/ answering machine with karaoke capabilities. It also has a simplified user interface, and can be operated via a remote control and infrared keyboard. Beneath the skin is a PC with a 433MHz Intel Celeron processor running Microsoft Windows 98SE, 64 megabytes of memory, a 10GB hard drive and a 56k modem. The key point is that the Multitainer will be sold by high-street chains and hi-fi stores rather than computer dealers. It should be available in November, at a price yet to be announced.Several people have tried something like this before - Philips CDi, Commodore CDTV, Olivetti Envision - and failed, but it might just work this time.Listen to PsionPsion is branching out with the WaveFinder, a digital radio that plugs into your PC or Mac (seewww.wavefinder.com). It looks like an aerial with a bloated middle and "radiates with colour" when in use. Stick it on your wall, plug it in to a USB serial port, and you can listen to digital radio stations via your PC's loudspeakers. And if you want to "record" tracks, you can save them as MPEG 2 or MP3 music files. Price is expected to be about &#163;300.Windows in a big frameUnisys is about to launch a Windows PC that's almost 6ft tall and 4ft deep, has up to 32 Intel processors, and comes with 64GB of memory (seewww.unisys.com/hw/servers/enterprise/ 7000/spec.asp). The ES-7000 "enterprise system" is a mainframe in all but name, and is expected to find a ready market in firms that are struggling to cope with hundreds of separate Windows   2000 or NT servers: Abbey National was the first to install a machine in the UK last week. ICL and Compaq have been the first to license Unisys's Cellular MultiProcessing (CMP) technology for use in their own systems. However, they are unlikely to appear in PC World: Unisys says typical ES-7000 selling prices will be &#163;250,000 to &#163;1m.HipZipThe problem with MP3 players is that the memory is so expensive, you have to store music files on something else, such as a PC. Iomega thinks it has the solution: a pocket-sized music player that takes 2in PocketZip disks, which store 40MB each. However, while theHipZipis new, the disks aren't: Iomega has simply renamed the old system it used to call Clik!The HipZip went on sale in Best Buy stores the US this week at $299. Other manufacturers are producing similar products, and Sensory Science Corporation's Rave:mp 2300 is also on sale in the US.
Efforts to establish whether the internet and digital television can help to tackle social exclusion are to be announced today under a scheme run by parliamentary charity the Hansard Society.As part of its research on how the internet could be used to improve communication between policymakers and people their decisions affect, the Hansard Society plans to use digital TV to harness the views of low income families.Halifax's online bank is sponsoring the research which is attempting to establish whether digital TV can be used to foster debate between people on low incomes and politicians who make policies that are supposed to help them.The new research, which will also test the internet as a tool to consult with elderly people, comes after surprise figures from the office for national statistics showed that 55% of Britons had never surfed the net. The statistics showed that low-income families and older people missed out, a potential worry for government which has cited the internet as one of its tools to enhance the country's role in the e-economy.According to the ONS, a third of the people who access the internet have done so at work. This is expected to change once digital TV becomes more common and moves access to the internet to the living room.Halifax Online said: "The project is designed to establish that technology is socially inclusive".The Hansard Society said the research was the second stage in its "electronic democracy" programme, which earlier this year used the new e-technology to construct a dialogue between women victims of domestic violence and politicians.
Microsoft's fight against a judge's order to break up the company received a fillip yesterday after the US supreme court declined the government's request to hear the appeal - instead sending it to a lower court.The decision was seen as a victory for Microsoft, because the US court of appeals has ruled in the software maker's favour in past competition clashes with the government."I think the ruling is a positive," said Henry Asher, president of Northstar Group, a money management firm that includes Microsoft in its portfolio."Ultimately the more important question for the business model is the success of new-generation software, but the ruling is the first piece of really good news the company has had on the legal front for quite a while."In early Nasdaq trading the shares reached $64, up almost 6%.In June, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson gave the company four months to devise a detailed blueprint for splitting into two separate corporations after being found guilty of abusing its stranglehold over the personal computer industry.To prevent a protracted legal dispute which would leave a dark cloud hanging over the industry, the justice department took advantage of a little-used rule to seek immediate supreme court review of the case when Microsoft announced an appeal.But yesterday the supreme court agreed with Microsoft that its appeal should first be heard by a lower court. Of the nine high court members, only Justice Stephen Breyer dissented from that view. He said the case "significantly affects an important sector of the economy".Chief justice William Rehnquist declined to exclude himself from the Microsoft case, even though the company has   hired a law firm in Boston for which his son works.Analyst Laura Ledermen, of William Blair &amp; Co, said the decision by the US supreme court was certainly a positive for the share price because it gave the company more time to prepare its defence.She also noted that the decision by the lower court, which ruled in Microsoft's favour in a related hearing in 1998, was more likely to be upheld by the supreme court.However, Larry Wachtel of Prudential Securities warned that, with the appeals process now likely to take one or two years and sales of Windows 2000 slowing, the future for Microsoft was still unclear."It's a very complex matter, and the supreme court wants it solidified in the appeals process. All that's happened is that instead of a decision immediately, we'll get it probably over a one- to two-year basis. There is still uncertainty where it goes," he said.Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, played down the importance of yesterday's ruling, calling it "just another procedural step in the process", although he said that the company was glad to have the opportunity to present its case to the lower court.Justice department spokeswoman Gina Talamona said: "We look look forward to presenting our case to the court of appeals as expeditiously as possible."Under the terms of Judge Jackson's ruling, one of the two Microsoft companies would own and market the Windows operating system while the other would handle the other software, such as its Word programme and internet browsers.
&#149; Going Dutch British mobile phone manufacturer Sendo is to open a configuration and distribution centre in Zevenaar, in the Netherlands, employing several hundred staff by March. The Birmingham mobile phone firm, 35% owned by CCT Telecom of China will introduce its first two mobile phones in Europe and Asia this year.&#149;No action:The US federal trade commission has concluded its investigation of Intel for anti-competitive practices and decided no action is warranted. The FTC announced its continuing investigation in March 1999 after settling other charges that Intel extracted high prices or unfair access to trade secrets ofcustomers Intergraph, Compaq Computer and Digital Equipment under the threat of withholding information the firms needed about Intel chips.&#149;Buyout:The British financial software company CFS is to acquire Decision Systems (DSI) of the US for $128m (&#163;92m) in cash. The acquisition will be financed in part through a placing and open offer which is intended to raise &#163;55.4m. DSI provides software for the equipment leasing market.
Nicholas Negroponte, the American internet guru, yesterday launched an attack on the "herd mentality" of investors who have turned their backs on the consumer market on the web.Mr Negroponte made the comments as he announced an investment in a website aimed at people wanting to swap goods. As well as injecting cash into the business, Mr Negroponte will join Webswappers.com as an adviser.As a founder of the MIT media lab as well as the trailblazing Wired magazine, Mr Negroponte has built a reputation as one of the foremost authorities on the web.He said: "Consumer-to-consumer websites currently carry the stigma of online retail, which completely misses the enormous opportunity of peer-to-peer commerce."Swapping is ideal for the net economy. It is the most extreme form of dynamic pricing, in that each party values their currency differently. Two apples you do not want can be worth one apple to you."Webswappers, which is based in London, allows users to exhange a wide range of goods from books and CDs to cars and houses.Swapping can have enormous tax advantages, with house swaps, for instance, incurring only &#163;5 in stamp duty.
ICM Computer Group prompted a sell-off in shares across the information technology sector yesterday by appearing to issue a profits warning, though it fiercely denied this later in the day.The software services company which specialises in disaster recovery centres, used by firms when their premises suffer fires or power failures, included a passage in its annual results admitting "profits at the interim stage will be lower than the comparative period".The City interpreted this as a warning, because ICM also commented that the industry was "yet to return to 'normal' trading patterns" following the millennium slowdown. ICM's shares slumped 35p to 360p in the morning, recovering slightly to close at 370p.ICM's chief executive, Barry Roberts, said he was stunned by the fall: "They're interpreting it as a warning for the whole year. That is not the case. We're reasonably optimistic about the outcome, without being over-zealous."He said ICM anticipated sluggish first-half profits because it was investing heavily in new disaster recovery centres. He expected the shortfall   to be made up later in the year. Mr Roberts added: "If we were a dot.com company nobody would bat an eyelid at us if we invested millions in a new venture and made a loss."He admitted he was concerned at the fall. "It's very important to us to have the share price reflecting the true value of the business. If it doesn't, acquisitions which involve an exchange of shares can be much more expensive than they ought to be."The confusion affected companies across the sector - Computacenter, Sage and Guardian IT saw their shares slip sharply. Traders have been jumpy about computer services companies since a number of groups, including ICM, warned in the spring that demand from clients was patchy.ICM's year-end profits edged up 4.1% to &#163;4.51m before tax, with a solid performance from its IT support and solutions arms. The company invested &#163;5.8m last year in three disaster recovery centres. It announced yesterday that it was constructing a new centre in East Anglia.Analyst Max Worton of Williams de Broe said the market had over-reacted: "They put in a cautiously worded statement and it scared people."Pressure on profitsProfits warnings from computer services companies this year:&#149;ParityDisclosed in May that the demand for IT had not picked up in the new millennium&#149;ComputacenterSaid in June it had suffered from slow take-up of Microsoft Windows 2000 and the lag in IT spending&#149;SynstarWarned in June of a slowdown in the market for short-term project contracts, particularly in data management and networking, and a setback at its Italian subsidiary&#149;LynxAdmitted in July that earnings would fall short due to poor demand for software from the auto sales and financial services sectors
Britain is in danger of being left behind in Europe's emergent internet economy, a leading accountancy firm warned yesterday. Germany is powering ahead, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, unsettling Tony Blair's hopes of making Britain the leading new economy.In a survey of Europe's biggest internet companies, more than a third of the largest 150 are German. Britain has only 35 in the top rank.The German market is more mature, with half of the businesses surveyed already in profit compared with little more than a quarter of British net firms. Kevin Ellis, a partner with PwC, said the Germans were bolstered by better access to the web.The survey findings will pile further political pressure on British Telecom which has been criticised for holding up the introduction of broadband services. Rivals have accused the former monopoly of dragging its feet over the break-up of its local network next year.The head of one internet company also pointed to the success of the German Neuer Markt as one reason for the gap with Britain."The Neuer Markt is largely responsible for the success of e-commerce companies   in Germany... It makes it easier to raise money and make acquisitions," said Raphael Fuchs, chief operating officer of europeaninvestor.com, which operates websites for other companies and provides financial information. Frankfurt moved faster than London to set up a specialist market dedicated to hi-tech companies, so Germany had become a natural focus for investors looking to back young companies with high growth potential.It was not all bad news for Britain. The PwC survey noted clear evidence of better management, leading to lower costs   and reduced "cash burn" - the rate at which money is consumed by a start-up business.The average burn rate is now 20 months before the need to raise new money, an increase of seven months since last December. One company in the survey slowed its burn rate by up to four times.Mr Ellis said: "I am surprised at how much companies appear to have taken action to improve their burn rates. Forty-two out of 150 are not burning cash any more, which is encouraging. It means that people are moving into the next stage of development."High riskThe survey ranked 20 of the 150 companies as being at "high risk" of running out of cash within a year unless they act. It does not name the individual stocks because of concern that this could upset the still volatile internet market. "At risk is a combined market capitalisation of &euro;26bn (&#163;16bn), representing more than 10% of the European market," the report said.PwC also found a difference between consumer businesses - known as B2C - and business to business (B2B) companies. B2C companies are more vulnerable with an average burn rate of 15 months, compared to 23 months for B2B organisations, due to higher marketing costs.There are also sector distinctions, with   software and infrastructure internet companies performing better than content producers and internet service providers.Rivals doubted PwC's findings. Richard Punt, head of e-business at Deloitte and Touche, said it was difficult to conclude that Germany was the dominant country because the survey was based on market value and ignored factors such as funding types or internet penetration.Peter Bradshaw, head of internet research at Merrill Lynch, said: "To us the report looks like gross misrepresentation of a few figures."Mr Ellis concluded that the next six months will see consolidation in the internet sector, with some big success stories but some more big failures. "There still will be some failures because this is a start-up area in a brand new sector, but failures don't necessarily mean it's the end of the sector or a disaster."
The internet has done many things to elevate women's lives to the realms of fantasy; electronic flirting allows us to tell huge fibs without the slightest risk of heartbreak ("Yes, people often mistake me for Xena Warrior Princess, honest") and when love goes wrong we can seek round-the-clock comfort fromBreakUp Girl, the postfeminist boyfriend advice site. Now, though, women's wildest fantasies are being catered for in an entirely different way, with the booming online   literary phenomenon, slash fiction.The term refers to the use of a stroke or "slash" to signify a homoerotic relationship between two characters from a cult TV show or film. It could be any two personalities such as the hugely popular Star Trek pairing Kirk/Spock or Mulder/Krycek from The X-Files. The only restriction is that the characters should not have a sexual relationship in the "real" series.On the face of it, this looks like just another geeky outpouring from the net's lunatic fringe. Certainly there is no obvious connection between this level of fan writing and women's erotic empowerment. Yet surf through a few typical sites and something unexpected emerges: almost all the stories are written by heterosexual women. Some offer truly bizarre pairings - Joey and Chandler from Friends, Ashley and Nicky Platt from Coronation Street, bluff TV detectives Dalziel and Pascoe. The story content ranges from the sadistic (Mulder tying Krycek in knots) to the sensitive, with macho characters showing a level of vulnerability never allowed on screen.It is no coincidence that the vast majority of character pairings come from shows with a tough guy element. If there's a common thread running through much of slash fiction, it's that women appear to find erotic appeal in emasculating TV hard men. Take the following example, from the LadySlash web-ring, which features slash coupling Starsky and Hutch:"Is it worth risking our partnership? Our friendship?" asked Starsky."Yes," said Hutch."Hutch, don't. Don't cry. Please."He felt a gentle hand brush at his cheek. "If this is a mistake...""It's not. Trust me.""I don't want to lose you...""You're not gonna lose me. Close your eyes. Go on, close your eyes."Something that felt like velvet brushed his ear. He shivered again, this time with raw emotion rather than chill. The velvet teaser moved slowly down his jaw, to nuzzle briefly at his neck before moving on... No woman had ever played with his nipples. Starsky was doing that. Licking them, covering them with little kisses until they hardened into tiny buds. If he's never done this before, how the hell can he do it so well?This question seems a reasonable one to put to an author of the genre. Where on earth does the inspiration come from? Kitty Fisher, who works for the school library service by day, has been writing slash for eight years; her stories have appeared on the internet and in the Black Lace collection Wicked Words. "In a way it is easier for female writers to use male-on-male characters when writing about sex, particularly the type of sex that appears in slash fiction. There's a leaning to dark stories, non-consensual sex, dominance. By writing about men, you're distancing yourself."So it's a guilt thing? "Well, we may have crossed the century but we are still tied to Victorian morality, even if we don't want to be. It's not acceptable for women to say they get turned on by sex and violence. But it's not just about that - there's an emphasis on humour and emotion which is lacking in a lot of mainstream erotic writing."Fisher first stumbled upon slash in   the pre-internet days when it existed only in obscure Star Trek fanzines. "I loved the use of characters I already knew, the subversion, the dark side to it. A reader knows the backstory; there are so many things actors do unconsciously on screen which fans can pick up on and twist to their own ends." She points out that for many writers, the appeal of slash is escapism. Many friends she has made on the scene work for the government, in management consultancy or teaching.Elanor Summerton, who runs theBritslashwebsite, says: "Analysing why I like slash is tricky. I've always assumed that if men like watching women together, women might enjoy the reverse. Women seem to prefer written erotica, with well-developed characters and more emotion. In fact, some of the best slash I've read has few sex scenes and is not explicit."Another reason why many women are turning to the format is that the slash community encourages new writers. "It's very welcoming and supportive," explains R Olivia Brown who runs the RedRoses fanzine. "Discussion between writers abounds and it's not restricted by what's acceptable outside in the 'real' world. Here you can discuss grammar and penis size, often in the same email."She believes slash is probably an attempt by women to take control of their sexuality but many writers may not be conscious they are addressing this. "The real appeal is that it allows us to explore a romantic relationship in which normal ideas about power and gender have no place because both characters are the same gender."It's a nice idea but some cultural theorists suggest that slash, when deconstructed, mirrors nothing more daring than the format for Mills and Boon. "Like mass market romances written for women, the vast majority are first-time stories in which the hero and his ultimate sexual companion discover their physical attraction for the first time," says Camille Bacon-Smith in her book Enterprising Women, Television Fandom and the Creation of Popular Myth. To an extent this is true, though some of the longer-running series do move the action on - one recent X-Files story celebrates Mulder's pregnancy.Perhaps another factor in the popularity of male/male pairings is that there aren't that many inspiring female characters to begin with. Another writer, who because of her job in the civil service will be identified only as Joram, takes this argument a stage further. "As a reader, slash for me is ideal fiction because I dislike female characters. They make me feel demeaned and ashamed because most tend to be two-dimensional. I focus on male characters because I like to lust over them."So why not write heterosexual scenes? "There are a lot of strong male characters on TV that women would like to see show a vulnerable side," Joram explains. "What better way of doing that than by putting two guys in a romantic situation? Then we can make them vulnerable and hurt them emotionally to our heart's content, and there's no need to put a woman in there at all."
Six months have passed since net incubators fell so spectacularly out of fashion. Indeed, the concept remains so unhip that companies such as Inflexion describe themselves as "pan-European technology investors".Inflexion is one of those vehicles that caught the market at the precipice - floating at 100p on April 10, rallying momentarily to 106p then dropping all the way to 61p over the next three months.The price has recovered somewhat and the management, lead by joint chief executives John Hartz and Simon Turner, have clearly been working hard at identifying decent investments, picking up young assets at knock-down prices.Inflexion drew a few sideways glances recently when it emerged that it had a small stake in Arc International, the successful mobile chip specialist. Yesterday, in its seventh deal to date, Inflexion announced a &#163;3m investment in ANT, which professes to be a specialist in embedded communication appliance software.The incubator is putting its money in alongside a Beeson Gregory investment fund to complete a &#163;5m funding round in what Mr Hartz describes as a company whose core products "are a key element of the technology and communications revolution".In short, ANT makes pieces of software such as a "frugal" web browser and "thin client" email software suited to the coming wave of mass-market internet devices.Mr Turner describes this as a typical Inflexion investment - an established business where the potential revenues are clear and the technology is proven.He says the company has so far invested around half the &#163;36m it raised at flotation.While shares in Inflexion spiked up to 94p on news of the Arc investment, the price has drifted back over the past month to 82.5p. But, given that Inflexion floated on a less than exorbitant valuation of 1.6 times book value, the shares seem an excellent, though slightly high-risk play on a one- to three-year view.
The company responsible for computer games such as Carmageddon for PlayStation and Thunderbird for Gameboy is getting romantic.Sci Entertainment Group, the London-based computer games publisher, yesterday announced that it is going to become a matchmaker by starting a service called findablinddate.com.The company is diversifying to take advantage of the increasing number of mobile phone users."What we want to do is to use the technology available to give people an entertainment experience," said Rob Murphy, finance director of Sci.The service is the most recent product to be created by the groups mobile media division.Findablinddate.com will match romantics with their perfect partners by profiling the personal details that the user enters into the system and letting people know when a match turns up.The user can then choose with whom to arrange a blind date. The service can also connect secret admirers with a "Who fancies who?" feature."Findablinddate.com is about fun and communication and will have a huge entertainment appeal," said Mark Knutton, Sci's mobile media chief operating officer.The service, targeted at people aged between 16 and 30, will be able to connect 30m mobile phone users in Britain by Wap, email or the internet 24 hours a day.
Favourite sites?I have to sayCNN.com, of course. My absolute favourite isjournalism.net, which is Julian Sher's site. Because I live in Atlanta, it takes me straight into the UK and European newspapers. Not that I would like the public to know, but I have bookmarkedbbc.co.ukas well. I have my appalling share portfolio on there - on the Bloomberg site. I use the internet for work only.Last online purchase?Amazon.com. I bought a history book. It was a History of the US. I don't remember who wrote it.Most recent technological faux pas?I was trying to send an SMS text message on my mobile to my daughter in boarding school. But I forgot to press the send button.Main news sources on web?As well as those above,TVnewsweb.com, a site for industry gossip and news. Since its launch last Thursday, I go to theCNNeuropesite. I use something called a Blackberry - a personal digital system, rather like a pager. But the beauty is that it has all my contacts on it, all my calendar details and it receives and transmits email. It has revolutionised my life, but they don't work outside the US. Filofax eat your heart out.Most persistent spam emailer?I get very little spam. I try to filter spams out, so I can't think of one. There are one or two persistent emailers I instantly delete - normally selling financial services.Time spent on web?10 hours a day, but not continuous - emails, browsing and communicating.Next boo.com/clickmango?Nothing I have shares in, I hope.Least useful site/s on web?Generically, the least useful sites for me are the ones that involve major scrolling down. I have a very short attention span and need instant gratification. Some European English-language newspapers are particularly tiresome.Least user-friendly site?One or two UK newspaper sites are particularly irritating. They'll have to work out who they are for themselves. They are hard to navigate.What screensaver do you use?Two frogs on a lily pad in a pond, catching flies. I use a personalised one, with audio, like a frog noise.Most irritating thing about the web?It's capable of taking over your life, if you're not careful.Do you bother with old media?I'm an avid reader of real newspapers and magazines, ones that leave print on your fingers. I'm also a sucker for old movies on TV.&#149;  Chris Cramer is president of International Networks, CNN
A penny for your thoughts. Or, depending on your pricing structure, 5p or &#163;5, chargeable per minute and billable to other people's credit cards or phone bills. You're an expert, you see, and all that separates you from customers willing to pay for your specialist knowledge - on finding a reliable builder, perhaps, or overcoming baldness - is a website which allows them to find you.Wait no longer: "expert exchange" websites are the latest hot business models heading our way. Drawing on the internet's extraordinary ability to link individuals to their peers, these "peer-to-peer" sites do for specialist knowledge what Napster does for music and eBay for car-boot junk. By restoring human guidance to the tricky business of researching information online, they have built strong traffic by finding individuals who can answer other people's questions. Yet there is one question that, even at a premium, these sites cannot yet answer with confidence: will enough people be willing to pay for web-delivered content to make a viable long-term business?There is no shortage of sites trying to find out.AskMe.compromises "great answers from real people" in categories ranging from pets to the paranormal (currently recruiting experts in the Olympics, MP3 and Rosh Hashanah).Exp.comoffers "real experts; real help" on subjects including US immigration law (advice at $1.10 a minute) and marathon running.Search engines think there's money to be made here: Ask Jeeves was among those which put $33m into Exp.com in a recent funding round. Yahoo has also entered the market, with experts.yahoo.com, featuring such specialists as "Roumster", a 25-year-old woman keen to talk about dating problems. The New York Times has its own "knowledge network", Abuzz (top questions: what really happened to that Russian sub and whether geraniums work as house plants).KnowPost.compromises "meta-knowledge" on the Wizard of Oz and web-browsing technology.Many of these sites rely on advertising as their business model, others customise their services for corporate customers. But it is the convergence of web and telephony that is currently exciting investors.   Two phone-enabled expert exchanges are coming to London, betting on our willingness to pay by the minute to talk to specialists.Keen.com, a San Francisco-based start-up that claims to be "the live answer community", has joined with Benchmark Capital in a $15m investment to form Keen Europe. Users will browse its subject listing, choose an expert, and then click on a "call now" button - and the site connects both parties by phone, taking a 30% commission on the call fee. Ten months after launch, parent site Keen.com claims 500,000 members, with 1.4m unique monthly visitors.Up against Keen isQuestico.com, a DM14m (&#163;4m) German start-up founded in April that is soon to launch in the UK. The company claims to combine "the Internet's advantage of speedy information retrieval with the opportunity to instantly take part in a one-on-one dialogue over the telephone, putting an end to the long and difficult search process one often encounters". As with most of these sites, users rate the experts once they've bought the advice to ensure some measure of quality control.These sites also benefit from the willingness of users to spend money on the telephone: premium-rate calls, after all, have been among the main money makers for companies such as the 365 Corporation, and relatively high per-minute call charges have not dented the growth of the mobile-phone sector. What is really exciting the investors is the mobile's promise to become the major means of accessing the internet in a year or two.Keen.com's chief executive, Karl Jacob, has a vision for these information exchanges. "What eBay did for people selling what's in their garages and attics, Keen.com will do for people who want to sell what's in their heads," he says. The idea is attractive but what will determine the future of these sites is our willingness in enough numbers to abandon that tenet of web use: the public does not like paying for content."Every single site in the world that has tried to charge for content has rejected it - except the Wall Street Journal," notes James Ledbetter, newly arrived in London from New York as editor of the Industry Standard Europe. "The brilliance of Napster is it's free. To introduce that &#91;peer-to-peer exchange&#93; on a paid model is admirable, risky, but I suspect for a lot of people doing it, not ultimately successful."I'm not so sure: for very specific information that can be delivered digitally or by phone - tips on a business plan, for instance, or professional advice on a medical problem - customers will be willing to pay a premium. And if you're still not convinced, for &#163;1 a minute I'd be happy to tell you why.&#149; David Rowan is editor of Guardian Unlimiteddavid.rowan@guardian.co.uk
News photographers and photojournalists are increasingly turning to the web in a bid to secure their independence amid growing uncertainty sparked by a wave of controversial takeovers by the picture industry's largest agencies. Concerned by what they see as the beginning of an unprecedented corporate buyout, and taking advantage of the proliferation of cheap, readily available digital technology, an increasing number of photographers are turning freelance to create their own independent online picture agencies.Last year's acquisition of the respected Paris-based Sygma agency by Bill Gates' giant Corbis operation kicked off a scramble among major players to scoop up smaller agencies and led to a degree of dispute between photojournalists and executives seldom seen in the world of news photography."What we've been seeing is a calculated drive to buy up the picture market," says Neil Burgess, picture editor of Network, one of the UK's few remaining independent outfits. "The big agencies - Corbis, Getty, Hachette - are each attempting to corner the market and diversify their own collections with the photographs from the smaller, specialist libraries. This way, eventually, they'll be able to undercut on price and offer images of just about anything, all from one place."Several well-known Sygma photographers - including Allan Tannenbaum and Andrew Lichtenstein - recently quit over what they describe as unacceptable market domination, poor contracts and representation: "When Corbis took over &#91;Sygma&#93; there was a feeling they would attempt to restore it to its former glory," says Tannenbaum, staff photographer with the agency for almost 20 years. "Instead they went on a search and destroy mission."He argues that far from using its size and influence to negotiate universally higher editorial rates, Corbis may have attempted to drive industry prices down in order to acquire greater market share; and in doing so it adversely affected the interests of   photographers and squeezed out smaller, independent agencies. The situation was compounded earlier this month when Hachette Filipacchi Medias of France announced it was to buy the international Katz agency, "to ward off alternative approaches from US market leaders."The defectors from Corbis claim that the big agencies' primary aim is to sell the greatest number of single photos to the greatest number of buyers in the shortest time scale, something not in keeping with the photojournalists' tradition of perfecting picture stories over a longer period of time."The photographers and - more importantly - the photographs, are becoming irrelevant. It's about profit and market share," one photojournalist "just hanging on" with Corbis-Sygma says. "This is why photographers are taking the risk, getting wired and going it alone.""The industry is in a state of flux," says Linda Royles, executive officer of the British Association of Picture Libraries and Agencies (BAPLA). "This is partly attributable to the recent mergers and acquisitions, but also due to the wider effects of digitisation. Many of the UK's &#91;estimated 900&#93; existing picture agencies are having to rethink their approach in light of the new technology, as are those setting up new agencies."Recent BAPLA figures illustrate the perceived importance of the web among those operating picture agencies: 70% have an online presence, 30% with fully searchable databases."The number of picture agencies launched is increasing, one recent month spawning 14 new outfits," says Royles. "Many are single photographers looking to market their work so they're planning extensive, or at least partial, web presence."   The photographers' bids for autonomy have been made possible by high street access to increasingly inexpensive technology."For as little as the cost of a decent computer, digital camera, scanner and - if you're prepared to do everything yourself - a server and basic software for a searchable database, you can be up and running as a small independent outfit," maintains Andrew Wiard, founder of his ownreportphotos.comagency. "If you've got money to spend, however, there's effectively no upper limit."While many freelance photographers use established internet service providers or web companies - Imagenet, for example - specifically geared towards the needs of online picture libraries, others are more creative. Photojournalist Howard Davies launched his own specialist online picture agency,exileimages.co.uk, in July, exploiting little more than a trusty computer and a colleague's web design skills to make available more than 15,000 images."I had to commission a database which is unique to the agency,  but sales have already covered the &#91;web&#93; design and maintenance costs," he says. "It was a case of utilising this newly available technology to undertake an idea that I'd had for years."Davies says the prime motivation for going it alone is control and being able to deal direct with clients. "I'd become a bit disillusioned with sales from the big agencies, so pulled some stock images out. Now I take 100% rather than negotiate for 50% or 70%."Despite the online project he still maintains distribution deals with a couple of big agencies. "I've not had too rough a deal - they do pay," he says but admits fears brought about by the recent string of acquisitions are becoming increasingly visible: "A young photojournalist approached me to undertake work; when I asked why he'd chosen such a small, specialist agency, he said it would be better not to have to negotiate with the bigger, more traditional outlets - ten years ago that would have been unheard of."Such views are echoed by Gary Trotter, founder of Images Sans Frontieres (ISF) - the UK's first reportage agency to launch entirely via the web: "I've built up a network of about 30 freelances who don't wish to work for major players where the struggle to retain intellectual &#91;property&#93; rights and control becomes harder than obtaining decent shots."Despite the apparent success of ISF and Exile, staff at the (decreasing) number of established agencies are sceptical about the long-term viability of freelance projects: "There's not enough agencies willing to take on photojournalists anyway so it's logical they try to go it alone," says Network's Burgess. "Unfortunately, without a glowing track record, they're likely to disappear - retain their editorial independence certainly, but run the risk of being forced off the market."One way round the problem, according to Andrew Wiard, is to identify a unique niche and specialise. "If you can build up a reputation for covering a particular area - Scotland, for example - then people will come to know you for that and visit your web library before trying other 'one-stop shops'." Another answer, he says, is more fundamental. "It's easy to forget that even with the best technology in the world for presentation and delivery, you have to deliver quality products. You still have to be able to take a decent shot."
Lastminute.com has signed a contract with American Express to offer exclusive late deals and offers to Amex cardholders.The offers, ranging from extreme experiences such as learning to race a powerboat or taking a Tiger Moth flight, to booking holidays or concert tickets, are listed on a special American Express-lastminute.com co-branded website. American Express Green Charge Card holders can access the deals though Americanexpress.co.uk/green."This arrangement will enable us to offer some great and exclusive offers to American Express's high-spending, internet-savvy card members," said Martha Lane Fox, chief operating officer at lastminute.com.Lastminute.com has been very aggressive on the deal front of late. Last week it announced a deal with Holiday Autos to provide a car rental service to its users, just two days after it said it had launched a catwalk fashion guide in partnership with inshop.co.uk. Despite the number of deals, investors were not entirely convinced and Lastminute.com's shares dropped 16.5p to 134.5p by the end of last week.According to research by MMXI Europe, Lastminute.com is losing customers, dropping 22,000 unique users (to 711,000) between July and August.
Channel 4 has abandoned plans to set up an internet portal aimed at the gay community - a project which had been identified by chief executive Michael Jackson as one of the company's key projects in new media.A spokesman for Channel 4 said plans for the site, which had been scheduled to be launched over the summer, had been put on ice because of a lack of resources. The broadcaster recognised that the market for gay websites was one of the most competitive online."The site has been put on hold for the immediate future," he said. "It is not that we changed our minds, it is more about prioritising our investments when we have a limited amount of resources."He said the development of an internet version of the pay television channel, E4, to begin in mid-January, would allay criticisms that the company was not committed to building an online presence.A growing number of websites for the gay community have won financial backing.Users often have a higher disposable income than average and research in the internet magazine, Industry Standard, noted that gay and lesbian people have a higher propensity to use the internet.Earlier this month a British-based internet portal called Queer company raised &#163;3.5m in funding, while the US portal Gay.com raised $23m (&#163;15m) in June.Channel 4 has a growing number of financial commitments on top of the core channel. It has announced that it will invest &#163;100m in the start-up of E4, a general entertainment station which will feature the first runs of popular shows including the US series Friends and ER.The company initially planned to seek outside investment, but then decided to fund the business itself.Channel 4 is also still supporting FilmFour, its art house movie pay-TV business which last year lost &#163;20m but is expected to break even in 2003.
Global new media sales house DoubleClick has revealed details of a wide-ranging restructure for its UK office.Eric Stein, managing director of DoubleClick UK, said that the move was a result of the way the UK market for online advertising had matured over the past year.He said: "It's a similar structure to that adopted by the US office a year ago and has come about because the market has reached a scale where we can do this. Essentially we're reacting to client demand."Growth in the number of online advertising options with new platforms and new technology also contributed to the revamp, meaning DoubleClick can offer more than just a banner or a sponsorship.DoubleClick is introducing  Boomerang into the UK, an e-commerce marketing tool that uses cookies to encourage people back to the retail site, converting browsers into buyers. British Airways is the first UK client to sign up.The restructure will create four new vertical divisions, sorting sites - for which DoubleClick handles sales - by type into business, leisure, consumer and technology and auto. Each will have a separate publisher, a business development person and a sales team. A group publisher who reports to the managing director will oversee all four divisions.These vertical networks will work alongside a separate agency team, a sponsorship team, a marketing team and customer services.Mr Stein is currently recruiting two publishers for the leisure and consumer divisions and has promoted Anne-Catrin Sallaba, director of business development, to group publisher. Paul Goad, senior account manager, has been put in charge of the business network and Ben Auchettl, business development manager, has been promoted to publisher of the technology and auto network.The appointments will take the staff tally at DoubleClick to 34. The changes, which are expected to roll out to other European offices in the coming months, will come into effect on October 1.
Internet entrepreneurs are increasingly realising that creating a successful e-commerce site demands more than just attractive prices, well-stocked virtual shopping malls, and reliable ordering structures. They recognise that the magic ingredient is content and that it has the much sought-after power to inspire return visits. In other words, it makes sites "sticky". Not only that, it makes them sell.One man who has long understood the selling power of content is Ken Evoy, a 46-year-old internet entrepreneur from Quebec. His company,SiteSell.com, is a provider of e-commerce information and software and has proved a significant internet success story. The company's first publication, Make Your Site Sell! (MYSS!), written by Evoy himself, quickly went into sales overdrive and is now acknowledged web-wide as the bible of internet marketing.How did Evoy manage to sell so many copies of the book? "Words - the right ones," he replies. "Of course, the words have to be backed up by great products, or you only end up with angry customers. But it's words that get sales."Many dot.coms - especially the much-hyped ones - tend to think that technical pyrotechnics will make   their sites sticky and encourage sales. But Evoy dismisses this as a loser's game. "Technology does not sell products," he insists. "Nor do graphics or animated monkeys. Great products don't even sell themselves. Words sell."Because of his belief in the power of words, Evoy teamed up with veteran advertising copywriter and web-savvy author Joe Robson to write an e-book called Make Your Words Sell! (MYWS!), which was released earlier this year by SiteSell.com. Robson is a Yorkshireman who writes web copy that is generally considered to be unparalleled when it comes to selling e-products and   services. Indeed, MYWS! - which offers a wealth of practical advice on how to write sales copy for the internet to your best advantage - is a testament to just how compelling and persuasive language can be.During the course of his work, Robson has done a lot of research into what does and doesn't work on the internet. And, like Evoy, he is in no doubt that the websites that are currently successful employ well-crafted copywriting. "Contrary to popular opinion, there are people out there on the web quietly making extremely good money," he reveals. "But their websites look more like Joe Bloggs in his bedroom. They're not flash. But because they're using good sales copy, they're churning out products like there's no tomorrow and really are making huge profits."Growing numbers of dot.coms are waking up to this fact and are consequently looking to hire "content providers" (otherwise known as writers) in a big way. One London-based company that has recently added an extensive selection of content to its internet site isSmarterwork.com- an "elance" site which enables freelance workers to bid on projects posted by businesses. For Pierre Reyland, content editor at Smarterwork, the job of bringing together a team of e-writers proved relatively straightforward. He selected them from the   global pool of freelancers who use the Smarterwork site.But he wasn't just looking for good writers - he needed writers who could write specifically for the web. "Writing for the web is very different from writing for newspapers and magazines," he says. "A monitor screen is not a very friendly interface to read from. So the writing has to be much clearer and more concise. To make a point on the web, you really have to hammer it home - using clear, simple language, highlighting important words, and splitting the text into small paragraphs, with headings and sub-headings, or using devices such as bullet-point lists, and so on."Although the skills needed for writing for the web are different from those for print media, a conventional publishing background can be helpful when embarking on an e-writing project. George Giokas, CEO of Staffwriters, a leading US writers' agency, for instance, believes that journalists make excellent web writers. "For one thing, they are highly skilled in embracing concepts and then relating them in simple form," he says. "But to be successful in writing content for a site, a journalist must also learn the tricks of direct mail,   headline writing and advertising. I think a good web writer needs all of the skills from journalism, marketing, graphics and copywriting."One writer who has successfully integrated online and offline writing styles is Ann Logan, a freelance education writer from Warwickshire. She relishes the challenges of writing for the internet, but feels it requires more responsibility on the part of the writer. "Print publications have editors and sub-editors, but the web doesn't," she points out. "So there are fewer critical readers of your work. Because of that, it needs to be triple-checked before you submit it."Ability and a conscientious attitude are key attributes to look for when hiring an e-writer. But how can the average internet entrepreneur - who may have had little experience in dealing with writers - be sure that the person they are considering for a project really has what it takes to pen effective web pages? One way is to hire a web writer through Plain Words, a well-established writers' agency based in Berkshire. It tests candidates to ensure they can handle a given project. "We describe a scenario - fictitious web entrepreneur and product/service - which is relevant to the sort of work they will be doing, and ask them how they would go about researching and writing the website," explains Peter Meherne, recruitment director at Plain Words. "We'd then ask them to produce some brief copy on a particular aspect of the product or service to test their writing skills."While strong technical writing skills are essential for keeping readers glued to their VDUs, the cream of web writers take it even further and employ the novelist's technique of writing in "character" - in a specific voice. Joe Robson's current web project, The Newbie Club, which he co-runs with US computer wizard Tom Glander, is a case in point.The site is aimed at new computer users and, although Robson and Glander have done little in the way of publicity, the site is proving a runaway success. Why? "Because we use a distinct voice in the copy," says Robson. "We get into the mindset of our ideal customer. That way, we can talk to them in their language and avoid falling into the trap of talking down to them, like many websites do. The mindset of the Newbies is that of frustration at the amount of technie talk in help files. So I speak very casually, using non-technical words like 'computerish' and 'geekspeak', which they relate to."Such a strategy certainly seems to be paying off in terms of sales and the number of visitors to the site. "It's just phenomenal," says Robson. "And it goes to prove that the big dot.coms who lavish obscene amounts of money on flash websites - and still don't sell anything - must be doing something wrong. They'd save themselves a lot of money if they cut out the gadgets and gizmos and brought in some good copywriters."&#149; Further Information:Ken Evoy's SiteSell.com:www.sitesell.comSmarterwork:www.smarterwork.comStaffwriters:www.staffwriters.comAnn Logan Writing Services:www.annlogan.comPlain Words:www.plainwords.co.ukThe Newbie Club:www.newbieclub.com
The news that Reggie Kray has left hospital has sparked a gold rush-style frenzy among the growing army of collectors of what has become known as 'murderabilia'. With the last surviving member of the legendary criminal family believed to be nearing the end of his days, collectors are frantically snapping up mementoes at bargain prices, certain that their value will increase dramatically a few years after his death.Antiques experts say that murderabilia is one of the fastest-growing sectors of the collectibles market. Where once sellers risked abusive phone calls and hate mail for advertising their wares, the spread of internet-based auction services allows sales to be made anonymously. The trade has mushroomed in recent years with bizarre items like bricks from the walkway where O.J. Simpson's wife was murdered, dirt from under the house where John Wayne Gacy buried his 33 victims, and even locks of Charles Manson's hair are selling like hot cakes.Some of the most sought-after items are the works produced by killers turned artists. Sketches by Charles Manson, both Kray twins and Dennis Nilsen have all sold for thousands of pounds. Although weapons, 'scene of crime' photographs and items of clothing are generally kept as evidence, they find there way onto the market and often sell for far more.In Britain a copy of the Kray autobiography, Me and My Brothers, signed by both twins, is on sale for &#163;450 at the London branch of Frasers Autographs. Signed pictures of the pair as young boxers sell for around &#163;400 but are expected to top &#163;1,000 within a year of Reggie's death.Paul Mulvey runs a market stall at Alfie's Antiques Market and has a huge collection of murder memorabilia. 'Letters and signatures are among the most common items, but the value depends on the content. A letter from Charles Darwin where he's writing about his theories on evolution is worth an awful lot more than one where he writes that he can't make it to a dinner party. I know someone who has a letter from Dennis Nilsen - the civil servant who murdered 15 men at his home in Muswell Hill - where he explains why he decided to let one of his victims go. That's got to be worth at least &#163;1,000, but he'd never sell it.'I've got Kray signatures here that go for &#163;50 a time, but I've seen one where someone   caught Ron in a bad mood. They asked him to sign a picture and he wrote on it "Don't ask again, Ron". That's almost priceless.'Interest in some cases is so strong that special precautions often have to be introduced. When 25 Cromwell Street, the house where Fred and Rose West murdered nine young women, was demolished, police guards were brought in and contractors ordered to destroy all fittings and reduce all brickwork to dust.But although collectors are keen to acquire more modern items, the trade is kept hidden from prying eyes. One dealer, who asked not to be identified, believes owners of the most valuable items are too terrified to publicise their existence. 'I once stupidly advertised a signature belonging to Fred West and ended up with hate mail for months. The good thing about the internet is that it has really opened up the market. There are people out there who have things belonging to the likes of Ian Brady, pictures by Peter Sutcliffe, death certificates signed by Harold Shipman and the like. They're all good collectibles, but it will still be a few years before anyone will accept them on the market, even on the internet.'The mainstream trade is restricted to more historical items. Major auctions houses such as Christies have sold items belonging to the last woman to be hanged, Ruth Ellis, Rillington Place killer John Christie and Chicago gangster Al Capone. A pocket watch belonging to Dr Crippen fetched more than &#163;10,000. The problems begin with items belonging to more recent killers.In recent weeks the largest online auction company, eBay, chief source of many of the most distasteful items, has come under increasing pressure to withdraw them from sale. The move is being strongly resisted. 'Some of the merchandise may be questionable or distasteful but we don't want to play the role of censor,' said an eBay spokesman. 'As long as sellers are following the laws within the country where they reside, they may sell whatever they choose.' The spokesman admitted that the company takes commission on each sale and receives regular complaints about murderabilia sold on the site.tony.thompson@observer.co.uk
Lessons of the fuel crisis, number one: New Labour knows little about business (beyond how to milk it for donations). There was something almost poignant about the Government's sudden realisation that the oil companies were not able to order 'their' tanker drivers to run the blockades.Ministers clearly did not know that big companies no longer run anything other than their core businesses - that everything else is outsourced to independent contractors, such as the hauliers who transport fuel for the oil majors and who were understandably sympathetic to their peers at the gates.Given that outsourcing has long been one of the Ten Commandments of successful business, this makes one wonder where Messrs Blair and Straw have been all these years. The answer, I suppose, is that they have been full-time politicians. The same goes for their Cabinet colleagues. The result is government by a bunch of jokers who have never run anything bigger than a whelk stall but are now trying to run the country.And it shows. Readers of this column will be wearily familiar with the saga of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill, a crazy statute railroaded through Parliament on the grounds that it had to become law by 2 October, the day that the Human Rights Act comes into force.The ostensible purpose of the RIP Bill was to sweep all   the surveillance practices of Her Majesty's Government under the figleaf of legality required by the European Convention on Human Rights. (Cue hollow laughter.) In practice, one of its main effects will be to drive e-commerce firms from the UK, because they do not like the idea of having their encryption keys open to seizure by the goons of the Home Office. This consequence, needless to say, never crossed Jack Straw's mind while the Bill was in preparation.Straw had much bigger fish to fry than online traders, namely the various criminals, subversives, extremists and anarchists who allegedly use the net for their nefarious purposes. The RIP Act contains some sweeping powers for dealing with these pests,   and Home Office Ministers retained them in the teeth of opposition from the civil liberties lobby during the Bill's passage through the Lords.Now, they are about to reap the first benefits of their persistence. The ragbag Poujadistic alliance of farmers and truckers which recently brought the country to its knees has grandly given the Government 60 days to rethink its policy on fuel duties. The protesters have promised to revisit mayhem upon us if the Government does not do their bidding. The tabloid press eggs them on with excited stories about how this kind of popular uprising is unstoppable because it is decentralised and coordinated via mobile telephony and the internet.All of which makes Straw   smile that sinister smile of his. Clearly the folks who are glibly promising to blockade fuel depots 50 days hence are not familiar with the terms of the RIP Act, which expressly allows the Home Secretary or his agents to intercept email under a number of circumstances. One such is if he believes the UK's economic well-being is threatened.You don't have to be a lawyer of Cherie Booth's stature to spot that fuel blockages have precisely that effect, so Straw will have no difficulty in establishing that he is entitled to snoop on protesters' email traffic to his heart's content. And if they try to foil him by encrypting their messages, they will discover that Straw has thought of that too, for the Act allows him to demand plaintext versions or decryption keys under threat of two years' imprisonment.The Home Office men always thought the Act would come in handy some day. They were right.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
Sometimes the smallest explosions have the greatest impacts. When Victor Chandler, a little known bookmaker serving big spending punters, moved his entire operation to the tax haven of Gibraltar in 1997 he detonated a small limpet mine which capsized the entire UK betting industry.The shockwaves are still being felt today. The big-name bookmakers, such as Ladbrokes, were forced to follow Chandler overseas, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, once confident of making around &#163;500 million a year from betting duties, was left scratching his head.Chandler laughs when he recalls the way his larger rivals followed him abroad. 'They had to do it,' he says. 'Otherwise we'd have had all their business.'Not only did his actions give Gordon Brown something to think about, Chandler's adept use of new technology now has serious consequences for the high street. It would take a very optimistic punter to bet on a rosy future for the UK's 8,500 betting shops as a result of Chandler's run to the sun. Telephone and internet betting may have accounted for only around 10 per cent of all the money staked in the UK last year but it is set for huge growth. According to analysts at Datamonitor, online betting in Europe could be worth as much as as &#163;3.5 billion by 2004.Okay, there is a chance Customs and Excise will challenge the UK bookmakers' actions, but it is hard to see what they can do, now that the horses have effectively bolted. At present the Government can merely prevent the likes of Chandler adver tising in the UK. But click on to any of the big online bookmakers' UK-based sites and you will be offered the chance to jump through to its offshore cousin.Certainly the Bahamas-based billionaire Joe Lewis thinks Chandler's business represents the future of betting. He liked the company so much that in August last year he bought it. Enic, Lewis's international investment company, valued Victor Chandler International (VCI) at around &#163;65m. Chandler and his partner, Monaco-based millionaire racehorse owner Michael Tabor, will each retain stakes of around 20 per cent in the company. The deal seemed to have been sidelined over the past few months, but Chandler is adamant that it will now go through by November.The Enic deal, Chandler   argues, will give VCI the chance to become a truly global online player. 'There's no doubt that we've got to have the cash to market ourselves. In four or five years' time there will be only four or five players in the world betting market.'Chandler had one eye on what the big US gaming giants might be looking to do   in Europe. 'We needed to do a deal because we've got to establish our position quickly now.'Apart from Lewis, Chandler also rubs shoulders with another famous businessman. Terry Ramsden, who was once Britain's fifty-seventh richest man but ended up becoming one of the country's most famous bankrupts   after running up gambling losses of more than &#163;100m, also does business with Chandler.'He has brought several deals to the table, one of which is a smartcard idea,' Chandler says. 'He's someone I' have known since he was the biggest punter in the Eighties.'Sitting in the London Ritz sipping white wine, he outlines his plans for moving forward. All last week his staff were offering commuters at London train stations a chance to win a Porsche by betting on what the Dow Jones would close at on Friday.This was to launch Marketbet, VCI's new pools-style game which allows punters to bet on the performance of stock markets instead of football matches. Some may question whether the UK needs   another pools game, but Chandler has been successful in backing his hunches before. He was one of the first bookmakers to realise that there was huge interest from overseas clients and so, for a while, Chandler looked at developing an offshore tax-free business to run in tandem with his UK operations.Originally, Chandler considered setting up his operation in Jersey, but that deal fell through, so in 1996 he acquired a betting licence from a casino owner in Gibraltar. The start of Chandler's overseas operations was fairly inauspicious. 'There was just six of us in an office with mobile phones,' Chandler says, puffing on a Camel full strength.The decision to move the company's entire operation abroad was a gamble. Chandler, who gave up working as a hotel consultant in the Balearic Islands to take over the family bookmaking business when his father died in 1974, had not planned such a dramatic move. For much of the Eighties and Nineties he had been content to buy the odd bookmaker and sell it on to one of the big betting firms.But in 1997, Chandler read that the Irish government was to cut betting tax from nearly 10 per cent to 5 per cent. This was a huge threat to Chandler, who feared losing clients to Irish bookies. He resolved to move Victor Chandler, lock stock and barrel, to Gibraltar, where the business would not have to pay any betting tax at all.Now Chandler wants to launch online casinos, and there are also plans to develop Marketbet so that punters can bet on individual companies' shares. In addition, all the company's websites will be translated into Chinese and Spanish, opening up new markets. During Euro 2000 the company took bets from punters in 40 countries. It already boasts 24,000 regular internet customers, and plans to develop broadband and mobile phone betting are also on the cards.But Chandler, who, with 350 staff, is now one of Gibraltar's biggest employers, is keen to target new audiences through the internet: 'We've got to have a range of products. There's no reason why on the internet you can't play skill games for something as small as a 5p bet. We'll also be extending the games to take in trivia in the future.'But while Chandler is an advocate of new technology, does he believe it could end up encouraging more people to gamble? 'Everyone's a lot more relaxed about gambling now,' he says. 'You can compare it to drinking. There will be casualties, but they'll always be in the minority.'While the jump to the Rock has made Chandler rich, it has its downside. 'I miss the racing: throughout the Eighties, at the tracks it was leisure rather than work.'ProfileSubject:Victor ChandlerBorn:18 April 1951Job:Chairman and chief executive, Victor Chandler InternationalOther Directorships:NoneHobbies:The turf, breeding horses, riding
The story so far: Flametree, an internet start-up with a portal dedicated to helping working women balance their busy lives, was launched three months ago by founders Jayne Buxton and Rosemary Leith. With nearly &#163;1 million in private backing, the pair aim to have the company in profit in two years' time.It was perhaps inevitable. Chris, the company's content and technology manager, has grown a goatee beard and is wearing combat trousers to give himself that authentic internet look. Though there is no sign of a scooter - yet.This explosion of facial hair is not the only thing to have changed at Flametree. All 10 staff have moved to new offices in Kensington - no longer are they split into two offices as they were at their old premises in Victoria.'It makes a huge difference for us to be together. It just wasn't productive before,' Rosemary says. The office is far more spacious and better lit than the Victoria premises but, because Rosemary secured a 'relatively' short lease they are no more expensive. She even called in a favour by acquiring old office furniture from a previous employer for free.And the company also has a new employee. Sasha, Flametree's marketing and business development director, has joined after a long stint working for Microsoft in Asia. 'I burnt out badly in Asia and so my husband and I took a year off and went to live in Spain,' Sasha says.Now, however, she is keen to work again, especially for an employer dedicated to preventing busy women from suffering her fate. Sasha's main job will be to help Flametree identify its users and then target them more effectively.She is pleased to learn that flametree visitors are heavy online shoppers: nearly two-thirds of them buy goods over the internet at least once a month. In addition, 86 per cent of Flametree visitors use the internet two or three times a week at least.The company's profile seems to be soaring, too. A mail shot targeting 200,000 women brought a 'phenomenal' response, according to Rosemary. Jayne, meanwhile, is doing her bit by speaking at specialist conferences in Milan and New York. 'Having Jayne networking really gives us introductions into areas we probably wouldn't have been able to get into otherwise,' says Sasha.Flametree is looking to sell its content to companies' intranet sites, thus helping their busy professionals find that important work/life balance. The company believes that this will help it shake off its image as a purely business-to-consumer dotcom - important given the problems these models are facing at the moment. To do this, the company knows it needs to have fantastic must-see content which really helps people.The plan now is for around 70 per cent of revenues to come from sponsorship and licensing deals; the company is in talks with a number of interested parties. Flametree has struck a deal withrevolver.com, an online recruitment firm which is to start taking some content on its site.Although some dotcom firms have found the going tough in recent months - notably clickmango, the online vitamin company that shut up shop last month - Flametree is confident it has a strong future.'It's quite unique. We help people find their work/life balance and there's no one else doing that,' Rosemary says. So they are not looking to buy a bouncy castle for office use like clickmango did, then? 'No' comes the curt reply. 'Our accountant said to me the other day "I can't believe how little money you've spent".'To Rosemary, this is manna from heaven.
A shock profits warning from US computer chip maker Intel Corp has sent serious ripples through the business world and left Britain's technology shares reeling.The FTSE 100 index kept off its recent lows, but remained deep inside negative territory on Friday morning after Intel's overnight warning that third quarter profits would come in way below expectations.Initially, the news sent the index tumbling down more than 120 points. By mid morning it had pulled back a little, though it remained around 81 points down at 6,118.2.When the news broke in the US last night, shares in the company immediately plunged by 21%, sending its value down by $77bn.Intel's sales growth in the third quarter is now expected to reach only 3-5% compared with the 6-8%, expected by the market.The company - the world's largest chip maker and manufacturer of computer, networking and communications products - blames a lack of European demand for its microprocessors and expects profit margin percentages to be down by up to 2%. Revenue in the second quarter of this year was $8.3bn.Intel's statement, which came shortly after a warning by Sprint Corp, has compounded fears of a sharp slowdown in the tech and telecommunications sectors.Almost all of the top 10 losers on the FTSE 100 were technology shares, such as UK chip designer ARM Holdings which dived 8.1%, while fibre optics firm Bookham Technology dropped 7%.Telecoms shares also suffered from the fallout, which was worsened by the Nasdaq's overnight decline. The Vodafone Group weighed in with a drop of 2.3%, while Colt Telecom Group was the sector's biggest loser, down 6.3%. BT also lost out, shedding 20 to settle at 728.There was some cheer on the FTSE today, however, with the Bank of Scotland heading in the opposite direction and rising 2.9%, thanks to merger speculation.British Airways was also up 2%, as investors breathed a sigh of relief that merger talks with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines had ended.
American regulators seem likely to give the green light to Time Warner's $350bn merger with AOL, brushing aside objections from competitors such as Walt Disney.The news will come as a boost to the two media companies, which are getting a much rougher ride from the European commission.A leaked document from the US federal communications commission, which is scrutinising the deal's competition implications, has revealed a draft recommendation for the tie-up to go ahead.The only condition is that the groups make legally binding their promise to open up their cable television networks to other internet access providers.It is expected that accessing the internet through televisions will become much more common over the next few years. Regulators are keen to ensure that cable television companies do not act as "gate keepers", preventing other access providers from reaching customers.Insiders cautioned that the document was merely an "early snapshot" of the FCC's view, and more serious sanctions remained possible.An FCC spokeswoman said: "We are still at the preliminary stages of analysing this merger."Walt Disney has been among the opponents of the deal - it is worried that the merged company would have greater power over the distribution of its programming on cable   television networks. The deal is the biggest in American corporate history - it will create the world's fourth largest company with 100m subscribers.Time Warner and AOL are now likely to concentrate on putting their case to the European commission - which has indicated that it will block the   deal without significant concessions being made.The commission is concerned that the combined company would dominate music publishing - particularly because of its joint venture with EMI.There is also anxiety in Europe about AOL's alliance with the German group Bertelsmann in Europe and Australia. EMI said yesterday that it had offered sufficient concessions to satisfy the commission. It is believed to have agreed to dispose of four publishing catalogues and record labels in France, Denmark, Greece and Spain.An EMI spokesman said the company's pledges addressed concerns "without materially harming the viability of the deal or removing the commercial rationale".
TheStreet.comsaid yesterday it was "evaluating opportunities" to link with other financial news providers after warning that its summer relaunch had flopped.The online information company admitted advertising revenue had been "disappointing". Deals to distribute its news to other websites had been delayed due to "technical factors". Its shares dived 20% in early trading to just under $5.Chief executive Tom Clarke said: "We are evaluating business opportunities out there. There are a lot of players in this business. Consolidation is a natural evolution."Known for its quirky take on Wall Street events, TheStreet.com has a loyal following among private investors. In an attempt to widen its appeal, the firm abolished charges for access to its signature website over the summer.Mr Clarke conceded that the response had been "a shade below expectations" in terms of page impressions.The number of "unique users" - individuals visiting the site at least once - has fallen slightly in the third quarter.Under its new business model, TheStreet.com relies more heavily on advertisers for revenue.Mr Clarke said: "The whole advertising market has been   sluggish. I don't think it's unique to us."It was "evident" that companies were spending more of their advertising budgets on-line but: "They're still determining what projects work and what don't."TheStreet.com competes for attention with an ever-growing list of financial sites, many of which are backed by the firepower of large media organisations. Leading sites includeFT.com,BloombergandCNN.TheStreet.com had hoped to increase its profile by distributing its content to other websites. This has been a slow process. Mr Clarke said: "When you're dealing with other companies, their priori ties sometimes don't tie in with yours."He insisted that the business as a whole was "still on track" despite the setbacks. The company's British offshoot, TheStreet.co.uk, was "doing great and exceeding all our expectations".TheStreet.com was founded by Jim Cramer, a former hedge fund manager. Under the slogan "Ignore us at your own risk", it specialises in delivering news in an in-your-face style.In a statement, TheStreet.com reiterated its commitment to achieving positive cashflow by the second half of next year.The group has a cash pile of more than $88m.27
I was having a quiet drink with an old friend the other day when he told me, very proudly, that he had just finished his first novel. This was completely out of character - he had never displayed any interest in writing before - and, with mounting amazement, I asked him what it was about."Oh, it was the first Harry Potter book; it really was excellent. I don't know why I haven't tried reading books before," he said.After insisting he buy the next round for cracking such an awful Queen Mum gag (weak and terribly old but loved by an insane segment of the population purely because of this), I looked back at the feelings that rushed through my head when I thought he really had completed his first novel.Topping the winner's rostrum was undoubtedly amazement but there, in second and third place looking disappointed as amazement's national anthem played, were envy and depression. Envy because I have never managed to finish a novel and depression because I am worried I never will. This dismal duo could well sound familiar to you; many people dream of writing a novel but few actually finish one, and fewer still get it published, become millionaires   and bask forever in the glow of literary appreciation.My biggest problems, the same as many thousands of people, are that I find it hard to get started and am overly critical of the words I do manage to write. In search of a solution to these, I turned to the web.One of the first sites I came across waswww.inkspot.com, which describes itself as an "award-winning resource and community for writers of all ages and levels of experience". This actually is not too far off; there are plenty of helpful articles on different aspects of writing, a discussion forum and masses of links to other online resources.Reading the articles and joining in the discussions helped me to get a better perspective on my writing. Although I knew in theory that the first draft of a book does not have to be perfect, the truth of it was brought home to me only by chatting to people who had gone through the process.If you are unsure about what you are doing, getting on to the right discussion forum can really help. Inkspot also offers a free bi-weekly email newsletter, called Inklings, which keeps you in touch with new articles and features on the site.I found another discussion forum athttp://jp.onelist.com/community/1writers. There are a few people there who like to discuss novel writing but there are many more who are just interested in writing bad poetry, so be careful.A much more down to earth and practical site can be found atwww.manistee.com/~lkraus/workshop/. The rather tortuous web address leads to the Internet Writing Workshop, which aspires to create an environment where works in progress can be passed around and critiqued, and to provide a support group where writing can be discussed in depth.Unlike Inkspot, this is a seriously active community. Membership is restricted to people who regularly participate in criticising other members' works, apart from the general discussion group where generic topics such as How can I overcome writer's block? are discussed.I joined the Novels List, which - surprisingly enough - is for the submission and critiques of novel-length fiction. Books are posted to the list in bite-sized chunks, so you can criticise them in manageable parts.The fact that you have to do a certain amount of criticism each month, or face expulsion from the group, means that you really do start to learn from the process.The chance to read and   identify parts of other peoples' writing that are poor, indifferent or excellent is incredibly useful when it comes to analysing my own work. I can look at a section and easily see where I've gone wrong because I've seen the same mistake in someone else's prose.Critters is another online critiquing workshop, atwww.critique.org/users/critters. Confined to serious science fiction, fantasy and horror writers, it operates a similar system to the Internet Writing Workshop. It boasts more than a thousand members, each providing a critique per week. If you have finished a novel, there is a special section for getting the entire thing criticised quickly, rather than piece by piece.Stepping back into the literary mainstream for a moment,www.purefiction.co.ukis the only British site that is really worth visiting. Soon to be relaunched, the old site nonetheless has plenty of articles on the business of novel writing, from plotting a thriller to choosing a central character and jump-starting your creativity. This is all useful but the danger of reading about writing a novel, rather than actually writing it, is omnipresent.The most valuable sites are those that link you to other writers, so you can share ideas and criticisms. For me, this has meant increased determination and self-confidence. I am still nowhere near the end of my book, but my writing output has increased and I no longer fiddle with every word as I go along.Expect to be buying my quirky, modern British novel, Dog On Roof, from your local bookshop in spring 2002.
Felicia Jackson is co-founder and chief executive of netimperative.com, a 
content, community and commerce site for internet industry professionals.Seed round fundraiser for the company, she led the business through its
much publicised liquidation, and then its relaunch with a consortium of new
investors. During this period the service remained fully operational.Before founding netimperative.com, Ms Jackson was the editor of New
Media Investor, one of the UK's leading investment magazines on the e-economy in the UK
internet industry. She writes regularly for  business journals on the internet and advises the Department of Trade and Industry and start-ups.
BT Wireless, the holding company for the group's mobile phone assets, yesterday launched a defence of WAP services, the wireless net technology which has met with widespread media criticism.Peter Erskine, BT Wireless's chief executive, admitted that WAP had been over-hyped but said the services had proven popular with customers and driven average revenues of users more than 21% higher.The average annual revenue from one of BT Cellnet's WAP customers is running at &#163;539   for post-pay customers compared to &#163;444 on conventional handsets the company said.Among WAP users, 20% of the revenue generated is from web access and 80% from voice traffic. WAP has been criticised for the quality of services available and for the time taken to access the web.In five months the company has signed up 400,000 WAP subscribers, which Mr Erskine said was lower than anticipated due to delays in the launch of banking services. The first banking service on BT Cellnet was launched by Egg, around 10 days ago."These numbers dispell the myth that people don't like WAP," Mr Erskine said. "The cynicism surrounding WAP is simply poison from those networks without services. We are winning customers and average revenues are fantastic, so customers must like it."BT Cellnet plans to make the next upgrade, GRPS - which will double speed and introduce "always on" web access - widely available by the year's end, Mr Erskine added.The group was presenting a first glimpse at the figures for BT Wireless, formed in April as part of a restructuring of BT.The chief assets include BT Cellnet, Viag Interkom in Germany and a stake in Japan's J-Phone. Revenues are predicted to grow by 51% to &#163;6.8bn during this financial year.BT Wireless has been tipped as a candidate for a separate float as a means of reducing debt at its parent - speculation that Mr Erskine declined to comment on. BT has said it will make further announcements on any proposed sales by the end of the year.BT Cellnet's post-pay customer base is continuing to decline as the market for pre-pay grows. The third quarter will show a fall of 100,000 as the base continues to migrate towards pre-pay.
Japan is planning to hand out almost &#163;2bn worth of IT vouchers to lure its internet-allergic population on to the web.The giveaway is part of a plan to reinvent Japan as the world's leading internet nation, but critics say   the scheme merely throws taxpayers' money into cyberspace.Under the proposal, the government will distribute 6,000 yen (&#163;40) vouchers to about 30m people over the age of 20 which will cover half the cost of a course on how to become cyber-savvy.Despite its reputation as a technological giant, Japan has a great deal of ground to make up. Only 13% of the population uses the internet. The prime minister, Yoshiro Mori, who recently confused IT with "it", sent his first email in June.
He works 10 hours a day, makes more than &#163;70,000 a year, doesn't bother to take holidays, dresses as he pleases, has never been happier and is looking for another job. This 33-year-old, white, university-educated creature is, according to the first comprehensive survey of the industry, the typical internet worker.There is also a reasonable chance that his employer will arrange his dry cleaning, allow him to bring his dog to work, offer him free massages and give him stock options. And he still thinks people in other firms are doing better.The profile of the typical internet employee has emerged from a survey carried out by the Industry Standard, the San Francisco-based news magazine of the internet economy. The typical worker, it appears, not only enjoys an income about three times the national average but also has the gall to enjoy himself.Currently 2.5m people are employed by internet firms in the US and the results of the survey give plenty of reasons why so many people believe that the grass is indeed greener in Silicon Valley. Even after the economic downturn in April closed many of the over-optimistic start-ups, there is still a mood of enthusiasm and privilege among those still employed.So what makes 51% of them"very happy"? "Challenging work" is given as the main reason and "salary" is unsurprisingly close behind. The respondents to the survey also listed working weekends and long holidays as indicators of the pleasures of the workplace. Only 13% were paid for the extra hours worked while 14% put in more than 12 hours' work on an average day."For the past two years, this workforce utopia has held the attention of everyone from Wall Street to Main Street," writes Maryann Jones Thompson in the Industry Standard's introduction to the survey."But it wasn't all about money. It was fun. What other job could a college graduate walk into at 10am wearing shorts and sandals? And spend days with his dog at his feet, working on projects that   required real brain power - then leave at 9pm with a belly full of free food, a few happy-hour beers and a big fat check?"The average income, consisting of salary, bonuses and commission, worked out at $104,000 with the average basic salary at $84,700. Given that around a third of the workforce is under 30 and often without family responsibilities, it is clear that for many new graduates - 88% of the workforce went to college - there is only one job in town.Despite the recent influx of techno-migrants from India and other Asian countries, the industry remains predominantly white (83%) and around two-thirds male. The average age is 33.8Internet firms know they must do all they can to keep their high-flyers, as only 20% say they are doing nothing to find another job and more than one in four reckon that by this time next year they will have a new employer.More than two-thirds dress entirely as they please with 31% of them being offered a dry-cleaning service by their   boss. Around 15% are offered free massages. Not that the jolly extras are to everyone's liking, with some complaining that the "non-stop party atmosphere" was almost as tyrannical as the old economy's tie-wearing deference.In 1986, in his prophetic verse novel about Silicon Valley, The Golden Gate, writer Vikram Seth recounted how "...Silicon Valley / Lures to ambition's ulcer alley / Young graduates with siren screams / Of power and wealth beyond their dreams". The survey seems to confirm that the young graduates are still listening to the sirens, still dreaming and now may even have expert advice on how to deal with that ulcer.Gravytrain.comAverage income&#163;73,800Average salary&#163;60,100Average private industry salary&#163;22,300Receive stock options55%Very satisfied with job51%Very satisfied with co-workers70%Likely to leave job in next year28%Average hours worked per day10.1Average percentage of vacation time taken64%Work one/more weekend a month58%Feel they earn less than others45%Offered dry cleaning service at work31%
Mobile phone text messages saying "It's time to get into bed" and "I'm ready and waiting" may not be from a passionate partner but from an internet service alerting couples as to when they are most likely to conceive.The service, launched today by motherandbaby.co.uk, will tell women "It's time to get to bed - the next four days are your most fertile", while those sent to men will include "I'm ready and waiting", "Tonight's the night" and "I've got my lucky knickers on".The website's editor, Sarah Stone, said: "Trying for a baby can have a devastating effect on a couple's relationship. For many the tension leads to arguments, sex becomes robotic and the whole relationship can become less romantic."We want to put some of the fun back into conception and help couples achieve their dreams."Once the egg is released into the fallopian tube, it can only be fertilised within six   to 24 hours. However, as sperm can survive in the female reproductive tract for at least five days, the best time to make love is in the five days before you ovulate and on the day of ovulation itself."With all the things going on in people's lives today, it's easy to forget exactly when this fertile period is."Press Association
No self-respecting consumer electronics exhibition is complete without a home of the future. A place where "resting actors" touting all manner of hi-tech devices explain how, in a few years time, we will be able to use mobile phones to program the temperature of our bath water.It is all tremendous fun and sure to fire the imagination of those who see it. But is this really what awaits the nation's semis? The organisers of Live 2000, opening at the Earls Court Exhibition Centre in London today, certainly believe so. They have developed a Smart Home to show how products can talk to each other intelligently and be programmed via the internet or by a mobile phone.Live's visitors can explore four rooms bristling with screens, keypads and gadgets. And, as all the electrical devices are linked, users can control them via a keypad, or remotely using a mobile phone. Among the hi-tech conjuring tricks the system will perform is the ability to operate curtains, blinds and lighting. There is also the option of switching the oven on remotely, or the chance for family members to play PC games against each other while in different rooms.But while tomorrow's smart homes will control everything from your PC to your toaster via an advanced "webpad" remote control (or, eventually, a third generation mobile phone), today things are rather different.Most of the devices in your home can't even talk to each other yet, let alone respond to the instructions of our keypad toting cyber-dad.So for the concept of the smart home to develop, household items must first   learn to talk to each other and operate together, preferably using IP (internet protocol).Until a few years ago all that household electrical items had in common was a mains plug. More recently both consumer electronics   and PC manufacturers have woken up to the fact that communication between household devices would simplify consumers' lives.The first inter-device communication standards have begun to appear. Until   now they have nearly always been "wired" and usually limited to other products of a similar type. For example, printers, digital cameras and computers typically communicate via USB (universal serial bus) cables, while audio visual equipment relies increasingly on the latest IEEE1394 technology, which Sony and its licencees call iLink and Apple, the original developer, calls FireWire.In some quarters, iLink has been touted as the key to home automation. In some ways it has been extremely successful having been incorporated into 50 million VCRs, camcorders, audio systems and even PCs to enable high-speed operations between various devices.Among its champions is Eddie Odjik, Philips' consumer electronics vice president of system architectures. He says: "iLink is the only technology around today that allows jitterless video connectivity between devices. It already offers 100Mbps data transfer, fast enough for around 20 MPEG2 digital video streams."The format's one weakness is that it doesn't yet support multi-room operation. The current iLink standard works only over distances up to 4.5m (14.6ft) - which is nowhere near enough if, for example, you want to run a lead between the lounge and the bedroom.An enhanced iLink specification, capable of operating over distances of up to 100m, will be available, but possibly not until 2002. By then it may have been overtaken, certainly in the home automation field, by wireless technologies.In fact, most industry commentators seem to agree that wireless connection is the way forward (who wants to spend hours installing   wires around the home?). But which system? Several formats are battling it out for a slice of what is becoming an increasingly lucrative market.Emerging as front runners are two wireless RF (radio frequency) standards, Wireless LAN - versions of the high-speed Ethernet local area network, also known as IEEE802.11) -and the slower, more imaginatively named Bluetooth technology.In the US, many Apple iMacs and PCs are now shipped with wireless LAN technology for connecting them together and to broadband internet services.Visitors to Live will see a prototype version of Sony's Bluetooth VAIO computer and a Bluetooth mobile phone and headset from Ericsson, both scheduled for release in 2001. From this month, Toshiba in the US will also start selling a Bluetooth card for its notebook PCs capable of   communicating with Bluetooth devices once they are launched in 2001.Initially, both wireless formats will be targeted at computer users seeking a more robust alternative to infrared connection for transferring data to and from their notebook computers/PDAs and desktop PCs.For example, a person working on a laptop in the living room could print out a document on a printer in the upstairs study.However, this represents only a small part of what wireless will be able to offer. Boasting a range of 10m, which can be extended to 100m, Bluetooth is expected to herald the home network revolution in the UK, enabling the connection any IP-enabled device - whether a fridge or a VCR - to a central PC or home server. Combine this with a Wap or third generation UMTS (universal mobile telephone   system) mobile phone and it will even be possible to control Bluetooth-enabled devices from outside the home.Using an internet compatible mobile phone, for example, you will one day be able to program the VCR remotely. You could even develop a series of macros to announce your arrival home. So with one flick of a switch the house lights and heating will be turned on, the kettle set to boil, your robot dog will hit over-excitement mode, and the hi-fi system will launch into a suitably regal fanfare.Earlier this year, Nokia predicted that future generations of its multimedia terminal set-top boxes (the industry jargon for the latest digital TV decoders) would feature a mobile phone -interface, even allowing the possibility of a Wap-controlled sauna. Andy Baker, the chairman of home automation trade organisation   Cedia (Custom Electronic Design and Installation Association), says: "Today we can automate just about any process, money permitting. But with the arrival of the internet-based solutions, home automation will become much more affordable and common place."While the idea of a remote-controlled sauna, let alone a fully automated home, may seem a little way off, a new breed of intelligent "home server" - blending the traditional PC with audio visual functionality in one box - is slowly beginning to emerge.Last month, Imerge of Cambridge launched a home audio server that can stream up to 16 different audio tracks to different rooms in the home from a built-in hard drive.Next month also sees the arrival of the first intelligent home video server from Sky/TiVo. And although the first generation set-top box will not offer wireless multi-room facilities, it will feature a 30 gigabyte hard disk drive for capturing programmes according to the user's chosen preferences and viewing patterns, as well as making it possible to pause and rewind live programmes.Next year, the Sky proposition will be enhanced when Pace, a British company, produces its first personal television recorder in conjunction with the satellite broadcaster. Not only will this feature two integrated digital satellite tuners (so that viewers can, for the first time,   watch one Sky digital channel while recording another), it will also incorporate a 40GB hard disk recording system.Sky's arch-rival ONdigital has begun to offer full internet access via its decoder. Although the digital terrestrial broadcaster insists it has no plans to launch a personal video recorder, the inclusion of a hard disk drive in its next generation of decoders is considered by many to be a must.With the gradual emergence of broadband ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) internet connections and digital fibre optic cable systems, many of the smart home concepts will become a reality.Kingston Interactive Television in Hull and Home Choice in London already use ADSL for video on demand (VOD) and high speed internet access, and last month, BT launched its Openworld high speed internet service in some parts of the UK.But these services represent just a tiny part of what the broadband home can offer. Set-top box manufacturers such as Philips, Pace, Nokia and Pioneer are now working on "home gateway" devices that could soon form the hub of a home networking system.Today, it is usually just the PC that is connected to the telephone line. In the broadband home, all IP-compatible products, from the toaster to the fridge, will use RF wireless technologies such as Bluetooth for hooking up to the home gateway server.In France, Pioneer is working with Canal Plus, a European broadcaster, to develop an MP3-based audio on demand service where tracks can be distributed from the home gateway to portable audio devices around the home.In the UK, Pace is working on a product called the Shopping Mate. This will let users scan the groceries they need into a handheld device, and transfer the information to the supermarket via their home gateway set-top box.Two years ago, Nokia unveiled a prototype of its Mediascreen, a handheld device that can be carried around the house so that users can watch digital TV, or surf the net, wherever they are in the home.All three products are expected to go on sale within the next two years. So while it is not worth putting your order in for one of Live's Smart Homes just yet, you probably haven't got too many years to wait.One question remains: Do we really need all this interconnectivity?Earlier this year, LG paraded its first internet fridge. The cool-box was stacked with intelligent features. It not only enabled users to log what foods were in the fridge, but also made suggestions as to what kind of dish they could rustle up using them. You could also use the fridge to surf the net, play MP3s and email digital camera images.There's no denying that technologically the fridge is very impressive. But back in the real world, is anyone really going to want to check out the latest financial news via their cool-box?The last couple of decades have been littered with technologically impressive ideas that failed because they sported just a few too many buttons. Perhaps the Smart Home may prove to be a little too intelligent to really transform our lives.How does Bluetooth work?Imagine being able to send music files to your MP3 player, then playing them on your headphones, without any wires connecting the three devices. With Bluetooth, that's exactly what you could be doing in about a year's time. Named after 10th century ruler King Harald II of Denmark, who apparently had a bad tooth, Bluetooth uses the 2.4GHz frequency band to connect various digital devices wirelessly.Digital cameras, printers, PCs, personal organisers and mobile phones are just some of the peripherals that could easily be linked together. It may even be possible to use a Bluetooth-enabled credit card device to pay for products in shops without even going to a cash desk. Backed by several leading companies, including IBM, Intel, Ericsson, Toshiba and Nokia, Bluetooth allows wireless data transfer between various products at speeds of up to 1Mbps. That is considerably faster than today's 56kbps dial-up modems, though still not fast enough for full-screen MPEG2 digital video. Another drawback is that range is currently limited to around 10m making the technology only suitable for connecting up products in the same building.
