What does playing computer games do to us?A YouGov pollhas stirred up familiar worries about the effects of new media on children's communication skills, saying that one in six children under the age of seven in England has difficulty talking – a problem that will have many worried parents looking at games consoles and wondering how far their children's onscreen delights are implicated in this decline.Anyone who has played video games, or watched their children playing, will know that they are an exceptionally compelling medium. As Jean Gross, the government's new communication champion for children, noted, overbusy parents can spend dangerously little time talking to their children. Far easier to plonk them down in front of a mesmerising screen.A lack of parental time and engagement is self-evidently a bad thing, as is the excessive use of any one medium. Yet this vision of gaming as a passive, inert activity does little to help struggling parents. For perhaps the most remarkable thing about modern video games is the degree to which they offer not a sullen and silent unreality, but a realm that's thick with difficulties, obligations, judgments and allegiances. If we are to understand the 21st century and the generation who will inherit it, it's crucial that we learn to describe the dynamics of this gaming life: a place that's not so much about escaping the commitments and interactions that make friendships "real" as about a sophisticated set of satisfactions with their own increasingly urgent reality and challenges.Take the idea of scarcity. In the real world, there isn't enough of everything to go round and people suffer as a result. In the digital world, there is suffusion: anything can be duplicated almost endlessly at negligible cost. We are free to indulge ourselves to the utmost degree. Except, it turns out, people are rather attached to scarcity – and to difficulty, and to hard work, and to all those things that the narcissistic digital realm allegedly teaches us to avoid. We are deeply and fundamentally attracted, in fact, to games: those places where efforts and excellence are rewarded, where the challenges and demands are severe, and where success often resembles nothing so much as a distilled version of the worldly virtues of dedicated learning and rigorously co-ordinated effort.The very first virtual worlds were indeed utopias. Places like The Palace, which opened its doors in 1995, offered users a kind of enchanted chatroom where they could interact with each other within graphical locations ("palaces") that they had themselves created. Within the limitations of the technology, you could have and do anything you liked. It was a utopia, and it was boring. Not only did people prefer virtual worlds in which there were brutally strict limits on available resources, and where vast amounts of effort had to be expended to obtain these resources; they were actually prepared to pay money to spend time in these scarce worlds.People liked other things, too: banding together to earn greater rewards; the escalating prospect of greater and greater challenges, involving levels of achievement at the top end only attainable by hundreds of hours of effort. Take the processes involved in playing Microsoft's Xbox 360 console in its own online arena, Xbox Live – a digital destination that now boasts more than 20 million users. Thanks to the way Xbox Live works, anyone playing on Microsoft's network isn't just trying to beat individual games; they're also working, often very hard, to earn cumulative "achievement" points for meeting particular targets in each and every game on the system, in an effort to lift their individual score ever higher in the global rankings. It's this pattern of effort and reward, validated by a networked community of players, that makes modern games such an awesome engine for engagement.When considering just how "real" anything that takes place in a virtual environment can be, it is, first of all, worth remembering the degree to which most real-life activities, from work to shopping to dating, demand a degree of self-concealment precisely because of the direct consequences they entail. A virtual world is a tremendous leveller in terms of wealth, age, appearance, ethnicity and such like – a crucial fact for anyone who isn't in the optimum social category of being, say, attractive and affluent and aged between 20 and 35. It's also a place where "you" are composed entirely of your words and actions: something that breeds within and around many games an often extraordinarily complex network of conventions and debates that are integral to a community held together only by voluntary bonds.Visit any website devoted to hosting player discussions of games like World of Warcraft, for instance, and you'll find not hundreds but tens of thousands of comments flying between players who debate every aspect of the game, from weapon-hit percentages to mathematical analyses of the most efficient sequence in which to use a character's abilities. It will range from the sublime to the ridiculous, and will be riddled with private codes, slang, trolls, flames, and everything else the internet so excels at delivering.What you'll find above all, though, is a love of discussion almost for its own sake; and an immensely broad and well-informed range of critical analyses. It's not unknown for doctors of economics or maths to wade into the fray – and find themselves bested by other still more meticulous chains of gamer reasoning.Perhaps the most sophisticated online game of them all, the epic science fiction universe known as EVE Online, has even seen its player community persuade the company running the game to hold democratic elections for a "council" via which players can voice their concerns directly to developers. Places on this Council of Stellar Management, as it is known, were first competed for in a full election during March 2008, with 66 candidates putting themselves forward for nine positions. Every player of the game was eligible to vote, and the results were announced in May 2008: 24,651 votes were cast out of a pool of 222,422 eligible voters, revealing a turnout of 11%. These days, alongside the council, there is a separate internal affairs division, designed to root out misconduct on the part of both players and developers after some nasty allegations of insider dealing with the valuable engineering schematics.In an election year for Britain, this kind of grand experiment in community government and participation is given an edge by perhaps the most fundamental traits of every gaming world: fairness, equality and transparency.Consider one of the most fundamental problems posed by any massively multiplayer online game: the distribution of rewards among a team of people who have collaborated in order to work their way through a vast – and rewarding – challenge. Nobody is being paid to be there. In fact, all the players involved will be paying exactly the same amount of money for the privilege of playing the game in the first place. Given that most in-game challenges tend to produce only a small amount of very valuable loot in the form of armour or weapons that almost everyone would like to own, the problem created is one that can only be solved satisfactorily by a solution that is self-evidently fair and self-contained.In 1999 a group of players in the game EverQuest devised the first version of exactly such a system. Dubbed Dragon Kill Points, or DKP – the key task that necessitated devising the system was killing two very tough dragons – essentially it entailed introducing a private and self-regulated currency between collaborating players. Under a DKP system, every time anyone participated in a group mission they got "paid" a set DKP allocation. These points were tracked – independently of the game, on an open website run by the players themselves – and accumulated over time until a player decided they wished to spend them on a rare or desirable item found during an in-game mission. At this point an open or closed auction system would allocate each item to the highest bidder.Once the notion of DKP had been introduced, an increasingly sophisticated series of methods of quantifying the challenges and rewards in the game soon began to develop among players. "Price lists" were developed for in-game items, based on detailed statistical analyses of their properties. As one developer of the DKP system put it to me, "loot handling in online games would probably be a PhD thesis in itself. It was very, very difficult. We had a good time trying to figure out what price things should be, what was the best way to distribute."In a digital world – and a political arena – increasingly preoccupied with transparency and accountability, the spontaneous emergence of such a system points towards the gaming world's remarkable power. The DKP system is an entirely self-enforcing mechanism; yet its effectiveness among gamers who adopt it runs at close to 100%. This is because it works; because it is transparent and meticulously fair; and because it has been laboriously calibrated over time to prevent collusive bidding or other kinds of cheating.Neither playing Warcraft nor building a virtual polling booth in Second Life is likely to win many votes for a British political party in 2010, of course. And spending 24 hours a day in either environment is unlikely to do much for anyone's conversational abilities. But it's high time we began to understand games on their own terms, with all the potentials and dangers that entails: as arguably the most powerful models we have for connecting and motivating, and understanding those vast, disparate groups of people a digital age throws together.Tom Chatfield is arts and books editor at Prospect magazine. His book Fun Inc: Why Games are the 21st Century's Most Serious Business (Virgin Books) is published this week at £12.99
Released to coincide with the Winter Olympics but coming out in a week when the country has descended into snow-based chaos/best fun ever (delete according to mental age), it's clearly the time for sub-zero thrills withWinter Sports 2010: The Great Tournament. Reminiscent ofWinter Olympiad '88on the BBC Micro, the title offers today's next-gen consoles a variety of disciplines, including biathlon, speed skating and downhill racing. Sadly, it doesn't quite live up to expectations for either graphics or gameplay. By far the most entertaining events are bobsled and ski jumping, which give a real sense of speed. For the remaining challenges, however, the controls often feel exasperatingly clumsy and unresponsive. Figure skating is particularly hopeless, demanding neither skill nor co-ordination except to follow button sequencesGuitar Hero-style throughout. Multiplayer livens it up, as always, but overall a chilly reception – fun but flawed.
Last Tuesday, Google finally confirmed it was entering the hardware market by launching its own mobile phone handset. The Nexus One is made to Google's specifications by HTC, a Taiwanese firm, and runs the latest version of Google's Android software, an open source operating system already running on a number of handsets, including ones made by HTC and Motorola.Salivating over a head-to-head contest between Google and Apple, the mainstream news media made as much of it as they could. The BBC even dispatched its technology correspondent, Rory Cellan-Jones, to Google's HQ, where he dutifully asked if the company thought its new phone would provide competition for Apple's iPhone. The Google spokesman waffled, but needn't have bothered. The truth is that, in most respects, the Google phone is inferior to the Apple product.That's not to say that it doesn't have some nice features: a powerful processor chip, for example; the ability to run more than one application at a time; a nice screen with much higher resolution than that of the iPhone; turn-by-turn navigation (with Street View so that you can see your destination); voice recognition software which – depending on who you talk to – works 90% of the time; etc.But it also has a relatively small number of downloadable apps and very little memory for storing them; no easy way of transferring music files to the device; and the attractiveness of the high-resolution screen is somewhat dented by the fact that it doesn't support "multi-touch" interactions in the way the Apple product does. Whatever else the Google phone is, an "iPhone killer" it ain't.But perhaps that's intentional. Despite their tender years, the boys who run Google have consistently shown a good grasp of military strategy, the first law of which is always to decline combat on territory dominated by your enemy and fight only on ground where you have the advantage. That's why for years Google avoided getting into the PC operating system market – Microsoft's fiefdom – and concentrated instead on search and networked services, where it was overwhelmingly dominant.This also explains its mobile phone strategy. They recognise that the functional elegance of the iPhone comes from having total control of both the hardware and its software. This kind of integrated mastery, which is Apple's stock-in-trade, would be difficult to acquire quickly, even for a company as smart as Google.So they've created the software – the Android operating system – then given it away to any handset manufacturer who wants to use it. Google thus effectively arranges that the smartphone market will be flooded by devices which, while not perhaps offering all the functionality of the iPhone, still give consumers more reasons for not buying the Apple device. In that sense, the implicit message of the Nexus One is: "This is what a good non-Apple smartphone could be like; now go forth and multiply."This is also implicit in the network strategy Google has devised for the device. You can buy it unlocked for $529 (£330) and use it on any mobile network  or get it for $179 (£112) from T-mobile on a two-year contract. Compare that with the iPhone, which is essentially tethered to contracts with network operators of Apple's choosing in each of the 94 countries where it's on offer. If this works, it will mean that the mobile phone market will soon have lots of non-Apple smartphones providing their users with internet connections on the move, together with access to location-based advertising and other services.Google's nightmare is that Apple might get a dominant grip on the mobile internet and its associated advertising business. This isn't just paranoia. Last week news broke that Apple is acquiring a mobile advertising outfit called Quattro Wireless for a reported $275m. So Google's fears about Steve Jobs &amp; Co are rational, fuelled by the realisation that the days when Apple was just a quirky computer manufacture have long gone; its current market cap ($193bn) makes it nearly as valuable as Google ($198bn).And Apple has been building a substantial cloud-computing infrastructure, including a $1bn data centre, which is possibly the world's largest server farm, in North Carolina. The iPhone/Nexus competition is interesting, but is really only a skirmish in what might become an interesting war.
Perhaps because it was his first keynote at the Consumer Electronics Show,Qualcomm's chief executive Dr Paul Jacobs put on an excellent, if slightly overlong, show. He featured a string of chief executives with interesting new products using Qualcomm technology, and announced support for Google's ChromeOS. Then, to end on a high, he gave 300 free FLO TVs to members of the audience.Jacobs' guests included HTC boss Peter Chou, Lenovo boss Yuanqing Yang, Todd Bradley, who runs Hewlett-Packard's Personal Systems Group, and D-Link boss Tony Tsao. These may not be household names, but HTC makes Google's Android phones, including the Nexus One, Lenovo is the biggest PC maker in China and took over IBM's PC business, and HP is now the world's largest technology company.All of that should worry Microsoft. HTC has always been the largest manufacturer of Windows Mobile phones, while IBM's PC division and HP have been two of Microsoft's three most important supporters (the other one is Dell). And both HP and Lenovo showed smartbooks, a format that Qualcomm is promoting as an alternative to netbooks.WhenI suggested that CES would see the start of a battle between ARM-based smartbooks and Intel Atom-powered netbooks, I imagined that the smartbooks would come from a dozen or so small Asian suppliers. Instead, the most interesting smartbooks have been shown by two of the largest PC manufacturers.To be fair, Yuanqing Yang said the Skylight smartbook was about extending the PC's reach, and HP's Todd Bradley stressed that he wasn't making a product announcement. But it won't help Microsoft if these companies sell lots of smartbooks running Linux rather than netbooks running Windows.For all these gadgets, the Qualcomm connection is the ARM-based Snapdragon processor used in Google's Nexus One phone. Jacobs believes that the chips used in smartphones will go into many other consumer electronics devices in the future. They might look different but they'll all have mobile phone technology inside.One example is the ebook reader, and Jacobs showed one using Mirasol. "You've seenE Inkdisplays in devices like the Kindle, so this display technology does the same thing, except does it with full colour and with full-motion video," he said.But the highlight of Jacobs' keynote was the appearance ofEric Topol, who is, among other things, chief medical officer of the West Wireless Health Institute. He showed an impressive range of health gadgets including Zeo's device for measuring sleep quality, a Corventis Piix heart monitor, and a small machine for doing echo cardiograms -- a sort of high-tech stethoscope.Jacobs isn't a big-name presenter and didn't attract the capacity crowd that went to seeSteve Ballmer's opening keynote, but I'd bet more people ended up better informed, and happier.
In our latest podcast from the 2010 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas we hear fromSean Maloney, who is tipped to be the next boss of Intel. He talks toJack Schofieldabout its new chips, which use less power than previous incarnations.Bobbie Johnsonis joined by Jack andLeander Kahneyfrom Cult Of Mac to discuss the computing chip industry, plus their highlights from CES so far.FinallyScott Cawleycontinues his tour of CES, this time making it to (most) of the central halls, and finds out about a gadget that can charge your devices using the energy from Wi-Fi signals.Tech Weekly is back on Tuesday with a roundup of the week at CES.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
We all know that the games business goes in cycles and that a new generation of consoles always comes along to replace whatever is popular today. In fact, we should now be talking about the Xbox 720, Sony PlayStation 4 and Wii II, or whatever they might be called, because game developers need a couple of years to create new games to exploit the new hardware capabilities that justify the launch of a new generation. But we aren't, and Microsoft doesn't want us to."I think it's important to say that the Xbox 360 is the console of the long future for us. There is no need to launch a new console, because we're able to give this console new life either with software upgrades or hardware upgrades likeProject Natal," said David Hufford, senior director of Xbox product management in a briefing at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. "The Xbox 360 was designed for a long life, and I don't even know if we're at the midpoint yet."Rather than release a new console, Microsoft is developing Project Natal to enhance existing systems. At a CES keynote, Xbox boss Robbie Bach said Natal will be released for the 2010 holiday season, ie in the run-up to Christmas. Hufford said the team had demonstrated at E3 that the technology worked, and now "we've asked the development teams to concentrate on making the games."Hufford said that the Xbox 360 did not need an upgrade to support 3D games -- "Avatar is on Xbox and we have a 3D game, Scrap Metal, in our booth right now" -- and nor would he commit to offering a Blu-ray drive. Indeed, I couldn't even get him to speculate about moving the 360 forward to a more modern chip technology. This would reduce the Xbox's manufacturing cost and also produce a console that generated less heat and cost less to run -- benefits that have already accrued to Sony with the launch of the PS3 Slim. It should also be more reliable."We love our prices right now," said Hufford. "I don't want to say that technology stops, but we believe we have a high quality console, and we stand by that quality with an unprecedented warranty, so we think we're in a good place now heading into the Natal era."Microsoft is clearly working on the software and content parts of the Xbox with the Zune movie service, support for social networking, the Gameroom of classic arcade games, Mediaroom TV services, Project Natal and so on. It's not looking to launch new hardware.This makes sense because new consoles typically sell at a loss, and the system only becomes really profitable in the later years as manufacturing costs fall and sales of high-priced software mount up. Sony, of course, is in the same position but worse, because it's still selling PlayStation 3 consoles at a loss, and will need several profitable years to get back its huge investment.So what has changed?Most console wars result in a big win for one player -- Atari VCS, Nintendo NES, Sega Mega Drive, Sony PlayStation or whatever -- with the others failing. This encourages the failing companies to move to the next generation first to get a competitive edge.This time around, the three major players have all achieved viable market shares. Perhaps there's no incentive for any of them to start a next-generation console war, and Ken Kutaragi will have been correct in claiming that the PS3 would last a decade.What do you think? Technology has moved on since 2005, when the Xbox 360 was announced. Will you be happy to have the same system in 2015?
After the unchallenged Christmas dominance of Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, the release dates for plenty of so-called triple-A games have been saved for 2010. While the first few months promise an absurd bumper crop, the rest of the year's looking like no slouch.Gran Turismo 5Playstation 3Announced a seeming eternity ago, Gran Turismo 5, the latest instalment in the series that gave birth to realistic driving games, seems to have been "coming soon" for as long as anyone can remember. This year it will allegedly be released in all its HD, online multiplayer glory.Out autumnSplit/SecondPC, PS3, Xbox 360Split SecondAnother racing game, but one in which you can blow up large sections of the track and scenery, creating shortcuts and dropping bits of buildings in front of competitors. Save up explosive power-ups for even bigger bangs in what promises to be a rather different way of winning.Out MayMass Effect 2PC, Xbox 360Mass Effect 2Another outing for Commander Shepard and his (or her, if you prefer) crew as you help stop a new threat to mankind, manifesting itself in the stealthy abduction of entire human colonies. More role-playing japes and lightweight action with the bonus option of making Shepard act like a jerk.Out 29 JanCrackdown 2Xbox 360Crackdown 2Mutants invade Pacific City and it's your job to stop them in this sequel to the excellent Crackdown. Playing like a sanitised Grand Theft Auto where you're on the side of law and order, there are no hookers in sight and you can upgrade your agent to leap small buildings.Release date TBAAliens vs PredatorPC, PS3, Xbox 360Aliens vs PredatorThe eternal struggle continues as Alien fights Predator fights hapless space marine in a battle where humans feel more like trembling cannon fodder than conquering heroes. Promising three very different perspectives on the action and plenty of references to the blockbuster movie base material.Out 26 FebFinal Fantasy XIVPC, PS3Final Fantasy XIVMore than five years in the making, the latest Final Fantasy promises accessible, massively multiplayer online gaming. Created with casual gamers in mind and designed to support quick dips as well as the hundreds of hours spent stuffing your face with Doritos that World Of Warcraft precipitates.Out 9 MarBioShock 2PC, PS3, Xbox 360Bioshock 2Returning to Rapture, the decaying art deco underwater city that made the original so memorable, you step into the weighted diving boots of a Big Daddy, growling protector of the gene-harvesting Little Sisters who patrol the city for corpses. More mildly grisly, genetically enhanced entertainment.Out 9 FebAlan WakeXbox 360Alan WakeAlthough announced some time ago, Alan Wake is another game perpetually in preview. If it does finally appear this year, its brand of open world, action-orientated survival horror, pitting author Alan against all manner of terrors from his own fiction, should be well polished after long development.Out 28 May
BabelgumYouTube is a land of bountiful wonder, but sometimes it's so big you don't know where to begin, especially if your interests expand beyond cats. Babelgum is a curated alternative to the world's most popular video portal housing a selection of music videos (including exclusive first plays like Julian Casablancas and live sets from Gorillaz and the Prodigy), short documentaries and comedies such as zombie spoof movie The Cannibal Run. Among the unique content is a series by The Ice Cream Man, who travels US festivals handing out free lollies in exchange for impromptu live sessions.My Parents Were AwesomeMy Parents Were AwesomeWith the decade of snark now behind us, perhaps we are entering a new era where our first impulse is to enjoy rather than mock. Or maybe not; low-level malice and the internet go together like a keyboard cat and a fugly celeb. However, this lovely homage to old-school charm is one step in a more friendly direction as it posits the unthinkable notion that, once upon a time, back when growing sideburns was a rebellious act, our parents (and grandparents) were actually fashion-forward, free-thinking cool kids. Faded photos provide the evidence, but among all the 60s hipsters it's the snaps of people just having a laugh that are the most heartwarming.Blog roll: CyclingCycle ChicSartorial elegance and bicycle advocacy in a single package on the streets of Copenhagen.Real CyclingThe harsh reality of British cycle lanes and the simple joys of pedalling the Peak District.Bicycle DesignAdvancements in cycling technology, from pollution data-collecting wheels to baskets for chickens.London CyclistHow to commute faster, the finest waterproofs and 10 DIY bike projects that anyone can do.Bike HacksTogether, two wheels, a frame and a chain can become anything – including, in China, a useful weapon against violent criminals.Bike BlogOn all things cycling including Sheffield's pedal powered paramedics.What we learned on the web this weekThings used tolook a bit different around here.Charles Minguswas an expert in toilet training for cats.How theofficial 2010 World Cup football is made.10 waysto flirt with a nerd.The letter Nis a great letter to fall asleep to.How theWizard Of Oz should have ended.Happiness isa song called Upular.Morgan Freemancontrols everything.A historyof David Bowie's fangs.The 370passwords you can't use on Twitter.
First, a confession. I have twice sweated along to Natalie Cassidy's fitness video, and there is a programme called "thighs, bums and tums" on my Sky planner.Both belong to my girlfriend (naturally), but I know more than I like to admit about home fitness programmes. Your Shape compares pretty favourably, although the fun part is setting it up (which is pretty easy to do). It comes with a video camera that scans your body shape and stores it in the console. Users then select which parts of their bodies to tone up.When the tailor-made programme begins – the usual quota of star jumps, squats and lunges – the camera displays your image alongside that of the virtual instructor. Its a neat trick, and it helps you follow her movements as she exorts you to pump those arms faster.The number of calories burned is displayed on-screen too. It's good fun, and is as good as any fitness video for working out at home – but I don't know how much weight you will actually lose. A word of warning, though: you'll need a lot of room to play, and to make sure the camera mounted on your TV can scan your whole body. At 6'3", I was so far back from the tele I was squeezed against the sofa.
For the uninitiated, Blood Bowl is a pretty strange concept. Based on a 20-year-old Warhammer spinoff board game, it merges the worlds of dice, tape-measures and overpriced metal miniature figurines with the similarly stop-and-start and rule-heavy world of American football.In fact, the cover of the Xbox 360 game itself tells you pretty much all you really need to know – a big orc, with a spiky helmet, bashing some poor bloke holding a pigskin. A sport sim with added violence and hitting people. Fair enough. The thing is, while you may expect Madden with monsters, what Blood Bowl actually offers is simply the original Games Workshop board game, but played on your TV with added animations and graphics. You don't control the players yourself, nothing happens in real-time – hell, you even have to roll virtual dice every turn. Think 3D chess, with a ball.What this means is that while Blood Bowl fanatics will be immensely satisfied (and it seems like there are a fair few out there), for everyone else the game is a bit of a head-scratcher. For starters, it's incredibly complex, and the tutorial offered is pretty woeful. The impenetrable amount of rules, clauses, special bonuses etc may work well on a long afternoon gathered around a gaming table – where you have the time and patience to consult huge rule books and sets of cards, special dice, and so on – but somehow this doesn't really seem right for the pick-up-and-play nature of console gaming. So difficult is the game to get to grips with for the newcomer it must have originally been made strictly with Blood Bowl aficionados in mind.The game is, in fact, a version of a PC game released on Steam, the popularity of which convinced THQ to release a console version. Sadly, as these things often seem to be, it's a pretty lazy port. You've got no chance reading the captions on screen if your television is anything less than a 21in. The controls are poor. And the loading times are appalling. You shouldn't have to wait for more than a minute to load a field of small, unimpressively rendered creatures and a few waving fans. Fifa manages twice as much detail in less than half the time.If you do manage to get the hang of the basic gameplay (something that took me a fair few hours), the game does start to become fairly playable. Scoring your first touchdown after dozens of games, most of which were spent grimly trying to make any sense of what's going on, is genuinely satisfying. Working out successful tactics and strategies is actually be pretty stimulating. There is a reason, after all, that the game in its original form has lasted 20 years.The presentation, though something of a mixed bag with ugly menu screens and a pretty drably rendered field of play, is quite charming. The commentary is actually pretty funny – Mark Lawrenson could learn a thing or two from the ogre pundit, Jim Johnson. Blood Bowl fans will doubtless relish being able to play a game they love without all the faff that the physical game entails. The opportunity for online play is also a big plus – having thousands of people willing to play such a niche game at your fingertips must be appealing.The problem is I'd expect all those aforementioned fans to already have the game on PC – why would they want to play an inferior version? Meanwhile, uninitiated gamers could spend hours trying to understand a fiddly and repetitive game that clearly doesn't work all that well on a console. But they could play something more fun, and less obscure instead.For the dozens of PC-less Blood Bowl fans out there, this game is a must. For the rest of us however, all we can do is wonder how this game ever got released on a console in the first place.
Now we can get 2009 into perspective, and the hangovers have worn off (less so the credit card bills, perhaps), let's see howmy tech predictions for 2009 went. Time to tot up …Prediction 1:At least three companies will withdraw from the PC manufacturing business.They didn't. Did they? That's0/1Matthew Wheeler points out thatMPC did. MPC? "Edge PC owned by Micron Tech, then MicronPC, sold to Gores Tech, changed to MPC, sold to Hyperspace of Utah, then Chap.11," heexplained. And of course there's Psystar, which thought it could put Mac OS X onto generic boxes, and got told by a judge it couldn't. (These are hardly the big names I was originally thinking of, though.) And Psystar is still offering T-shirts,according to The Register.In fact, companies didn't withraw from the PC-making business; instead, seeing how desktops and even standard laptops weren't making money, they shifted to netbooks, which saw explosive growth. Lesson: manufacturers like making things. The shift to making netbooks was a sort of evolutionary episode in the punctuated equilibrium of the computer business.Prediction 2:There will be more "netbooks" – aka ultraportables, aka liliputers, like the Asus Eee PC – than ever, and their sales growth will far outpace that of the PC market.Bullseye. PC market growth:1.3%(or-7%,depending whose numbers you like). Netbook market growth:almost 100%(by revenue).1/2Prediction 3:Sun Microsystems won't have a near-death experience, but it's going to keep shrinking.True. Being the subject of a (wished-for) takeover by Oracle hasn't made it grow.2/3Prediction 4:Vonage will die. I'm sorry, guys, but your income statement shows you have debts of $276m, cash of $112m, and are paying "interest" (on the debt) of $5m per quarter, which means losses of $7m per quarter. That's just not sustainable, and debt isn't going to get cheaper to service, either.Completely wrong. Vonage is still going. I have no idea how.2/4Prediction 5:Palm will come close to death, but advance sales of its Pre webphone, plus a little more money from its venture capitalist backers, will save it.Its latest figures show that it didn't do well, and the Pre hasn't actually been fabulous. But the money from the venture capitalists has certainly helped.3/5Prediction 6:Twitter will find a way to charge for its service, from at least some users, and so move towards at least revenue, if not yet profit. Its growth will become explosive.Tricky, this. Twitter's growth did become explosive, helped along by Oprah, and Iranian election, and so on. Is it charging you or me to use it? No. Is it, however, charging Microsoft and Google to use its database for their "real-time" search engines, putting it squarely into revenue and, arguably, profit? Yes. Can we call Microsoft and Google "Twitter users"? I don't see why not – I've previously argued that it should charge for use of its API, and charging those two giants for that is good enough.So,4/6Prediction 7:Many – as in thousands – of IT jobs will be lost. Lots will go in finance as that industry shrinks; but there's a general trend now where small companies are beginning to rely on cloud services from companies like Google, Microsoft and Amazon. Those don't need a lot of people. (Ever seen a job advert to work on a cloud service?).(The point about this was that the jobs were being lost in developed countries, of course, rather than in total all over the world.) Has there been a dramatic uptick in the number of IT jobs? Not thinking so.5/7Prediction 8:IT will more and more resemble the building business. Either you specialise, or you're coordinating the project, or you're doing simple, low-paid work that someone from another country can and will do for less.This ties in with the one above. Cloud-based services mean that setting up a business that relies on downloads, for example, is simple. (Twitter caches your pictures on Amazon's S3 service, for example.) Are IT people becoming multi-specialists? Or finding it harder to get general work? We're still hearing that there's a skills shortage in IT – but the shortage is at the top end, in the project coordination side, or in getting the services set up. There's less demand for bodies. These days, you either specialise, or get out. Though I realise that this could be described as my biased view, without data. So let's call it a half. (Data either way to prove or disprove very welcome.)5.5/8And now we come to that ever-popular subject, Microsoft.Prediction 9:Windows 7 will be pushed out of the door in time for the end of the year, and particularly for Christmas sales. It won't be perfect, but it will get corporates interested in an upgrade from XP, which Vista didn't.It certainly was pushed out for the end of the year; October 22 is good enough. While you could argue that it's not perfect, it's considered by lots of people to be very, very good. And it certainly has corporate customers very interested in an upgrade. Come on, that's solid.6.5/9Prediction 10:Microsoft will buy chunks of Yahoo (after being forced to overbid by challenges from Google), which will raise yowls of pain from all over the web. And then in six months people will have forgotten all about it.Microsoft did buy chunks of Yahoo – well, sort of. Specifically, it bought the right to put its ads against search, which it would do. Google didn't challenge it at all. Though this one sounds right, when you examine the detail, it's wrong.6.5/10Prediction 11:XP will finally be declared dead once Windows 7 is released, because a version of Windows 7 will be made to run on netbooks.Yes, Windows 7 is made to run on netbooks. XP hasn't formally been declared dead (apart from the fact that it's been declared dead ages ago) but it's vanishing.7.5/11Prediction 12:Internet Explorer will continue to lose share to Firefox, Apple's Safari and especially Google's Chrome.Oh, yes, that did keep happening.Firefox has reached historical highs. And Internet Explorer (all versions, cumulative)keeps slipping.8.5/12Prediction 13:No Zune phone, and no Zune in Europe either.Can I claim two? No? Damn. There was a moment in November where I worried – er, hoped – no, worried that there might be a Zune in Europe. But it turned out that Microsoft was just using the name, a bit, for itsonline video marketplace in Europe. Microsoft hasn't launched a Zune Phone (it's doing badly enough with Windows Mobile without trying to make its struggling music player mimic the iPod's transition into the iPhone) and the Zune remains an idea that has yet to make sense in the US, let alone Europe.9.5/13UbiquityPrediction 14:Dongles will fall in price, and data charges will too as the phone networks realise that it's a great way to tie people to lucrative contracts without having to subsidise them with mobile phones. So they'll become pervasive. Let's put a number on it: 3 million users, PAYG or contract, by the end of the year.Result: true, and data charges have as well. There are actually about 13 million mobile data users in the UK. How many dongles? At least 3m of them, surely.10.5/14Prediction 15:Being able to transfer sound and, increasingly, video around your home between different devices will become more important, and more and more products will appear built around the DLNA standard to assist it.It's an enduring mystery why this hasn't been more visible. But in fact more and more people are moving video around the home. What do you think the iPlayer is all about? Except, of course, they don't tend to link it to their TV. The Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Wii though are changing this, by offering iPlayer (PS3, Wii) and film (PS3, Xbox) streams. That's not, though, what I'd imagined, which is people actually storing data centrally in their home and shifting it. Though "more" DLNA products have appeared (I loved theLaCie 1TB NAS drive, for example, which has DLNA compatibility). My feeling though is that this hasn't happened.10.5/15Prediction 16:Femtocells – which improve mobile reception inside homes and businesses by providing a mini-cell, and pushing the data over your broadband connection – will struggle because the mobile companies will price them wrong, thinking they should be a niche, and hence expensive, product.I also said during the year that femtocells weren't going to make it, which brought lots of plangent cries from femtocell companies saying that no, really,2010was the year they were aiming at. I was sent a femtocell to try. (Thank you, Vodafone. Afraid I made little progress.) Have you seen a femtocell anywhere? Anywhere at all? (Mobile phone company employees and femtocell manufacturers excluded.) I think this can't be anything but correct.11.5/16Prediction 17:Mobile networks will tout phones on the basis that they let you contact your friends on Twitter – rather than last year's favourite, Facebook – via the data connection. (SMS will remain too expensive for Twitter to use outside the US.)Facebook remained the powerful force and the reason people wanted to connect: plenty of phones were marketed on the basis that you'd be able to check Facebook; none that I saw on the basis on twittering. (A classic case of early adopter over-optimism about Twitter's penetration on my part – though it has completely entered the language, having been used in a scene in Gavin and Stacey.) And Twitter re-introduced SMS updates outside the US. So wrong on both counts.11.5/17LinuxPrediction 18:Advocates will declare that 2010 is going to be "the year of desktop Linux" while the bugs are ironed out this year.This was bound to fail. Linux advocates always say thatthisyear is the one when desktop Linux is going to take off. Ubuntu got plenty of fans, especially forversion 9.04 in April.11.5/18Prediction 19:But in fact the sales of netbooks running Linux will mean that it's best-selling year for desktop Linux ever.Then again, this one was bound to succeed. Desktop Linux has had so few avenues for sale that it wasn't going to fail to have its best-ever year once a few machines with it were sold. Of course, I overlooked the popularity of Android, Google's mobile phone operating system, which is Linux. Had I forecast that mobile Linux would have a standout year, that would have been a really worthwhile prediction. Still:12.5/19ApplePrediction 20:Let's start with a banker. No self-replicating worm for Mac OSX or the iPhone's OSX by the end of the year.Correct. It always is, year after year.13.5/20Prediction 21:Snow Leopard will be released for sale in May 2009 … this date means it will have been slightly more than the average delay for OSX releases since Leopard's release in October 2007 – which leaves time for an announcement and release schedule.Wrong. Wrongy, wrongy, wrongy wrong wrong. Snow Leopard wasreleased in August 2009.13.5/21Prediction 22:Snow Leopard squashes down application sizes, and uses the graphics processing unit (GPU) to help processing. But why would you want to do that? It feels oddly as though Apple is imagining a Flash drive-based machine able to run Snow Leopard, with a comparatively weak processor that uses the GPU to hide the fact. Plus it owns a chip design company. Even so, I don't think it will offer a tablet computer. Or a netbook. Neither fits with its strategy – which is all about the iPhone, and pricey computers.Appleturned up its nose at the idea of a netbook. (Even ifI did suggest that it should. Yes, accuse me of wanting it all ways.) It also didn't announce a tablet computer in 2009. (2010, ah, perhaps different.)14.5/22Prediction 23:Apple will charge for the Snow Leopard upgrade – just as much as it has for previous upgrades.Yes, it did charge – but not as much as for previous upgrades. That's a miss.14.5/23Prediction 24:ZFS won't be built into the kernel for Snow Leopard; it'll be an optional install, for server honchos.In fact,ZFS has disappeared from Apple builds. The cause seems to be intellectual property problems. Ah well. It would have been a nightmare.15.5/24Prediction 25:Steve Jobs will remain chief executive through the year. That might sound like an obvious prediction. It isn't.Hmm – technically, he was the chief executive, but he stepped aside to have a liver transplant and recuperate for six months. This prediction was made amid all the rumours of Jobs's illness at the tail-end of 2008. The rumours were that he would have to step down because of the condition (at that time, still a secret). My feeling was that it wasn't such a big thing. Turns out it was a Big Thing. I think this is half-right - no more.16/25Prediction 26:The iPhone hardware won't be updated before the autumn.The iPhone 3GS was released in June, andStephen Fry reviewed itin the same month. June is not autumn, not even in the southern hemisphere.16/26Prediction 27:The iPhone software will be updated to 3.x, which will bring copy-and-paste and photo messaging. About time.It was, and it did. Finally.17/27EnvironmentPrediction 28:Oil prices are diving, but electricity is still not getting cheaper. Expect more companies – even quite big ones – to reduce their in-house server usage in favour of outsourced pay-per-process services offered by Microsoft, Google and Amazon.This is the move to cloud computing, and it's one-way traffic at present. Do you know of anyone who has brought their computing back in-house from the cloud?18/28Free Our DataPrediction 29:The government will take a deep breath and acknowledge that it must make a significant part of Ordnance Survey's data available for free unfettered reuse – and will do it.I was there at 10 Downing Street when Gordon Brown, flanked by Tim Berners-Lee (he invented the web, you know) and Martha Lane-Fox,announced precisely that. Actually, I'd have traded all the other predictions for this one – but this one is a great one, a huge year-end bonus to the Free Our Data campaign and to everyone who is going to benefit from it.19/29ProcessingPrediction 30:In 1992 I wrote a feature based on some analysts' predictions about how in five years we'd all be using speech-to-text input for our computers. We didn't. … [but] by the end of the year, we should see programs able to turn the ad-hoc spoken to the written almost faultlessly.Er, we didn't. From the revelation of thepeople behind the curtain at Spinvox, to the nearly-good-enough-but-not-perfectness ofDragon Dictate on the iPhone, we're still some way off perfect trasncription. (Believe me, we're always looking for one so we can turn ourTech Weekly podcastback into words for the hard-of-listening.)19/30So that's 19/30, or 63%. For comparison, in2008, my predictions hit 20.5/30, or 68%. Look, what's a mark and a half between friends? Certainly not statistically significant. Basically, what I think we're seeing is that you can rely on me to be wrong about one-third of the time. You can decide whether that's better or worse than a weather forecaster. (The Met Office suggested there was a 1-in-7 chance this would be a cold winter in its long-range forecast.)And what about the things I missed? The biggest was Google – the rise of Android, and the announcement of its Chrome OS for netbooks. That's going to be huge this year, I think – so come back for my predictions for 2010 next week. Oh, and tell me what other important events of 2009 I missed.
Attempting to keep up with the tech announcements at this week's CES is like trying to count individual snowflakes amid the UK's current apocalyptic blizzards. Nevertheless, I've had a poke around amid the information tsunami (how much weather hyperbole can I lever into one introductory paragraph?) and selected a few game-specific titbits. This time none of them involves miniature helicopters.Casual gaming on connected TVsOkay, so Sky and Virgin have both offered basic TV gaming options in the past, but this looks to be something with much more potential. Samsung has announced its own app store – cunningly titles Samsung Apps – which will make a range of internet-based applications available to users of its forthcoming'Internet@TV' LCD televisions, as well as other web-enabled devices. The first title to support the service will be from casual gaming giantOberon Media, which is porting over its hugely successful mobile and PC hit, Dream Day Wedding. Okay, probably not whatwe'dplay on a net-connected TV, but Oberon Media's developer,I-Play, has plenty of excellent titles, including Jewel Quest and Bubble Town, and it's only a matter of time before other developers jump aboard.Intel launches app store for netbooksBack in September, Intel announced that it was working on a - ta da! - App Store, this time for netbooks equipped with the Atom processor. In his CES keynote speech Intel President and CEO, Paul Otellini announced that a beta version of the shop, named theAppUp center, is now live with a range of free software, including games, of course. There was also mention of viral apps suggesting that Atom netbook users will be able to distribute games mongst themselves...Motion control for PC gamersJoypad manufacturerRazerhas teamed up with motion control developerSixenseto create an new motion tracking controller for PC gamers. The sleek black device, which resembles a hybrid of the Wii Remote and PS3's forthcoming motion wand thing, apparently uses electromagnetic fields to track precise movements along all six axes. It's being shown off at CES with a motion-compatible version of Valve's Left 4 Dead 2. "With this controller, Razer and Sixense have created the most immersive way to play our games," says Valve's Chet Faliszek. "… this release represents motion-enabled gaming that's more integrated and visceral than any platform has so far achieved." In your face, Natal! Engadget has avideo of the showfloor demo.Dolby Axon and the future of in-game chatThis intriguing 3D communication technology was revealed earlier this year but it's being shown off as a key element of Dolby's presence at the show.Axonessentially enables surround sound chatter in the online game environment - in other words, if a teammate is behind you, that's where their voice will come from; if they're a distance away, their voice will be quieter. Apparently, the Dolby Axon server can also respond to game geometry, so players will hear each other taking around corners, but not through solid walls.It's a fascinating concept not least because it straddles that crucial fulcrum between realism and playability. In theory, 3D location-specific conversation could make teamplaymoredifficult, as participants may lose contact when they move away from each other.UPDATE: I've just heard from Marc Langsman at Dolby who wanted to explain the Axon functionality:"Dolby Axon allows the game developer to integrate classic non-3D 'Walkie-Talkie' functionality as well as 3D voice chat. The product provides enhancements over current technology and serves to make teamplay easier, not more difficult. It it also possible for the developer to create spatial walkie-talkies where you can hear your teammates as if they are stood in a circle around you, regardless of where you are in the game. In this instance the spatial aspect makes multi-party chat possible, unlike traditional chat systems which are like a conference call where only one person can talk at a time."
A tidal wave of next-generation ebook readers is being unleashed at this week's Consumer Electronics Show.Following the success of Amazon's Kindle,which sold an estimated 500,000 units worldwide in 2009, a slew of companies of all sizes are trying to push traditional publishers towards the ebook revolution.Dozens of new ebooks have been announced at the show, coming from electronics giants like Samsung and Sony, as well as smaller businesses that are trying to establish themselves as ebook pioneers. That group includes British company Plastic Logic, which announced the debut of its electronic reader – known as the Que – on Thursday.The Plastic Logic Que e-reader being demonstrated at the CES.  Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty ImagesDespite its hefty price tag of up to $800 (£500), the device – which is available only in the US for the time being – garnered positive reviews.One website called it the "slickest and most versatile" e-reader, while the company said that its crisp electronic ink screen, annotation system and touch-sensitive display is essential for those who need to read for work."As technology improves, and as our plastic electronics technology improves, we'll look at ways to make it better still," Plastic Logic's senior director, Steven Glass, told the Guardian. "I think we're just at the very beginning."The company, founded 10 years ago by two Cambridge University professors, has won support from publishers including Dow Jones and the US bookseller Barnes &amp; Noble – but others remain wary of being forced into digital distribution.Major groups including Simon &amp; Schuster and Hachette have said they will delay the release of the electronic versions of their books, while publishers and retailers remained deeply ambivalent about the prospects for digital success in a survey conducted last month by the Bookseller.More than half of respondents thought that Apple, which already dominates digital music, would also become the prevailing company in the ebooks market – despite the fact that the company has not released a dedicated reader.According to Matt Egan, the editor of PC Advisor magazine, that is because a strong, multipurpose ebook reader could leave the competition struggling to stay relevant."Do you see [people] using these things on the street? Absolutely. When I get my train to work, plenty of people are reading ebooks," he said. "But to me it feels a little bit like an in-between technology: I think if you get any piece of hardware that does only one thing, it's got a relatively short shelf life."The lack of enthusiasm among some elements of the industry is not necessarily reflected at all levels.Many best-selling authors, keenly aware of the commercial potential of new technologies, have been ardent supporters of the idea. At last year's CES, Dan Brown took the stage to trumpet the ebook concept on behalf of Sony, while Amazon has signed up Stephen King as an envoy for the Kindle. Business author Stephen Covey, meanwhile, caused uproar when he signed an exclusive with Amazon that left his publisher entirely out of the loop.A Skiff electronic reader development kit on display at the CES. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/APAnd while many believe that it will be technology companies that emerge victorious, not all publishers are sitting on the sidelines. Hearst – the US media giant that owns British magazines including Esquire, Cosmopolitan and Good Housekeeping – used CES to unveil its own gadget, known as the Skiff Reader.With a display that is larger than anything else on the market, the Skiff is clearly targeted at a future generation of magazine readership. But the company has refused to answer crucial questions, such as the cost of the device, leaving its chances of success unclear.Plastic Logic's Steven Glass said that it was crucial for companies of all stripes to avoid getting sucked into a war with hi-tech big guns like Amazon and Apple."I think the first thing we have to do to make sure that we stay relevant is to focus on our customer," he said. "We chose to target the business user in a way that I don't think anyone else does – we've tried to define a different category. By being different, we feel that we have a place to be for a long time."But even if some do manage to stand against the major technology corporations for now, others believe it could already be too late to turn the tide back completely. PC Advisor's Egan questioned whether it was simply a matter of time before the book industry and ebooks themselves were overrun by the unstoppable expansion of computers and mobile phones."I wonder if when the screens are right, and when it's comfortable to read a book on a laptop, will people still need to buy an ebook reader?"
Been on a long journey recently? Stuck in the snow for hours? What games got you through it? I'm flying to the US on Monday and am already trying to sort out what handhelds to take for the lengthy flight. The DSi is a must for Spirit Tracks alone. I'm also planning on taking the PSP and givingVagrant Story- will it still match up to those nostalgic memories? - a go. I'll have the iPhone too, which is loaded with games, most barely played. So yes, I should have plenty to catch up on but is there any handheld/mobile game you've played recently that you'd recommend? I could especially do with some recommendations for iPhone games - hey Keef. when you doing another iPhone roundup? Anyway, let me know your handheld recommendations.
It's day two of the Consumer Electronics Show, and one of the gadgets making its debut is the Que from Plastic Logic, a company founded in Cambridge. The company hopes to head the charge into ebooks with the Que – a lightweight touchscreen ereader that comes with a hefty price tag. Steven Glass from Plastic Logic talks toBobbie Johnson, gives him a demonstration and explains the technology behind the gadget.Fixation Video's Will Head, and Matt Egan from PC Advisor, tell us what has caught their eye out on the show floor There's also a look around the in-car technology and healthy lifestyle sections of the North Hall here in the Las Vegas Convention Centre.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A century after it first revolutionised the car industry, Ford plans to make its vehicles more hi-tech – by letting drivers listen to internet radio, conduct web searches and even send Twitter messages straight from the dashboard.Speaking at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Ford chief executive Alan Mulally unveiled the next generation of Ford's in-car Sync entertainment system and said that it would be able to do everything they expected from a computer or mobile phone."We are actually now bringing the internet to the car," he said. "We're going to bring all the applications you can get on mobile phones today, we'll bring in the car - absolutely hands-free, voice activated, and focused on the road – but you can get access to all your cool stuff."The system, called Sync MyTouch, is based around a pair of dashboard touchscreen computers that allow drivers and passengers to carry out a number of activities while they drive thanks to a wireless internet or 3G connection.The touch or voice activated systems can be synchronised with mobile handsets like the iPhone – they can use any one of hundreds of applications specifically designed for Sync, such as built-in satellite navigation and local search.The technology, which was developed in conjunction with Microsoft and was first unveiled in 2007, is currently only available in 12 of the company's north American models – but Mulally said new Sync modules would be integrated into 80% of the company's US cars within five years.Last year it said there were plans to launch the system in European models later in 2010,Despite concerns over safety, the company says that using Sync should be no more – as long as drivers to the same rules about using other in-car devices, such as satellite navigation systems and mobile phones."The whole process of interface design is also more critical in a vehicle, because the driver is dealing with so many more inputs," said Ford vice president Derrick Kuzak. "We have to keep interfaces simple and intuitive. And they have to minimize driver distraction."The world's fourth-largest car maker says it hopes that providing extras like internet connectivity can help boost its fortunes as the American auto industry struggles to cope with the effects of the recession.Although Ford suffered substantially during the depths of the financial crisis – posting record losses of $14.6bn (£9.1bn) in 2008 – the company appears to be on the up. Unlike its Detroit rivals, General Motors and Chrysler, the company did not file for bankruptcy and $2.3bn (£1.4bn) in profit for the second quarter of 2009.Mulally said that improving the technology inside its cars was an important part of turning around the company and making it a leader once again."We believe these features have a place in every Ford vehicle, not just our luxury models," he said.
If you're in the market for a personal computer, you should soon be ale to get one that's more powerful and works more smoothly, especially with Microsoft Windows 7. Intel has just announced what it calls an "all new 2010" Intel Core family of processors, with the move to new 32 nanometre fabrication processes.The new features include the ability to vary the speed of operation according to the workload, so when they are idling, the chips consume less power and generate less heat. Intel compared this to the human heart, which beats faster if you exercise and slows down when you rest.The Core i5 and Core i7 ranges also have a Turbo Boost feature that enables them to run faster than their rated speed. The 2.66GHz Core i7 can, for example, run at up to 3.33GHz.Finally, the new processors have a graphics chip integrated on the same die. The benefits for users include faster operations, reduced power consumption and laptops with better battery life.The move to 32nm basically means creating smaller transistors, which means more transistors can be fitted into the same silicon area. The extra transistors can be used to add new features, which Intel has done many times before. In this case, it's the graphics chip that has been absorbed.Sean Maloney, executive vice president and general manager of the Intel Architecture Group, said the new Core i5 provided roughly double the performance of the previous version, which was a big step in a single generation. He said the advance came from Intel investing $7bn in its US chip plants during the downturn. "We've always invested in recessions for the products that would power us out of it," he said. In this case, more than 400 PCs were being designed with the new chips.Intel typically introduces new chips at the high end, at premium prices. But not this time. "We're taking 32nm and bringing it right into the mainstream," said Maloney. "We've never ramped a new process as fast as this one."At the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, where the announcement was made, Intel ran some side-by-side demos of the old and new processors to show how much faster they performed tasks such as synchronising an iPod and processing a video.The new chips also offer greatly improved graphics performance, and are able to handle high-definition Blu-ray movies, multi-channel Dolby TruHD and DTS home theatre sound. They also offer "full support for the new Microsoft Windows 7". Intel also showed laptop PCs running games that are generally considered too challenging for its current graphics chips. "You're going to see integrated graphics pushing into the gaming space, with people able to run first person shooters," said Maloney.However, Intel also announced a "switchable graphics" feature, which enables users to switch between the integrated graphics and a separate graphics card for high end games, without having to restart their PCs.The new chips were previously known under the codenames Arrandale (for laptops) and Clarkdale (for desktops). Consumers could be confused now the ranges officially have the same designations -- Core i3, i5 and i7 -- as earlier versions. With the i5 and i7, buyers can look for the Turbo Boost feature. This doesn't apply to the new i3 chips, though these can be identified by their model numbers.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Online giants including Google and Yahoo are facing a tax on advertising revenue in France under controversial proposals being examined by Nicolas Sarkozy to help save creative industries from a "free-for-all" internet culture.Under the proposals, made in a government-commissioned report submitted to the French president this week, money from the tax would go to the cultural sphere.Jacques Toubon, a former culture minister and one of the report's authors, told the Libération newspaper that the aim was to curb "the limitless enrichment" of the world's leading internet players. His colleague on the report, Guillaume Cerruti, the president of Sotheby's auction house in France, said the revenue would "go straight into the state budget".In all, the so-called "Google tax" would be expected to raise between €10m and €20m a year. An array of cultural ventures, from newspaper subscriptions to expanded online publishing platforms, would be helped by the money, according to the report.The proposal, now in Sarkozy's hands, is the latest in a series of attempts by France to regulate online activity. Last year the government passed a law on illegal downloading that would have introduced a monitoring agency with the power to cut offenders' internet connections for up to a year. This faced sustained opposition, however, and was watered down by the time it got through parliament.News of the Google tax provoked a lukewarm response from web users and media observers. While the leftwing Libération  declared the report was "on the right path", others condemned its suggestions as almost entirely unworkable.Critics argued that it would be difficult to subject US-based operators to any kind of French-led financial measure, and for the authorities to establish how many French web users were being reached by the advertising concerned – a key figure in the calculation of any levy."I have nothing against taxes and subsidies in general but I think such a system would be absolutely impossible to put in place due to the global nature of the internet," Chris Anderson, the editor of US magazine Wired, told Libération.But Patrick Zelnik, another author of the report and the founder of Carla Bruni's record label, Naive, insisted the move was "legally and technically possible", adding he hoped the idea would be examined at EU level in the near future.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
&bull; Fun and games atCESon Thursday, as the show's doors officially opened and everyone could get their hands on the gear. Intel showed off its new 32 nanometer chips,Dell paraded its ultra-thin laptopand Plastic Logic - which has long claimed that it would challenge Amazon and other electronic reader manufacturers -unveiled the Que(listen out for today's podcast for more).&bull; After playing with theNexus Onefor a few days, I thought it wasonly fair to share my thoughtson what the phone is like. Good, but not great. What could make it better for British users, however, is thatthe European version looks set to support multitouch. That's the same as the Droid, which is single touch in the US but, under the Milestone name in the EU, supports multitouch. The question of why that happens came up in theGoogle press conferenceon Tuesday, but Android boss Andy Rubin sort-of-deflected it at the time by saying it was "a software thing" and that they would "leave the option open".&bull; Another company that's exhibiting at CES and we've discussedin the pastis the social TV startupBoxee- which has finally launchedits beta. It's the next step for the New York-based company, which recentlysaid it would be launching hardware to help people play internet video on their TV.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
At first glance, the Nexus One doesn't look like a revolution waiting to happen. In fact, Google's much heralded rival to the Apple iPhone looks remarkably similar to almost every high-end mobile phone released in the last two years: big black screen with small button at the bottom. But as soon as you switch on the handset and swipe your finger across the screen to unlock it, it is clear this is more than just another also-ran.The first thing that strikes you is how incredibly bright and clear the screen is. It's a 3.7in, low-power,  "organic LED" screen that doesn't need backlighting and allows deep, clear blacks and vivid colours. In terms of visibility, it's streets ahead of the competition: a gang of Nexus One  users waving their prized gadgets in the air could probably send a signal into space.The second thing that leaps at your eyeballs is the animated background. Whether you've got rippling pools of water or computerised lights zipping around the screen, the constant movement whenever you're using the phone breathes a strange sort of life into this static object.Above all, though, you are stepping through a portal into Google's world. On first use, the phone prompts you to log into your Google account – within seconds it has synchronised your email, web searches, contacts book and any other information you happen to keep with the company. Convenient for you, but also – thanks to the constant stream of data being fed back to California – handy for Google. You're now a satellite-tracked, walking, talking, web-surfing recruit into Google's informationalised army.Despite this nagging feeling that you've stepped into the pages of Nineteen Eighty-Four, becoming one of Google's disciples boasts some impressive benefits. Browsing the web is fast, the powerful five-megapixel camera-phone with built-in flash should make the all-important business of taking good photos a doddle. The really futuristic extra, though, is "voice search". On other handsets, including the iPhone, this addition seems like a gimmick – hey, what kind of dimwit talks to their phone? – but the accuracy and speed of the Nexus One makes it feels like something from Star Trek. I asked for "toy shops in San Francisco" and it found me a (Google) map of local toy shops in a couple of seconds. Combine this with the phone's simplified "in-car mode" display and ability to speak turn-by-turn directions, and it spells goodbye to satnav.The downsides are its appearance – sleek but bland, made from a dull, metallic-looking plastic – and the small, rubber trackball that sits under your thumb, which feels like an  awkward afterthought (although it does glow in different colours to let you know when the phone is charging or connected via Bluetooth).But a big "miss" is the feature that makes the iPhone so simple to use: multi-touch. While the Nexus One's single-finger prodding works well enough, there's none of the pinching action to zoom into maps and photographs that makes the iPhone feel so advanced, nor its realistic-feel friction. Google's on-screen keyboard feels cramped, too, and won't  completely satisfy text freaks and heavy emailers.[Since this article was written, it has been confirmed that - unlike the US model - the forthcoming UK model of the Nexus One will have multi-touch.]Also missing is the depth of downloadable applications that have turned the iPhone into something much more like a mini-computer. There are plenty of programs available through the Android Market  (and Google is, of course, encouraging armies of coders to feverishly build more), but there is still nowhere  near the volume you can get for  Apple's gizmo.Then, of course, there's the price. Salivating British gadget fans can buy one now from Google's US shop – without a sim card or contract – for £330, and Vodafone is scrambling to make it available on a contract here for significantly less. But even then, it's unlikely to come cheap.What ultimately justifies the price, Google argues, is the phone's sheer power. And the thing certainly is fast, with the memory and processing guts equivalent to a top-of-the-range laptop from eight or nine years ago.But will it beat the iPhone? This debut model falls short of the smooth and totally intuitive design that Apple came up with. Google prides itself on being a company of engineers, and – despite all its bells and whistles – the Nexus One still leaves behind an aftertaste of nerdiness.• This article was amended on 13 January 2010. The original said that Nexus One had no multi-touch feature. This information has been updated for Britain
There are three people standing in front of a glass case in the Victoria and  Albert Museum. Each of us is trying to get a good view of the so-called Becket  Casket. As you know, it was made in Limoges in the 12th century and depicts one of the most infamous events in English history, the murder of Archbishop Thomas Becket. It is is one of the most lovely things you can hope to see on a bleak January morning.Only one problem. The bloke in the middle is hogging the full-frontal position, clearly the best view to savour Becket's martyrdom. He has been there for five minutes now – not, so far as I can judge, appreciating the boldly engraved figures against a brilliant blue background, but meaninglessly, endlessly, exasperatingly snapping the same view. He has that dead-eyed, mouth-gaping, eminently slappable face we all have when we hold our camera phones a foot in front of our faces and click, click, click.Unable to see the casket properly,  I reflect sourly on what the great  German philosopher Herbert Marcuse wrote about how instrumental rationality undermines the emancipatory possibilities of technology, reducing it to a tool for our domination. What I think he meant by this was that instead of using technology such as camera phones to make our lives richer, freer and happier, we stand like lumps doing something socially irritating and existentially pointless, thereby ruining the view for everyone else. We have  become snappers on autopilot, slaves to our machines, clogging up cyberspace with billions of images that nobody in their right minds – not even the person who sent them – thinks are worthwhile. Or maybe I'm wrong.Seven years ago, the camera-phone hardly registered. Indeed, on 17 June 2003,some idiot wrote in the Guardianthat the low take-up of those newfangled 3G phones with their built-in cameras, launched two months previously, could be ascribed to the fact that "it's not immediately clear what they're for, and that mystery is not sufficiently seductive to make many of us shell out". The writer all but argued that camera-phones were destined for the technological knacker's yard, like Sinclair C5s, the Securi-Gnome and NiteMates slippers with their built-in headlights (all real products). With the benefit of hindsight, let me admit what a bonehead I was to write that.These days, the very idea of a mobile without camera or video facility seems absurd. They're more portable than most digital cameras and, more importantly, offer faster connection with the internet, which is a key consideration in this age of virtual presenteeism. So if you're Jonathan Ross and think your Twitter followers would like to see your photos of you playing in the snow with the kids, you can post them online before you've even cleared your desk at the BBC. The seemingly expendable has become the utterly essential. Such, quite often, is the appliance of science.The latest figures from the  Mobile Data Association show that the number of MMS (or video and picture messages) is rising fast: 336m were sent in the UK in 2006, 553m in 2008, and, when the MDA publishes its UK Mobile Trends report next month, another large rise is expected for 2009. True, the number of video and picture messages hardly compares with the number of texts sent (78.9bn text  messages were sent in the UK in 2008), but the MDA argues that, "while SMS [texting] is used or conversational activity, MMS is much more 'event' driven." Hence the yuletide and New Year's Eve spikes in picture messaging: on Christmas Day 2008, 4.4m picture messages were sent – 3,000 every minute. The safe money says many more were sent over Christmas 2009, and that there will have been another huge surge in UK picture messaging thanks to all the snow.So what are all these images we are sending? The majority are, frankly, worthless, and often taken in socially unacceptable circumstances. During Peter and the Wolf at London's Royal Festival Hall last week, I watched parents (who had been instructed to turn off their phones before the show began) photograph their kids against a backdrop of the Philharmonia Orchestra and a big screen of the animated film. Why? "Just to prove we're here, to record it for our son when he grows up," said the woman next to me and my daughter on row NN, who was one of the parents taking the pictures.At a Lily Allen gig, a colleague found she was one of the few in the audiencenotholding her camera-phone above her head to shoot pictures or make films that could be illicitly uploaded online. Meanwhile, at the London Aquarium, a friend's family excursion was all-but ruined by guppy-like adult snappers blocking the  view of slightly less gormless, gaping fish. How many pictures of fish in tanks do we, as a society, really need?When another friend visited the Taj Mahal recently, he noticed how few people, on arriving, actually looked at the building with their naked eyes. Instead, they would lift their phones immediately to capture an image thateverybody in the world has already seen a million times. And a recent letter to the Telegraph complained about how the solemnity of a christening was destroyed by a godmother elbowing the vicar aside to get shots of the baby at the font.Back in Room 8 of the V&amp;A, one of us cracks. "Will you bloody stop taking pictures!" shouts the woman to the man's right. "You're ruining it for  everyone. Let someone else have a look for five seconds, please!" She's wearing a tweed cape, a solidly set hairdo and a forbidding expression that seems to say 'I'm on a day trip from the home counties and I'm not having this'. The man, who may have too little English to reply, skulks off towards Room 9.Minutes later, I find him in front of the Soissons Diptych, snapping away again, oblivious to the hard stares and tutting from those in less favoured positions. I wander up and say: "That's going to be a rubbish picture, mate." He barely stops photographing to offer me this reply: "Yeah? This is a 10-megapixel Samsung SCH-B600, actually, so the photos are going to be pretty excellent. Thanks very much."It turns out the man does have good English (he's from Manchester). And lines in sarcasm. He's a fan of gothic art and architecture, and plans to set up a Flickr photo stream as well as beautifying his Facebook page with some of the best shots from his trip. He has already emailed a picture of the Limoges Casket to prove that he was, on 3 January 2010 at 11.15am, standing in front of it. He plans to tweet some shots later, too.Another great thinker, the Leeds-based sociologist Zygmunt Bauman, wrote in his book Liquid Love that, in a modern world in which those purportedly fixed and durable ties of family, class, religion, marriage have melted away, we look for something else to hold us together. Hence, no doubt, the rise of social networking sites – and hence, too, the feverish snapping with camera-phones to take images that can validate our existence to our Twitter followers, our speed-dial intimates, our online "friends". It's a new  Cartesian cogito: I photograph, therefore I am (and don't my uploaded images glam up my Facebook profile a treat?). Maybe Marcuse was wrong: we're not so much in thrall to technology, as using it for an unanticipated emancipatory project.In that context it's not enough to moan, as Telegraph columnist Nigel Farndale did recently, that "photography, once a noble art, has become, thanks to the move to digital, a mental illness" Riffing on the verse of Welsh poet WH Davies, Farndale wrote: "What is this life if, full of care, we have no time to stand and stare. Click. No time to stand beneath the boughs – click, click – and stare as long as sheep or cows. Click, click, bloody click."But moaning isn't enough. We also have to wonder what happens to us when technology increasingly gives us our windows on the world. One thought is that the camera-phone changes our experience of the world for good rather than evil. It can even be a tool against capitalism. Billy Bragg, the politically engaged musician, has been on the receiving ends of the click, click, bloody click of the camera-phone a great deal when playing gigs recently. And, counterintuitively, he loves it."I've had to tell bouncers not to stop people taking pictures of me when I'm playing," Bragg tells me. "You have to like it because people who take the photos or make the films with their camera-phones are not thinking you're a pranny. They're doing it because they like you, so there's no point getting upset." It's an interesting corrective to those musicians, such as Boy George, who have tweeted their pleas to audiences to leave their camera-phones at home and watch the show. At last November's 250-gig London jazz festival ushers tried to curb the increasing number of fans using camera-phones to record  performances. But, as our jazz critic John Fordhamnoted at the time, this clampdown stopped his favourite music reaching a wider online audience.One reason the rise of the camera-phone appeals to Bragg is that it gives him free publicity. It's transgressive technology that helps Bragg and his fans stick it to the Man. "In the past, I've spent thousands of pounds making videos that MTV wouldn't show. Now what happens is that some kid will put a film they've made of me playing live on YouTube and it can have 20,000 or so hits. What is happening is that you're being promoted."Recently, Bragg was doing a soundcheck in Toronto and decided to have a go at fitting the words of John Cooper Clarke's Evidently Chickentown to the tune of Dylan's Desolation Row. It worked so well he played it at a late-night gig. "Somebody filmed it andnow it's on YouTube. I thought that was brilliant."But clearly there are downsides to camera-phones, too – the plague of "upskirting" photos being posted on the web, for example, or Heat magazine encouraging its readers to pap stars in the street and send the photos to the magazine. Aren't these terrible things facilitated by camera-phone technology?"I'm not sure privacy is all that important an issue when it comes to people who are famous and are seeking attention," says Bragg. Anyway, he argues, camera-phones have more serious uses."Thanks in part to camera-phones, we're all reporters now. And that idea is going to have some pretty radical consequences, especially for police officers. Think about it: only an idiot goes to a demonstration without a camera or a camera-phone nowadays." He cites the Guardian investigation into the death of Ian Tomlinson, a passer-by at the G20 protests in London last year, who was shown to have been beaten to the ground by police by means of films made by demonstrators' mobile phones.Today, grainy camera-phone images or films demonstrate the virile realness of a news event. We expect them to show that a story was so hot it took place before TV crews and the rest of the old media got there. Hence the wannabe Christmas Day pants bomber Umar Farouk Abdulmutalib was  immortalised in blurry phone  images taken as the plane descended into Detroit.Media commentator and professor of interactive journalismJeff Jarviswrites: "We are in the era of news served raw. Witnesses to any event can now capture and share what they see not just with acquaintances but with the world, and without the filter and delay of news media. And that doesn't mean just cell-phone snapshots of bombings or surreptitious footage of closed events. We also have access to the guts of news – original documents, full transcripts, unedited video. Life is on the record."The truth of this analysis was dramatised by theunauthorised images of Saddam Hussein's executionon  30 December 2006, taken by a security guard on his mobile. His grisly footage of the event spread through the internet, subverting the official version. In her paper,The Global and the Mobile: Camera Phone Witnessing in a Age of Terror, social media expert Dr Anna Reading of London's South Bank University argues that the footage "took away the pretence of civility that some tried to place around the act". Instead, it revealed that he was put to death during an unruly spectacle in which onlookers taunted Hussein by yelling, "Go to hell" and chanting "Muqtada, Muqtadaa,  Muqtada" (a reference to Muqtada  al-Sadr, the Shiite Muslim cleric).Reading also argues that camera phones lets the world into places from which we would hitherto have been  excluded. When the white comedian and former Seinfeld star Michael  Richards rounded on two black hecklers at a 2006 comedy gig in Los Angeles with racist abuse, his rantwas captured by a member of the audience on their camera phoneand broadcast on the internet, arguably ruining Richards' career.Consider one  significant contrast between the 9/11 bombings in the US (2001) and the 7/7 bombings in London (2005). Arguably, what connected us most  poignantly with the former were the phone calls from the doomed  passengers aboard Flight 93 to their loved ones, while four years later, what made us empathise most with the ordinary victims was the self-portrait ofAdam Stacey escaping from a bombed tube train on the Piccadilly Line that the civil servant took with his phone. Imagine how different our perception of 9/11 would have been if the soon-to-die had emailed their last camera-phone images from the twin towers.What interests Reading is how  camera-phone technology can link people across borders. "It is not so much what the images capture  indexically, but their iconic status in reminding us of our complicity in a  war declared against global 'terror', rather than a nation state. Stacey's camera-phone image escaping from the London bombings was everyman with a mobile phone."Arguably, the camera-phone first took on this raw witnessing role on Boxing Day 2004, when the tsunami struck in the Indian Ocean, killing nearly 230,000 people in 14 countries. Media outlets relied on footage from people on the spot, many of whom were using camera-phones. And last year, they were used to bear witness to government crackdowns in Teheran against those protesting against alleged fraud in June's presidential election.In itself, the camera-phone changes nothing. The Standard 8mm colour home movie thatAbraham Zapruder took in Dallas on 22 November 1963, which represents the most complete film of the murder of President John F Kennedy, is akin to the footage the unnamed security guard took of Saddam's execution. Both are short, grisly films showing the killing of an important public figure that have gone on to have immense political significance. But there are two big differences.First, the camera phone is tiny, and thus relatively easy to slip into situations where authorities want to stop unofficial images or films of an event being taken. Second, and much more importantly, the images and films we take with them can be spread around the world in seconds. Our experiences can now travel freely across borders. Admittedly, most of them won't be worth sending in the first place, but that doesn't mean they won't get sent."It's absurd to argue that technology always changes things for the better," says Billy Bragg. "Clearly it doesn't. But at best the camera-phone is subversive in the way it's being used. We shouldn't be frightened of it. We should welcome it."• This article was amended on 8 January 2009. The original described Ian Tomlinson, who died after being injured at the G20 protests in London lin 2009, as a demonstrator. It also said that a picture picture of the Limoges Caske was taken on 10 January 2010. This has been corrected.
Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer ran quickly through a number of innovative Windows 7 PCs during hiskeynote, and one that got slightly more attention than most was Dell'sAdamo XPS. This is billed as being the world's thinnest laptop, and at 9.9mm it's thinner than many mobile phones. It also has a very nice unlocking system, where you simply stroke the front of the lid so you can open it. Then, once you have opened it, it sits up, with the keyboard tilted at a more ergonomic typing angle.The Adamo XPS has an excellent 13.4 inch LED widescreen, which shows the now-almost-standard (for ultraportables) 1366 x 768 pixels.One of the interesting innovations is that the motherboard and 128GB solid-state drive are behind the screen, not beneath the keyboard. This makes it possible both to fit ports and to have a really thin keyboard.The Adamo XPS looks original, and stylish, and feels well made -- though at 1.44kg, it's not the lightest ultraportable around. However, innovation comes at a price. In the UK, it looks as thoughJohn Lewis has a retail exclusive, and it will set you back £1,750.If Steve Jobs had been presenting the Adamo XPS, the first 50 rows of fanboys would probably have had multiple orgasms. I don't think he would have let a co-presenter say that "Being thin isn't everything," even though that is, of course, perfectly true.Purists might complain that the Adamo XPS isn't all that new, because it appeared at the Windows 7 launch. But I suspect most people missed it in the flood of new PCs, and very few of us have had our hands on one.If you do get the chance, the Adamo XPS is worth a look. But don't expect to see too many around the coffee shops. You can get lots of PCs that are almost as thin and have better battery life for a fraction of the price from the likes of Acer, Asus and MSI, and competitive systems from HP, Sony, Toshiba and others. Unlike MacBook Air buyers, Windows users have a vast array of choices, and just being thinner and more innovative than a MacBook Air doesn't earn you any sales at all.Update:At the end of the CES show, I checked the Adamo XPS again. The original model was still on display, and despite the attentions of possibly thousands of people, it hadn't broken ;-)
Bobbie Johnsonpresents the first of our podcasts from the 2010 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.
The government is seeking public advice on how to spend £1bn to ensure that almost all of Britain gets superfast broadband this decade – should it hook up rural communities first, or the suburbs?The Next Generation Access (NGA) fund, which would come from a 50p a month levy on all telephone landlines proposed in the Digital Economy bill, is intended to persuade telecoms companies such as BT and Virgin Media to install fibre-optic cable to rural and suburban households where it might otherwise be unprofitable.But the key question facing the government is whether it would be more effective to encourage telcos to install fibre-optic cable, capable of carrying two-way video and other high-speed internet links, in the most geographically remote areas – or provide funding for installation at locations that are close to those where fibre would be put in anyway without intervention due to market demand.The two opposing approaches – dubbed "outside-in" and "inside-out" – areoutlined in a consultation published todayby the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills.Charles Dunstone, chief executive of broadband provider TalkTalk,has previously described the proposed levyto produce the fund as "unjust and regressive". He has called for the private sector to be allowed to "drive next-generation broadband as far as it can".The government has also pledged to ensure every community has access to 2 megabits per second (Mbps) broadband connection by 2012 – in time for the Olympic Games. But higher-speed broadband, with the ability to transmit high definition films and carry out live high definition video conservations, has been identified as key to economic growth as more transactions and business is done electronically.Building the infrastructure that would replace the old copper lines which presently link phone exchanges and houses with fibre-optic cables would also create jobs. The London School of Economics and the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation have estimated that a £5bn investment in next-generation broadband would create 280,000 jobs, and that small and medium-sized businesses, or SMEs, would be particular beneficiaries.Although the government expects that even without intervention companies like BT will deliver fibre to at least 50% and perhaps up to 70% of the population, there are concerns about whether it would ever be profitable for telcos to install fibre to the remainder because of the high capital cost of providing fibre connections to geographically remote locations.Spending the "next generation fund" will "incentivise the rollout of next generation superfast broadband to at least 90% of UK homes and businesses by 2017", the government said, and should also speed up telecoms companies investment so that two-thirds of the UK population are connected to fibre through market provision.Launching the consultation, the business secretary Lord Mandelson said: "This investment is about bringing the future of broadband to areas of the country that would otherwise miss out. We cannot underestimate the opportunities this will bring for homes and businesses which is why we are taking action to make sure everyone benefits."Already the market is delivering superfast internet speeds of 50Mbps to half the country but we cannot be certain that it will reach the communities that are not currently served, which is why we are putting in an extra £1bn to support the market."Although many homes could get high-speed broadband through cable services provided by Virgin, BT has been slower to provide fibre to homes. Earlier this week it announced that 63 exchanges will be upgraded with fibre connections to the street cabinets from which homes are connected. Half of those are in the south-east of England or London, the most populous part of the UK. Another 99 exchanges are already being upgraded.BT has said it will spend £1.5bn upgrading telephone exchanges that serve about 40% of premises in the UK by 2012, and that of the 10m who will be connected to those exchanges about 2.5m will have fibre connections at home capable of 100Mbps connections. Typical copper wire connections today run at about 4Mbps, up to 20Mbps in some places.Other countriesWhat are other countries doing to invest in next-generation broadband?In Finland, the Government is committed to getting fibre within 2km of 99% of homes by 2015. But only the last 4% will need government intervention — which will be two-thirds funded by public investment of €133m (£112m). But it's not clear how the final 2km, for which subscribers are responsible, will be completed. This will cost €55 (£47) per household, besides the extra cost of connecting homes to the fibre.By 2014, Germany will deliver 50Mbps to 75% of households, with public sector involvement where the market will not deliver. €180m has been identified for this.In Greece. €0.7bn (£0.6bn) of public money will be spent ,with a further €1.4bn (£1.2bn) of private investment, to deliver fibre all the way to 2 million homes. This will cost €192 (£160) per household.The Australian government has announced an A$43bn (£21bn) fibre-to-the-home project to provide speeds of 100Mbps to 90% of homes over the next eight years. Wireless technology will provide the final 10% of homes with up to 12 Mbps. This will be a joint venture with industry in which the public will own a minimum of 51% of the project. The cost per household is at least A$2,750 (£1,350), depending on the size of the publicly owned share of the investment.
For their respective press events at this week's Consumer Electronics Show, Microsoft and Sony have emerged from some serious spreadsheet and calculator sessions with a collection of scintillating sales stats.First up, Microsoft's Steve Ballmer confirmed that Xbox 360 has now shifted 39m units worldwide since its launch in 2005. This combines nicely with sales figures just released byELSPAwhich show that last year, Xbox games overtook Wii titles in terms of UK revenue. As industry news source MCV,reports:Xbox 360 raked in £459m in sales throughout the period according to numbers from ELSPA, generating more revenue than any other platform. Wii still won in raw unit terms, however, with 18m games sold.Over at Sony, there were no new total sales figures for PS3, but it was announced that over 3.8 million hardware units were shifted during the five week run up to Christmas - a 76 per cent increase  over last year, and a record Xmas performance for the machine.While we're on a stat offensive, ELSPA has also announced its 2009 UK games industry sales figures.Total sales of all videogames software during 2009 amounted to £1.621 billion, with revenue on console hardware sales amounting to £1.06 billion. The latter figure represents a slight fall from 2008 (£1.905 billion), which ELSPA puts down to slashed retail prices. And of course, a big bugger of a recession.Here are the rest of the numerical titbits:Nintendo Wii stormed the field with software sales of over 18 million units in the UK, retaining the title of Number One software format by units sold. Sony's PlayStation 3 also saw a dramatic increase by 14 per cent of software units sold, from 10.4 million units in 2008 to 11.9 million units in 2009. Overall, in 2009 UK consumers bought a total of 74.6 million videogame units – which works out at more than one per person in the UK.However, it was Microsoft's Xbox 360 which saw the biggest increase in software revenue in 2009, up four per cent from 2008 to earn £459 million and become the number one software format by revenue, overtaking the Nintendo Wii.The Sony PlayStation 3 was the star console this year, posting a two per cent increase of units sold compared to 2008. However it still could not overtake the Nintendo Wii which retained the lead as the most sold console of 2009. In total, 6.7 million videogame consoles were sold in the UK in 2009, which is one console for every nine people in the UK.The total value of console/PC gaming peripherals was £630 million in 2009, with total sales reaching 35.8 million units.As for Wii, Nintendo President Satoru Iwata recentlytold Reutersthat the machine had recovered from its mid-2009 slowdown, with sales topping three million in the US over the festive season.It will be interesting to see how the consoles vie for sales in 2010. With Microsoft now confirming Natal for a Christmas release and Sony lining up its own motion controller as well as confirming that 3D stereoscopic gaming will be added to the PS3 firmware this year, there's a serious specifications war still raging.
Going to live concerts could become a thing of the past, according to Japanese electronics giant Sony.In an event at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the company announced plans to start beaming 3D gigs directly into living rooms around the world, giving the chance to experience live music events in lifelike clarity without ever leaving the sofa.The company, which owns an extensive media empire including the world's second largest record label, believes that new technology could change the way we experience live music.Sony boss Howard Stringer showed off a 3D version of Jimi Hendrix's legendary Woodstock performance and said that it would not be long before it became a worldwide standard."When it comes to home entertainment, there really is no experience like 3D," he said. "We intend to take the lead in 3D. We want to provide the most compelling 3D content possible."Sir Howard was also joined by pop star Taylor Swift, who gave a performance intended to show the benefits of watching live in three dimensions – but instead the Welsh-born executive, who became the company's first ever non-Japanese boss in 2005, ended up joking about the company's recent troubles."Maybe you'll call us cool again, who knows," he said.But Sony was not the only company betting heavily on 3D at the CES.Several broadcasters have announced plans to launch 3D channels, while other television makers have also been showing off 3D-capable sets at the world's most influential technology showcase.Chief among them was a bank-busting high definition plasma TV screen from Panasonic – which, at an incredible 152 in, is the world's largest. The screen, which runs almost 13ft from corner to corner, boasts four times higher resolution than a normal full high definition TV and is likely to cost tens of thousands of pounds when it goes on sale later this year.Apparently ignoring the impact of the recession, the company also unveiled a camcorder that can film in 3D – but comes with a hefty $21,000 (£13,000) price tag."We've successfully moved from black and white, to colour, to high definition television," said Bob Perry, P's nasonic senior vice president. "But immersive, totally realistic 3D imagery has been the final frontier."Despite the recent success of 3D movies including Avatar and Up, not everyone is convinced that the idea will prove a hit with viewers, particularly given that getting the best quality requires buying a new television set as well as wearing special glasses.With many shoppers still in the process of upgrading to high definition, many industry observers are unsure that the idea of further pricey upgrades will catch on."I caution and say should we curb our enthusiasm a little bit for 3D," said Steve Koenig, director of industry analysis at the Consumer Electronics Association, which organises the event."We've already asked consumers to upgrade to HDTV, we've already offered 1080p resolution and surround sound, and we've got Blu-ray, and here we come again."Elsewhere in Las Vegas, Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer had to endure an embarrassing power cut that stopped his opening speech and left the company flailing in front of thousands of onlookers.Among the technologies on display from Microsoft was the company's motion-sensing video game controller, Natal, which should be on sale before Christmas, and a selection of new "slate" PCs – large, touch-sensitive screens for reading documents and surfing the web.The announcement of slate devices was clearly intended as a spoiler for a similar device being prepared by arch rival Apple – which has still not been confirmed, but speculation suggests will be launched by the end of this month.
Computer games began, for me, in 1982. Which was precisely the right moment. I was seven, we'd had a Sinclair Spectrum for a month or two and into my life came The Hobbit text adventure game. My dad brought it home. "Look!" he said, "it comes with a copy of the book!"The game was hard: sometimes fun, sometimes frustrating. Commands had to be typed in using painfully simple English. Go west. Look. Examine Gandalf. We were simultaneously amazed by what the programme understood – and astounded by what it didn't. Question Gandalf. No. Threaten Gandalf. No. Angrily demand answers from Gandalf. No. In desperation, my dad typed: "Cut off Gandalf's ear." The game understood that. We were very impressed. We had discovered computer-game violence. Gandalf killed us.We never got to the end of The Hobbit. Frankly, the book was a lot easier; and unlike a game you could skip over the hard bits. But sitting  in the living room with my dad,  trying to solve a problem together, coming up with ideas and making each other laugh makes it a time  that I will never forget.Sometimes, hearing that I've written for computer games, parents ask me despairingly whether they ought to worry that their child spends so much time playing. I always wonder why these parents don't just sit down and play alongside their offspring; or even ask their child to teach them how to play. Maybe they don't like admitting there are things they don't know. But if there's one thing that is guaranteed to make lasting memories, it is letting  children be better than you at something. That and cutting off  the ear of an imaginary wizard.
The estate of the science fiction writer Philip K Dick – whose book Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? was filmed as Blade Runner – plans to sue Google over its decision to brand its new mobile phone the Nexus One, on the basis that the brand already exists in Dick's books.Isa Dick Hackett, the daughter of the author, indicated in December that she was "shocked and dismayed" at early reports that Google had chosen the Nexus name when reports of the mobile began to leak out. "We were never consulted, no requests were made, and we didn't grant any sort of permissions," shetold the New York Times.The book and the film both revolve around the story of a bounty hunter who is tracking down escaped Nexus-6 cyborgs, the sixth generation of robot humanoids in a dystopian future.On Wednesday the estate of Dick, who died in 1982, sent a letter to Google asking it to cease and desist from using the Nexus name. Google said on Tuesday when announcing its phone – which it dubs the Nexus – that there was no association with Dick or his novels or films, and that the word was being used in its generic sense, of a place where things meet.However, the phone was first detected at the end of last year ahead of its official announcement by websites noticing through its browser signature which calls it a Nexus One. HTC, the phone's manufacturer, and Google both registered documents using that phrase. And the software that runs the phone is called Android – making Nexus an apparent reference to Dick's work, which is enormously popular among programmers and technology fans, especially in California where he lived.Motorola had already licensed the word Droid from George Lucas, the writer and producer of the Star Wars films, for the name of another Android-based phone.There is no official comment on the matter atElectric Shepherd Productions, the production arm of Dick's estate co-founded by Hackett, or on theofficial Philip K Dick site. Whether Dick's estate will get a paycheck on the use remains unclear: Dick never registered Nexus as a trademark, so any claim by his estate would have to show that Google was somehow making use of a name that many people might never have associated with a phone – and that it was trading off the "goodwill" associated with a team of murderous near-human machines.
Oh no. Oh yes! And it's serious! Yesterday,the voting for the second annual Shorty Awardshonouring the best writers on Twitter began. Categories range from serious topics such as government, health and politics to lighter ones such as music, culture, celebrities and humour.At March's awards ceremony the winners will be revealed – after they have been determined by a combination of popular vote and the members of theReal-Time Academy of shortform arts and sciencesincluding the MIT Media Lab's director Frank Moss, the President and CEO of the Knight Foundation, Alberto Ibargüen, and the Creative Commons, CEO Joi Ito.Yes, it is serious and not a PR stunt. In fact, the Shorty Awards do a good job to be the Twitter equivalent of the Oscars.Anyone can nominate people and organisations who have excelled on Twitter over the past year. To nominate, Twitterers can send a tweet which should at least include #shortyawards @username #category and a creative reason for the nomination, orsimply use the voting box onthe website. There are26 official categoriesfrom journalist to news and tech, food, advertisement, apps or customer service completed by community-created ones.The rules are simple: to vote or receive votes you need to have a valid, active and public Twitter account. That's it. Campaigning is allowed – and I guess necessary – to finish among the five users with the highest rank in each official category who become finalists.Last year's awards received more than 50,000 nominations. Among the winners were Nasa in the science category for tweeting the unmanned Mars Phoenix Lander mission and @PeggyOlson, of Mad Men, in the advertising category.March's awards ceremony will be held in New York. It is still unknown who will be speaking and presenting gongs.So get voting, Twitterers. There's a free flight to New York up for grabs for the winners, and of course the glory of holding aloft a Shorty.
While CES isn't specifically a games show you usually get some console-related announcements. This year wasno different. The biggest was Microsoft's unveiling of Game Room - a virtual arcade which you can explore using your Xbox Live Avatar. Games - thinkCentipedeetc -  will cost 240-400 points each (around 2-3.50GBP) and you can apparently create your own arcade and invite friends over - presumably they will need to buy the games first to play though. Microsoft also confirmed thatProject Natalwill launch in "holiday season" 2010.  But what was the thinking behind Game Room?In aleaked video, Xbox head Robbie Bach explained the concept behind it.Well, Game Room in some ways is sort of a retro approach. And it's interesting, there's a generation of people — sort of my advanced, mature age [laughs] — who grew up with a set of games like Centipede. They look almost like casual, fun games today — at the time they were high-end, edgy games — and so Game Room is the idea of bringing that back to the market. And bringing that to a very broad audience. And I think what we're gonna find is that when people can get 30 or more of these games, they're gonna love it for the experience. And it's not just you and I who are gonna love it, even the people who would call themselves "hardcore gamers" are gonna say "Oh wow this is fun!" In a retro way. It's sort of like my daughter going to watch Journey. I'm like, this is a band that was playing when I was growing up. And she thinks it's a cool band and I like the music. And I think you're gonna have the same phenomenon with Game Room. We're gonna enjoy the games and they're gonna think it's cool. I think that's very powerful.Bland name aside - is Game Room really the best they could come up with? - there could be something here. Retro gaming is always appealing to an older audience. But will it broaden the audience for Xbox 360 like Bach suggests? I doubt it. Like most things Xbox, Game Room is likely to appeal mainly to men. The cross-generational thing may work though. Also the strict focus of the virtual space - compared to Sony's far more ambitious yet sprawling, Home - should work in its favour.What do you think then? Tempted by Game Room? Or is retro gaming best left to mobiles and casual gaming sites?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.Quote of the day"Enough! I will not be able to keep my breakfast down much longer! Gruesome chatter."Wedgemondo feels the pain of Body Mod Blog (thanks go to Fantomex and his newly forked tongue – urgh) - Office Pest.
&bull; CES opened on Wednesday as Microsoft's Steve Ballmer and Robbie Bach took the stage to reveal... and what did they show off?Slate PCsfrom Hewlett Packard, thoughprecious few details were revealedabout when they might be available, for how much or - to be honest - what they really do.&bull; For gamers the big news was thatProject Natal, the company'smotion sensitive gaming systemthat is intended to take on the Wii, should be available by Christmas. Still no price, though.&bull; Away from CES, mathematicians were celebrating (as much as mathematicians ever celebrate) over the news that pihas been calculated to nearly 2.7 trillion digits. That's some serious number crunching: and the man behind it, Fabrice Bellardsays the results take more than a terabyte of storage. Good times.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer presented his second annual opening keynote at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on Wednesday night -- a gig he inherited from Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates.  It started late following a power failure, and then went on too long, as Ballmer touched very briefly Microsoft's 2009 product highlights such as Windows Mobile 6.5, Zune HD, Bing, Mediaroom TV software and Windows 7. Well, Windows 7 was genuinely not just a Microsoft but a computer industry highlight, but it's hardly news.Ballmer could have shown more, but he left the in-car announcements for Ford Sync, which is "Powered by Microsoft", for the keynote by Ford CEO Alan Mulally, and saved the Windows Mobile 7 demo for the Mobile World Congress. Project Natal, which lets people use their bodies to control games, wasn't even demonstrated "in the flesh", though Microsoft's Robbie Bach said it would be launched for the 2010 holiday season.And while Ballmer did show three tablet or slate computers, including a slick-looking multi-touch HP model, again he showed them only briefly. The HP slate appeared to be running Amazon's Kindle software for Windows, which means you can have a decent ebook reader with a colour screen.Microsoft has been trying to flog tablet computers for more than a decade -- with CE-based PC Companions, Windows XP Tablet PC Edition and the small-screen Origami systems -- without success. Thanks to the multi-touch features in Windows 7, many Windows PC manufacturers are now trying to build newer and better tablets, but Ballmer didn't demo these at length, or show Microsoft's own Courier development, or capitalise on therenewed interest in the form factor created by Apple's forthcoming iTablet/iSlate/whatever.Ballmer did show the Blio ebook software created by prolific inventor Ray Kurzweil (seeblioreader.com/). But instead of what could have been a stunning demo, we got another skimover.I couldn't help but think that Bill Gates would have done a much better job. He would at least have explained the overall Microsoft strategy of "three screens and a cloud" -- which means access to all your content on PC, TV and mobile phone, all synchronised via Microsoft cloud computing. With Windows 7, Azure, Live Mesh and things like Zune movie services, this is all coming together now, and there are things that could have been demonstrated… but they weren't, really.Gates would also have had a star guest or two (he had Shaquille O'Neal, for example) and shown us a funny video. Ballmer had no famous guests and the videos featuring Saturday Night Live writer and performer Seth Meyers were the worst I can remember.All round, it has to go down as another missed opportunity for Microsoft. And the company already has far too many of those.Update: How did Steve do? Decide for yourself. Microsoft has put the keynote video online at itsCES site.
With Apple having neatly stolen some of the thunder with the carefully-leaked-to-the-Wall-Street-Journal story (we'll explain why later) on Monday about the upcoming "iTablet" (suggest a better name, please), more details seem to be dribbling out about the device Apple is expected to launch on Wednesday 27 January.First, Scott Moritz at TheStreet has a story saying thatthe ...device won't be powered by an Intel processor. Shock! Horror? Well, no, because as Jack Schofield pointed out, nor are the iPod or iPod Touch or iPhone: they all have ARM processors inside.Except that Moritz, quoting Ashok Kumar, an analyst with Northeast Securities, says it will be powered by a PA Semi chip. Who? PA Semi is the company that Apple bought two years ago - which wewrote about in August 2008: the PA Semi team has ARM experience and Apple has an ARM compatibility licence that would let it create ARM-alike chips but with its own power consumption and other tweaks. So it could be that the device will show off the benefits of the PA Semi acquisition.Next: Apple hasacquired Quattro Wireless, a mobile advertising specialist:"We have built our business by enabling advertisers to reach the right consumers across the mobile web and in applications. We remain focused on delivering more engaging, relevant and useful ads to mobile devices, and improving the measurement and execution of digital campaigns. Together with Apple, we look forward to developing exciting new opportunities in the future that will benefit our customers. "Make of that what you will.Throwaway link: John Brownlee at Cult of Mac reporting someone saying they overheard someone who works for Applesaying the device has a "steep learning curve". Well, maybe a3D interfacewould fit the bill?Finally, John Martellaro, a former Apple insider,explains about how Apple does leaks.He explains:"Often Apple has a need to let information out, unofficially. The company has been doing that for years, and it helps preserve Apple's consistent, official reputation for never talking about unreleased products. I know, because when I was a Senior Marketing Manager at Apple, I was instructed to do some controlled leaks."The way it works is that a senior exec will come in and say, 'We need to release this specific information. John, do you have a trusted friend at a major outlet? If so, call him/her and have a conversation. Idly mention this information and suggest that if it were published, that would be nice. No e-mails!'"The communication is always done in person or on the phone. Never via e-mail. That's so that if there's ever any dispute about what transpired, there's no paper trail to contradict either party's version of the story. Both sides can maintain plausible deniability and simply claim a misunderstanding. That protects Apple and the publication."In the case of yesterday's story, Walt Mossberg was bypassed so that Mr. Mossberg would remain above the fray, above reproach. Also, two journalists at the WSJ were involved. That way, each one could point the finger at the other and claim, 'I thought he told me to run with this story! Sorry.'"It's been pointed out that the last time one of the journalists in the Monday leak story wrote about Apple, it was with the surprisingly accurate - yet totally without named sources - story about Steve Jobs having had a liver transplant. Which was later, of course, completely confirmed as correct.And why might Apple have wanted to leak those sort-of details about the iTablet? Martellaro suggests:*  "to light a fire under a recalcitrant partner"* "to float the idea of the US$1,000 price point and gauge reaction"* "to panic/confuse a potential competitor about whom Apple had some knowledge"* "to whet analyst and observer expectations to make sure the right kind and number of people show up at the (presumed) January 26 event. Apple hates empty seats and demands SRO at these events."I don't know what SRO is in the last one. But on point three, note that Microsoft's Steve Ballmer was being rumoured to announce, or at least suggest, a tablet/slate with HP in his CES opening speech tonight. Consider that spiked, Steve.
The first thing I saw when entering the Consumer Electronics Show's opening preview was Parrot's AR Drone - it's hard to miss something hovering at head height. Then I discovered that what looked like a four-rotor helicopter was actually an iPhone-controlled game, and that Parrot -- a Paris-based company best known for things like iPod speakers -- was looking for game developers to exploit it.It has a built-in camera but no guns, but game developers can simulate those for mid air battles and augmented reality games.The quadricopter uses an ARM chip and Linux, and can fly for about 15 minutes. It also works with the iPod Touch.It's an unexpected development for Parrot, but Cristina Sanz, the chief marketing officer, said it was "kind of a personal project" for the CEO, and "finally, the dream came true." She said the AR Drone would cost less than $500 including a couple of games.Another neat but unexpected gadget was a $249 Pocket Radar, which can handle speeds from about 7mph to 325mph. It works quickly enough to catch the speed of a ball bounced off the floor -- 11mph -- and you could also get speeds for your kids cycling or skiing or whatever. But it remains to be seen whether there's a big market for this kind of thing.Then there was the Entourage Edge dual-screen ebook reader and computer. Basically you get a 9.7 inch monochrome touch-screen ebook reader hinged to a 10.1 inch colour touch-screen netbook running Google's Android version of Linux. It has Wi-Fi and a mobile phone connection, and the company says it has a GSM slot, so a European launch might not be too far away.The company reckons the "dualbook" could transform the education market, and will have its own ebook store created with companies such as McGraw Hill, Oxford University Press and John Wiley &amp; Sons. It says:"The enTourage eDGe includes a built-in noise-cancelling microphone and 1.3 Mega Pixel camera to easily capture audio and video content, perfect for classroom lectures or taking down meeting minutes. The microphone can pick up audio from up to 30 feet away and stores the files in MP3 format."Entourage is taking pre-orders for $490 atentourageedge.comand the Edge "will be fully available in February 2010". But it's bulk sales to education authorities that could make a product like this very successful.Among the netbooks was theLenovo ThinkPad X100e, which is probably the first netbook to have a TrackPoint pointing device, though it has a mousepad as well. It's basically a $449 ThinkPad, but based on AMD Neo chips rather than an Intel Atom.Finally, I saw what appeared to be some Pure DAB radios, which was a bit of a surprise because the US doesn't do DAB. Pure's Colin Crawford said the company had left the DAB out of the US versions, which would be FM and internet radios. "Broadband and Wi-Fi uptake is huge in the US," he said, "and we think the infrastructure is good enough to support an internet product range."Pure's DAB radios are relatively popular in the UK, but the format is either dying or being replaced by DAB+ or other systems overseas. Internet radio has some way to go in terms of ease of use, but at least there's a global market.
Historians specialising in broadcasting media may come to look back on 11 June 2010 as a crucial date in the transformation of the way people consume television in the home.The American sports broadcaster ESPN has announced that it will use the starting game of the World Cup between South Africa and Mexicoto unveil the first dedicated 3D television network, allowing viewers at home to watch the match in the glory of three dimensions.The move is far more than a mere technological gimmick. Industry advocates are pinning hopes on 3D-TV as the next stage in the development of the medium after HDTV and Blu-ray.The obstacles to lift-off are phenomenal. Home users will have to invest in new 3D televisions which at least initially will cost more than $2,000.They will also have to get used to the ignominy of wearing those funny goggles in the home, a necessary accessory as current 3D technology relies on the glasses to filter two sets of synchronised footage separately to the left and right eye thus creating the three-dimensional effect.There are experiments underway with glasses-free 3D, but the technology is primitive at present.ESPN hopesto lure rich and experimental viewers — the so-called "first adopters" for whom money is not an object — to invest in the new televisions by promising to broadcast at least 85 live sporting events to its new 3D channel in the first year, starting with 25 World Cup games and then moving to professional basketball, college basketball and football. It will also hope to grab the attention of extreme sports followers by broadcasting the annual X Games competition featuring skateboarding, rally car racing and other events in Los Angeles in July.Other broadcasters and technology companies are scrambling to get in on the 3D TV market, which has received a huge shot in the arm by the success of Avatar. James Cameron's futuristic exploration of another world, Pandora, using the latest and most subtle 3D filming techniques yet seen, has captured cinema-going audiences across America and surpassed$1bn in box office takings in just three weeks.The hope is that the same demand can be created for a 3D experience in the home. Discovery Communications is following ESPN, announcing that it has entered a partnership with Imax and Sony to put out a network from 2011.Though it will be open to subscribers much later than ESPN 3D, it will provide programming around the clock whereas the ESPN network will go black when it is not showing live events.Technology companies including Sony, Panasonic and Samsung are also rushing to put out 3D TV models, several of which will be promoted atthis week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas."There's certainly an appetite for this, as Avatar has proved," said Max Robins, a broadcasting expert at the New York-based Paley Center for Media."It may take a bit longer than people hope for it to catch on, but there's a constant desire to improve and enrich the viewing experience."
The Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, will on Thursday launch a website hosting hundreds of sets of data - including previously unreleased information - about the capital, as part of a new scheme intended to encourage people to create "mashups" of data to boost the city's transparency and accountability.Channel 4 will also be offering up to £200,000 through its 4ip fund to help develop the most innovative uses of the data.To announce the site, Johnson will take part in a live linkup on Thursday to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas with President Barack Obama's chief technology officer Aneesh Chopra, who has overseen the development of the US government's "data.gov" project, which aims to put all US government data onto the web for others to use.The London Datastore, as it is called, will be fully open from 29 January. It will be the first such "datastore" for a city in the UK. The government is working on a similar site, called data.gov.uk, which is also expected to be unveiled this month under the auspices of Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web. He has been working inside the civil service since summer 2009 to unlock and unify datasets collected inside government: when it launches, data.gov.uk is expected to carry hundreds of datasets for free reuse.The government took a significant step towards making such datasets easier to use withthe announcement by Gordon Brown in Novemberthat Ordnance Survey mapping data from 1:10,000 would be free for all use, including commercial applications, from April.A number of cities in the US have their own datastores, such asDataSFfor San Francisco and theChicago data store. The idea has rapidly gained traction since the introduction of Google Maps in 2005, which allowed people to attach sets of data with geographical information to a map in real time.Johnson has been a strong advocate of open data, havingcampaigned in 2008 on the promise that he would introduce crime maps, despite misgivings of some senior police officers. The Metropolitan Police did howeverquickly implement] crime mapping in London, following the lead that had already been set by a number of other police forces around the country.In a statement, Johnson said: "The superb new London 'Datastore' will unleash valuable facts and figures that been languishing for far too long in the deepest recesses of City Hall. I firmly believe that access to information should not just be the preserve of institutions and a limited elite. Data belongs to the people particularly that held by the public sector and getting hold of it should not involve a complex routine of jumping through a series of ever decreasing hoops."The US has led the way on this idea of setting their data free for anyone - students, campaigners, software developers – to use. Now it's time for Britain to get up to speed and I want London, as the greatest city in the UK, to be at the forefront of this revolution, that will not only increase democracy, but also provide a potential money-spinner for the city's hugely important software development sector."The datasets that will be available include attainment, pupil number and schools data; fire incidents, ambulance rates, crime rates; carbon emissions, floorspace, vacant commercial offices, industrial stock data, abandoned vehicles, recycling rates, waste data, waste re-use centres, fly tipping rates, alcohol indicators, abortion rates, hospital waiting lists and admissions, excess winter deaths - and many dozens more.
Unmanned drones have become synonymous with controversial military action in some of the most dangerous warzones. But now  a child's toy has been created using the same technology.The AR.Drone, an iPhone-controlled helicopter powered by four separate blades, has been unveiled at the agenda-settingConsumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.Boasting built-in military grade systems such as wind compensation and autopilot functions, the drone is able to hover for hours over a single spot – or fly under the command of a pilot using a wireless controller such as an iPhone.The toy also boasts a number of other hi-tech embellishments, including a pair of on-board cameras and a computerised internal guidance system that allow it to track objects and react to the environment automatically."With video cameras and a powerful computer, we have developed a very stable drone that is easy to control and flies like a dragonfly," said Henri Seydoux, the founder and chief executive of the Paris-based company behind the toy, Parrot.A spokesman for the company, which is better known for making Bluetooth headsets and in-car systems, would not say how much the AR Drone will cost – but confirmed that it would be available to buy later this year."Our first project was a Bluetooth race car. We've developed it, but I was not satisfied," said Seydoux. "So I started with the idea of a quadricopter."The company was demonstrating the device at the annual Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, one of the world's biggest technology industry showcases.Thousands of computer buffs and hi-tech entrepreneurs are expected in the city this week as the world's most powerful electronics brands fight it out for top billing. Among the 2,500 companies in attendance are Microsoft, Sony, Samsung and Nokia – who are all launching major new products at the event.The show's organisers expect more than 100,000 enthusiasts to turn up over the next four days to get their hands on new products such as touchscreen tablet computers, record-breaking television screens and electronic books.Despite the focus on expensive gadgets and gizmos, however, toys are an increasingly significant part of the show – with a manufacturers showing off robots and hi-tech contraptions aimed at youngsters.The high levels of interest and excitement come despite a difficult period for the event, which is entering its 42nd year. In 2009 many exhibitors were left reeling by the global economic crisis, and many have scaled down their plans for this year's show.Organisers say that visitor numbers could be even lower this week than they were this time last year, although more new companies have signed up to exhibit than ever - a signal that the excitement that was absent last year has returned."There's a great deal of enthusiasm leading into 2010 that just wasn't there in the 2009 show," said Jason Oxman, a senior vice-president of the Consumer Electronics Association, which organises the event.
American TV network ESPN is to show football matches in 3D during this year's World Cup in South Africa.The US sports broadcaster, which won rights to show Premier League games in Britain after the collapse of Setanta last summer, said that it would debut its 3D television system during a World Cup match between the hosts and Mexico on 11 June.Twenty-four other matches during the competition will also be shown in 3D, which will require viewers to wear special glasses. The company did not say whether viewers in the UK would, or how it planned to make the technology available to its subscribers in the United States.The system, which relies on a network of cameras and entirely separate staff, has been in trials for the past year."This is an ongoing science project for us," said Bryan Burns, ESPN's vice-president of strategic business planning, at the CES show in Las Vegas.
Three years ago, inone of my more fanciful columnsfor the sadly defunct Technology section of the newspaper, I predicted that the future of gaming was augmented reality robot battles. Inspired by thenews of Bandai's NetTansor, a miniature droid that could be controlled remotely via Wi-Fi, I suggested that we'll all one day be indulging in real-world death matches, commanding robotic slaves into battle on the streets of our towns and cities, as we controlled the carnage via our computers.Well, it turns out, these weren't the 'oh Christ, I've got one hour to file a story' blatherings of a desperate man.Parrot, a Paris-based tech company specialising in wireless devices for mobile phones, has just unveiled theAR Drone, a model 'quadricopter' pilotable via, yes, a Wi-Fi connection with your iPhone or iPod Touch (and potentially any device with wireless connectivity and a decent screen). The 'copter features two cameras, one acting as an Inertial Measurement Unit to stabilise flight, the other streaming real-time video footage to your phone screen. Controls are via the iPhone accelerometer, which handles changes in direction, and a series of icons on the touchscreen for rise, drop and rotate functions.Parrot has the field of augmented reality gaming firmly in its sights, and sees aerial combat as a possible killer app for the device. According to the website, the AR Drone will ship with two AR games, including a simple shooter in which you blast computer-generated craft that are overlaid on the video display. Furthermore,a Software Development Kitis now available for the developers who want to create games for the AR Drone.Interestingly, the craft can apparently be flown both insideandout in the open, suggesting two possibilities: massive multiplayer deathmatches in the skies above; and mid-air voyeurism. Well,someonewas going to point it out eventually - and let's face it, the CIA has been working on insect-like spy cameras since the '70s, and a swarm wasapparentlyspotted over Washington two years ago. Is this the consumer version?There's no word on costing or availability yet, but Parrot is showing the technology at this week's giantConsumer Electronics Show. I've put in a request for a review unit, though I've probably blown my chances pointing out that whole spying angle.What do you think? The future of gaming?
A US firm is suing China for alleged piracy of internet filtering software, claiming that lines of code were copied for the controversial Green Dam censorship program.Cybersitter, which produces software to help parents filter content for their children, filed a $2.2bn (£1.4bn) lawsuit in a federal court in Los Angeles yesterday. The company names the Chinese government, two Chinese software firms and seven computer makers in the suit.Chinese officials said last year that the Green Dam Youth Escort program would be mandatory on all new computers in China, but backed away at the last minute after an outcry by internet users, foreign governments and businesses.Beijing said it was targeting pornography and violence. But experts said the program denied access to politically sensitive material, collected private data from internet users and was highly vulnerable to security breaches.A research team at the University of Michigan in the US reported at the time that Green Dam appeared to use blacklist files derived from Cybersitter, but soon afterwards said that an update appeared to have disabled the files.Gregory Fayer, a lawyer representing the US firm, told Associated Press: "I don't think I have ever seen such clearcut stealing."He alleged that Chinese software makers appeared to have copied more than 3,000 lines of code."They did a sloppy job," he added, noting that they included directions on how to get to the Cybersitter website.The suit alleges misappropriation of trade secrets, unfair competition, copyright infringement and conspiracy. It also claims the Chinese software makers broke US laws governing economic espionage.Cybersitter is also suing manufacturers including Sony, Lenovo and Toshiba on the grounds that they distributed Green Dam with PCs sold in China. The other firms named are Acer, ASUSTeK, BenQ and Haier.The Chinese government had ordered computer makers to include the software. Cybersitter's lawsuit alleges that manufacturers continued to distribute the program after learning of the piracy claims.Fayer said that none of the defendants had been served with the lawsuit yet.China's foreign ministry referred questions to the ministry of industry and information technology, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment.A Lenovo Group spokeswoman told AP by email that the firm was unable to comment on pending litigation, adding that it had not shipped Green Dam with PCs for several months.AP said spokespeople for Sony and Taiwan's BenQ said they had no details of the lawsuit and could not comment. Taiwan's Acer and China's Haier Group declined to comment, while Toshiba and Taiwan's ASUSTeK Computer did not respond to queries.But the Financial Times quoted ASUSTeK as saying the program came from a mainland Chinese company and that they were trying to resolve the issue legally.The chief executive of one of the Chinese software makers being sued, Zhengzhou Jinhui Computer System Engineering, did not answer phone calls. The firm has previously denied any wrongdoing. A representative of the other software maker named in the lawsuit, Beijing Dazheng Human Language Technology Academy, was not available when AP called.Fayer said Cybersitter was seeking damages for royalties due on its product, which sold for $39.95 a copy. He said the case could be "a watershed for the protection of American intellectual property internationally."We don't make many widgets anymore," he said. "What we have to offer the world is our ingenuity and creativity, our ideas and what lawyers call intellectual property … It is important that they be protected."
Kotakuare reportingthat the next Zelda game for the Wii will be out in 2010. No confirmation if this is Japan only or worldwide - I've got a sneaky feeling it will be Easter 2011 for Europe - but this is great news for Wii owners. I've been playing the latest Zelda game - Spirit Tracks on DS - over Christmas and have throughly enjoyed it despite the over-familiar gameplay mechanics. You can blame nostalgia. There is so much goodwill invested into the Zelda series by older gamers that a tinkle of the music alone is usually enough to renew the love affair.  Roll on E3 in June, where we should get more details and hands-on.Nintendo also talked DS too. It looks like a new version of the handheld device - now the fastest selling console in European history - could have motion control.Nintendo president Satoru Iwata said about the new DS:[It will have] highly detailed graphics, and it will be necessary to have a sensor with the ability to read the movements of people playing.What he means by "highly detailed graphics" is up for debate. After all, Nintendo long since pulled out of the graphical arms race. Could we see PSP standard or better? More interesting is the motion sensor. Do we really want that on a handheld device? Sure, it will be fine at home but do you really want to be waving your hands in front of your DS while on the bus or train? It's bad enough blowing into the mic while playing Spirit Tracks.What do you think then? Excited by the new Zelda game? Think that motion control will work on the "new" DS.
