My Waitrose broadband connection goes at a snail's pace. Each time I ask for help, I have to work my way through 12 to 20 "troubleshooting solutions".A Slow AnonymousWaitrose's small broadband service had a good reputation when it was run by Brightview, which also ran Madasafish. BT bought Brightview two years ago. You might now be better off switching suppliers, even if you switched to BT. However, smaller ISPs such as Be, NewNet and Zen generally offer a better service than ones going for volume. Try reading the reviews atISPreview.co.ukand similar sites, rather than the price comparison sites. Results are variable as not all exchanges are equal, but cheap broadband is rarely good broadband.Backchat: Stephen Stannard points out that "Be hasn't been a 'smaller' ISP since it was taken over by O2". He adds: "My experience of O2 Broadband has been so good that I was genuinely surprised, and, as a pay-as-you-go O2 mobile phone user, I pay £7.34 per month for unlimited bandwidth and get an average of 5.5Mbps real-download speed on an 'up to 8MB' connection."
Microsoft has launched aYouTube channel for Bing, where it's showing TV ads for its new search engine. Having had some success with the I'm a PC series, however, the Bing ads show a return to Microsoft's more usual form: I think they're awful. Will the US public agree?I would expect any type of TV ad to prompt at least some people to try the service, but whether they will bring a lasting increase in Bing's market share remains to be seen. Microsoft needs to attract regular users, not casual visitors. Bing has some nice features, but I don't think it's strong enough to convert people who already have Google or Yahoo as their home page.
Your answer aboutsigning into a limited accountwas very interesting, but how do you find the limited account tab?Bob JonesGo to the Start button, select Settings and then the Control Panel, and the last applet should be the one called User Accounts. Microsoft's site has a fully illustrated guide:Create and customize user accounts.
The UK government is preparing its own version of the US's "data.gov" site, which lets anyone download datasets generated by the US government in various formats and use them as they wish.Data.gov -unveiled in mid-May - is intended to give US citizens direct access to non-personal information collected by taxpayer-funded agencies. By dint of having funded the collection, US citizens and organisations are automatically given rights to reuse the data as they wish - including commercially for profit."The purpose of Data.gov is to increase public access to high-value, machine readable datasets generated by the Executive Branch of the Federal Government," the US site explains, adding that a primary goal is "to improve access to Federal data and expand creative use of those data beyond the walls of government by encouraging innovative ideas".Now the UK government has picked up on the idea, and in a post on the Cabinet Office blog Richard Stirling isasking the British public how a UK version of the US site should be implemented. "What characteristics would be most useful to you - feeds (ATOM or RSS) or bulk download by FTP?," he asks. "Should this be an index or a repository? Should this serve particular types of data eg XML, JSON or RDF?"Although there is a list of dozens of theUK government's published data sourcesthere is no clear pan-governmental approach to making data available. The proposal has been received with pleasure by a number of web developers and would-be data users, although it is not clear how free people would be to use the data commercially.Simon Dickson, who previously worked at the Office of National Statistics, comments on the Cabinet Office blog that "the hard part is getting the data in the first place. Part of it is cultural. Statisticians are protective perfectionists. Most simply don't like the idea of letting ordinary people get at the data."Tony Hirst, of the Open University, who has created mashups of data posted on the Guardian's Data blog,commented on his blogthat "As to whether the data is useful, or who's going to use it, or why they're going to use it, I don't know: but I suspect that if it isn't easy to use, then people won't."• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Adobe has surprised and angered UK users by announcing it will be raising prices on its software by around 10% from 1 July - pushing the price differential based on the exchange rate between its UK and US products even further apart.The announcement, which does not appear on Adobe's UK website, may prompt a rush to buy programs in the coming month - but could also drive would-be purchasers to lower-cost alternatives, or to pirated versions. At the same time it is reducing prices by around 13% in continental Europe, citing changes in the dollar to euro exchange rate.The company said that the price hikes in the UK are "a difficult decision for us" but that they had been forced upon it because "the global economy has entered a state of unprecedented turmoil, and one of the side effects of this has been sharp fluctuations between GBP/EUR exchange rates". That has created problems for its desire to harmonise prices between the UK and continental Europe, it said.The source of the problemExisting users and would-be buyers reacted with anger. "Why can't I buy from a US store? I'm sure Adobe sources cheap labour/components, but apparently its customers are not allowed to do the same," commented "freshwebservices" on the Guardian Technology blog. Others pointed out that it is cheaper to buy the boxed copy than a downloaded version.Adobe is in good financial health: in its last quarter, though profits fell by 29% compared to the year-ago quarter, it had a net income of $156m on revenues of $786m - a net profit margin of just under 20%. It has $2.38bn in the bank and $350m in borrowings, giving it substantial assets.But for years UK users have noted a significant disparity between US and UK price. In 2006, when sterling was trading at nearly $2, the Guardian noted Adobe hadthe worst disparity in its pricing, with Photoshop CS2 at $579.99 in the US but &pound;495.99 in the UK, instead of &pound;347.20 - a 42% difference.Today in the US, Design Premium CS4 is priced at $1,593.99 on Amazon (reduced from $1,799.99). At today's exchange rate that is equivalent to &pound;982 (reduced from &pound;1,109). However, on Amazon UK, Design Premium CS4 presently costs &pound;1,249 excluding VAT; from 1 July, it will cost &pound;1,372 (excluding VAT). That represents a 27% markup - though from July that will stretch to 39.7% - almost the same as it was when the pound was worth $2, rather than $1.62 as it was this week.As the pound approaches parity with the dollar, Adobe in effect gets a revenue boost for every copy of its software sold in the UK; the fall in the pound against the dollar over the past three years does not however seem to have satisfied it.Nobody at the executive level of Adobe UK was available to answer the Guardian's questions about the price changes earlier this week, though a spokesperson did respond to questions by email.It declined to answer why a profitable company was raising prices during a recession that has had a serious effect on its main customer base, the publishing industry. Asked why customers should bear the brunt of the downturn when it is in a strong financial position, its spokesperson responded: "This move is a result of us seeking to harmonise our pricing across the European Union/European Economic Area, to the extent that circumstances and market conditions make this possible."Licence revokedThe company has privately warned people who have considered buying boxed copies of the software from abroad and bringing them to the UK that licences are region-specific, and a US copy of an Adobe product could not be activated in the UK.Asked why there is such a dramatic price disparity between the US and UK, if software is digital - and the UK is effectively a sales arm - Adobe replied: "Even though we live in a digital world, the cost to market and distribute our products through our various channels varies regionally. Our pricing reflects those cost variations, which is why we do not have a single worldwide price for English versions. As the UK is part of the EU/European Economic Area we seek to price consistently across the region, resulting in the recent price harmonisation.""It's no wonder people feel they have no choice but to obtain pirate copies," said one commenter at the Guardian blog. "I really want to support innovation, but it's difficult to feel sympathy for Adobe when they are screwing us like this." Adobe's spokesperson dodged the question of whether the price rise might prompt more piracy: "We take piracy of our software very seriously and we have a comprehensive worldwide programme targeted at reducing both pirated use of our software, and to reduce the supply of illegitimate product available on the internet," the company said.
In July 2000 Apple invited me to New York, where it was participating in the Macworld show. There used to be two each year, one in San Francisco, one in New York - now there's just one, and soon there'll be none. There, Steve Jobs - remember him? - unveiled his "one more thing", which turned out to be a computer shaped like a cube, eight inches on each side. Impressive. Expensive too."So who do you expect to buy this?" I asked David Moody, then Apple's head of desktop systems. He insisted it wasn't just some flight of fancy: "We had customers coming to us and saying that they wanted a class of product that nobody was offering. They wanted to have professional power but didn't want the baggage of the slots and big box on their desk." You may know the rest of the story. The Cube was iced a year later. Sure, some people wanted its power but they also wanted to, but couldn't, add expansion cards and lots of memory. Those who liked its looks and didn't mind the lack of expansibility found the price tag - $1,799 in the US, &pound;1,149 in the UK - too steep.I think I'm correct in saying that Apple has never since discontinued a product because of insufficient sales. It's killed things off - the eMac, the iPod mini, the 160GB iPod - but not because they were left shamefaced on the shelf. That tells us Apple is a rigorously focused company nowadays. Which is why I don't think it's going to announce either a tablet or a netbook at next week's WWDC conference - or any time.The tablet is the easier prediction. Ignore the people who say, "If Apple made a tablet I'd buy one in a heartbeat!" They're a niche, just like those who led Apple astray over the Cube. And, despite its image, Apple does not build for niches. It aims for the biggest market it can - within the limits it sets itself - making premium products. It would be happy with 100% of the top 5% most expensive computer purchases, because it would make tons of profit. (It settles for less, obviously.)Tablet computers are the nichest of niche products. Great for doctors and, um, architects? Hopeless for the average person who needs a rapid way to interact with, and input data to, web pages, email, spreadsheets and documents.But, you say, Apple sells the iPhone, which is like a small tablet! It's got an onscreen touch keyboard. Just make it bigger, and there's your tablet! Nope. The iPhone (and iPod Touch) are successes in the category Apple has aimed them at - highly portable internet devices. They aren't intended to replace a computer at times when you'd use a computer; they're serving a different need.The tablet computer is generally envisaged as a replacement for a laptop or desktop. Why, though? When would you pull out your tablet and start working with that, rather than attaching a keyboard to it - ie, use a laptop? Alternatively, why would you use a tablet if you could use an iPhone? It's a solution looking for a problem.Which then leads us on to the netbook question. Why wouldn't Apple launch a netbook? BesidesTim Cook's repudiation of the idea, which doesn't necessarily count for anything - if the sun were one of Apple's products it would deny it was going to rise until dawn, or possibly slightly after - there's that "market" mathematics. Netbooks are designed down to a price; they're after price-conscious consumers. Apple isn't. It doesn't want 100% of the bottom 5% of the market. But that's what the netbook market is. Don't expect that either next week.But there will be a new iPhone to go with the updated iPhone OS, of that I'm sure. And I think that's going to be a very interesting entrant to the market.
MicroStar International's first X-Slim laptop, the X340, is due to ship this week, providing people who quite fancied a MacBook Air with the Windows equivalent - for a much lower price. The comparison is inevitable. The X340 is very nearly as thin as the Air (0.78in against 0.76in at the thickest), and lighter (1.3kg against 1.36kg). It also looks terrific, having a beautifully glossy black (or white) finish.The X340 also avoids some of the MacBook Air's limitations. For example, it has a good set of ports – two USB 2.0, Gigabit Ethernet, headphone and microphone jacks, HDMI, an SD card slot – and a 3x bigger, faster hard drive. Unlike the Air and the similar Asus Seashell netbook, it also has a removable battery.It's powered by an SU3500 1.4GHz Intel Core 2 Solo chip, where the cheapest MacBook Air has a 1.6GHz Core 2 Duo. This makes the X340 noticeably less powerful than the Air, but noticeably more powerful than an Atom-powered netbook. The Core Solo is one of Intel's new power-saving CULV (consumer ultra low voltage) chips, which enables the X340 to use a surprisingly small battery, and to run very, very cool.The X340 performed better than I expected running Windows Vista Home Premium. Its Experience Index is 3.4, which is the score for the 2D graphics from the integrated Intel GS45, but the 2GB of memory and the very fast 320GB hard drive certainly help compensate. It feels snappy.The 13-inch LCD displays 1366 x 768 pixels, and gives a bright, clear image. However, it's really widescreen (16:9), which suits watching movies rather than word processing, or even web browsing.Battery life was about average for a portable, with the standard four-cell battery lasting around three to four hours on a wired internet connection. This is less than you'd hope for from a CULV machine, and part of the price you pay for thinness. You would need the eight-cell version, or a spare battery or the power adaptor, for a day's work.The X340's other weak point is the keyboard, which is flat, and feels lifeless. The trackpad and rocker-style mouse bar also merge into the casing, which may be a nice design point but makes them harder to locate. Still, having a full-sized keyboard is a big improvement on a netbook. Aside from the small Enter and right-shift keys, I had no problems touch-typing.The price? The X340 has been on pre-order for &pound;760, including delivery, and two years of collect-and-return support. This is cheap by ultraportable standards - around &pound;500 less than a MacBook Air - but a bit much for the mass market. The X320, which uses the cheaper Intel Atom processor, should be more affordable.Pros: thin and light; 13-inch screen; removable battery; doesn't get hotCons: lifeless keyboard; functional but limited processing powermsimobile.com
Fight: Google v BingBlackdog has created a split-screen site so that users can search Google and Microsoft's Bing at the same time.&pound;500,000 challengeThe deadline for the annual Global Security Challenge, for innovations, is 15 June.World's biggest laser systemThe US National Ignition Facility is creating a system based on 192 giant lasers.Fastest laptop in the universe?Alienware says its quad-core M17x is "the most powerful 17-inch gaming notebook in the universe".Wave to GoogleGoogle has released a preview version of its Wave communications software to "a small number of developers".Pocket TVToday, Sony Ericsson launches a weekly Pocket TV music show on YouTube, with a "citizen journalist" slot for 16-24s.Noise-cancelling NokiaNokia will offer BH-905 Bluetooth stereo headphones with active noise cancellation in August, for &euro;285 (&pound;246).Mapping the internetKevin Kelly's new project: draw a map of the web, and indicate your "home".LiMo starts bloggingThe LiMo Foundation has launched a blog covering Linux for mobiles phones.
It's two years since Last.fm was bought by the US media giant CBS and, with the exception of some quirky antique furniture and even more music CDs, not much has changed in the east London office home of the internet radio site.There was the incident when they lost their balls (the ball pit was "gross" and had to be disassembled), the 20 job cuts just after the 2008 Christmas party and the wedding invite from a couple who, thanks to their shared music tastes, had met on the site. So has the &pound;140m acquisition taken the pressure off the Last.fm team?After years of scraping by - and, on one occasion, being saved from bankruptcy by a VAT return - it's a relief not to worry about money, says its chief executive, Felix Miller. "It's easy to build a website a lot of people can come to, but there are big challenges making that into a sustainable business. I think we relished that challenge. We always knew we needed to make this work as a business - we couldn't just be the next big thing and be bought."What started as a pet project for their music-obsessed mates now has more than 30 million users every month. So where next? "There's more to life than just being big, so we spent a lot of time figuring out how to marry the entertainment experience and advertising to make money," says Miller, who won't say whether Last.fm is profitable or not. His co-founder Martin Stiksel says that, despite the downturn, Last.fm is now a regular on the schedules of London's ad agencies and saw spectacular growth early this year because "music is like escapism in its purest form".Connecting the dotsIsn't Last.fm's biggest challenge now from Spotify, which combines a free, advertising-supported streaming service with an ad-free subscription model? "Spotify deserves the utmost credit for making listening to music a lot easier, but there's more to technology than that," Miller says of Spotify's canny iTunes-like design.He insists Last.fm is answering a different problem for music fans, which is why many use Spotify and "scrobble" their music (track their music habits) back to Last. "Music is sort of like connective tissue for us. It's not just about listening to the music but all the stuff that comes with the music - what does all this music mean, how does it relate to me, how do I find new stuff and how can I burrow deeper into what I'm really into? Spotify has a challenge of figuring out how it adds value because their business model is obviously to make listening easy, but then they introduce ads, which aren't supposed to be part of the music," says Miller.Last.fm's biggest product developments of the past year were the 2008 redesign and a revamped, more advertising-friendly radio player that displays videos and photos. Richard Jones, chief technology officer and father of Last.fm's scrobbling technology, says the pace of development is influenced by the scale of the audience, rather than any influence from the corporate culture of CBS. "Just the fact that we're so much bigger is the main thing that slows you down because you can't just start changing stuff and pull the rug out from under the feet of 30 million people. You have to have more of a plan, otherwise you'll have a million people with pitchforks outside the office."The audience has expanded beyond early adopters, but Last.fm is still far from a household name. "Something we've struggled with is the balance between making it more mainstream and accessible, and with our core users, who are hardcore technocrats," says Jones.Much of the speculation after the CBS acquisition was that Last.fm's recommendation technology would be expanded to TV and beyond, but there's been no sign of that. "The challenges are quite different," says Jones. "I'd love to get recommended TV shows, films or books but I just don't have the time or inclination to teach another service what I like." Web TV services such as the iPlayer offer some interesting potential, but would only represent one part of a user's TV preferences. Still, that is on the Last.fm backburner, along with more control over the mix of more obscure, long-tail music in your personalised radio playlist.New releasesStiksel says Last.fm will be doing more to make the most of its comprehensive artist information pages and picture libraries: "When there's a bit of competition around it makes you aware of your core strengths." There will be more development of Last.fm's trial desktop app for organising your offline music collection, and another major project is to expand the radio service to consoles including the Xbox. Support for more devices is always high on the list of demands from users, who don't want to miss scrobbling music from wherever they are listening, says Jones.Stiksel, who says there are no plans to move Last from the centre of the "Silicon Roundabout" clique in east London, talks of a culture change among startups -  less City-focused and less driven by entrepreneurs with MBAs: "Now there's a lot more people like us, more like the States, where people have a good idea, try to get some money and then do something with it."Referring to a long-running spat between Last.fm and a tech blog, Jones says that TechCrunch is definitely still "full of shit". In February, TechCrunch posted a story that Last.fm had been passing data on illegal music usage to the Record Industry Association of America. Miller had refused to take calls from TechCrunch's founder, Mike Arrington: "It's like calling up and asking: 'When did you stop beating your wife?' because whatever you say is not going to reflect well," says Jones. "Somebody is feeding TechCrunch a pack of lies and they obviously believed it." The bottom line, says Jones, is that data is kept under lock and key and doesn't get transferred to CBS, though it's no secret that the music industry does research the site's publicly accessible data.Last.fm's other notable wrangles include Warner Music, which pulled its streaming licence a year ago when it couldn't agree on payments, and the  trade body Performing Rights Society for Music, with whom talks are far from straightforward. Stiksel says online outfits are still at a disadvantage in negotiations. "It's still a very young branch of the media industry and the top line is that the revenue share is obviously twice as much as normal radio - which just goes to show that normal radio has always had a very good lobby. That really threatens margins, and you're kind of getting punished for making a good business."The recent Pirate Bay court case confirmed how important companies such as Last.fm are for the new music industry, says Miller. "The consumer has already made the choice and gone online, and companies like us need to be around to create a new industry, otherwise it just goes to the coding kids."
This year's overhyped IT concept is cloud computing. Also called software as a service (Saas), cloud computing is when you run software over the internet and access it via a browser. The salesforce.com customer management software is an example of this. So is Google Docs. If you believe the hype, cloud computing is the future.But, hype aside,cloud computing is nothing new. It's the modern version of the timesharing model from the 1960s, which was eventually killed by the rise of the personal computer. It's what Hotmail and Gmail have been doing all these years, and it's social networking sites, remote backup companies, and remote email filtering companies such as MessageLabs. Any IT outsourcing – network infrastructure, security monitoring, remote hosting – is a form of cloud computing.The old timesharing model arose because computers were expensive and hard to maintain. Modern computers and networks are drastically cheaper, but they're still hard to maintain. As networks have become faster, it is again easier to have someone else do the hard work. Computing has become more of a utility; users are more concerned with results than technical details, so the tech fades into the background.But what about security? Isn't it more dangerous to have your email on Hotmail's servers, your spreadsheets on Google's, your personal conversations on Facebook's, and your company's sales prospects on salesforce.com's? Well, yes and no.IT security is about trust. You have to trust your CPU manufacturer, your hardware, operating system and software vendors – and your ISP. Any one of these can undermine your security: crash your systems, corrupt data, allow an attacker to get access to systems. We've spent decades dealing with worms and rootkits that target software vulnerabilities. We've worried about infected chips. But in the end, we have no choice but to blindly trust the security of the IT providers we use.Saas moves the trust boundary out one step further – you now have to also trust your software service vendors – but it doesn't fundamentally change anything. It's just another vendor we need to trust.There is one critical difference. When a computer is within your network, you can protect it with other security systems such as firewalls and IDSs. You can build a resilient system that works even if those vendors you have to trust may not be as trustworthy as you like. With any outsourcing model, whether it be cloud computing or something else, you can't. You have to trust your outsourcer completely. You not only have to trust the outsourcer's security, but its reliability, its availability, and its business continuity.You don't want your critical data to be onsome cloud computer that abruptly disappearsbecauseits owner goes bankrupt. You don't want the company you're using to be sold to your direct competitor. You don't want the company to cut corners, without warning, because times are tight. Or raise its prices and then refuse to let you have your data back. These things can happen with software vendors, but the results aren't as drastic.There are two different types of cloud computing customers. The first only pays a nominal fee for these services – and uses them for free in exchange for ads: eg Gmail and Facebook. These customers have no leverage with their outsourcers.You can lose everything.Companies likeGoogleandAmazonwon't spend a lot of time caring. The second type of customer pays considerably for these services: to salesforce.com, MessageLabs, managed network companies, and so on. These customers have more leverage, providing they write their service contracts correctly. Still, nothing is guaranteed.Trust is a concept as old as humanity, and the solutions are the same as they have always been. Be careful who you trust, be careful what you trust them with, and be careful how much you trust them. Outsourcing is the future of computing. Eventually we'll get this right, but you don't want to be a casualty along the way.•Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer
Hackers who attack defence or commercial computers in the US and UK in future may be in for a surprise: a counterattack, authorised and carried out by the police and defence agencies that aims to disrupt and even knock them off the net.The secret plans, prompted by the explosion in the number of computer-crime incidents from east Asia targeting commercially or politically sensitive information, are known as "strikeback", and are intended to target hackers' computers and disrupt them, in some cases involving denial of service attacks.According to well-placed sources, work on "strikeback" has already begun in the UK, with the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) and the Metropolitan police's e-crime unit working to deploy teams. The measures are being adopted because of the unprecedented level of attacks being suffered from hacking groups in China, Russia and North Korea, which are suspected of being state sponsored. Among intelligence circles in Washington, DC, the idea of hitting back at foreign hacking groups is being described as the hottest topic in cyberspace."This is considered to be a key activity," said a former CIA officer actively involved in the debate. "We are being penetrated and it is not in our tradition to sit back and do nothing."This is a huge, huge deal in Washington and it is a high-priority discussion. What it means is that if we can identify who is doing this to us, then we can return fire with a payload that takes them out. That's a very big priority." Amid rhetoric reminiscent of the cold war, it is clear the US has run out of patience, following blatant cyberattacks such as Titan Rain - an attempt to breach western defence systems with the aim of stealing defence and commercial secrets.Pledge on cybersecurityWhile on the campaign trail last July,  Barack Obama identified cybersecurity as one of the biggest challenges facing the United States. "As president, I'll make cybersecurity the top priority that it should be in the 21st century," he said. He has also equated cyberthreats with nuclear and biological weapons.Last week saw the results of President Obama's cybersecurity concerns, with the publication by the White House of the "Cyberspace Policy Review" written by Melissa Hathaway, a senior director at the National Security Council who is widely tipped to becomeObama's cybersecurity chief.In the document - a review of the US's computer security problems, carried out over the past 60 days - Hathaway broadly recommends more cooperation and education, and maintaining the US's technological lead. The document also states: "The Communications Act of 1934 authorized the President, if he deems it necessary in the national security or defense and the requisite threshold condition exists, to use, control, or close communications services, systems, and networks under the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Commission in conditions ranging from 'state of public peril' to 'war'."Many involved in the "strikeback" discussions in the US think it must be deployed immediately to develop a "defensive offensive capability". "At a high level this has to do with a cyberwar threat discussion. If we can confirm who has attacked us, we have to have an offensive strikeback," said the former intelligence officer. Less bellicose but equally specific definitions are now in force in Britain. "The UK, like many other nations, has an offensive capability, which is for defence only," said a UK intelligence source. "There is a growing willingness to strike back against some of the more obvious threats."One of the stated aims of the Met's e-crime unit is to "disseminate target-specific intervention and prevention advice, and conduct intelligence-led disruption activity". It all sounds very hawkish but it is a policy that is exciting controversy - how do you hit someone back without causing damage to someone else on the way, or taking out the servers of an ISP that the attack was routed through?The cost of collateral"People were talking about this six years ago," said Rik Ferguson, a senior security adviser for the computer-security company Trend Micro. "This is a very bad idea, due to the issues surrounding collateral damage." But the hawks say concern is outmoded, as conventional computer-security procedures and the methods used by security companies are proving ineffective at stemming the tide of attacks. And, according to some in the industry, targeting is possible."We know of a couple of hundred individuals in China and Brazil, a hundred in Russia and similar numbers in North Korea," said Brian Grayek, vice president of product development for CA, a company specialising in tools to identify the origin of attacks. "We can put tracking tools on the attackers' computers so we know who they are, where they are coming from, where they are going and when they are doing it. "We can pinpoint to street and location, there are a number of times we can identify individuals and I would be fairly sure the US government has the same capability." Which leaves the problem of who carries out the counterattacks."We were approached by Soca and asked if we were prepared to carry out denial of service attacks and trace routes back to known IP addresses," said a security specialist working in the City of London.According to Len Hynds, former head of the National High-Tech Crime Unit, targeting and disruption of hacking groups such as the Russian Business Network has long been a topic of discussion at Soca. "Soca was looking at it as a target, but the stumbling block for them was legal issues." Which for many means that outsourcing the response is the name of the game. Just as groups such as the RBN and the students operating from Guangdong in China are suspected of working with the collusion of their governments, so many think the hunter-killers of cyberspace will operate on an outsourced basis as paid vigilantes.In through the backdoor"Anything that the UK would do would be deniable," says Pat Tyrrell, a former high-ranking official at the Ministry of Defence who drafted the UK's first assessment of the potential for cyberwarfare. "Doing things this way would not surprise me I always though the only way to deal with this was, quote, 'illegally'."You can either do nothing, which leaves you open to attack, or you can do something and accept there might be a risk downstream. One of the risks is that you do something and get caught but the people attacking us are already doing that," says Tyrrell, adding that drastic steps were now necessary to deal with the scale of the problem. "There are Chinese manufacturers of telecoms equipment who are known to have put backdoors into them, which is why their technology is banned from use in the US, even though it is significantly cheaper. This isn't just about hacking."Asked to comment for this article, a spokeswoman for Soca says: "I've spoken with our e-crime team. All we can really say on this is that Soca uses a range of techniques within the available legal frameworks, appropriate to each investigation. We don't comment on the detailed use of individual tactical options."
Newspapers have a glorious past, but do they have a future? We may soon know, as leading lights in the industry meet to work out ways of charging readers for online news that hitherto has been free. There are some parallels with music, which has been battling free downloads for years, though the two industries are very different. News dies overnight, while music has a long shelf life. News has been given away free, voluntarily, while music has been pirated. But the problem of non-payment has a common origin: the fact that the internet didn't come with a micropayments system. Mobile devices - from ebooks to phones - do. So, as our online activity moves from computers at home and work to mobile devices, a new opportunity beckons. Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, says micropayments are the obvious way to make money from online news.But will newspapers conjure up their own payments system or, as with the music industry, will it be left to outsiders with fresh ideas - iPhone, Spotify, Nokia, Last.fm - to provide a workable solution they failed to see? Recently, someone told me newspapers could learn from mobile games by introducing a shared subscription charge with remuneration for publishers allocated on a shared-metric based on page impressions and other usage. I politely thanked him, wondering why on earth he thought it was relevant to my industry. Glory be: a few weeks agojournalismonline.comwas launched, offering an all-you-can-read subscription of, say, $15 a month, shared out among newspapers, based on which stories are read. The tectonic plates are moving. Rupert Murdoch has already said that free online is "going to stop". The nightmare is that if some papers do it but not the rest then there could be a mass migration to the free ones. Last week, top US newspaper executives met to discuss this, with an antitrust counsel present, so that any concerted action doesn't fall foul of competition rules.Ironically, this is a golden age for newspapers. The Guardian has never been read so widely - on and offline - in its history: it is just that the exodus of advertising to online sites has triggered a 50% decline in classified revenues since 2000, according to the Pew Centre, which online advertising has not filled. It was the right, the only, strategy for newspapers to go for growth by establishing a big, free base in the hope that online advertising would yield new riches. One day it may. If you are reading a story about chocolate or cars, it is an amazing opportunity for targeted adverts. But it hasn't happened on a big enough scale yet and won't as long as the recession lasts.As newspapers move from a centripetal experience - with everything aggregated at the centre - to a centrifugal one, in which news is disbursed around the web to multiple devices, the problem will be maintaining their personality. This is where mobile devices come in. No one knows whether the reading device of choice will be large-ish, such as a Kindle, or Plastic Logic's E-reader that could remove the need for carrying business documents, or a mobile phone. My guess is that a pocketable device, larger than the current iPhone, with a screen readable in daylight, will be the winner because it can be taken everywhere. But it must be customised for the reader in a way that hasn't happened yet. The recent lesson of music is: people will pay for content if it is accessible and affordable, even if there are free alternatives.Nor should we write off printed newspapers. There is scope for revival by, for instance, targeting older, less web-savvy readers and watching for innovations, such as phones that can read barcodes in newspapers and take you direct to a website. The real point is that innovation is still happening at such a breathtaking speed that nothing should be ruled out for the future.•victorkeegan.com
We've definitely got our E3 back – after two years in the doldrums following an ill-starred attempt  to downsize, it's back to its full overloud, razzmatazz-heavy, foot-achingly huge format, embodying the games industry's ability to laugh in the face of the credit crunch. Which is a good thing, as it means we can take it seriously again.But that's also a bad thing as, logistically, it's horrendous. Merely to walk from one end of the South Hall to the far end of the West Hall will eat up at least 20 minutes. A day of the show has gone and, since most of it was taken up with press conferences, I've managed to get very little hands-on time with previously unseen games which, for me, is what E3 is all about.That situation will soon be rectified, and I already have a sizeable list of questions which require answering. To be specific:Which is the most graphically impressive game at the show –Uncharted 2,Assassin's Creed II, one of the myriadFinal Fantasyinstalments,BioShock 2, or perhapsThe Last Guardian, Fumito Ueda's upcoming PS3 exclusive?Which games flatter to deceive – for example, despite its likeable premise of Jack Black doing his roadie schtick in a mediaeval setting, isBrutal Legend's gameplay actually disappointingly conventional? WillAlan Wake, the great vapourware game that is now dated to spring 2010 prove to be worth the interminable wait?Will Microsoft's Project Natal hardware-free input system prove to be as impressive as it looked in the demo? And will Sony's Eye Toy plus wands system transcend the geekiness of its demo and prove to bring about some interesting new gameplay opportunities?What are the games which were conspicuously talked about but not shown in the press conferences – notably Ubisoft'sAvatarandAgent, the new PS3-exclusive IP from Rockstar – actually be like?Which previously unfancied or obscure game will emerge from leftfield to create a buzz at E3? There's always at least one.
It was the first day of E3 yesterday, but how was it on the show floor?First up the conferences. Keith has covered these already, but judging from what I saw yesterday theNintendoone was the weakest.Compared to the Apple-style whoopathons of recent years, yesterday's press conference felt flat. Given Nintendo's growing focus towards the wider market – though surely the faintly ridicoulous Vitality Sensor is a step too far – maybe the E3 audience and Nintendo have moved on. Bar the 4-player Mario annoucement the atmosphere was fairly muted until near the end whenSuper Mario Galaxy 2and, especially,Metroidbought the crowd to life.Things livened up on the show floor though, with Nintendo's stand consistently busy. Queues forming forWii Sports ResortandZelda Spirit Tracks(a free "feather" stylus giveaway was pulling the crowds for Zelda too) suggest that core gamers are still keeping the faith. And the new Super Mario Bros on the Wii was fantastic to play – the bigger TV you have the better though.Sony's conferencewas far brighter and felt like a back to basics occasion. Despite the impressive "glowing orb" motion controller the emphasis here was very much on the games –Uncharted 2looked astonishing – with some interesting exclusives announced. Rockstar'sAgentand, particularly,The Last Guardianbought the house down. The latter is the third in the Ico "trilogy" and looks an essential play.Sony's stand later was predictably busy with queues forming for thePSP Go. I had a quick play – a proper hands-on is booked in for today – and initial impressions were good. The slide out controls felt comfortable and sturdy although there maybe some issues reaching the shoulder buttons. If Sony can make the download experience as easy as iTunes and the app store then the Go could start fulfilling the undoubted potential of the PSP.So what else caught my eye? A play onThe Conduit, the first-person shooter for the Wii confirmed my suspicion that FPS just don't work on the Wii. Wobbly and unsatisfying controls drew me out of the action rather than in. And given the swearing going on in the pod next to me I'm pretty sure I wasn't the only one suffering.Elsewhere the new edition ofSecret of Monkey Islandlooks as gorgeous as hoped for. The ability to play with the original graphics helps the nostalgia and I can't wait for this one. Similarly the new episodic Monkey Island game looks promising too, with 5 episodes planned starting this July.What else?Tiger Woodswith the Wii Motion Plus felt scarily effective –Virtua Tennis 2009less so.Grand Slam Tenniswas somewhere in the middle, although it was hard to get the space needed to really swing. Wii Tennis-style wrist flicks just don't cut it any more when you have the Plus attached.The show itself feels slightly less crowded than it was pre-2006 with some floor space that was historically used remaining unsold. But there is a decent buzz around and I'm looking forward to seeingMass Effect 2andModern Warfaretoday – can they match up to expectations?
Psion, the British company founded by Dr David Potter, "has settled the trademark cancellation and infringement litigation brought in the Northern District of California with Intel regarding its trademark of the term 'netbook'," reports Taiwan'sDigiTimes.Psion's official statementsays:The litigation has been settled through an amicable agreement under which Psion will voluntarily withdraw all of its trademark registrations for 'Netbook'. Neither party accepted any liability. In light of this amicable agreement, Psion has agreed to waive all its rights against third parties in respect of past, current or future use of the 'Netbook' term.If there was a financial settlement as well, the terms were not disclosed.Psion caused a bit of a stir in December when it started sending "cease and desist" letters to sites using the netbook term, which it used for the Psion NetBook almost a decade ago. Butas I noted at the time: "it wasn't a netbook in today's terms: it was really a Psion Series 7 organiser, a scaled-up Series 5, running EPOC not a scaled down notebook PC." It's the kind of thing we're going to calla 'smartbook', if Qualcomm gets its way.Intel and Dell responded by asking for Psion's trademark to be revoked, arguing, as DigiTimes puts it, "that the company was no longer using the mark with a product currently on the market, and that the term 'netbook' had fallen into generic use."Psion asked for a jury trial, providing sales value figures (reproduced atLiliputing) to support its claim that it still sold netbooks, and that "profits Intel made off of its infringement be transfered to Psion."It's not clear what, if anything, Psion Teklogix has gained, apart from some publicity that hasn't been noticeably favourable. The case hasn't benefited users or added anything to the sum of human happiness. But I expect all the lawyers involved made a tidy profit.
At the Computex 2009 trade show in Taiwan, Acer said it planned to ship most versions of its Aspire One netbook with a version of Google's Linux-based Android operating system, used on mobile phones such as the G-1. "The Android operating system will provide Acer netbook users with faster connection to the Internet, further enhancing efficiency on-the-go," said the company. It would be available in Q3 2009.The introduction of Android into Acer netbooks presents customers with another choice of operating system. In addition to Microsoft's operating system, the majority of Acer netbooks will also offer Android in the future. Users may then select their preferred choice of operating system. Acer believes the Android operating system will contribute significantly to the worldwide netbook market growth.One of the benefits -- and drawbacks -- of Android is that it's open source so suppliers can customise it. One of the reasons Linux failed on netbooks was that the leading suppliers offered their own versions instead of uniting behind a common platform. It remains to be seen whether the netbook market will end up with different versions of Android, and how different they will be.However, shipping both Windows and Android on most Aspire One netbooks will remove the high cost of having separate stock-keeping units (SKUs) for Windows and Linux. It won't cost Acer anything to include it, and it should still benefit netbook buyers if they have a choice of operating system -- always assuming it's done as some sort of dual-boot system where you can switch between them. (Just offering users the option to delete Android during the first configuration makes no sense at all. They'll already have paid for Windows.)It remains to be seen how many Aspire One buyers might actually use Android because, in Q3, Acer will presumably start shipping netbooks running Windows 7. Even the Starter version (which no longer has the threatened limit of only being able to run three apps at once) looks better than Android. But it might give Acer a selling point against rival netbooks that don't include something similar.
Rockstar has announced that its Edinburgh studio, reasonably well-known for the GTA series, is working on a new project. Agent is a PS3-exclusive espionage thriller, set at the end of the 1970s, a period of political assassinations, counter-intelligence and Cold War paranoia.Sam House had this to say:"We have always enjoyed making action games, and with Agent we are making what we believe will be the ultimate action game. Agent is a game we have wanted to make for a long time. The team in Edinburgh is doing an amazing job combining intense action, atmosphere and story in a great period setting to create something that feels quite unique. We cannot wait for people to experience this game."The cultural influences aren't hard to guess - The Conversation, Parallax View, All The President's Men, Three Days of the Condor, the novels of Robert Ludlum and John le Carre...Intriguing stuff.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Microsoftwillbe launching Windows 7 in October, aspreviously blurted out by executives at Acer. Manufacturers will start receiving copies of the system next month, but ordinary punters will need to wait until October 22 - just short of two years and nine months after Vista hit the shelves.&bull; Thousands of websites have been hit by a hacking attack,according to IDG. The strike directs users to a fake Google Analytics page, which then downloads malware onto the victim's PC.&bull; Anyone who saw the great documentary filmKing of Kongmight be interested to know that Steve Wiebe attempted to break the Donkey Kong high score at E3 this week - but didn't make it. Wiebe made three attempts, including the dreaded "green screen of death", but none of them beat the score registered by Billy Mitchell. Sob.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The Sims, the little computer people who have sold over 95 million copies leads our programme this week.  They have dominated PC gaming for almost a decade and this week the latest iteration of the franchise - Sims 3 - was launched.Bobbie Johnsonis at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles with news too from gaming titans Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony.We also cover the furore surrounding the allegations that music site Last.fm released private data to the Recording Industry Association of America.  TechCrunch levelled the accusations andJemima Kissgets the view of Felix Miller, Martin Stiksel, and Richard Jones, the top trio at London-based business.We're also asking what the discovery of Google's top secret locations for all their data servers means, and what the prospects are for the latest incarnation of Microsoft's search engine - Bing.Aleks Krotoski is also joined in the studio by internet scribeWill Head, on loan from The Gadget Show, The Register and many other fine technology publications.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Police in Arizona have arrested a 20-year-old man over allegations that he raped a woman live on the internet.According to media reports, the man - who comes from Surprise, a suburb of Phoenix - was taken into custody on charges of sexual assault, kidnapping and taking a surreptitious photograph, after a police investigation uncovered footage of the incident.Court documents allege that the event took place in February, following a night when the man and a female friend got drunk. According to the affidavit,  the man waited until the woman had fallen asleep and then set up a webcam before streaming the assault on the internet - apparently making a series of comments and jokes throughout the 30 minute broadcast.TheEast Valley Tribunereports the details of the affidavit:"She said while he was doing this he was laughing and making comments," the affidavit states. "She said [he] made comments about how the victim would never know what was happening to her because she was 'passed out.'"The woman was apparently unaware of what happened until friends alerted her, having found pictures of the incident online after it occurred. A witness who saw the stream live online reported it to police at the time, but it has taken investigators more than three months to locate any evidence of the recording.While sex crimes have surfaced online before - often becoming part of police investigations into organised sexual abuse or paedophile rings in the process - the prevalence of video streaming services has made it easier for bragging criminals to broadcast their activities... and to get caught as a result.Last year police in Florida launched an investigation after a 19-year-old manappeared to kill himself live online- with some viewers allegedly goading him to complete the act. While several of the 185 viewers contacted police to warn them what was happening, others encouraged him to "do the world a favour".In California, meanwhile, a 49-year-old woman wasconvicted last year of a number of charges relating to the suicide of a 13-year-old neighbour. Megan Meier, from St Louis, Missouri, killed herself in 2006 after being bullied on MySpace. Lori Drew, who lived next door to Meier, was accused of coordinating the attacks and found guilty of using a computer without authorisation for her role in the death of the teenager. She has yet to be sentenced, but could face up to three years in prison.
A couple of days agoI posed aboutSilent Hill: Shattered Memories, which will penalise players who get so scared that their controller hand shakes. "Perhaps the next step is a peripheral that measures heart rate and blood pressure," I guffawed. Then Nintendo announced the Wii Vitality Sensor, which can be attached to your finger: "it will initially sense the user's pulse and a number of other signals being transmitted by their bodies, and will then provide information to the users about the body's inner world," claims the press release.What do we make of this? The obvious use is in horror games, where the user's stress could be measured to affect the game world. But at the conference, Nintendo chief Satoru Iwata talked about games that help us to fall asleep. I've played plenty of movie tie-ins that have had a pleasingly soporific effect, but I don't think this is what he's getting at. Nintendo would seem to have some kind of relaxation sim in mind. It's a clever move - they've done mental stimulation, they've done physical exercise, but in these troubling times, what we really need is to calm down. Wii Relax? We'll see.So anyway, here are as many of the games as I can fit in...(I'm going to add screens as they come in so check back later)Wii Fit PlusSay hello to fully customisable daily work-outs geared toward specific objectives like toning your stomach, tightening arms or reducing stress. The original activities will be joined by 15 new balance games as well as six extra strength training and yoga activities. No mention of Wii Vitality Sensor compatibility - would seem the obvious title. It's out this autumn.New Super Mario Bros.2D side-scrolling Super Mario fun, now with drop-in/drop-out four player competitive and co-operative multiplayer action. "Developers at Nintendo have dreamed of creating a simultaneous multiplayer Super Mario Bros game for decades," says the press release. Those guys need to get out more.Super Mario Galaxy 2"Marks the first time a second 3-D Mario game has arrived in the same console generation," claims the press blurb, in a moment of Clive Tyldesley-esque stats madness. Not much to say about this, but it's coming out next year.Metroid: Other MA collaboration with Team Ninja, so I'm hoping for some kind of DOA/Metroid cross-over - Samus vs Tina Armstrong, perhaps. The press release promises, "high-energy, action-packed game play as it delves deeper into the back story of famed deep-space bounty hunter Samus Aran". Frankly, you had me at Team Ninja.Mario vs. Donkey Kong: Minis March Again!User-generated content comes to DSi Shop! In this updated version of the platformer, players can design their own levels, with full control over where to set traps, enemies and power-ups. It's out on June 8, for 800 Nintendo DSi Points.Mario &amp; Luigi: Bowser's Inside StoryMany of us have complained over the years that not enough Nintendo DS titles take placeinsideclassic Miyamoto characters. Well, thank God someone has been listening. Here, Bowser has eaten a magic mushroom, which causes him to inhale Mario, Luigi and Princess Peach. Er, okay. That's fine. That could easily happen. There's nothing weird going on here. "Players are in control of two separate storylines," explains the press release. "One features Bowser and his efforts to stop an arch-villain from taking over his castle. Meanwhile, inside Bowser, the microbe-sized Mario &amp; Luigi must muscle their way through challenges and keep their nerve if they want to find a way out. They take action to control Bowser from the inside – but without his knowledge."Golden SunNintendo DS RPG based around the popular GBA series. Set six years after the sun has died, "This installment follows the story of the previous heroes' descendants and immerses players into the magic of its adventure by pushing the boundaries of intuitive touch-screen controls." Wow, what hasn't already been done with touch-screen controls in the context of a traditional RPG? The mind boggles.WarioWare D.I.YAnother title based around user-generated content - this time players can create their own micro-games. "Every element, such as the characters, the environment, the actions and even the purpose of the micro-game itself, is controlled entirely by the player. Players will then be able to share their completed micro-games with other WarioWare D.I.Y. owners." That does genuinely sound like great fun.Endless Ocean 2Another aquatic exploration adventure from Arika. Discover hundreds of real-life fish species, heal sickly marine animals and make friends with a dolphin. It's like they've broken into my home and digitised my new year's resolution list. "For the first time in the series, friends who have broadband Internet access can connect and dive with one another via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection, while using the Wii Speak microphone to converse." All the fun of a snorkeling holiday with your mates without the inconvenience of stepping on a Portuguese Man o' War.Line Attack HeroesFour-player combat game from a developer named Grezzo. "Line Attack Heroes is a fast-paced, melee action game that requires quick thinking and smart strategy. Players command a line of fierce warriors who launch an attack with a flick of the Wii Remote™ controller." Is it River Dance with weapons? It should be.Span SmasherThis line-up is starting to take on a sort of Alan Partridge-style surreality. Due out on Wii and developed by artoon, Span Smasher, "combines the hands-on fun of tennis with the nonstop action and instant gratification of pinball. Smasher (name not final) is a floating ball with a lot of personality. When his island paradise is threatened, Smasher springs into action. He bounces around and smashes into barriers, aided by the motions of players and their Wii Remote™ controllers. Players use just one hand to swat him toward the objects they want him to smash, and he does the rest".The Legend of Zelda: Spirit TracksOkay, we're on safer territory here. Announced back at GDC, this is the new DS installment of the action RPG series, which looks to be continuing the graphical and gameplay styles seen in Phantom Hourglass. Instead of that game's boat travel system, you're on a steam train, and you can apparently plot its route by drawing on the map screen.Professor Layton and the Diabolical BoxBrilliant title. "The professor's mentor is found dead, but has left one last wish: that Layton and Luke investigate a mysterious Pandora's box. Combining completely new and fresh puzzles with an exciting mystery presented through the game's unique artwork..."Glory of HeraclesDescribed as a pick-up-and-play RPG, this isometric cutie looks to be an extremely traditional DS adventure. According tothe press site, "The story begins when Heracles washes up on a beach with amnesia. Players must journey far and wide to figure out Heracles' story and unravel the mysterious pasts of the other main characters in this new adventure."DSiWare trailerAnd finally, here's a trailer of some new DSiWare titles soon to be available for downoad...There's more on most of these games atNinetndo's E3 site.
At its Timeline launch in London in April, Acer UK's boss Bobby Watkins said that a future product, the Z5600 PC all-in-one running Windows 7, would be "on the shelves on October 23." As Ireported at the time:"Have you just given away the launch date for Windows 7?" asked ZD-Net's David Meyer, amid much laughter.It seems he had.Dow Jones Newswiresnow says: "Microsoft Corp on Tuesday announced the date the latest version of the Windows operating system, Windows 7, will be in general commercial availability: Oct 22." (Paid sub required)"We feel confident that we will deliver Windows 7 with our partners on Oct. 22," Bill Veghte, senior vice president for Microsoft's Windows business, said.This means Windows 7 machines will be on the shelves for the holiday (ie Christmas) shipping season, but will miss most of the "back to school" market. However, on previous experience, we expect that Microsoft will provide free copies of Windows 7 (at freight cost) to those who buy Vista PCs a month before the launch.Microsoft will have to release the code to manufacturing (RTM) in the next month so that PC manufacturers have time to produce systems and deliver them to retailers. Some software manufacturers may also need to update their programs for compatibility, though you'd expect the ones with working brains to have done that by now.Previously, Microsoft had said it expected to ship Windows 7 "within three years of Windows Vista," which would mean early 2010. However, this depended on the quality of the code, based mainly on automated metrics from the large number of beta testers. It could be earlier or later, but it would be before 1 June 2010, when the free Windows 7RC beta expires.Some users will be disappointed that Microsoft hasn't rushed Windows 7 out. Based on the quality of the RC code, it wasn't unreasonable to look for a possible release date around the beginning of August.
Sony has fired a warning shot at its rivals by announcing a new handheld games console, a string of exclusive games - and its own take on motion-sensitive controls.Unveiling its plans for the coming year at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, Sony executives said they would be investing heavily in digital media, high-profile games and online services to encourage gamers to switch to the PlayStation 3 and handheld PlayStation Portable.As expected, the company announced the launch of the PSP Go - a smaller, lighter version of the PlayStation Portable console with a slide-out 3.8 inch screen and 16GB of memory. Initially expected to be one of the , after detailsleaked out last week, when aSony promotional videodue to be broadcast later this month was accidentally published online.According to Hirai, the PSP Go will be aimed at digital media consumers and not just gamers, hooking up to an online store that will make it easier to buy and download music and video. It is due to go on sale across Europe and North America on October 1, at the same launch price as the original PSP: 249.99 euros and will also bring with it a new version of Resident Evil and Metal Gear Solid: Peacewalker.The company also said that it would be launching a new title called Mod Nation Racers - a driving game that attempts to capitalise on the success of LittleBigPlanet by allowing players to create and share their own creations online.With Sony losing momentum in the face of stiff competition from Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Nintendo's Wii games console, the company was also keen to show off a number of exclusive new games coming to PS3, including Agent - a new title from Rockstar North, the creators of Grand Theft Auto - and Assassin's Creed 2, the sequel to the 2007 hit.In addition, the company showed off MAG - an online multiplayer war simulation that can handle 256 participants simultaneously - and Final Fantasy XIV, due for release in 2010. Jack Tretton, the head of Sony Computer Entertainment America, also said that PlayStation Home - Sony's 3D world for gamers - had now become "the default" platform of its type, with more than 6 million users worldwide.Not to be outdone by its competitors - whoannounced their own motion-sensing technologiesat the Expo - Sony also showed off a motion controller and camera system that it plans to release next spring.Developed by the team who created the EyeToy camera several years ago, the system combines and motion detection to pull players inside games and track their actions with "sub-millimeter accuracy".Whether or not struggling Sony can achieve the dominance it wants remains unclear. The company has struggled to extend the success of the first two versions of the PlayStation - which became the driving force in the games industry during the late 1990s - with stiff competition from Microsoft, Nintendo and even Apple's iPod.The company insisted, however, that a constant stream of improvements would reap benefits in the long term.Jack Tretton, the head of Sony Computer Entertainment America, said that Sony was not resting on its laurels. "I promise we will not become complacent no matter what we have accomplished."
Nintendo has already made billions from getting people to use its innovative game controllers, train their brains or get fit using its products. Now the Japanese gaming giant wants to take your pulse, too.Unveiling a new gadget called the Wii Vitality Sensor – a finger-sized gizmo that measures the pulse of its wearer – Nintendo boss Satoru Iwata said it was just the latest step in finding ways to bring videogames to new audiences."There are some who believe the audience expansion movement is beginning to fade," Iwata told the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles. "We still have a long way to go in expanding the gaming population."There are still tens of millions of potential gamers who could be convinced, according to Iwata, and he thinks that the Vitality add-on – which uses pulse measurements to determine heart rate, excitement and concentration levels – could help Nintendo find new avenues for videogames in the same way that Brain Training or Wii Fit broke into new territory."Traditionally videogames have been used to create excitement, but it may not be long before games help people unwind or even fall asleep," he said.In addition, Nintendo also announced the launch of WiiMotion Plus, a new accessory that increases the sensitivity of the controller and allows more precision control. The changes were highlighted in a demonstration of the upcoming Wii Sports Resort,  and will also be used in forthcoming titles like Tiger Woods Golf.In a presentation that was much lower-key thanyesterday's glitzy Microsoft event, Nintendo announced a series of new titles and services that it said would prove a hit with the public."Once, our industry defined its consumers in a limited way, focusing only on those people who defined themselves as gamers," said Cammie Dunaway, vice president of Nintendo of America. "These days, it's different."The Japanese giant did not abandon its traditional fans, however, treating them to a peak of the forthcoming Super Mario Galaxy 2 and New Super Mario Bros for Wii – a two-dimensional version of the classic game that can support up to four players simultaneously.Among the other titles on show were Wii Fit Plus, the sequel to the popular fitness game, and Metroid: Other M – a new instalment in the franchise developed by Team Ninja, the team behind hits like Ninja Gaiden.The company also made a nod to social networking, by announcing Facebook integration for the Nintendo DSi that will allow users to upload pictures and drawings directly from their handheld consoleNintendo has sold more than 50m Wii units worldwide, betting on a strategy of producing family-friendly games and innovative control methods while its rivals Sony and Microsoft focus on more expensive, high-power machines with more realistic graphics.The influence of the Wii and the success of the best-selling handheld DS console have helped return the Japanese company to the commanding position in the industry it enjoyed in the 1980s and early 1990s.However, the success of the Wii has clearly influenced Nintendo's competitors, with Microsoftalready announcing Project Natal- a sensor add-on for the Xbox 360 that is able to dispense with controllers completely.
Ubisoft's press conference made room for Assassin's Creed II, Your Shape, Cloudy With A Chance Of Meatballs, Monster 4X4 Stunt Racer, No more Heroes 2: Desperate Struggle, Red Steel 2, Splinter Cell Conviction, Academy of Champions and R.U.S.E. More on those later.At the forefront though, was James Cameron stepping up to introduce the game version of his forthcoming 3D epic, Avatar. The tie-in will be the first title to feature stereoscopic 3D visuals, apparently utilising a technology developed for the film. It's not clear yet, how it'll work, or which platforms the 3D experience will be available on. UK studio, Blitz, has been working ona 3D technologyfor several years, and forthcoming XBLA title Invincible Tiger is compatible with its 3D engine.From the press release:The video game will take you deep into the heart of Pandora, an alien planet that is beyond imagination. Gamers will encounter the Na'vi, Pandora's indigenous people and discover other life forms the likes of which have never been seen in the world of video games before. When conflict erupts between the RDA Corporation, a space-faring consortium in search of valuable resources, and the Na'vi, gamers will find themselves thrust into a fight for the heart of a planet and the fate of a civilization.Fight for you cause; RDA or Na'vi. Customize more than 60 RDA and Na'vi weapons, combined. Choose your skills: 20 for each clan. Drive all of the vehicles and ride the animals. Expand the battleground in online multiplayer.The website ishere.
Chinese censors blocked access toTwitterand other popular online services today , two days before the20th anniversary of the crackdownon democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.The move came amid increasing pressure on dissidents, in a reflection of the authorities' anxiety ahead of the sensitive date. Hundreds died as the army forced its way through Beijing to clear away demonstrators from the capital's political heart in June 1989, but the issue is taboo on the mainland.The photo-sharing siteFlickr, email serviceHotmailand other services were also unavailable this  evening."Twitter is a tool which can put all the sensitive things and sensitive guys together, very quickly. That's the very thing that the Chinese government doesn't want to see in China," said one blogger, Michael Anti, who had predicted Twitter would not be allowed for long."They needed time to figure out what it is and whether it needed to be controlled."He added: "I don't know whether they will reopen Twitter after 4 June. I hope they will, for Twitter is a crucial icon for the new internet era on which many innovations emerge. China can't block their young generation from the future."While most Chinese internet users rely on domestic services, which are heavily monitored and controlled, Twitter had become hugely popular among an urban elite. They used the site to share information on sensitive issues in recent months, such as thefire at the Chinese state television complex.But while people could not access the site this  evening, some users were still able to tweet, sending their complaints about the ban."We netizens were beaten by a 'combination blow'. So many famous websites are not accessible now ... This time, it is huge," wrote userwilliamlong.Reuters reported that the email service Hotmail was also blocked across the mainland, while some internet users said they were unable to access Microsoft's Windows Live.Blogger.comwas blocked last month andYouTubehas been inaccessible from the mainland since March.Internet monitors have also shut down message boards on more than 6,000 websites affiliated with colleges and universities, according to the Hong Kong-based Information Centre for Human Rights and Democracy.In a statement distributed by the same organisation, the exiled former student leader Chai Ling appealed for the release of political prisoners, an independent investigation into the events and permission for former student leaders to return home."The current generation of leaders who bear no responsibility should have the courage to overturn the verdicts [on the protests]," said Chai, who now lives in the US and has not commented on the issue for several years."The party and the government long ago reached a conclusion about the political incident that took place at the end of the 1980s and related issues," spokesman Qin Gang said when asked about the issue at the Foreign Ministry's regular news conference. The Chinese authorities deemed the protests counterrevolutionary riots.In Taizhou, Zhejiang, officials have detained a former prisoner who last week co-signed an open letter to the government complaining about economic discrimination against dissidents, according to US-based group Human Rights in China.Wu Gaoxing and four other men who were jailed for supporting the 1989 pro-democracy protests said former prisoners were struggling to survive because they could not find steady jobs and are deprived of medical benefits and pensions.Calls to Taizhou's state security bureau rang unanswered.Another signatory, Mao Guoliang, told the Associated Press: "I expect he's being held under some form of house arrest, but I don't know where."
This rarest of beasts, a PlayStation 3 exclusive, bears an initial resemblance to an Xbox 360 of yore, Crackdown, as it features a character equipped with super powers who can scale buildings, and a free-roaming structure in which you can pick your story and side missions.But it has an awful lot more depth than Crackdown, and positively overflows with interesting ideas – most of which bring about interesting gameplay. You play Cole, a courier who unwittingly delivered a package that blew apart Empire City, triggered anarchy and left you with electricity-based powers (handy, because you can recharge them from any nearby electrical device).After you choose a good or evil path and work your way through the commendably varied missions, your powers (various blasts and shocks, sticky grenades and even gliding) steadily upgrade while the difficulty curve increases. The level design, controls and graphics stand out as excellent, making InFamous an ­essential purchase for exclusive-hungry PS3 owners.
Whether you believe Damnation's claim of being an innovative vertical shoot-em-up depends on how short your memory is. It's nicely drawn and the cyberpunk back-story is extensive, but the combination of unreliable team-members and dodgy AI makes for predictable gameplay.Yes, the levels are open ended and you can perform impressive holds and jumps while firing weapons, but those weapons are under-powered at best and the absence of memorable set-pieces ensures the interest wanes quickly. Although Damnation is playable enough, there's nothing here that Tomb Raider or Prince of Persia didn't do better several years earlier. A near miss from the usually ­reliable Codemasters.
From lush green forests to snow-covered tundras, this free-to-play game is graphically on a par with its full-price competitors. Although cutesy in a way clearly designed to appeal to tweens and teens, its myriad features and simple controls mean there's a gameplay experience to suit everyone.You can swap between an array of jobs, from postman to brawler. Each has its own style of addictive mini-game quests, many similar to well-established fan favourites such as Mario Kart and Cooking Mama. Variety and customisation are huge. Hard-earned loot is spent on clothes and other items; there's always something new to buy, even for your pet. Socialisation plays its part too, as friends can come together to quest or compare characters. Marketed as family-friendly, you'll also find a lot of child-safe features.Chat, for example, comes in the form of set phrases or emotes. Under-13s have even more chat restrictions. Tiered membership means you'll come across items and quests only available if you sign up, but even so, this game has more than enough quality free play experiences to keep you entertained.
Thanks to its meteoric rise and adoption by celebrities, Twitter has come to represent the latest bright spot in the world of social networking - but anyone thinking they'd heard it all before with Friendster, MySpace and Facebook might be surprised to hear that the service could be more different than they think.According toa new study from Harvard Business School, Twitter may be bucking the trend set by previous networks by being dominated by men.The study looks at a fairly large sample of Twitter accounts (more than 300,000 randomly chosen users, the researchers tell us) and comes up with some intriguing findings. The first is that 80% are actually part of the social network have followed somebody else, or are being followed (which means, on the flip side, that 20% of accounts have never actually been used – it turns out that is still a marked improvement on most social sites).However, it's the questions of gender balance that are really mind boggling – with numbers indicating that Twitter is a much more masculine affair than other social networks, which are primarily driven by female users.According to researchers Bill Heil and Mikolaj Piskorski, they discovered, when examining a smaller subset of 40,000 users whose gender was determined, that:-	Men have, on average, more followers than women-	Men are almost twice as likely to follow other men than they are women-	Women are also more likely to follow menThat's despite 55% of users on Twitter being women.Most social networks are driven, to some extent, by a honeypot effect – where women tend to post lots of material like photos and videos, and gather disproportionate numbers of male friends and fans as a result (at its extreme, this has developed into a string of female web "personalities" like, say,Justine Ezarik).On typical social networks this means women lead the conversation, men simply tag along for the ride. But on Twitter, that's not the case. Why? Perhaps, say the researchers, Twitter's basic approach limits the honeypot temptations:We wonder to what extent this pattern of results arises because men and women find the content produced by other men on Twitter more compelling than on a typical social network, and men find the content produced by women less compelling (because of a lack of photo sharing, detailed biographies, etc.)You could also speculate that the lower-level informational transactions of Twitter - fast, short, to the point - are more traditionally masculine than the interactive, contextual sharing done on other networks.Whatever the reasons are, seeing a different gender bias emerge means that - despite being lumped into the same bucket on many occasions - not all social networks are equal.And while some may lament the fact that the next big thing online is male dominated, I'm quite happy to see a move away from the slightly voyeuristic nature of the honeypot web. I wonder what it would take to achieve a neutrally-gendered network?
EA has announced that it'll be publishing All Points Bulletin, the long-awaited massively multiplayer online cops-'n'-robbers game from Scottish studioRealtime Worlds, founded by Lemmings and GTA mastermind, Dave Jones. It's out on PC in 2010. From the release:APB is a new breed of online game. Set in a persistent living, breathing open-world urban environment where fame and fortune awaits all players. Some players will achieve this by feeding on the city, its people and its businesses…the Criminals. Some will live by a higher code and instead feed on the criminals and their organisations…the Enforcers. This dynamic where players become the core content for other players is one of the many unique features of APB. Its deep, rich customisation system provides players with the ability to completely personalise their identity. Looks, clothing, vehicles and even music, all to astonishing detail and quality.There's an official websitehere.
It's an anniversary likely to date some gamers (like me) as "vintage":Tetris, the puzzle game that has sold 125m copies and has inspired countless rip-offs, is a quarter of a century old. Where's myzimmer frame.It's difficult to identify the impact of the game. Is it an artifact of the Cold War? Is it responsible for the success of Nintendo and the handheld industry? Has it challenged how game properties are licensed?The game has even had an effect in science. Researchers haveidentified its restorative effects: Tetris bothcalmsplayers, and makes themsmarter. The jury's still out on whether it appeals to a female audience because, as a friend once told me (apocryphally), it's like tidying up. Ahem.Check out some these favourite Tetris moments:Human TetrisEdible TetrisGiant TetrisMore coverage on the Tetris anniversary ishere.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&middot; The gaming world has converged on Los Angeles forE3, where yesterday EA and Ubisoft showed off their wares, while Microsoft stole the show withappearances by the Beatles, Steven Spielberg, and a host ofvery pretty gaming demos. Today's it's the turn of Nintendo, then Sony - and the opening of the show floor itself, and we'll be reporting to you the whole time.&middot; Electronic books are big news at the moment, with Amazon's Kindle trying to change the market. Intriguing, then, that the E-Ink - the company that makes the crucial display technology for many ebooks wassold yesterday to Taiwan's Prime View Internationalfor just $215m. Stacy Higginbotham at GigaOm askswhy, if ebooks are the next wonder market, it sold for so little.&middot; We're used to hearing tales of bloggers being locked up in Iran and other repressive countries - but one Texan blogger has discovered that you've got to watch what you say on the internet, even in the land of the free. Ars Technica reports that53-year-old Lyndal Harrington has been jailedafter failing to turn over her PC to the police in a defamation case involving Anna Nicole Smith. Harrington says it was stolen, but the judge in the case is demanding she produces the computer in question.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Twenty-five years ago, inside the bowels of the Soviet Academy of Sciences in Moscow, a young artificial intelligence researcher received his first desktop computer – the Soviet-built Elektronika 60, a copy of an American minicomputer called a PDP-11 – and began writing programs for it.But not numerical ones. He ended up creating one that would infest the dreams of those who played it, spurring addictions and even the suspicion that it was a Russian plot to divert the youth of America in a pointless exercise."I started to put together all kinds of mathematical puzzles and diversions that I had loved all my life, since I was a boy," says Alexey Pajitnov, talking to the Guardian from the Russian capital.Pajitnov, then 29, thought the puzzles were fun, but after a few experiments there was one roughly-hewn game that stood out from the others."The program wasn't complicated," he says. "There was no scoring, no levels. But I started playing and I couldn't stop. That was it."Russia is used to revolutions, but this was something different: Tetris had been born.The concept is simple: from the top of the screen a series of differently-shaped "blocks" fall slowly towards the bottom. The player can turn each block as it falls – making a line into a column, say – or move it sideways, but once it hits the lowest point, it stays. If the blocks fill a line without gaps, they disappear. Otherwise they pile up, giving the player less and less time before they hit the "bottom".Simple; but hugely addictive. A quarter of a century later, it has a legitimate claim to being the videogame that has truly conquered the world. In all its forms, Tetris has sold more than 70m copies around the globe; it has spawned architecture, art and music; it has earned multiple Guinness World Records (including "Longest Prison Sentence for Playing a Video Game", for a man who kept playing it on his mobile phone during a flight against crew demands) and is regularly voted one of the top games of all time.The game's early success didn't leave Pajitnov much better off – the rights were owned by the Soviet state – but the combination of falling blocks did start to gain some traction. A PC version released in 1985 began spreading around eastern Europe, before heading to the west a couple of years later.But it was in 1988 that things started to accelerate."I first saw it at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January of 1988," says Henk Rogers, a Dutch games publisher who was based in Japan at the time.He says it didn't take long to realise there was something interesting going on with this deceptive, unpretentious puzzle game."My first impression was that this game was too simple, that there was nothing to it. Then I came back and played it again. And again. Soon I realised there was something going on – no game had grabbed me at a show just like that."Rogers beat fierce competition to agree on a deal – a move that eventually led to an agreement brokered with Nintendo that that saw Tetris bundled with every Game Boy. That, says Pajitnov, is when things changed."We visited Nintendo's headquarters … all the cartridges for Tetris on the Game Boy were stored in this Kyoto warehouse," he says. "I saw, in reality, all these hundreds of thousands of pieces of my game. It was at that time I realised it wasn't just a small game, it was a big, big material shift. That was a very strange feeling."Without Nintendo it is likely that Tetris would have faded into obscurity, but Rogers – an affable and restless Dutchman – says he found an ally in Minoru Arakawa, then boss of Nintendo of America."He's the one I did the big deal with; he totally recognised that this game was the key to Game Boy's success in the rest of the world. He packed in 30m of them."While Rogers made a career out of licensing Tetris to other companies around the world, Pajitnov had to wait until 1996 – when the rights reverted to him from the Russian state – to begin making money from his success. By that time, however, his mind was elsewhere: he had moved to the US and was working as a games designer at Microsoft.These days, both men spend their time licensing Tetris to other companies. Between them, they maintain the "Tetris guidelines" – a surprisingly exacting basic standard that any official version of the game must meet.This includes, among other things, the size of the playing area, the colours of the tetronimos, the configuration of keys and buttons used to move the blocks. Also in the rules is the demand that the game must include a version of the Tetris theme song – a folk number called Korobeiniki that has become almost as recognisable as the game itself, even reaching the dizzy heights of number six in the UK charts back in 1992, thanks to a Europop cover version masterminded by Andrew Lloyd Webber.For anybody with functional hearing, that marks a low point in the history of Tetris – but it didn't stop the game enduring.But what makes it that way? Of the game's contemporaries, only Nintendo's Italian plumber Mario has shown similar longevity – and even he has changed over the years.Pajitnov, who says he is still a coder at heart, believes that Tetris is a "good program" with simplicity and portability as crucial assets. But he thinks the secret sauce for its 25-year success is something more pedestrian: perseverance."Frankly, I think that most of the classic games which were written in the 80s or early 90s are dead just because their authors or owners didn't care about them," he says. "They're still interesting to people, especially now with the new boom of casual games."Whether that continuing interest is a symptom or a cause of the game's success remains unclear – but persistence and dedication has certainly proved important, even when it strays into the overbearing (they regularly litigate against unlicensed versions of the game).Even after so many years – and despite recognising the addictive nature of the game early on – Rogers remains surprised that Tetris has displayed such durability."I always thought that every game has a certain shelf life," he says. "In the early PC business it would take somebody else a year to copy your game, so I thought we had a year or two before somebody came up with a better Tetris.""You know what? They tried. But in 25 years, nobody has."
At the E3 trade show, Microsoft has demonstrated Project Natal, which provides for whole body control, face recognition and voice recognition with any Xbox 360 games console. Keith Stuart has already covered it on the Gamesblog inMicrosoft reveals Project Natal - the end of game controllers?but now there are some more videos, likethe one above.Microsoft says:the "Project Natal" sensor is the world's first to combine an RGB camera, depth sensor, multi-array microphone and custom processor running proprietary software all in one device. Unlike 2-D cameras and controllers, "Project Natal" tracks your full body movement in 3-D, while responding to commands, directions and even a shift of emotion in your voice.In addition, unlike other devices, the "Project Natal" sensor is not light-dependent. It can recognize you just by looking at your face, and it doesn't just react to key words but understands what you're saying. Call a play in a football game, and players will actually respond. Want to log onto Xbox LIVE? Simply step in front of the sensor.Although the system will be compared with the Wii (as in the Mirror'sXbox Project Natal blows Wii away), it's much more like Sony's UK-developed EyeToy, which used a simple camera. That was great when it came out, but that was a long time ago.Of course, as with the EyeToy, the system isn't really going to make controllers obsolete for (I'd guess) the majority of games, which require much more precise control. But if it lives up to the hype, it could provide fun for the whole family. (Phew, I didn't mention the sex industry once!)
It's getting late, so for any night owls out there who don't want to have to scour the web for all this, here is Microsoft's own list of today's game announcements. The company clearly has faith in its 'exclusive DLC' business model, grabbing the first bunch of Modern Warfare 2 maps away from Sony - at least for a limited time. More positive, though, was the news of Alan Wake, Left 4 Dead 2, Forza Motorsport 3 and free download, Joy Ride. And of course, Scottish studio start-upRuffianhas finally revealed that it'll be developing Crackdown 2. The worst kept secret in the Dundee gaming community is finally public.Anyway, here's the press info on all the featured titles...1 vs 100 (Microsoft Game Studios)"Are you ready to win big? The 1 vs 100 U.S. and Canadian beta launches today, June 1, at 7:30 p.m. PDT. For the first time, 1 vs 100 on Xbox LIVE combines the best of TV gameshow experiences with social gaming to create the largest interactive game show in the world. Based on the hit TV game show of the same name, 1 vs 100 Live is regularly scheduled and features a live studio host who provides comedic commentary throughout the show and fresh content from a team of trivia writers and experts. Players can play as 'the one,' 'the mob' or 'the crowd,' for the chance to win real prizes. Check your local Xbox LIVE listings to join 1 vs 100 Live."Alan Wake (Remedy/Microsoft Game Studios)"Alan Wake is the all-new psychological action thriller from the renowned creators of the Max Payne franchise. Coming in spring 2010 and exclusive to Xbox 360, "Alan Wake" will immerse players in an intense cinematic thrill ride of dreams and reality, where light is the only ally."Crackdown 2 (Ruffian Games/Microsoft Game Studios)"The sequel to the award-winning Crackdown, Crackdown 2 is the premier open-ended action experience that lets you be judge, jury and executioner for a vast city. Coming exclusively to Xbox 360 in 2010, Crackdown 2 will take multiplayer2 gaming to unprecedented levels for the ultimate cooperative and competitive multiplayer experience, providing you and your friends with the complete freedom to explore, destroy and play as you return to restore justice and peace to Pacific City — by any means necessary."Forza Motorsport 3 (Turn 10/Microsoft Game Studios)"Launching this October, Forza Motorsport 3 is the definitive racing game for everyone from hardcore tuners to anyone who's ever dreamed of driving at full-throttle. Backed by breathtaking HD graphics and bone-jarring physics, you'll take the wheel of more than 400 of the most-beloved cars on over 100 renowned real-world tracks and exotic road courses from around the globe. Forza Motorsport 3 includes driving assists and adjustable skill levels to make the game a gripping pick-up-and-play experience for audiences of all ages and skill levels, while new customization and sharing tools will further fuel the imaginations of the thriving Forza Motorsport community on Xbox LIVE."Gears of War 2: Dark Corners (Epic Games Inc.)"The Gears of War 2: Dark Corners Game Add-on includes seven brand new multiplayer maps and a new campaign chapter, Road to Ruin. Dark Corners launches on Xbox LIVE Marketplace on July 28. The entertainment blockbuster of 2008, Gears of War 2 has now surpassed 5 million copies sold worldwide."Halo 3: ODST (Bungie)"Launching Sept. 22, Halo 3: ODST is a new game in the landmark Halo saga that lets players experience the events leading up to the epic story told in Halo 3 through the eyes of a special forces ODST (Orbital Drop Shock Trooper). In addition to an all-new campaign, ODST includes three new Halo 3 multiplayer maps and the complete, stand-alone Halo 3 multiplayer experience.2 The game also introduces Firefight, an exciting new cooperative multiplayer mode that pits up to four players against increasingly challenging waves of enemies. As a special bonus, Halo 3: ODST also includes an invitation to the Halo: Reach multiplayer beta on Xbox LIVE. Also, launching on the same date with Halo 3: ODST is the Halo 3: ODST Collector's Pack, which offers Halo fans a new and exclusive wireless controller and the game title in one package at a great price."Joy Ride (Big Park/Microsoft Game Studios)"Avatars, start your engines! Full of wild driving fun, Joy Ride will get your adrenaline pumping as you tear up the track with your friends, or jump, flip and trick your way through the Stunt Park as you work with the whole community to unlock rewards. Joy Ride is completely free to download and gives you all new ways to play, whether you're looking for a quick game or a deep, custom social experience, all on Xbox LIVE.2 Design your dream car or purchase new tracks, game modes and avatar items. You can share the racetracks and game modes with your friends so no one is ever left out."Left 4 Dead 2 (Valve)"Left 4 Dead 2 is the sequel to the best-selling and critically acclaimed cooperative multiplayer smash from Valve, creators of Half-Life, Portal, Team Fortress and Counter-Strike. Introducing melee weapons and new enemies to the original's award-winning gameplay, L4D2 casts players as one of four new 'Survivors' battling zombie hordes as they travel from Savannah, Ga., through New Orleans' French Quarter."Shadow Complex (Epic Games Inc. and Chair Entertainment Group/Microsoft Game Studios)"New from Epic Games and Chair Entertainment, Shadow Complex combines the best of old-school side-scroller design with modern, cutting-edge gameplay and incredible high-definition graphics. Collect power-ups, discover new abilities and evolve your character into a force of destruction as you explore an original story set in the world of Orson Scott Card's best-selling novel, Empire. Shadow Complex marries the quality and depth of a full retail title with the accessibility you love, exclusively on Xbox 360 and Xbox LIVE Arcade."Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Conviction (Ubisoft)"Coming exclusively to Xbox 360 this fall, unleash the ferocious skills of renegade agent Sam Fisher and uncover a deadly terrorist plot in Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Conviction. Completely reinvented and revolutionized, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Conviction ushers in a new breed of action gameplay leaving players fully immersed in the life of the world's most dangerous spy. Take full advantage of the 20 million member Xbox LIVE community in this latest installment of the award-winning Splinter Cell franchise."Final Fantasy XIII (Square Enix)"The world-renowned Final Fantasy will continue making its home on Xbox 360 with the upcoming release of Final Fantasy XIII, the eagerly anticipated title from Square Enix. Final Fantasy XIII uses the power and cutting-edge technology of Xbox 360 to deliver seamless transitions between real-time gameplay and in-game cinematics as gamers summon the courage to execute powerful attacks with an evolved Active Time Battle system and ultimately fulfill their destiny. Scheduled to be released only in North America and Europe."Modern Warfare 2 (Infinity Ward/Activision)"On Nov. 10, 2009, Infinity Ward will make its return with the release of Modern Warfare 2 on Xbox 360, the most-anticipated game of the year and the sequel to the best-selling first-person action game of all time, Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. Modern Warfare 2 continues the gripping and heart-racing saga with an unprecedented level of action as players face off against a new threat dedicated to bringing the world to the brink of collapse. Xbox LIVE gamers will also be the first to get their hands on two Modern Warfare 2 map packs coming first to Xbox 360."The Beatles: Rock Band (Harmonix/MTV Games)"On 09.09.09, The Beatles: Rock Band will allow fans all over the world to pick-up the guitar, bass, mic or drums and experience The Beatles' extraordinary catalogue of music through gameplay that takes players on a journey through the legacy and evolution of the band's legendary career. In addition, The Beatles: Rock Band offers Beatles fans the opportunity to rock out with new hardware replica controllers modeled after instruments used by John Lennon, Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr throughout their careers. And, for the first time, players will be able to download music and make a change: Available only on Xbox 360, all Apple Corps, MTV Games and Microsoft proceeds from downloads of 'All You Need is Love' will benefit Doctors without Borders."Tony Hawk: RIDE (Activision)"Tony Hawk: RIDE redefines the sports genre by offering a dynamic hands-free gaming experience featuring an innovative skateboard controller. Using full motion sensing technology, players physically control the action by performing various movements and gestures on the board that directly translate into amazing tricks in the game. The skateboard controller provides an accessible and social gaming experience on Xbox 360 that allows players of all skill levels to battle for skateboard supremacy by challenging gamers worldwide over Xbox LIVE, the largest social gaming network."
Ahoy there fans of LucasArts' brilliant Monkey Island adventure series. The publisher is bringing an updated version of the original Secret of Monkey Island to PC and Xbox Live this summer. From the press release:Back by popular demand, The Secret of Monkey Island: Special Edition faithfully re-imagines the internationally-acclaimed classic game (originally released in 1990) for original and new audiences alike. The development team at LucasArts is bringing the game into the modern era with all-new high-definition graphics, a re-mastered musical score, full voiceover, and an in-depth hint system has been added to help players through the game's side-splitting puzzles. Purists will also delight in the ability to seamlessly switch between the updated HD re-imagining and the original classic version.Apparently, there'll be a new interface to replace - or at least update - the original's point-and-click design. But little else will be needed to make this wonderful tale of novice buccaneer, Guybrush Threepwood, beautiful mayor, Elaine Marley, and evil ghost pirate, LeChuck, an essential Live purchase for misty-eyed fans.
"You are the controller..."Surely the biggest reveal at Microsoft's E3 press event today was Project Natal, the long-rumoured motion control system, which will allow gamers to interact with the onscreen action without the need for a joypad - even a motion sensitive one. The peripheral, which sits beneath your TV, picks up body movements in full 3D and relays them to your avatar. Some details from the press release:Compatible with any Xbox 360 system, the "Project Natal" sensor is the world's first to combine an RGB camera, depth sensor, multi-array microphone and custom processor running proprietary software all in one device.Unlike other devices, the "Project Natal" sensor is not light-dependent. It can recognize you just by looking at your face, and it doesn't just react to key words but understands what you're saying. Call a play in a football game, and players will actually respond. Want to log onto Xbox LIVE? Simply step in front of the sensor.At the conference, Microsoft played a short video of a family making use of the Natal system. In one sequence a girl controls an onscreen racing car, by miming the action of holding a steering wheel; she even changes gear by grabbing an imaginary gear stick and ramming it forward. At one point, she drives into the pitstop, then the rest of the family become pit technicians, changing her tyres and re-fueling, with a variety of gestures and actions. Imagine this after a night at the pub...The next scene in the demo video shows a young boy controlling an onscreen giant monster. Via his arm movements, the gamer gets the beast to swat down fighter planes, in an amusing pastiche of King Kong. Next up, a footie simulation with a split-screen display - one gamer controls a penalty taker on the left, while the other controls the keeper on the right. The striker makes a histrionic kicking action and the ball speeds toward the goal; naturally, the other player physically leaps to catch it. Surely this is going to have to come with some serious safety instructions...Later, we see a boy playing a skateboarding sim. He holds his own heavily customised board up to the camera and says 'scan'. Then, when he cycles through the in-game selection of board designs, his is in there. The demo also makes it clear that all the Xbox and Xbox Live menu functions will be controllable via body movements and gestures. There's also an interesting introduction of the voice recognition abilities. A scene shows a family playing 1 vs 100 - the quiz master asks a question, and when someone replies, he refers to the responder by name.Peter Molyneux then arrived on stage to talk us through a Lionhead tech demo, introducing an onscreen boy named Milo who interacts with a female gamer. She asks him questions, and he responds, apparently picking up emotions and intonations in her voice. There's a bit where the user draws a picture and holds it up to the screen - the game scans it, allowing Milo to 'take' the drawing and study a virtual copy.Is this the future of gaming? I mean, how accurate is the system? And more importantly, will Sega be bringing Shenmue 3 out as a launch title?
As Bobbie mentioned in hisoverview of the Microsoft conference, Metal Gear Solid is coming to Xbox 360. The game's creator, Hideo Kojima, leapt onstage to make the historic announcement - previously the series has been a PlayStation home console exclusive. Metal Gear Solid: Rising will feature androgynous warrior, Raiden, the baddie from MGS 2, as a playable character.MGS: RisingIt's not entirely clear yet whether this is exclusive to Microsoft's machine. The press release states that the game is, "currently in development for the Xbox 360 video game and entertainment system," which would seem to suggest it is. Interestingly, the sub-title is "Lightning Bolt Action" rather than the usual "Tactical Espionage Action", which would suggest a change in style. Microsoft was understandably jubilant at the announcement. Senior vice president of Xbox, Don Matrick, said on stage that the Xbox 360 line-up of key franchises was now complete.Theteaser site, which - at the time of writing - is still counting down, previously hinted that Raiden would be involved. More details will appear atKojima's bloglater tonight...
I'll cover all the announcements from Microsoft's pre-E3 press conference over the next few hours. But for now...The big one for social networking fiends - Microsoft is partnering with Facebook.Felicia Dayproducer and writer of The Guild, introduced the cultural mash-up, calling it, "The Facebook experience custom made for your living room". Basically, it's a version of the popular social networking tool with a re-designed interface that runs via Xbox Live. You can link up with your Xbox Live profile, look at and share any photos stored on your machine and of course, write and check status updates.Day also introduced a new element, named Facebook Connect, which allows you to grab screenshots and - if I heard this correctly - text from games and send them to pals. Want to show off how you beat that final Resi 5 boss? Now you just take a snap and send off your spoiler to everyone in your friends list... 'It's going to change the way you experience games,' Day declared dramatically. This feature will debut with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2010.If that wasn't enough, Xbox Live is also bringing in Twitter support. Again, it's a new interface designed for the living room – you can follow friends and send tweets and it all updates instantly.They're both coming this fall.Microsoft also revealed that Xbox Live will be supporting online music service, LastFM. Live subscribers will be able to access the online music directory for free, streaming thousands of tracks from the console to a TV or speaker system.
It has taken almost 50 years - but the Beatles are finally going digital, as the group's remaining members unveiled the forthcoming version of the game Rock Band.Sir Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr joined Microsoft on stage at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles for the first showing ofThe Beatles Rock Band- the highly-anticipated game that allows gamers to play the fab four's songs on screen.The announcements came as Microsoft unveiled a host of new games and projects, including a new motion-sensitive add-on calledNatal, that allows players to use their bodies to control games.Natal, clearly aimed at the Nintendo Wii,has been rumoured for some time- but the company confirmed that it would begin shipping the 3D and sound sensitive gadget in the near future.Although most of the details of the Beatles game were already known - such as replicas of the group's instruments - it was the first time that the band's surviving members had spoken about their involvement."We love the game, it's fantastic," said Sir Paul, who was also joined on stage by Yoko Ono and Olivia Harrison. "Who would have every thought we'd end up as androids?""The game is good, the graphics are very good... we look great," added Starr.The title - which is due for release in September - will feature 45 remastered songs, said Giles Martin, son of Beatles' producer George and a creative producer for the game.The surviving Beatles were not the only big guns Microsoft brought out as it tried to wow video gamers with its upcoming plans.Steven Spielberg appeared on stage to demonstrate Natal, while the company gave demonstrations of a range of highly-anticipated titles, including a preview ofFinal Fantasy XIII, the popular roleplaying game which will make its Xbox debut next year. Meanwhile legendary skateboarder Tony Hawk demonstrated his new game calledRide- featuring a skateboard-shaped controller."The whole thing responds like a real skateboard," said Hawk. "I've been wanting to do a video game with a skateboard controller - but it just felt like the technology wasn't there yet. This is going to deliver an entirely new social, physical gaming experience on Xbox 360."Among the other titles shown off includedHalo Reach- the latest instalment in the popular franchise - the long-anticipated horror thrillerAlan Wake, andModern Warfare 2, a cinematic-style sequel to Call of Duty with incredibly detailed graphics.Japanese designer Hideo Kojima also appeared on stage to announce that theMetal Gear Solidseries would be coming soon to the Xbox for the first time.Microsoft executives are hoping that the announcements will give the company even more momentum as it attempts to deal blows to its major rivals, Sony and Nintendo.The American software giant has spent more than $7bn pushing into the gaming industry as part of an attempt to move Microsoft's technology away from computers and into living rooms around the world.It now counts more than 30 million users worldwide, but the costly strategy has largely focused on victory in the hardcore gaming sector - the younger, largely male demographic who are heavy consumers of games.In recent years, however, the surprise success of the Nintendo Wii has also encouraged Microsoft to push for more casual, family-friendly games - such as The Beatles Rock Band and Tony Hawk Ride.The nearest target, however, is Sony. The Japanese electronics corporation has been the dominant force in the gaming industry since the rise of the PlayStation in the 1990s - but when Microsoft moved into gaming with the original Xbox in 2001, it was specifically targeted at reducing Sony's commanding lead.Allied to Nintendo's remarkable return to the summit of the industry - and the slow adoption of the expensive PlayStation 3 - Sony's mantle has started to slip in recent years.Faced with losses of $1bn, chief executive Howard Stringer has brought in cutbacks across the PlayStation business, including stripping £1.8bn in costs by closing down some of the factories that build the machines.Microsoft also announced a number of other new projects, including partnerships with Facebook, Twitter and music sit Last.fm to bring their services directly to the Xbox. This comes afterSky announced a deal with Microsoftto stream its channels to Xbox owners over the internet.
YouTube has been a huge success in getting vast numbers of video clips online, and in establishing the Flash-based FLV video format as a way of making them almost universally accessible.Scribdis trying to do the same thing for the written word, using its Flash-based iPaper publishing format. You just upload a document, and Scribd converts it automatically.The site was launched two years ago, and reckons to attract about 60 million users a month. More than 50,000 documents are uploaded every day.Like YouTube, Scribd is also trying to negotiate a place in the commercial world. A couple of weeks ago, the site launcheda beta version of the Scribd Store, which enables professional authors and publishers to upload works for sale - at any price they care to set. Sellers get 80% of the revenue.Random House, Simon &amp; Schuster, Lonely Planet and O'Reilly Media are among the publishers giving the site a go. If you are interested in Tim O'Reilly's new book about Twitter, for example, you canread quite a lot of it on Scribd, with some groups of pages withheld.Freelance journalists, amateur authors, students and others can also offer their works for sale, of course. And given the financial problems in the newspaper and book publishing industries, many writers are hoping this will become a viable marketplace. At worst, it lets writers try to make money from stories that they can't sell elsewhere, with the advantage (and disadvantage) of not having to negotiate with a stream of editors and publishers.Perhaps not many readers will be keen to pay for things on Scribd, given the amount of free stuff that's already on the web. Still, Scribd is working on an iPhone reader. Since we know mobile phone users are prepared to pay for trivial applications and ringtones, this approach could be successful.Like many web 2.0 sites, Scribd combines user-generated content with social networking. A Scribd document has a button for Share This, with links for Twitter, Facebook, Digg etc. You can also embed an iPaper article in your blog or website, just like a YouTube video. Scribd members can comment on articles, or at least click the button for I Like This.The idea is that audience participation will promote the good authors and texts, because users can see which are the most read and most liked items.Members of Scribd can also start groups on topics of their own choosing, and these provide mini-forums.One potential problem is that Scribd could fill up with pirate copies of popular books. Scribd tries to filter out copyright works and takes them down when they are reported, but it still creates friction with some authors and publishers. However, many also recognise that the publicity is valuable, and that Scribd is a potential outlet for out-of-print and print-on-demand books.And if ebooks like the Amazon Kindle and Sony Reader really take off, Scribd and similar sites could become too important to ignore.
Adobe is pushing up the UK prices of its software, including the flagship Photoshop picture-editing package, by 10% - but is reducing the price in continental Europe by up to 13%.The changes, which also apply to the CS4 suite, will take effect from July 1, according to a spokeswoman.The news -first reportedby the British Journal of Photography - will further annoy British users of Adobe products, who have repeatedly vented frustration at the apparent disparity between prices of Adobe software in the US and UK. One annoyed usercreated an online petitionin 2007 to protest about the disparity.However Adobe said in an official statement that the price rise was necessary because of, well, for once it's not piracy....As you will be aware, since the launch of CS4 in September last year, the global economy has entered a state of unprecedented turmoil and one of the side effects of this has been sharp fluctuations between GBP/EUR exchange rates. This has resulted in significant differences in price between products in the two markets.Adobe seeks to price consistently across Europe to the extent that circumstances and market conditions make this possible. The current economic environment and currency fluctuations have made this challenging. This change to the CS4 pricing is intended to realign the UK with other European countries.The price increase will equate to a price rise of up to 10% on the Adobe Store, for example, Design Premium CS4 will increase from £1,249 to £1,372 (ex VAT). The harmonisation process is two-way, so to achieve better balance Adobe is reducing some EUR prices of CS4 by up to 13%.In the US, Design Premium CS4 ispriced at $1,593.99 on Amazon(reduced from $1799.99). At today's exchange rate, that's £982 (reduced from £1109).In other words, in crossing the Atlantic, Adobe's software - a series of 1s and 0s - becomes 12% more expensive.This approach is in line with similar price increases, which have taken place in the past on our Adobe Stores in Sweden and Norway, which were also caused by significant changes in the exchange rate between Swedish Kroner/Norwegian Kroner and the Euro.As you can appreciate, this has been a difficult decision for us, but in the light of the above, we need to implement these changes.A difficult decision, indeed. Adobe's latestfinancial resultsshow that for the quarter ended Feb 27, it had revenues of $786m and operating profits of $207m, with net income (after that bothersome "tax" stuff) of $156m.That was however afallcompared to the year-ago quarter: 29% down in profit, on a 12% fall in revenue.In December 2006, we asked "Are we being ripped off over software?" in which we looked at precisely the question of why this happens....each European office has to pay the local prices required to run a business (rent, rates, salaries etc) plus the specific costs of software distribution, advertising, marketing and support - and support can be extremely expensive.Another factor is that multinationals say they don't want to "confuse" us by having prices yo-yo with volatile exchange rates. Adobe said: "If changes were to be made to reflect the currency fluctuation, the customer would be harmed when the GBP-dollar relationship swings the other way. In this environment, it is difficult for Adobe to continuously tune pricing. Therefore, Adobe policy has been to maintain the pricing in GBPs, so that at least the price the customer pays is not changing in relationship to GBP-based buying power."In other words you, dear reader, can forget about the exchange rate as far as software companies are concerned. Those with local operations sell their products at local prices, based mainly on what users were willing to pay for previous versions, not with equivalent prices in other markets. And, of course, there's probably not much incentive to pass on any exchange rate benefits to customers when the extra profits inflate the performance of the UK subsidiary when viewed from the US.And how has the pound sterling performed against the dollar in the time since that piece? Well, looking at the graphic above (from Yahoo) - note that it's a dollar-pound graph, so the lower the line is, the more *powerful* the pound is - one finds that compared to 2006, the pound issubstantiallyweaker.Yet I don't recall Adobe giving people their money back by price reductions. Perhaps it slipped my mind?Whatever the explanation, this will be an interesting test of how resilient Adobe's model is, and how badly its customers need to buy its products. Photoshop has its imitators and rivals (yes, we know about GIMP), and is one of the most widely pirated pieces of software out there, but other products such as Illustrator and InCopy are more specialist, and don't have serious open source competitors.But with the organisations that would be spending on Adobe CS4-style products having to bear their own cuts, can it really raise its prices in a recession - while leaving them where they are in the US - without facing some sort of buyer strike?Let us know: is the price rise a dealbreaker for you, or your organisation? Or is everyone going to "save" by buying now?(Correction: replaced graph - which was dollar-Euro - with dollar-sterling.)
If you fancied using Microsoft's new search engine, it's unexpectedly live athttp://www.bing.com/. (According to Microsoft, it was being opened at the SMX search marketing conference in Seattle on Wednesday.)Or rather, Microsoft's new "Decision Engine and consumer brand" is unexpectedly live.Microsoft says:Bing is specifically designed to build on the benefits of today's search engines but begins to move beyond this experience with a new approach to user experience and intuitive tools to help customers make better decisions, focusing initially on four key vertical areas: making a purchase decision, planning a trip, researching a health condition or finding a local business.Bing is not Live Search, though obviously it's based on it, and the current UK beta version still has Live's front page layout, rather than a menu down the left hand side, which is the format for the US version. The UK also doesn't seem to have any image hot spots, and other features. To get the "real thing," gohere.It's too soon to say whether Bing will attract long-term users, rather than tyre-kickers. However, the reception on Twitter has been reasonably positive.It does seem to work much better than Google for finding real product info and reviews, where Google's results are loaded with spam and price comparison rubbish. As@studentsoftware noted on Twitter: "Keyword stuffing that skews Google search results doesn't quite work in bing. Bing 1 Google 0. Over to you SEO gurus..."Some Google commands also work -- for example, try ["psp go" site:guardian.co.uk] -- which could ease the changeover.The Search History feature, which keeps a list of your previous searches down the left hand side, is obvious but excellent.But in most respects, Google still rules. The fact is that Bing is an incomplete beta, and while it's not bad, it's not actually a match for Google at the moment.Microsoft knows perfectly well that it's going to take it "years and years and years" (in Steve Ballmer's words) to get anywhere in search, if it ever does. It knows it has to overtake Yahoo first. In that sense, comparisons with Google are misguided, though we're all making them. In reality, Bing is competing with Yahoo and Ask to be the leading Google alternative, and that's how its success -- or failure -- should be evaluated.Acronym note: Microsoft PR reckons Bing is "the sound of found" but the common joke is that it stands recursively for Bing Is Not Google. This has prompted another acronym, Wanger, for Wolfram Alpha's Not Google Either, Really".
I spent a few hours over the weekend playing the final version of Scared 2, the forthcoming hack n' slash roleplaying game for the 360 and PS3. For comparison think of Diablo, Titan Quest and other loot-heavy mouse clicking adventures. Sacred 2 was realised on the PC to muted acclaim late last year but this genre is so rare on the consoles that I decided to wait and see how it was adapted to sofa play.Initial impressions are mixed. The whole game feels very German – unsurprising considering where it was developed – with an inadequate tutorial, generic fantasy styling and numerous rough edges. The interface is fiddly, especially the inventory pages. In fact inventory management – crucial in games like this which practically throw you new goodies every minute – is horribly underpowered.But multiplayer is where this game comes alive. Offline multiplayer is a welcome inclusion – too many developers forget that not all 360 and PS3 gamers use their console online – and brings back pleasant memories of Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance.  But despite this the online play is still important. Up to 4 players can join a game and with hundreds of players already online – I was playing the 360 version - I had no problem getting recruits last night.The general lack of polish is evident here though, with players joining your world and then accepting quests which pop text up over your screen even if your are a way off from the action. This gets increasingly irritating as "Boar killed 2/5" appears on your screen while you are involved in an entirely different quest. Now clearly this wouldn't be an issue if you were playing with friends and working together on the same objectives. And playing with friends or in organised groups of four makes Scared 2 a tempting proposition. Games can be saved by the host too, allowing the same group players to continue where you left off in the future. The only thing I haven't tried yet is what happens if you bring a high level player into your world – I'm assuming it means no xp points and hence no advancement of your character.The world is pretty enough to make you want to explore. It's huge too with three hours of play uncovering something ridiculous like 1% of the map. I was faffing around a bit with the camera and inventory during that time but still. The camera is a bit frustrating actually. The game is best played top down but that doesn't stop you wanting to zoom down and get the full close-up of the action. You can do this but the view is so restrictive you soon resort back to the aerial view.So far quests have been of the fairly generic kill and fetch variety but the combat and usual role-playing lure of more xp and better upgrades does drag you on.Early days then but I'm planning to spend some more time with Sacred 2. It's not the "Diablo on a console" you may have hoped for and it has plenty of rough edges but Sacred 2 is a welcome addition to the console party.
Leaks about the Sony PSP and speculation about Microsoft innovations have already built the hype for this week's gathering of the videogames industry at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles.One of the biggest videogames showcases in the world, E3 is expected to play host to a sequence of major announcements from the giants of the industry, including Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft.While the show does not officially open until Tuesday, Microsoft is expected to unveil its latest innovations today – rumoured to include a number of high-profile games for the Xbox 360,as well as a motion-sensing camera system, along the lines of Nintendo's Wii.While Microsoft hopes that starting early will give it a lead over its competition in the publicity war, Japanese electronics giant Sony may have already got the jump on its American rival – albeit accidentally.As reported by Guardian Technology over the weekend, a video mistakenly leaked by Sony appears to have revealed the details of its big gamble – the PSP Go, a new version of its portable games console.The clip – which appears to have been intended for broadcast next month on Qore, the PlayStation Network's monthly magazine show – revealed intimate details of the gadget, which is expected to go on sale in the autumn and become the long-term replacement for the PlayStation Portable.Apparently intended as a more direct competitor to Nintendo's wildly popular DS, the new PSP is slimmer than its predecessor, and sports a smaller 3.8in screen that slides up to reveal the console's controls. It will have 16GB of built-in memory but no support for the PSP's current disc format, UMD.Sony has not responded publicly to the leaked video.Nintendo, meanwhile, is keeping quiet on its plans for the show – with reports currently suggesting that it plans everything from a new version of the popular Wii Fit game, to new instalments of the popular Mario and Zelda franchises.Regardless of what unfolds over the next few days, the biggest names in gaming will be hoping that E3 not only generates plenty of buzz, but that it can also stimulate sales.Figures show that sales of videogames in 2009 have so far been significantly weaker than the previous 12 months – but insiders suggest that it may not be a straightforward comparison, since most of this year's highly-anticipated titles are not due for release until the autumn.Games industry executives – and the show's organisers – are desperate for a boost from E3, particularly since the low-key shows of recent years have been seen as a major problem.For the past three years, the show has scaled back its public side in favour of an industry-only focus, reducing the number of visitors from more than 70,000 in 2005 to around 5,000 last year. That has had an impact on the reputation of the show – and, some worry, reduced the excitement among fans."E3 used to be a great event that helped to push the games to a more mass market audience ... in the last two or three years it was almost a non-event," Yves Guillemot, chief executive of France's Ubisoft, told Reuters. "The show has to be big. We want to attract more and more talent from all the other industries."One thing that the leading companies may not do, however, is drop the price of games consoles.Despite pressure on both Sony and Nintendo to slash prices on the PlayStation 3 and Wii respectively – pressure which has increased since Microsoft lowered the price of its Xbox 360 console last year – some analysts suggest that the Japanese companies may not yet be ready to capitulate.Instead, they suggest, they may wait until closer to Christmas in an attempt to maximise the impact of a price cut over the biggest sales period of the year.
