Which dointernetusers hate more: spam or Captchas?Spam, in email or on blogs (as content or comment), riles almost everyone; but Captchas — those little text puzzles that ask you to decode distorted numbers, letters or words — are at best annoying and at worst ineffective at keeping spambots out.Each takes about 10 seconds to complete, and with millions being solved every day, that's a lot of time that could be spent doing something more useful.Realising this, Luis van Ahn, professor of computer science at Carnegie Mellon and the inventor of the Captcha (it stands for Completely Automated Public Turing Test To Tell Computer and Humans Apart), rethought the puzzle and came up withreCaptcha, which is more user-friendly, harder for spammers to crack — and helps to digitise text at the same time.The text needing digitisation is plentiful. Both the Internet Archive and the New York Times are scanning their archives using optical character recognition (OCR). But the accuracy of OCR declines with older material, so about 20% of words aren't recognised. This used to mean humans had to correct the text, which is slow and expensive. ReCaptcha does the job, still using humans, but faster and more cheaply; it takes words unrecognised by the OCR software and offers those to be solved.Crack addictsMost Captcha programs apply mathematical transformations to their images which can potentially be reversed, thus allowing spammers to crack the Captcha. Indeed, in February, Websense Security Labs reported that Google Mail's Captcha had been broken by spammers who were able toautomate signup. This came not long after claims ofcracks of the Captchas for Microsoft Windows Live MailandYahoo Mail.ReCaptcha, however, has two other types of distortion: natural changes introduced by old print fading over time, and "noise" from the scanning process. Along with the mathematical transformations, this creates an image that is easy for humans to recognise, yet delightfully difficult for computers to crack.Among the sites using it isLast.fm, the music social network. Russ Garrett, a system architect there, says spam started to become a problem about 18 months ago. Fake users would sign up and start spamming members with private messages. "We weren't actually using anything at all before reCaptcha, because we like to keep the signup procedure fairly minimal," he says. "We were considering implementing our own Captcha, but then you end up in an arms race with the spammers where they are always improving their technology and you have to counter them. It was easier to use reCaptcha."Garrett says that using print to source the images helps make the system more secure. "The advantage is that they've tried to digitise the books using OCR first, so it tends to use words which have been proven to be hard for computers to read. That's useful from a security point of view." The system is simple enough. A site that uses reCaptcha to verify that you're a human, rather than a bot, shows two scanned words: a known "control" word and an unidentified word in its scanned form. The confirmation step is to type them. If the response gives the known word correctly, the system assumes that the unknown word was correct too.Now the reCaptcha system updates its records. The same unknown word will be served to different sites. Once a word has been recognised enough times - two humans plus the OCR's guess is the minimum - the archive is updated and the previously unknown word, still in its scanned form, is added to the control list. In practice, two-thirds of unknown words are recognised after just two human inputs; only 4% require more than five.By combining OCR with reCaptcha, van Ahn has increased the accuracy of the digitisation process to 99.1%, meeting the transcription gold standard of 99% (which is based on two professionals independently transcribing the text and then comparing versions to find discrepancies). That compares very favourably with OCR's 83.5%. And reCaptcha is making good progress in digitising the New York Times archives, a project begun only in July this year."The New York Times archives start in 1851 [and go up] to around 1980," says van Ahn, "because that's when they started writing it with a computer. We're going to be fully done transcribing the whole thing next year. It's great to be able to tell people that the New York Times archive is going to be fully searchable and accessible on the web pretty soon because of this."Unpopular but effectiveMore than 70,000 websites serve 25m reCaptcha images per day, getting 4m words "translated". The number of spambots attempting to defeat the system accounts for the missing success. Over the course of the project, reCaptcha has recognised close to 2bn words , equivalent to 3,405 copies of War and Peace. And despite the fact that Captchas are unpopular with some people, their use is increasing."Nobody likes to have a Captcha on their site," says van Ahn. "It does annoy their users, but no websites are getting rid of Captchas." Because reCaptcha uses whole words, and humans read by matching the pattern of a word rather than decoding it letter by letter as computers do, it's generally easy for people to recognise the distorted images. "96% of reCaptchas are successfully solved by the user," says van Ahn. "That is quite good because you have about a 5% chance of committing a typo when you're just writing."This has made reCaptcha popular with some bloggers. Gia Milinovich (giagia.co.uk) has been blogging since 2002, and has used many different Captchas to keep spam out. She says: "I changed to reCaptcha about a year ago, mainly because I loved the idea of it being useful for something. But it actually works better than any other Captcha I've ever used."The usability and accessibility of reCaptcha — it has an audio version for the visually impaired — has attracted many websites. Facebook, Twitter, StumbleUpon and Last.fm are among those using it as part of their signup process.But even if a spammer does break reCaptcha, van Ahn says that it will take them about two hours to "tweak the distortions" and put the spammers back to square one. He and his team aren't resting on their laurels. But: "we have a guy whose sole job is to continually try to break reCaptcha," he says. "He's a very frustrated man."
Lenovo is working with Phoenix on a BIOS that will let you disable a ThinkPad notebook PC by sending it an SMS text message. The feature should be available early next year, reportsTG Daily. The story says:The lockdown will happen immediately if a notebook is turned on or, when it is turned off, the next time the system signs on to a cellular network. To reactivate the disabled PC, a user needs to enter a pre-set passcode created during notebook startup.Since not many people have notebooks with built in Sims, it would be more useful if you could disable a notebook over the internet. Maybe you can….It would also be more useful if every notebook PC had this sort of feature, as it would tend to discourage notebook theft. However, bear in mind that it doesn't protect your data, because someone can always remove the hard drive and read it with a different PC -- unless the data is encrypted.The article also doesn't say whether the SMS simply triggers a BIOS password. There are ways around those....
A couple of Friday's ago, having spent the afternoon playing Mirror's Edge and talking to my game designer brother-in-law about the title's mixed critical response, I wrotea blog post. More accurately, I wrote a bit of a tirade about the quality of games journalism, and about how innovation can often be overlooked in the rush to cover elements such as graphics, sound, lastability and multiplayer support. I wrote it quickly and posted it without any re-writing. I thought it might get a bit of a reaction.It did.The story was picked up by most major game sites and, I'll put it bluntly, my arguments have not been popular.Lydia Sung of Neoseekerwanted to punch me in the face (I think we're okay now),Varietycalled me 'dead wrong', Newsweek's resident game pundit N'Gai Croalpitched my piecein with a couple of similar features and came to the conclusion that, "Reviewers aren't perfect, but attempting to police the discourse by insisting on the primacy of innovation over execution is not the answer".That's okay - I really enjoyed all those responses. And the thing is, the piece was deliberately polemical. I knew I'd upset people by comparing movies to games, and I knew that by asking questions about the quality and point of game journalism I would come in for flak. Idiotically, I was surprised by the personal insults, by the sheer force of the vilification in various comments sections around the web. I was trying to get people to talk about innovation and criticism - I didn't quite realise how incendiary that could be.What's become clear is that a lot of people are happy with the formal structure of videogame reviews. After all, on a fundamental economic level, games cost £50 each so if you're looking for buying advice, you don't want some smart arse to recommend a game because it references his favourite Jean Paul Satre novel, or does something interesting with high dynamic range lighting. You want to know if your money will be wasted or not.And yes, Mirror's Edge is flawed and frustrating at times, and, yeah, itprobablyhas the Metacritic rating it deserves. But questioning how we perceive games, how we react to them and how their qualities should be measured is really important; I think it contributes to the development of the medium. Sometimes it's good to try out a dialectical approach, to write a very one-sided hypothesis and see what comes back.And sometimes what comes back is personal vitriol, occasionally based on little more than a cursory glance at the original piece. Sometimes it's brilliantly argued opposition. As long as it's more the latter than the former I did something right.So the piece I wrote in less than ten minutes one Friday afternoon will probably haunt me for a few weeks, or at least days, until the cavalcade moves on. It was fun while it lasted.
The woes reported by our ownRoger Browning with O2's customer service over his iPhonearen't exclusive. But, you may say (entirely fairly), one person's experience doesn't tell you anything; it's anecdote, and asBen Goldacrehas drummed into our heads, that doesn't indicate anything.However one wonders if there's a pattern emerging. Ian Fogg, an analyst with Jupiter, details his own woes on his blog trying to get O2 (which supplied him with an iPhone 3G to test; he then bought one) to bill him properly for it.Eventually he became so frustrated with it that he penned a letter to one of its higher-ups - which he alsodetailed on his blog. It's not an encouraging story.Here's his litany:Summary of the problem:-- Every month I receive an automated message saying there is a problem with my payment, please call.- Every month I call, speak to a customer care agent, provide my correct credit card details and the one-off payment goes through. I'm advised this won't happen again. But the same payment details fail when the bill is due for paying the following month!- At no point in time have I been able to view my bill on the O2 website - the login fails. Every month I'm advised this will be fixed and it isn't. Most recently, O2 customer care argued with me that the login was working when it simply wasn't, on three separate computers.- Every month I ask for a copy of my bill in the post, and it fails to arrive.- Last month O2 froze my account, as I was slow getting back due to business travel in the US.So, the bottom line is:- I want to pay my bill.- I have never seen a copy of the bill, and yet have still paid o2 on trust on four occasions now.- I'm fed up with having to pay manually each month.- I'm fed up with wasting time each month on the phone with O2 customer care.(Just to reiterate, those are Ian Fogg's experiences. I don't own or use an iPhone.)More anecdata? Yes, possibly, though Fogg points out that experiences like this pose a danger for Apple - and thinks that it will be important for it to be able to move to availability across all carriers as soon as possible. That certainly chimes with my own thinking (much that it matters): it's better to be able to choose your service provider, and choose that on the basis of quality, than be tied.And let's not forget that O2 was in the charge of the famous iPhone 3G launch. Ah yes,O2 opens brewery, forgets bottles. A classic.But it's dangerous for the phone companies to think that because they've got a lock on a provider - and vice-versa - that people will tolerate poor service. People talk. Perhaps we should measure the quality of a phone network not by its coverage (they're all pretty much identical) or even price (almost identical), but on a public statement of how many people work for their customer service - and how many calls they receive?
Apple's TV advert for the 3G iPhone has been attacked on the web for being deceptive, and asMedia Guardian reported this morning, it has now beenbanned in the UK. The Advertising Standards Authority received 17 complaints that the ad was misleading for "exaggerating the speed of the iPhone 3G".iPhone adverts have also been attacked in the US. For example, Silicon Alley Insider ran a series --Hey, Apple and Steve Jobs, Really, What's With The Deceptive Advertising?,Apple's Deceptive 3G iPhone Ads, Part 2: The New Tests, andApple's Deceptive iPhone Ads, Part 3: New Software Faster But Ads Still Misleading-- prompted by comparison videos created by Rob Reed.I ignored these at the time on the grounds that advertising is just advertising, and most people have enough experience not to mistake it for a portrayal of reality. Isn't this something infants learn when they get their first TV-advertised toy? Anybody with any experience of browsing the web with a phone would know that the iPhone adverts were unrealistic, and anybody silly enough to take them literally should have realised their mistake when checking out their iPhone in the shop.So I suspect not many people were actually deceived, unless they were naturally gullible, inexperienced, and buying by mail order. And even then, they could have sent it back and asked for a refund….Still, I can understand a few people being annoyed enough to complain, because Apple is well known for deceptive advertising. Its first-generation iPhone ad was also banned.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
A TV ad forApple's 3G iPhone has been banned by the advertising regulator for misleading consumers over the internet capabilities of the smartphone.The ruling marks the second time Apple has breached the advertising code for making misleading claims about the iPhone, after theAdvertising Standards Authority banned TV ads for the first-generation iPhone in August.Apple's latest TV campaign, by ad agency TBWA/London, made claims that the iPhone could access the internet, and download content, "really fast".TheASAreceived 17 complaints that the ad was misleading for "exaggerating the speed of the iPhone 3G".Apple UK said that the claims made in the ad were "relative rather than absolute in nature".The company added that the claim was a comparison between the first-generation 2G iPhone and the new 3G version.In its ruling, the ASA said that while the majority of consumers would be familiar with the performance of mobile phones "many might not be fully aware of the technical differences between the different types of technology".Apple's claim that the 3G iPhone was "really fast", shown in an ad with speedy visuals of the internet being used on one of the smartphones would "lead viewers to believe that the device actually operated at or near to the speeds shown in the ad", the regulator said.The ASA said the ad was misleading and should not appear again in its current form.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
If you play Activision's Guitar Hero competitively, you might struggle to beat Cythbot, which can score 99%, and typically manages 75-80%. It's not a humanoid robot but an electromechanical device developed by Cyth Systems to show off its expertise in image processing and integration at exhibitions etc. The input comes from a camera focused on the screen, and the notes are played by pneumatic fingers.Wired Blogsexplains how it works.
If you're using Safari, and have obediently updated it to version 3.2, then you may have noticed that it now includes an anti-phishing system: if you go to a website that's reckoned to be phishy, you'll get a warning dialog that tells you "The website you are visiting has been reported as a 'phishing' website" or that "The website you are visiting appears to contain malware." (Before you start, Safari is available on Windows, and Windows has lots of malware aimed at it.)Now an in-depth analysis by theMac Weekly Journal, and reprinted - um,reposted - by Macworldsays that this anti-spoofing system raises privacy concerns. (MWJ is a subscription site, so Macworld makes it more widely visible.)The MWJ folks aren't happy:Nothing in Apple's ridiculously minimal release notes suggested that this feature existed. But this time, the company's intransigence in telling you what it has changed in the software you use may have further consequences. How Safari could 'know' about these phishing and malware sites raises all kinds of interesting questions. Now we can tell you with reasonable confidence how it all works—but because Apple has not done the same thing, we cannot say with certainty that it is completely private, or that Safari is not sending information about the pages you visit to a third party.Turns out that Safari communicates in the background with Google, which maintains a vast and constantly updated list of malware and phishing sites. It's built on Google's "Safe Browsing" system, first introduced about three years ago. You go to a URL, and Google queries its ever-expanding database to see whether it's been reported as hosting malware during a crawl, or whether that IP address you thought was ebay.co.uk is actually in Guangdong.OK. When you start surfing, Google sends Safari a hashed list of URLs - 32-bit shortened versions. Then when you land on a new URL, it compares its URL against that hashed list. If that triggers a warning, the full URL is hashed (to 256 bits) and queried against Google's list. If it's on the list, you get a warning.See the security hole yet? You didn't agree to have all your surfing habits sent to Google. Quoth MWJ:TheApple Customer Privacy Policysays nothing about Safari sending any information to places other than the Web sites you're visiting—but as of Safari 3.2, it does exactly that: it fetches lots of information from Google, and sends (non-identifiable) requests back to Google when you encounter a page whose URL is on one of Google's blacklists.Which takes you to the licence agreement for Safe Browsing that comes with Safari 3.2:C. Use of the Google Safe Browsing Service is subject to the Google Terms of Service (http://www.google.com/terms_of_service.html) and to Google's Privacy Policy (http://www.google.com/privacypolicy.html).Except as MWJ points out, what does that mean? The licence"explicitly states that Google may use information the company collects from your use of its services that don't require registration (like Safe Browsing) for the development of its own services, "including the display of customized content and advertising."Is anyone else hearing a noise? Browsing habits.. advertising..Phorm!And NebuAd! But done by Google and Apple? Well, in theory, at least. Interestingly, Phorm also said it would offer anti-malware and anti-phishing advice to browsers signed up to its server-side advertising system.Which gets the MWJ folk edgy, not to say annoyed:And yet, we cannot conclusively tell you that it's not implemented today, because Apple refuses to document its changes. This time, it should come back to haunt Apple. Even when phrased as friendly to Apple as we can manage, the fact remains that after installing Safari 3.2, your computer is by default downloading lots of information from Google and sending information related to sites you visit back to Google—without telling you, without Apple disclosing the methods, and without any privacy statement from Apple.They did ask Apple to clarify earlier this week. Apple hasn't. (This is not unusual.)So what does MWJ think?We're satisfied, for now, that on a broadband connection, it discloses minimal information for a reasonable benefit. We just believe, strongly, that Apple must disclose how this works where people will find it, and in relevant places like the privacy policy, in the Safari application (even in the help files! help files are cheap!), and ideally, through a small notice when you turn on the feature (or a small link underneath the checkbox, like "read more about this," when it's turned on by default).Their final conclusion? "It's not necessarily an evil thing, but it's something customers should know."Alternatively, you could just turn the whole shooting match off. Is trading phishing and malware for privacy a good trade? That's a personal one.
Paul Carrstands in one last time forAleks Krotoski.This week Paul is joined by our Tech editor,Charles Arthur, andMoreover Technologies'Angus Bankes.Jemima Kisstalks to YouTube's Patrick Walker about fingerprinting technology and making money from ads.Bobbie JohnsonmeetsTelnic'sJustin Hayward and learns everything he wanted to know about the dottel domain, but was afraid to ask.Also, a look at this week's top technology stories and Paul has fun sifting through your comments left on all the Guardian's tech-related blogs.Don't forget...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Wow. I mean, you expect a sequel to improve on the original in most technical respects, but Resistance 2 looks like being an order of magnitude more entertaining, more frenzied and more imaginative than its predecessor. Of course, Resistance: Fall of Man was a launch title, coded way back when Insomniac probably wasn't sure what the target hardware was capable of – and certainly before Sony started pulling its finger out and supplying workable SDKs and libraries.But Resistance 2 exhibits more than a better understanding of the machine. It's just fundamentally a more enthralling ride. Once again you're Nathan Hale, the lone survivor of Britain's fight against the Chimeran menace and now infected with the virus that threatens to transform him into his enemy – a familiar Neitzchian theme that players will probably recognize from Spiderman, Blade and a whole host of other pop-culture protagonists. Discovered wandering in deep snow outside London, the idea is to ship him to the States where his condition can be analysed by Chimera expert Dr Malikov. After a brief stopover at a besieged Icelandic base, you end up at a rusty research base out on the Frisco bay.Cue lots of running through metallic corridors, blasting hybrid troops and occasionally running into big guys like the new ravagers, immensely tall, muscle-bound death merchants with miniguns the size of pillar boxes. The visuals still aren't eye-poppingly amazing and there are one or two lazy FPS checklist features (empty rooms there just to make the map feel larger, packing boxes to hide behind, etc, etc), but what this game does brilliantly is deliver excellent choke point set-pieces, with dozens of hybrid troopers, zig-zagging around, lolloping over scenic structures to get at you. Resistance 2 feels old skool, in its linearity and level design, but it has embraced that, and the charging narrative (quick! You're accompanying Dr Malikov. Now you're going back for some inhibitor drugs. Now you're clearing a landing bay of hybrid scum…) grabs you by the neck and virtually yanks you through the twisting corridors.Then you're out. And near the end of the first mission, there's an amazing moment where you emerge from the research facility and look out over an obliterated San Francisco, Chimera motherships cruising overhead as thousands of fighter craft blast at collapsing buildings – all in front of a burning red and orange sky. It's like Apocalypse Now writ large, and with monsters.Then you're in the swamplands of Orick, North California, tracking a new breed of Chimeran menace - the chameleons. These mammoth razor-fingered beasts have an invisibility trick like the Predator, occasionally becoming hazily visible to provide a loping momentary target. They rip your fellow soldiers in half like garlic sausages.One point here, though – in these early stages, I feel the weapons still lack real impact; compare the Bullseye and Carbine to the key weapons in CoD IV or World at War and you're getting none of the kick, or explosive affect - I'm not just talking about force feedback, I mean the graphical and audio representation of a massive mega-gun in action. Chimeran troops still perform an unconvincing dance when shot – when actually you want them to arch backwards, gaping wounds and missing limbs spraying blood all over the place. (Although, there are some great explosive deaths from grenades and more fearsome weapons.)But it's still thrilling stuff, later taking in Independence Day and War of the Worlds before racing back through the Aliens quadrilogy. Amid the laser fire and military bluster are clever little moments of quiet – like the bit where you're stalking through an abandoned town while a knackered fifties radio plays hillbilly country somewhere in a devastated house. This sort of thing was used in the first title too, but it's more ambient and subtle here, and the contrast with the vast alien space craft you're about to encounter is beautifully pitched.Resistance 2 is not Gears of War 2, that much is certain. Though the game shares a similar sense of ceaseless action against overwhelming odds, Resistance 2 hasn't quite made the generational leap that Epic's title has; it still seems to have its heart and soul in the Quake era, despite the obvious visual sheen made possible by the current hardware. But there is a lot of heart here -  it's a really carefully constructed game. I didn't think it would surprise me, but it has. And I feel there are plenty more shocks in store.
TheNational Institute on Media and the Familyis unveiling its 13th annual video game report listing the "10 most offensive, violent, sex-filled video games inappropriate for kids," reportsAP.It's not trying to drum up business, though that might be a side-effect. Its purpose is to warn parents that these games are unsuitable for children -- just in case they don't notice they are M-rated in the US, being intended for those aged 17 and over.The "top games" include Gears of War 2, Far Cry 2, and Silent Hill: Homecoming.How you stop kids playing, say, Gears of War is another matter. They're probably going to play it at a friend's house, because the friend's big brother plays it all the time, except when he's out. But that's no reason for mum to pick up a copy for the kid's stocking, even if it's on Santa's list.The AP story says:A video game guide for parents, including tips on using the parental controls on game consoles, is highlighted in the new report, which will be available on the group's Web site.The NIMF is perfectly well aware that video gaming "is now an undeniably mainstream medium and often a catalyst for social activity involving people of all ages," and that "increasingly, the big industry players are targeting parents and families as an important market for their products and services. Despite the controversial M-rated games (for Mature) still receiving much of the hype and the headlines, the vast majority of game titles have family-friendly ratings."That's what it says in the2008 Video Game Report Card, which you can also download as aPDF file.
I hate to be one of those people who forwards links to "hilarious pictures" or "brilliant games" to half their contacts database. You know the ones. The hilarity or brilliance of a forwarded link is inversely proportional to the number of people it's sent to. If you've sent a link to me and one other person I think: ah, something potentially very relevant and interesting. If you've sent it to me and one hundred other people I think: ah, a long "joke" about how men and women are side-splittingly different. And into the trash it goes.So it's been something of a trial to me this week to discover a link that I really do want to send to at least half the people I know: the wonderfully simple, sublimely intelligent little online gameOiligarchy, which I discovered viaMetafilter. It combines so many fascinating elements: it's part strategy game, part political statement, part chilling near-future narrative. It's charmingly designed, and yet so slyly educational that I've been thinking a little differently about the world ever since I played it.The game begins with a familiar-seeming business strategy scenario. It's 1945. You the player are CEO of a large oil company in the US. Your job is to make money, keep the shareholders happy. So you start to drill. First in Texas, that's pretty easy, no one's trying to stop you and the black gold starts flowing. But soon the Texas wells aren't enough to meet consumer demand. So you need to look further afield. But where? If you drill in Nigeria, you might find protesters blowing up your rigs. So you'll probably have to employ local militia to defend them. If you try Alaska, you'll have those pesky environmentalists on your back. And of course Iraq is unstable: to drill there you'll really need the support of US soldiers. But to get that you'd have to have a president sympathetic to your cause. Time to start funding political parties, then.Oiligarchy makes no claims to be an impartial guide to the oil industry. As the designers say in theirfascinating postmortem document, "Software does not constitute … documentary footage or a journalistic report." Instead, their manifesto is to "free videogames from the 'dictatorship of entertainment', using them instead to describe pressing social needs, and to express our feelings or ideas". As the game goes on, past 2008, the future it imagines is increasingly unsettling."Human-derived fuel is the ultimate solution to overpopulation and oil depletion" reads a headline in the game's Petroleum Times newspaper. Soon human-to-oil power plants are available for deployment, but only off US soil, naturally. And when the continuing depletion of oil reserves means that demand vastly outstrips supply, the Petroleum Times reports, "Deer hunting is spreading all over the country. Corn fields are patrolled by the army." What began as an amusing strategy game has become a prediction of the fall of society as we know it. I can't say I found it totally convincing, but it did send me off to look at their sources and to learn more about the arguments for myself.Of course, not everyone will agree with Oiligarchy's politics and with the assumptions it makes about the world. But that's not the point. The point is that there's no more powerful way to understand the world than by stepping into someone else's shoes. And games are an incredibly effective way to do that.For millennia, human beings have been finding new ways to look at the world through each others' eyes: from projecting ourselves onto the characters in novels or movies, to dressing up in costume, to devouring the details of some celebrity's life in Hello or OK. Chess is, among other things, a way to put oneself in the position of a general: mustering forces, trying to foresee the enemy's movements. And as the world gets more highly populated and more complex by the day, tools for understanding others are increasingly important. I hope there'll be more games like Oiligarchy along: I'll be emailing them to all my friends.
There's been a lot of attention here in the US on who'll be manning the Cabinet seats when President-Elect Obama takes oath next January. Many expect members of the transition team to take some strategic positions in his administration. So it is with a sense of over-ripe pride that I deliver the news that the potential new members of the new world order come from a good solid background of substantial online multiplayer gaming.GigaOMreported that one of Obama's transition co-chairs is a World of Warcraft player. And not just any WoW-er, he's part of the eliteTerror Nova pack, and a Level 70 shaman to boot. Kevin Werbach, known to his guildmates as Supernovan Jenkins, is tasked, with fellow Net Neutrality advocate Susan Crawford, with " providing information on U.S. government Internet and telecom policies, along with advising on budgetary and personnel matters."Expect forthcoming strategic policy papers on regulation, broadband usage and the use of virtual worlds for things other than gaming.Good news as well for fellow Terror Novans. After all, virtual worlds aretheplaces for networking.They are the new golf.Apart from acting as a significant indication that the gamer generation has come of age and is in strong positions to promote, represent and defend issues relevant to those of us who grew up with fingers on controllers,waltermonkeyproposes that Werbach's WoW background may inform us about "him, as a person, as a gamer, as a government official".Read upon what it means that Warbach chose Horde over Alliance, that he is a non-partisan Shaman, that he has some nifty gear in his inventory and that he's in tune with the cultural and social outputs of this online gaming phenomenon.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Who is Victor Vezina? That's the question bloggers have been asking since this Second Life avatar - a 3D representation of a real person - became embroiled in a legal dispute that could prove a test case for how much jurisdiction courts have over virtual worlds.Richard Minsky, an artist and publisher who also operates in Second Life, is suing Vezina, along with two directors of Linden Lab, owner of the virtual world, over use of the word "SLART". Minsky obtained a US trademark in March 2008; Vezina had launched anart gallerycalled "SLart" in Second Life early in 2007. Curiously the case may turn on something as simple as a space between the letters SL and art: literally much ado about nothing.This is not how Minsky sees it. In a 25-page complaint to the US District Court of New York he says that on March 16 2008 his attorney, an avatar called Juris Amat, sent Vezina a "cease and desist" order that he failed to respond to. He also wrote to Linden Lab asking it to notify Vezina "to cease and desist from an unauthorized use of my SLART trademark in Second Life".Meanwhile, as the hunt for Vezina goes on, I can now reveal his true identity. It's me. I joined Second Life in 2006. When I expressed interest in building an art gallery, a Second Life neighbour actually living in Australia did it for me. As a logo I just put SL in capitals followed by art. I may have thought of "SLart" around the same time as Minsky. But that doesn't matter in US trademark law: who gets there first wins.Now the offending sign has been taken down - not by me, but by Linden Lab, without my knowledge. When I complained I was told that "SL" was Linden's trademark and I was allowed to use it only when followed by a space and two generic nouns, such as "SL Art Garden". Thanks.Clearly, I was a pawn caught in the crossfire between Linden, which claims the right to the letters SL unless followed by a space, and Minsky, who has registered SLART as a trademark and isn't budging. This raises key questions, not least does the writ of the US courts rule in virtual worlds? Meanwhile, a dispute raging about the distance between two letters of the alphabet enables me to say: watch this space.
Soaking an onion in an energy drink to charge your iPod? It is either so bonkers it must be true or it's a YouTube hoax. First a video circulated on the internet (tinyurl.com/yqolvz) claimed to show a discovery that could revolutionise holiday packing (Darling? I can't find the damn onion!). Now it has been reported that a supermarket shelf-stacker from Portsmouth is successfully charging his MP3 player for up to an hour in this way.Following the video's instructions, I bought a large onion, skewered it with holes and soaked it in Powerade. I vaguely remember those school science experiments where you stuck a zinc nail and a copper coin in a lemon and generated a modest electric current. This time, however, the smell of onion blended with berry and tropical fruit flavoured isotonic sports drink was enough to make me retch. And the iPod resolutely refused to shudder with energy."The science behind the idea isn't bad - you can generate an electric current from vegetables - but the video is a hoax," says Jon Edwards of the Royal Society of Chemistry. He explains that it can't work because you need two electrodes - the zinc nail and copper coin in the lemon experiment - to provide a reaction and a reason for an electric current to flow.Scientists from Cambridge University have undertaken a proper version of this experiment using zinc and copper nails and a fruitbowl's-worth of apples and oranges (tinyurl.com/5nydqn). But even after cutting down the iPod's USB cable and building a cumbersome-looking cell they failed to generate enough of a charge. With a van-load of fruit and nails, they probably could but, as Charles Tracy from the Institute of Physics points out, recharging your iPod with a solar cell would be a far greener option.
We've all known for years that the US military uses videogames both to recruit and to teach soldiers. But here's an interesting new development -according to Stars and Stripes magazine, a special videogame unit has been set up to procure and modify commercial games for training use. From the article:The Army gaming unit will watch trends in the industry and identify technology that can be used for military training.The need for video games as training aids was judged so great that the Army wanted to get products out to units before the funding came online.In addition to the $50 million, the Army gaming unit has an undisclosed additional budget to purchase a state-of-the-art commercial video game system that will be fielded for training in February.If, for any reason, conscription is re-introduced, it'll definitely the Army gaming unit that I'll ask to be assigned to.Anyway, at the moment, the army is using a rather decrepit shooter namedDarwars Ambushas its main teaching tool. Apparently it teaches players how to react to ambushes and roadside bomb attacks on convoys, but there are no editing tools and only a handful of soldiers can play at once.There's a new game on the way though - no, it's not Gears of War 2 (I'm pretty sure American soldiers don't employ underslung chainsaws on their rifles in Iraq). It's currently called Game After Ambush (eh?) and will be properly unveiled soon. It seems game developers have been invited to tender for the military contract - with $50m or more up for grabs, it's probably an attractive proposition.Also from the Stars and Stripes piece:The new game will also be able to interact with the Army's battle command systems that soldiers use in the real world to track equipment, enemy and friendly forces using computerized maps.Erm, did we learnnothingfrom War Games?(ViaCNET)
You may have seen the report from US researchers thatargued only 4%of games that made a profit. Apparently this was a misquote and the figure is closer to a still-worryingly-low20%.  Confused? You will be. So what do we learn from theForbes article?Top level in the US the average Xbox game sells 216,000 compared to 192,256 (!) on the PS3.   Pretty close really, and likely to get closer in 2009. But the most interesting figures are related to new features and how they add to the sales total.  Apparently the addition of a cooperative mode boosts sales by 12,400 copies, while a competitive mode bumps sales by nearly 25,000. You can argue over this - Call of Duty World at War is just one example of competitive multiplayer mode being a HUGE driver for sales, certainly way more than 25k – but it's the specifics that worry me. For me co-op is key to most of the interesting things happening in gaming. But if it supposedly only adds 12400 sales - or thereabouts -  then you can see why some publishers may not to bother. Anyone else worried about this? It could just be me.
Buried in last week'sexcitable announcement about the alpha release of Spaceship!, the gamesblog's own-developed text adventure game, was a competition for copies ofMirror's Edge, the stylish Xbox 360 and PS3 parkour game. I expect many didn't see it, 'cause we've only received a few entries (thanks to those who've sent theirs in). And it's such a simple way to win a game!Here are the details:We're offering a copy ofMirror's Edgeto the person who submitsthe best Cover Artworkfor our spaceship-themed game.All entries should be in .jpg format, using non-copyrighted imagery (if mashing up) or original work, and should be submitted to gamesblog at gmail.com or to the gamesblog's Flickr stream.The deadline is extended toFriday 28 November. All entries will be included in the judging panel, on the Spaceship! website and contributors will have their names in the credits.
SCO has once more lost in its increasingly desperate attempts to make the world believe that honestly, really, it does own Unix or something like it, and those Linux people have nicked its code.Groklaw, which has been following the legalese so our heads don't have to hurt,says that there is now a "final" decision, in which SCO's claims have been dismissed.However "final" mostly means "unless you want to appeal". Except that SCO is running so short of money, having had multiple findings against it, that it looks increasingly likely that it will simply fizzle out as a company before it can find the money to carry through its increasingly empty threats to take the case back on appeal.We last wrote about SCO in August 2007 - "Ruling a blow to SCO as it faces an increasingly bleak future", and before that in February 2007, where welikened it to the unending legal case Jarndyce v Jarndyce in Dickens's Bleak House.But SCO is nothing if not determined. Well, it doesn't have much else to do. It's nowlisted on the "pink sheets"(worth less than a dollar) and despite - somehow - having revenues of $17m, has assets of $14m, cash only of $2m, losses of $4m in the third quarter (its year ended October 31) and substantial negative cash flow. Basically, this is a company that's dead but hasn't realised it yet.But Groklaw points out that SCO has held back from formal bankruptcy because it wants to know whether Novell (which has won substantial damages judgements) is going to sue it for what is owed, or go back to the appeals courts and ask for more. Otherwise, says Groklaw,whoever buys up the litigation or backs it could restart SCOsource. I think that's what all the delay in bankruptcy has been about, actually. SCO isn't so keen on showing its hand, I'd imagine.Basically, someone might buy the right to sue Novell all over again. Truly, this is zombie litigation at its very finest. Dickens would be proud.
Google'sLivelyapplication - its fiercely-observed virtual world platform - will be shut down at the end of the year, reports Daniel Terdiman atCNET. The company has chosen to close Lively's doors in order to "prioritize our resources and focus more on our core search, ads and apps business".When it was released under 5 months ago, Lively was expected to take on the mainstream might of social virtual worldSecond Life. The web-based system was developed to be accessible across a variety of internet services including blogs, websites and Facebook profiles, standardising the experience across computers and removing the need for individuals to download chunky software. Many in the virtual worlds arena believe the web-based approach will usher in the next revolution in this space, yet even Google's might and market saturation were not enough to convince people to come.The virtual worlds market still seems to be booming. Many technologists, boosted by the successes of Second Life and Club Penguin, expect that if they build one, the people will come. Lively's demise is likely evidence that the market is saturated. It could also indicate that consumers have moved on. Or perhaps it says that this application wasn't well-designed for the current market. Greg Lastowka on virtual worlds blog Terra Nova has written a nicepost mortemon the project:...the real problem here, I think, was that Google's core business is contextual advertising based on datamining.  To maximize eyeballs, Google wants to control and monetize big data fields that it does not own (like the Web, all books, your home video collection, your mail, the Earth).  It's pretty darn good at that.Lively, [on the other hand], lets Google make and completely own something little that it can't monetize.  See a mismatch?  You can't monetize and datamine the eyeballs if you can't attract the eyeballs--and you need to build (or let people build) to attract the eyeballs.RIP Lively. Check out some of the projects that came out of its short lifehere.
"What goes around comes around" is an American saying, and a Justin Timberlake song. It also describes the workings ofFreecycle, an organisation that uses Yahoo Groups to recycle items that would otherwise end up as landfill. It's not really a charity, though it can work that way. It is, rather, an example of a gift economy. Its tagline is: "Changing the world one gift at a time."Most of us have accumulated items we no longer need, and eBay is a good way to recycle them, for those willing to make the effort. The rest of us could give them away, if we knew someone who wanted them. Freecycle solves that problem. Post a message describing an item, and there's a good chance someone will offer to collect it.While you are giving things away, you will doubtless browse the items on offer. See something you need? Go for it.Often you will get several people offering to take something off your hands, so you can choose whoever seems most deserving. You may prefer to give things to people who are also giving things away. Swapping isn't allowed, but you can end up with things you want while disposing of things you don't.Freecycle works best in small areas, since this makes it simpler and cheaper to collect goods. You cancheck for a local groupon the Freecycle website. It coversalmost 6 million members in more than 85 countries. If there isn't a group nearby, you can start one.Freecycle was started by Deron Beal in Tucson, Arizona, in 2003, following on from a project to reduce waste. It's a non-profit organisation, with the work being done by local volunteers. However, it seems some participants have been upset by Freecycle accepting sponsorship, by legal injunctions to protect the Freecycle Network (TFN) trademark, and what they see as unnecessary secrecy.A few have defected. In July, for example, Jeri Zerr posted anOpen Letter to Deron Bealand said: "I have decided to opt the St Louis Metropolitan group out of TFN and over to the ReUseIt Network."ReUseItappears to have identical aims to Freecycle — the idea has been widely copied — and also works via Yahoo Groups. It's worth checking to see if there's a similar group in your area. However, you may find that Freecycle has much better coverage. For example, I live in Greater London, which has about 40 Freecycle groups (Islington has four), whereasReUseIt has one. The imbalance in messages is even greater in Freecycle's favour.Freecycle groups need some control because it doesn't want people giving away pornography, drugs (including tobacco and alcohol), medicines, weapons etc — things that might be dangerous. Also, "posting oneself or another person from the human species is not allowed".Freecycle groups also need the local organisers to stamp out abuse, spam and other undesirable actions. And if a group is run well, local users need neither know nor care where the idea came from.
LiveSide, an independent site that tracks all things Microsoft Live, says:Microsoft takes control of Kumo.com domain – watch out for the Live Search rebrand. It's not sure whether Microsoft will run with Live Search or something else, but it has noticed that Kumo now points to Live Search. LiveSide says:While Microsoft employees have admitted publicly that there are branding issues around Live Search, we're not quite ready to stick our heads above the parapet and say that Kumo will be the new brand name to be announced in a 2009 update.Apparently, Kumo means "cloud" or "spider" in Japanese.The naming and branding issues are being discussed onTechCrunch.Live was brought in to provide a unifying brand for a group of services including Hotmail, Messenger and Spaces, in preference to using the old MSN (Microsoft Network) branding umbrella. Live Search is at least consistent, whereas Kumo doesn't fit with anything. It's hard to see the logic in that.Of course, there's no reason why Microsoft shouldn't launch Kumo as well, using the same back end. Perhaps it could win market share in parts of Asia and South America, for example, where Google is less entrenched.The question is whether Google's dominance is now so great that it's impervious to competition. In sum, if you build a better search engine, people still won't use it, no matter what you call it. And that's assuming Microsoft can build a better search engine, which it has so far failed to do.
Anyone else rather enjoying Tomb Raider Underworld?
The video-sharing website YouTube paused momentarily on its march towards global domination this weekend to celebrate those whose lives have been transformed by access to a computer and an unquenchable need to speak to the world.People like William Sledd, a former shop assistant at Gap who has been catapulted to celebrity by the success of a few homemade videos in which he discusses the social mores and fashion mistakes of modern society. "This stuff is lot easier to do when you are at home on your own," he observed, moving uneasily through the audience of 3,000 as he introduced a fashion segment at YouTube Live. He was as stilted in the flesh as he is uninhibited in the films that are among the site's most watched.Sledd was one of the YouTube "stars" gathered in San Francisco at the weekend for what the company described as a "celebration of ... the vibrant communities that exist on the site, including bedroom vloggers, budding creatives, underground athletes and world-famous musicians". Katy Perry, whose worldwide hit "I Kissed a Girl" first found an audience on YouTube, was there. So was Beardyman, the Brighton-based human beatbox, and Lucas Cruikshank, the 15-year-old creator of Fred, a hyperactive child whose adventures have made him the website's most popular character.Joining such luminaries were the great and good of YouTube: Chad Hurley, one of site's originators, and Larry Page and Sergey Brin, founders of Google, which bought the company two years ago for more than $1.5bn (&pound;1bn).At this moment in its arc of internet domination, there are plenty of people who dislike Google, and by extension YouTube, and any such antipathy would have been fuelled on this occasion such as this. It was too corporate and too slick, an Emmys for the Emo generation. What works in the intimate context of a video - the sly campness of Sledd, the energy of Fred, and the over-the-top guitar virtuosity of Funtwo, a Korean guitarist - seemed diminished in the gathering at Herbst Pavilion.Yet if the cynics were unimpressed, the converted were ecstatic. The agnostics, too, could hardly fail to notice that if YouTube Live was a bloodless affair, it did not diminish what remains a powerful idea. Yet four years after YouTube was founded, it is still short of making money for its owners.It has, however, led to hundreds of rags-to-riches stories. Sledd was selling jeans in Kentucky before he was catapulted into mainstream US culture.Juan Mann was another of the website's stars who made the journey to San Francisco for YouTube Live. In 2004, Mann - not his real name - was, by his own account, aimless and friendless when he walked into Sydney's Pitt Street shopping centre carrying a sign which announced he was offering free hugs to all-comers. Two years later a film of his hugging escapades was uploaded onto the internet and quickly became a global phenomenon."One week I was washing dishes in Sydney, the next week I was the Oprah Winfrey Show," he said, offering the Guardian a hug. "I have friends, I have a fiancee, I have a purpose. And I have never washed dishes since. Unless they were my own, of course."
XBOX WOES&gt;&gt; So to nutshell the entire story.Microsoft pushed to get into the market before the PS3, they rushed and made huge mistakes, the first 360's had a terrible reliability record, this has now been modified but the failure rate is still higher than the PS3.lazygamer.co.zaPASSWORDSOne of the best ways to create secure passwords is to simply use a sentence. 'longpasswordsarestrong' is 22 characters, which is essentially impossible to crack. While some advanced software might combine two, even three words, it very quickly becomes infeasible to do more. Passwords created in this way are extremely secure, and very easy to remember. Instead of passwords, perhaps 'passphrases' should be used instead.Robin Bailey, WheatleyI can't help but feel that Bruce Schneier has somewhat missed the point when trying to prove passwords are not broken (Read me first, November 13). OK, so yes a common problem with passwords is the fact that people either make them too easy, too difficult and therefore need to write them down or disclose them to friends and loved ones. As Bruce rightly pointed out, to avoid falling victim to a password guesser users need to make their passwords more complex but with us requiring multiple PINs and passwords to access just one bank account this could get messy.However, this does not solve the threat of other technology that he failed to acknowledge. Fixed passwords are vulnerable to far simpler attacks than that mentioned such as key logging. I could opt for something similar to Bruce's suggestion of "tlpWENT2m" (This little piggy went to market) but typing this into a computer just once may leave you vulnerable to attack.So although a clever little password may fool a password guesser it will fail dismally against a keylogger. One Time Password systems which give the user a set of easy to follow graphical cues, and which generate 'clean' (i.e. illogical) one time codes, offer the greatest potential for the perfect mix of security and usability – without the latter, any system will inevitably be undermined by the 'human factor'.Jonathan (Craymer), Chairman, GrIDsure Limited, Huntingdon&gt;&gt; With the ease at which Twitterank coaxed visitors into typing in their username and password, it seems the days of the password as a single source of authentication are numbered.  We need to be considering more secure alternatives that involve "levels of authentication".  Usablity is the key to widespread acceptance, any product in this space must be easy to use; its interface must be fundamental such that selection of a secure-level authentication token requires little more effort than offering a basic-level token.craigmurphy.comDIGITAL CHAMPIONSHIPSCory Doctorow.Sean Kenney, by emailget someone who knows and loves computers - like that guy Dr.K who writes so eloquently about hacking in "Hacker´s Handbook v3.0""PAULANDVIV"Moira Stuart. A person widely recognised, with a track record of seriousness, and good humour.Tony Barrett, CatertonAde Adepitan is well known and well liked by a variety of people.  As is his fellow presenter Clare Balding.  They'd both be a good choice in my opinion.Pat Williams, by emailIt's blindingly obvious - Stephen Fry.Sandra Semple, SeatonHas anyone ever told you how irritating it is when journalists show a photograph of someone that has absolutely nothing to do with the article together with a reference to that person having nothing to do with the article?At the foot of page 3 in today's Technology supplement the article is illustrated with a picture of the moron Russell Brand and mentions that he has nothing to do with the article. It would be equally inane and typical of journalists to show a colour photograph of Princess Diana with the opening line, "Had she been alive she wouldn't have applied for the job...."I didn't bother to read the article because I was too busy being irritated by this journalistic technique, which presumably is to help draw our attention to it. You should credit your readers with the intelligence not to need eye or word candy to entice them to read your articles.Michael Swerdlow, Liverpool&gt;&gt; HAS to be Stephen Fry surely?futuregovconsultancy.comSPAM OR FINANCE?We have Plusnet as an ISP and also have an Icesave account, and have not received the first FSA message regarding the compensation arrangement.Fortunately for us, we removed the bulk of our monies from Icesave last April after reading an article in the Observer regarding the Icelandic financial situation.  If we saw the danger, how come so many professional money people got caught out?Tim Heasman, by emailLIVESCRIBEI noticed an article on the Livescribe Pulse. We are an approved seller of this product in the UK:livescribepulse.com. The system behind the Livescribe product is similar to our own G303 pen (http://www.magicomm.co.uk/solutions/g303.aspx) and based on Anoto technology (www.anoto.com).Andrew Haynes, Magicomm, Solihull&gt;&gt; I have found the perfect interface of technolust and stationery - I bring you the Lightscribe Pulse! Is that the coolest widget ever invented or what?leftiehippie.livejournal.comTHE BLURB ABOUT BOOKS&gt;&gt; Traditional publishing houses, beset by financial woes as the country descends into the first recession of the new millennium, will now have to start seriously considering the potential in publishing on-demand, a business model which helps cut costs, reduce book waste, and also allows publishers to keep old titles in print and have more money to invest in new writers (there would only be marketing/artist development costs involved).pviktor.co.uk&gt;&gt; Publishing houses should work to address paper wastage, as at the moment US print runs are commonly 40% too long. The rise of print-on-demand may have an impact on this, and some publishing houses are already beginning to introduce shorter print runs, which not only reduces waste, but saves on storage costs.hqinfo.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; I will still buy books. The problem with this, though, is the whole quality issue. How do you sort the wheat from the crap?agamisu.livejournal.comLISTEN HEAR&gt;&gt; If you're hearing impaired,  you're now expected to listen harder.bitterwallet.comE-VOTINGAlthough [Michael Cross] doesn't mention it, the further work [on e-voting] will, civil servants tell me, particularly focus on audit trails for e-voting and e-counting systems. Given the likely persistence of ecounting in both Scotland and London, both of which have had ecounting systems with noticeably poor audit trails, that is at least progress of a sort.libdemvoice.orgPARALLEL WORLDSReal people have real problems.How much time and effort is expended on virtual worlds?What kind of journalistic enterprise would print this promotion of activity that has no actual value?Haven't we just learned a big lesson on the danger of virtual things? CDOs, CDS, etc?Aren't you people paying attention?And why, with an article so oriented toward the future, can't I post an on-line comment condemning it?You ought to be ashamed.Not expecting a response.... That would be too real.Eric Viscito, Purdue UniversityPENSIONED OFFHaving just retired, I needed to claim my state pension and went to direct.gov.uk to do so.  I was linked to the Pensions Service site (which is called Siebel) and readily found the right form. I started filling the form in but could not progress from page to page.  I switched from safari to firefox and had the same experience.The pension service has no email address so I complained to the direct.gov.uk help desk who have been charming and thorough, explaining that the Siebel software handling pension forms cannot handle carriage return characters sent by Mac or Unix machines - only ones sent by Windows machines. They were not at all apologetic.No other web site I have ever used exhibits this particular glitch and I'm told this Pensions one has been known since 2006. Why can't they get it right - or at least add a note to Mac and Unix users to avoid pressing return?Michael Edwards8 Eade Road London N4TIMED OUTIn many areas of the country and certainly here in Mid-Sussex, the local authority provide free off street parking area for shoppers, the condition of access to them being that the driver displays in his windscreen the prescribed cardboard clock face device on which he indicates his time of arrival. Any failure to display the indicator with a time not inclusive of the arrival/parking time limit leaves the driver open to a fixed penalty ticket being issued by patrolling wardens.  Being of somewhat advanced years, with the slight memory problems it brings, I quite often forget to display the correct time when parking, sometimes prompted at the last minute by observing another driver doing so, or, very occasionally only finding my error on my return. It is only a matter of time before I run foul of the wardens and get caught. It struck me that this arrival time requirement could be satisfied by a digital time clock being displayed, but one that when switching off the ignition, a connection to the engine management system would cause the time display to "freeze" until the next time the engine was started. One could not then forget to indicate arrival time. Hopefully it could be so programmed that the time chip would continue to run in the back ground whilst the digital read out remained frozen at the stop time.  My enquiry is twofold. 1. To your knowlege does such a device exist on the market. 2. Would any electronic wizard likely be interested in developing one, it's certainly way out of my expertise.  I did enquire with my local authority Parking Manager and it would seem that the actual layout of the required arrival time indicator is not very tightly prescribed. The ones I have seen seem to be about 8-10 cm. square, with a suitable legend for it's use printed around an analogue clock face indicator.Terry Wass, Hassocks
I'm sure you enjoyed reading all those stories about Katie's Kool Kattery etc setting up a virtual business in Second Life. Now you might be in for another round of stories about Katie's Kool Kattery quitting on Second Life. Reuters has just quit, and its reporter has penned anExclusive: Why Reuters Left Second Life, And How Linden Lab Can Fix Itat Silicon Alley Insider:So what happened? Is Second Life dying? No, but the buzz is gone.Eric Krangel says his "beat" was "about as fun as watching paint dry." Which sounds like yet another example of hype finally being overtaken by some semblance of reality….This seems to be a response to a story inThe Register, which reports that:a trawl of the Reuters site reveals Adam [Reuters] last reported on Second Life in April this year, and hasn't worked under the Adam Reuters nom-de-plume since July last year. He was replaced as embed by his brother Eric Reuters, whose real name is unknown. We'll spare him embarrassment by not bothering to find out.At SAI, Eric Krangel also tells Linden Lab to "Abandon the idea that Second Life is a business app." He says:I wasn't in Second Life to play, I was there on assignment for Reuters. The login server would crash. I'd try to reach sources, but Second Life's IM window would hang on "waiting" all day when trying to figure out who was online. "Teleports" -- the ability to move from point to point anywhere in Second Life -- would stop working and I'd get locked out of my own office. These weren't one-offs, they were my daily, first-hand, happens-all-the-time experiences. For all its bugs, Second Life is tolerable as a playground, but enterprise users will never and should never use it for business. Re-focus on the core mission: Keeping the hobbyists happy and converting potential recruits into hardcore (read: fees-paying) users.Of course, Second Life will still be in the news, for at least as long as there are stories likeVirtual affair yields real divorce for UK coupleand the BBC can provide useful public service articles along the lines ofHow do avatars have sex?I have never tried Second Life, having decided it wasa prioria waste of time based on experiencingWorld's Awayin a previous century. (It was on CompuServe. That dates me.) Maybe IBM plans to sell $60 billion dollars worth of Linux servers on Second Life, or whatever, but I suspect all that had more to do with looking kewl.Now Second Life clearly is not cool, will IBM and any other business users start packing up their pixels ready to depart? If so, how will they explain, in El Reg's words, "why they spent tens of thousands of dollars on the digital equivalent of a wife-swapping party on an oil rig"?
It's not often I read anything in The National Law Journal, but this appears to be the source of a few stories floating around the blogosphere. The story is headedIs booting up a computer work, or a work break?, and says:During the past year, several companies, including AT&amp;T Inc, UnitedHealth Group Inc and Cigna Corp, have been hit with lawsuits in which employees claimed that they were not paid for the 15- to 30-minute task of booting their computers at the start of each day and logging out at the end.Add those minutes up over a week, and hourly employees are losing some serious pay, argues plaintiffs' lawyer Mark Thierman, a Las Vegas solo practitioner who has filed a handful of computer-booting lawsuits in recent years.I can certainly understand why people are upset if they're expected to arrive at 8.30am to boot their PCs and applications so they can start work at 9.00am.But, oddly enough, something about employment law has been used for Windows Vista-bashing, even though the article doesn't mention Vista, and probably has nothing to do with it. Indeed, people who have some recent experience of Vista -- which probably excludes most of its detractors -- know that when set up correctly, it can start up faster than Windows XP. (Vista will boot in 45-90 seconds, but you can get it close to 30 seconds by excluding stuff.)There is a technical story here, of course, but I suspect it has more to do with IT department incompetence.If you want to see any OS boot in 15 minutes or longer, what you do is boot it from a server, instead of a local hard drive. Then you throw in control software (to make sure you can monitor and control your workers) and a bloated selection of badly written custom applications. Finally, you make sure the server and network is working flat out in normal use, which means is it utterly incapable of handling 500 workers all trying to boot remote PCs at exactly the same time.This "boot storm" creates network problems regardless of operating system. It will create delays even if you're trying to boot a "thin client" system.If you're very lucky, your IT department will actually have tested its set-up with two or three of their new quadcore machines with fast graphics -- just to prove it works -- before rolling it out to 500 workers with slow Pentium III systems booting XP in 128MB of memory. Or less.Still, one should never let ignorance stand in the way of a bit of Vista-bashing, eh?
Google's YouTube did its firstlive webcastyesterday, when it put on an event in San Francisco. The "acts" were aimed at YouTube meme followers. As the blurb onYouTube's blogput it, you could "get all excited over Will.i.am's appearance; marvel at Chad Vader's original killer conceit; or deconstruct the intrinsic appeal of Will It Blend?" And so on. "We're going all-out to celebrate the best that YouTube's user community has to offer."NewTeeVee covered the event inNTV is Live from YouTube Live:OK, the show is on. Katy Perry just performed "Hot and Cold," now Beardyman is on beat-boxing. You don't need us for the live-blog of the mainstage, way better to watch the live-stream (no embed, sorry). But some notes on the scene: People are definitely hyped, and the place is packed (though it's a pretty small venue… YouTube PR said they're expecting 2-3,000 attendees). Lots of colorful characters — plenty of skateboarders, but no kittens or puppies so far. Biggest applause since the show started (by far) was for Tay Zonday. Chris and I are across the catwalk from Chad Hurley and Larry Page, who seem psyched.According toTechCrunch, YouTube did 700,000 streams via Akamai, which could have cost about $25,000, according to a comment from Charbax: not that much for a bunch of multibillionaires with private jets. But there's nothing new about it, and it's very small beer compared with, for example, MSN streaming the Live Earth concert, which reached more than 10 million users.However, YouTube's Tokyo Live didn't do as well, to put it mildly. InYouTube Live Tokyo Fails, Mike Abundo writes:Whereas YouTube Live in San Francisco attracted 700,000 concurrent live viewers, YouTube Live Tokyo attracts none — because it's not even live. The show was supposed to start at 3pm Japan Standard Time. It is now 7:56pm in Japan, and there's nary a live stream in sight.Instead of streaming video, "all we're getting now are periodic uploads of clips, with artists performing on a cute-but-cramped YouTube-themed stage."However, at least Tokyo had something worth watching:20 minutes of Korean pop princess 보아orBoA Kwon(a local version of the old Britney Spears, before her mental meltdown). In the video she performs her first US single, Eat You Up, which isavailable for download.
Star Trek trailerstartrekmovie.comThe Trekkie image will boldly undergo a dramatic rebranding if this sexed-up trailer for next May's film is anything to go by. The film stars Zachary Quinto (aka Sylar from Heroes) as Spock.Superobamaworldsuperobamaworld.comThe President-elect stars in this remake of the classic platform game. Mario the plumber is nowhere to be seen.Life photo archiveimages.google.com/hosted/lifeLife magazine's photo library, containing images taken throughout the 20th century, available online for the first time.TracksMadonnaMiles Awayitunes.co.uk, 79pFans of the Guy/Madge saga will find plenty to pick over on the latest single from Hard Candy; musings on love and loss set to pin-sharp avant-pop.k-the-i???Finger Painting (Thavius Beck remix)itunes.co.uk,79pCalifornian MC Kiki Ceac vents his considerable spleen over pounding rave synths.Condo FucksWhat'cha Gonna Do About It?tinyurl.com/68vunr, free downloadMystery band Condo Fucks provide the main talking point of record label Matador's recent sampler. Sleuths believe alt-rock trio Yo La Tengo are behind this garagey squall.Franz FerdinandUlyssesmyspace.com/franzferdinand, free streamAn unlikely pairing of Greek mythology and lascivious funk on the Glasgow quartet's comeback single.VideosGlasvegasPlease Come Back Hometinyurl.com/6rsvjs, free video streamTheir festive album is recommended for all those who enjoy a little existential despair with their turkey. The video bears a strong resemblance to Christmas chez David Lynch.
Carrying large amounts of cash in public is generally thought a bad idea, but when the value is wrapped in a shiny box, different rules apply. The average person steps out with gadgets worth a total of &pound;247 in their pockets, a survey has found. Five hundred shoppers on Oxford Street were asked what electronics they had on their person, with results suggesting that love of high-tech mobile phones, iPods, BlackBerrys and other portable devices is stronger than the fear of muggers or pickpockets.The findings show how consumer technology has gone mainstream, says Crispin Thomas, co-founder of InsureGadgets.com, which commissioned the poll. 'Five years ago, this average figure of &pound;247 worth of gadgets per person would have seemed astronomical.'
FORD KUGA&pound;18,805CO2 PER KM: 169 GRAMSMILES PER GALLON: 44.1GOOD FOR: TOP DOGSBAD FOR: LAP DOGSThis is a car that has all the things we like about 4x4s (the sure handling, the high driving position, the 'sneer of cold command' as Shelley might have put it) and very few of the things we don't like about 4x4s (the road-hogging size, the oil-well thirst, the tail-pipe smog). So, well done Ford, the Kuga is, as they keep telling us in the adverts, 'different'. But there is no escaping the question of why Ford would roll out a 4x4 just as the polar caps are being reduced to tinkling ice cubes and demand for off-roaders has hit an all-time low.The answer is twofold. One: from drawingboard to forecourt is quite a journey and Ford would have started planning the Kuga five or more years ago when we were all in a very different place, environmentally speaking. Two:  there are still enough people prepared to ignore the road prejudice and continue buying hopelessly over-qualified vehicles. No matter what you think, you can't go on safari in Surbiton.Still, credit to the Kuga. Ford has made a decent attempt to redress some of the iniquities of 4x4 motoring with its first off-roader in two decades. It has the lowest CO2 emissions of any car in its class - a sweet-smelling 169g/km. (Though it's worth spelling out exactly what that figure means - for every kilometre you drive, the Kuga will release 169g of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.) The car is also a manageable size. It is based on the same platform as Ford's Focus - the best-selling car in Europe for the past eight years. So you can banish unsightly parking-space bulge from your life. When fitted with the all-purpose 2-litre turbo diesel it delivers a frugal 44.1 miles to the gallon, but there is also the option of a 197bhp 2.5-litre petrol five-cylinder. This is faster, but it's also thirstier and dirtier, and in a stroke reduces the Ford Kuga to just another smelly 4x4. So don't be tempted!The area in which it most impresses, appropriately enough for these superficial times, is in the looks department. The Kuga comes with sculpted alloys, a sleek, curvaceous body that would put a smile on Frank Gehry's face, and enough chrome to satisfy a kleptomaniac jackdaw. The sides are heavily creased and the bonnet is 'blistered' - which doesn't mean the paint is falling off, but that there are two long ridges running front to back. These, along with the side air vents below the headlights and the pronounced bash plate below the grille, give the car an athletic, muscular presence. There are plenty of practical pluses, too. The split tailgate makes loading a doddle and should be mandatory; there's a simple start button which saves you rummaging around looking for your keys; and Ford's Easy Fuel system means it is impossible, no matter how hard you may try, to put the wrong fuel in the tank. And the fabric inlays on the windowsills offer true elbow comfort.So far, so different. The one thing Ford didn't attempt to be different about was the name. Six people asked me in the course of a week if the Kuga was the new Cougar - a rather dull, Mondeo-based saloon from the Nineties. The answer's no. And yes Cougar, however you spell it, is a good name for a good car, but surely this one deserves its own moniker. How about the Ford Ozymandias?...#9733;martin.love@observer.co.uk
A police investigation is under way in Florida after a teenager appeared to kill himself live on the internet after being goaded by other web surfers.The 19-year-old, from the city of Pembroke Pines, was found dead by police on Tuesday night after apparently taking an overdose. The alarm was raised by internet viewers who watched events develop online through messageboards and on the teenager's page on Justin.tv, a website that allows surfers to transmit their own TV channel.He gave a clear indication of what he intended to do by posting a message on a bodybuilding website he frequented. Although some of the responses were sympathetic, other users told the teenager to "do it". He then proceeded to broadcast events online over the course of several hours.As many as 185 people watched as he collapsed on camera and fell unconscious. Only after he failed to get up did anybody take any physical action, with several viewers alerting local police after being unable to contact him by phone.The live video stream continued to run until police and emergency services arrived at the house, with footage showing them breaking down the door and inspecting the scene before filming stopped.An investigator with the Broward County medical examiner's office, which is dealing with the case, confirmed that some web users had encouraged the teenager to harm himself, while others had tried to talk him out of ending his life. The messageboard where he left the original note has now been deleted, but not before other viewers had noted some of the harsher reponses."You want to kill yourself?" said one internet user reacting to the teenager's message. "Do it, do the world a favour and stop wasting our time with your mindless self-pity."The death has caused upset in Pembroke Pines, which lies on the fringe of the Everglades and has a population of 150,000. Friends have been leaving tributes and messages on his MySpace page, paying their respects to him for being a "good person" and expressing their disbelief.The owners of Justin.tv said they had removed the footage from the internet on being alerted to the situation. In a statement, the website's chief executive, Michael Siebel, made little further comment, saying a "tragedy ... occurred within our community today", and "we respect the privacy of the broadcaster and his family during this challenging time."Suicide on the internet has happened before, although it remains a rare phenomenon. For several years Japanese authorities have been dealing with the problem of group suicides organised online, while last year a British man killed himself live in front of a webcam. The man, from Telford, died live online after being urged to "get on with it" by other users in an internet chatroom he frequented. After a two-month investigation by police, the Crown Prosecution Service decided that none of the comments amounted to a criminal offence.It is not clear whether police in Florida will charge those who goaded the teenager with assisting suicide - or even if they can be traced.
As we have learned from nearly every film ever, you cannot judge a movie from its trailer, let alone its posters, but Watchmen - the long anticipated big-screen version of Alan Moore's classic graphic novel - seems to have got both right. It's even exciting people who don't usually perv over a) comic books; b) ladies wearing excessively tight yellow costumes; and c) slow-motion film of people falling through windows. It will be at least four months until its release, but seeing as they've been trying to make a film version since 1986, the wait is bearable. Until then, we can mooch around this expensive and suitably apocalyptic site. Watch video journals, download wallpaper and read the production blog, all to a doom-laden soundtrack of thunder cracks and electric fuzz.
The Church of The Latter Day DudeGreat Dudes in history, the Take It Easy Manifesto and how to become ordained as a Dudeist priest.Jeff DowdThe biography of the real Dude and original owner of a rug that tied the whole room together.LebowskiaCoen bros-themed treats, including random haiku, magic bowling ball and the Dude lexicon.The Dude's AbodeMessageboard for followers of the Lebowski way of life, with a section for ranting while drunk on White Russians.Jeff BridgesLovely handwritten official site of the film's star - most of the Dude's clothes belonged to this seasoned Hollywood slacker.Little Lebowski Urban AchieversLebowski-inspired art projects plus links to Marmot websites.
It was around this time of year when the thoughts of thousands of discerning, overcoat-wearing, late-night radio listeners would be turning to the heated subject of John Peel's Festive 50, the yearly chart that in its heyday held equal cultural sway with the official Christmas top 40. Voted for by Peel's listeners, from 1976 to his untimely passing in 2004, the rundown would be revealed in chunks over Christmas week. Anyone partial to indulging in some of that nostalgia should visit this fantastic Peel blog, which includes links to recordings of full-length shows, session tracks, documentaries and videos of Peel favourites such as the Fall. Meanwhile, Dandelion Radio is hosting the revived chart in his honour.
What realmen are wearing this winterThe evolutionof Al Pacino's yelling voiceSweden inventedboy bandsWhat's happeningright nowElvis was at the dentistthe day he diedA systemfor settling billsWhere the thingsin Cloverfield happenedNearly every rock songever is really saying "I want to do it with you"How to tellif your cat is plotting to kill you
Back in the early 80s, the mother of my then girlfriend owned a Volkswagen Scirocco. She was a handsome and ferocious beast - the mother, that is - and tyrannical on matters of taste, a test I was adjudged to have hopelessly, indeed genetically, failed.With its long, angular body, the Scirocco seemed to be sporty but practical, modern in the old-fashioned sense. In spite of, or perhaps because of, my problems with the driver, I thought of the car as robustly cool.However, to look now at photos of those early Sciroccos (the model was first produced in 1974) is to recognise the incurable ugliness of cars of that period. Outside the context in which people actually bought Austin Metros and Triumph Acclaims, it would take a particularly perverse aesthetic to admire, much less yearn after, the uncompromising squareness of the original Scirocco.As we're talking about cars, there is no shortage of people with perverse aesthetics who will expel hot wind about the Scirocco's radical design, and there are also plenty who, with more reason, still wax lyrical about its performance. But we can assume that it wasn't public clamour that led Volkswagen to reintroduce its sports coupe 16 years after it stopped production.Predictably, it looks about as much like a Scirocco as Daniel Craig resembles Roger Moore. But no film critic has complained that the wardrobe of Craig's Bond is inauthentic because it lacks a safari suit.The new model is much more compact and contoured than its predecessor, which really looked more like a small station wagon than a sports coupe. This is a proper sports coupe, with back seats snugly squeezed in. It's also low and broad, as if some great force - perhaps VW's marketing team - had sat on a Golf GTi, the car on whose platform it is based.As a result, it's not a car of great beauty or harmony. It looks unbalanced, as though the bold front has accelerated away from the cramped rear. And that's an idea that seems less absurd after a spell in the driving seat.Put simply, it leaves pretty much everything on the road in its dizzying wake, so who could blame the back section for failing to keep up? I thought for one glorious moment, going over a humped railway bridge, that the car might actually take off, like Steve McQueen's Mustang in the legendary Bullitt car chase. But the machine remained smoothly glued to the road, and it was just my stomach that was airborne, returning to its normal anatomical location only about 200 yards up the road.I consider myself a sensible driver in general, someone who, through a Zen-like appreciation of the cosmic flow, is content to drift along, understanding that there is always another red light up the road. But not in this baby. I was first to the lights, first from the lights. I raced between speed humps.I was so in touch with my inner Essex lad that if I'd had the car for another week, I'd have stuck a banner across the top of the front windscreen bearing mine and my true love's names. There, perhaps my old girlfriend's mother was right about me all along.
From our better late than never dept: HP has followed up its multi-touch desktop PC with a multi-touch convertible Tablet PC, theHP TouchSmart tx2z. This lets you manipulate onscreen objects with your fingers, as with an Apple iPhone or HTC Touch etc.HP first started selling touch-screen PCs running MS DOS back in the early 1980s, but the TouchSmart isn't based on HP technology. It's based onN-trig's DuoSensepanel, which fits in front of any LCD. (DuoSense means both pen/stylus and touch/multi-touch.) Although Microsoft has said it will add multi-touch features to Windows 7, N-trig's is designed for Vista. The company says:Windows Vista boasts unprecedented support for pen and touch input -- separately and simultaneously -- making it a natural fit for N-Trig dual mode technology.Since N-trig's DuoSense digitizer requires only a standard HID USB driver, there's actually no need for additional drivers to enjoy native support for pen and touch in all Windows Vista applications. However, to ensure that N-Trig users enjoy the full range of pen and touch functionality, Windows Vista includes a pre-packaged ("in the box") native N-Trig UART driver.In fact, our commitment to helping make Vista the OS of choice for mobile computing is such that Windows Vista also includes intelligent palm rejection algorithms developed in conjunction with N-trig.Vista also supports pen operation and "flicks," and includes handwriting recognition.TheTouchSmart tx2zhas a 12.1 inch screen, 2.1GHz AMD Turion X2 dual-core mobile processor, 3GB of memory and a 250GB hard drive $1,149.99. Systems will be available in the UK in January, starting at £799.The form factor is a convertible design, familiar from many years of touch-screen Tablet PCs. You can use it like a conventional laptop, with a keyboard. You can also swivel the screen round and fold it over the keyboard to convert it into a tablet or slate computer, then use a stylus to hand-write on the screen. Or use your fingers.Background: Bill Gates started promoting Tablet PCs in his Comdex keynote in November 2000, though companies like Go, Slate, and GRiD Systems were developing them in the 1980s. Windows for Pen Computing appeared in 1991, the Apple Newton in 1993, and the Palm Pilot in 1996. Microsoft had another go with Otto Berkes' ultramobile UMPC (akaOrigami) which is now popular in education with machines like the Samsung Q1. But after 20 years, they still haven't entered the mainstream.The huge success of Apple's iPhone has now given the tablet makers another chance. The question now is whether they can make a success of it.
This week's posts from the gamesblog.MondayDo you play games on "Easy"?Best of ChatterboxMirror's Edge: design the Spaceship! cover art and win the PS3/Xbox 360 gameFive best iPhone games so farTuesdaySouth by Southwest InteractivePETA slaughters Cooking MamaWednesdayChina's virtual goods taxCoD: WAW - fear, familiarity and the moral conflictNXE update - impressed?ThursdayRare speaksLich King the fatest selling PC game everRockstar reveals GTA IV DLCFridayGame Pitch: Strawberry DivaGameloft on iPhone development
The concept of Cool Britannia now seems laughable – a discredited chunk of spin from a previous century. Its standard bearers haven't fared too well. The Spice Girls are no more, Tony Blair is no longer one of the most powerful men in the world, and the country is generally too busy trying to scrape a living to bother about being cool. However, one of Cool Britannia's standard bearers continues to beaver away, doing what she does as well as ever: Lara Croft.Indeed, in her latest starring vehicle, Tomb Raider Underworld,Lara has never looked or moved better. Since it's the first Tomb Raider game designed for next-generation consoles from the outset, you'd expect it to look good, and it doesn't disappoint. And for the first time,Lara's movements are governed by motion capture, rather than hand animation, so she moves in a more deliciously gymnastic fashion than ever.If anything, Lara's movement is the key aspect of Tomb Raider Underworld. Looking at the game dispassionately, it would appear to lack a killer innovation, something that adds a new twist to the franchise. But that's not necessarily a bad thing. The franchise is incredibly successful and changing it radically just for the sake of it could render it worthless.And when you get stuck into Tomb Raider Underworld, it swiftly becomes clear that it is designed to appeal to a generation of gamers – surely now in their 30s – who grew up with Tomb Raider and fell in love with Lara's attributes and attitude.It's easy to detect the hand of Toby Gard, Lara's originator, who is now back in the fold at the game's San Francisco-based developer, Crystal Dynamics. Gard and co have taken a back-to-basics approach, assessing Tomb Raider's best aspects, so in Underworld you get huge, engrossing and epic puzzles that involve much leaping, swinging and climbing from Lara, a strong storyline, the usual shooting of endangered animals and rival treasure hunters, and no more.The boss battles, which tended towards the fiddly and invariably involved tedious periods of button-bashing, have been abandoned, as have recent Tomb Raiders' occasional timed button-pressing. In Tomb Raider Underworld when, say, you're standing on a pillar and it starts to collapse, instead of having to push the X button and the A button at specified times, you just have to react and jump before plummeting to a rag-doll physics demise. Tomb Raider Underworld always feels more logical than its predecessors.There are new aspects to the game, which do impinge on gameplay. The first level, in the Mediterranean, for example, has Lara leaping off her gin-palace with, for the first time, an aqualung, before solving a puzzle that takes place entirely underwater. If anything would strike a chord with Lara fans, it's that aqualung. We've all caused her to drown agonisingly in the past through inept underwater manoeuvring.For the first time, too, she can free-climb (although only on visually obvious areas studded with hand-holds), and she can stand on all but the narrowest ledges. All things that in Tomb Raiders of yore, Lara should have been able to do but couldn't.The shooting engine has been mildly tweaked so that now, as you kill enemies, Lara has an adrenalin meter that fills up; clicking the right stick with an enemy targeted brings about a slow-motion period during which her shots also do extra damage. With full adrenaline, you can also set up a head-shot by pressing X in proximity to an enemy. The net effect is a shooting system that feels familiar but is more controllable than in the past, and the adrenalin comes in particularly handy when you're faced by multiple enemies.Lara's grapple has been tweaked so she can use it to abseil, and as it now conforms better to the laws of physics you can, for example, catch it on a rock and cause it to topple. Some swing-poles can now be slotted into or pulled out of holes, adding a new dimension to some of the traversing puzzles, and Lara can now balance on horizontal poles. She has also acquired a wall jump, which features quite heavily.The replacement of hand animation with motion capture brings a number of subtle improvements to the way Lara moves, which don't necessarily have much effect on gameplay but do make her movements much more believable, which in turn increases your pleasure in manipulating her. For example, she will stumble momentarily after a long, tricky jump, or put her hands up to stop herself if you deliberately make her run into a wall.Again, these sound like tiny, incremental improvements, but they really are at the heart of what Crystal Dynamics is trying to do with the franchise. It's easy to describe who will most enjoy Tomb Raider Underworld – gamers who derive pleasure from nailing Lara's gymnastic, gravity-defying moves, and those who find solving huge mechanical puzzles satisfying.It's not perfect, though. Indeed, the game has a glaring flaw. And, sad to say, it's one that has afflicted every Tomb Raider game: the camera. Mostly it's OK, but sometimes it goes completely haywire (although you can always exert a measure of control over it, using the right joystick). Given that the direction in which Lara moves is governed by the camera's direction, this is a pretty major flaw.Unforgivably, when stitching together a sequence of moves, you sometimes have to wait for the camera to catch up before you can coax Lara to jump in the right direction. You learn to work around this when it happens, but it's not something you should have to do in a 21st-century game.However, in terms of graphics and storyline (which we won't go into in case you buy the game), Tomb Raider Underworld is unimpeachable. All you really need to know is that, if you're a Tomb Raider fan, you'll absolutely love it and almost certainly agree that it's the best Tomb Raider game yet. If you're new to games, you'll enjoy it as long as you find Lara attractive and don't merely crave a wham-bam, full-on action experience.Indeed, despite all its visual polish, its gameplay is rooted in a time when videogames were more sedate and cerebral. If that appeals, then Tomb Raider Underworld will satisfy; otherwise, you will find it disappointing.
Mortal Kombat has never been about realism, so a tie-in with DC's stable of superhero cut-outs makes perfect sense. What we get are fighters from the two camps, with the likes of Sub Zero and Shao Kahn facing off against Superman, The Joker et al in a series of inventive new modes and a couple of superior single-player campaigns.If your only memories of MK are the relentless, finger-torturing 2D battles, this latest incarnation takes some getting used to. It's now in 3D, of course, meaning a steep learning curve where your best moves can be deftly sidestepped until you master the trick of using the D-Pad for crouches and jumps and left stick for 3D movement.Perhaps the biggest surprise, however, is what's missing from some recent incarnations of the franchise. So instead of the full roster of 60 or so fighters, here we have a slightly disappointing 22. Mind you, they are the strongest of the characters, and the addition of DC heroes more than makes up for the absence of more recent additions.More worrying are the finishing moves, which have been so toned down as to be a pale, bloodless shadow of the original. For a game whose reputation was built largely on gratuitously violent fatalities, this is a real shock.Whereas Tekken or Virtua Fighter fans always had perfectly balanced gameplay and fluid animations to rely on, it's hard not to feel cheated by an MK game that avoids ripping your opponent's spine off and waving it in front of him. Whether this is down to the restrictions of a 16+ rating, or some kind of condition from DC for including its more family-friendly characters, is uncertain.And yet MK v DC is still a lot of fun to play. New modes like Klose Kombat and Freefall Kombat are unusual and challenging. The former involves a close-up perspective of the fighters, where mirroring his moves is the only way to break hold and seize the initiative. Freefall takes the action high into the sky, giving a whole new perspective on the game's 14 scenarios (plus 4 more for online players) – including the Batcave, complete with unconvincing Batmobile.So all in all, this is a watered down but still enjoyable take on the franchise. Although MK fans might feel cheated, DC lovers have never had it so good. It all depends on where your true loyalties lie.
Christmas is coming and it's time to talk gadgets. In the course of the average year, I see a lot of gadgets and gewgaws come past, but it has to be said that many are barely worth bothering with.Some, though, leave me waving a sad goodbye as they go back into the cardboard box. Or, in some cases, I simply ring the companies up and say: "How much is this? OK, here's my credit card number."My criteria for a gadget are pretty simple, yet many fail them. They are these: do something useful. Do it well. Don't try to do a hundred things moderately but none to a high standard. Comply to standards on networks and the web. Be interoperable.And most of all, be intuitive. Don't make me read a manual, ever. It's usually on these last points that products fail.But after a long procession, here are my recommendations for an enjoyable year ahead, if you're trying to decide what you need in your Christmas stocking. I'm sticking here strictly to products that I've tried and had under my sticky paws (and in some cases, my children's even more sticky paws).1)Kodak Zi6 video camera. Isn't just a video camera, but is hand-sized, low-priced and takes HD video, as well as VGA stills. Comes with rechargeable batteries, though you have to supply your own memory card. (That's not expensive.) A point-and-click delight, and it won't break the bank.2)iPod Touch. No,not an iPhone. You've already got a phone, and you know what? It's really good for phone calls and texting (even picture messaging, which the iPhone can't do). The iPhone is an excellent mobile internet device, but its performance as a phone is a bit... mixed. Get the best of both worlds: the iPod Touch does Wi-Fi, is lighter than the iPhone, and can play pretty much all of the same games (apart from those requiring a camera or GPS, but your own phone already has a camera). Best of all it's dramatically cheaper than the iPhone, with its 18-month contract. Get an iPod Touch and you'll be ideally placed for the time when the iPhone is available for free on a £15 per month contract from every network provider. Give it three years.3) 1-terabyte Network Attached Storage device. What's NAS? you ask. It's a hard drive that attaches to your network router rather than your computer, and is visible all across your (home) network, though not outside it. Save data on it and anyone can get at it. Slightly more expensive than normal external hard drives, but being available to everyone on the network (you can partition it or allocate users areas) means you don't have to worry about whose computer you're using or where your data is. Back up all your music and video on it. With a terabyte, you shouldn't need to worry about it running out for a while.4)Sonos music centre. I know, I know: the price tag always makes me uncomfortable. Nobody is going to accuse Sonos of pandering to the Woolworths buyer. However, things have changed since I reviewed it back in April. If you didn't know, the Sonos systems connect to your home network but then create their own wireless network to play music that lives on your network. (Of course, you cleverly store all your music on your NAS drive, so your computer doesn't have to be on all the time.) Each room can get its own music feed. What's most interesting is that Sonos has decided that the iPhone — or iPod Touch — is going to be a device controller in itself, and released a free application to control all your Sonos systems via Wi-Fi. Compared to the cost of the controller — £279 —  the £0 price tag suddenly makes Sonos's gear suddenly a lot more attractive.5)Archos Media Tablet. While pricey, and a tiny bit bulky it's absolutely what an internet tablet should be: able to play music and video and surf the net and get email. It doesn't (yet?) have the huge developer hinterland that the iPod Touch or iPhone has, which means it's more limited for those time-eating distractions, but unlike the iPhone/iPod Touch it can play Flash — and the onscreen keyboard is big and precise, and the screen has a wow factor all its own.6)RM Asus Minibook. Running Linux, which makes it about £40 cheaper than those which try to squeeze Windows XP onto an unsuitably small screen, it's perfect for children who'd otherwise be angling for your machine.7)Solwise HomePlug. Got problems getting your wireless around the house? Or, alternatively, got a device that requires an Ethernet cable, not wireless? (Follow my recommendations and you soon will.) The HomePlug system plugs into your router, and then to a power socket, and sends the internet signal around your ring mains to any other HomePlugs you have connected. Simple and fast.8)Neuros OSD. You have video or music on your NAS drive (see above) that you want to play back through your TV or hi-fi. The Neuros will do it. The interface is relaxing and simple; its capabilities are broad. You can even record (and set scheduled recording) of TV programs for later consumption to a USB stick or, yes, NAS drive via its Ethernet jack (it doesn't have Wi-Fi. Did you buy the HomePlugs?). Just plug the output from your digital set-top box into its input, and the Neuros to your TV. It can rewind and fast-forward through recorded items (music or video). Even includes a rudimentary program for editing recorded content. Absolutely my favourite device of the year.9) Miglia TVBook (equivalent on Windows: Hauppage WinTV decoder). A memory stick-sized digital TV decoder that plugs into your computer's USB port. You find an aerial with a digital signal and it decodes it and shows it in a window on your machine. What I liked with the Miglia was The Tube software, which has an electronic program guide that shows you what's on, what's coming up, andwhat proportion of other people are watching each channel. Just think: what if you could find out how many other people were watching what you're watching? The continuing popularity of Friends is slightly scary. But it feels like the future, right here.10)Vibe Duo headphones. Lawks! £70 for headphones? Yes, but they've very high quality, they're robust (having saved my iPod Touch from a concrete floor a number of times, leaving it dangling in mid-air) and best of all, they have a button microphone that means (a) if you upgrade to an iPhone in a couple of years, you'll be able to keep them to make phone calls (b) for the meantime, you can pause, skip forward, or skip back by pressing the button once, twice or three times. The convenience is well worth it.And that is it. No computers? No phones? Nope — I've purposely tried to cut the cloth to the times we're living in, although the Sonos and the Archos kit could be called a splurge; they're certainly more expensive than any of the others. And if you buy all of these, then you'll certain need either a City bonus or a windfall to pay off the credit card bill. But in my experience they're all great gadgets which do just what they need to — and no more, and no less. That, to my mind, is great design.One other thing that occurs to me: all of the gadgets above either run Linux, or a variant of Unix. (I think; though possibly the Sonos gear is some strange real-time OS.)So have a great Christmas, and an even better 2009.
The mediocre quality of YouTube's video and sound hasn't stopped its fantastic success.However, it now faces challenges fromHuluet al, and from its Google bosses, who must be wondering when it's going to start making some money. The answer, of course, is to follow Hulu and provide some good quality official content that it can put adverts against. So that's what it's doing.Meghan Keane atWired Blogshas posted some normal and HD videos ofWhere the Hell is Matt?and pointed out that:YouTube has quietly started testing out real HD quality videos on a smattering of its content, a development that is getting attention from viewers in message boards and blog forums this week. The new format could be a big move for YouTube, as the video size is over 80MB, which means that they are probably the same H.264 encoded mp4 files available in the iTunes store.As a shortcut to HD, where available, you can add&amp;fmt=22to the end of a YouTube video URL.OK, you need a very fast connection and a nippy PC to exploit the HD format, but a growing number of people already have those.The problem is that once you've seen and heard the HD version of a clip, the failings of the standard version become striking, even though you probably hadn't noticed them before. HD looks good, but it's making the rest of YouTube look bad.
This morning I noticed that my Gmail graphics have been upgraded so my mailbox now looks even more like Hotmail used to look a few years ago. As theGmail blogput it:We've also done a minor facelift to Gmail's default look to make it crisper and cleaner -- you might notice a few colors and pixels shifted around here and there.So I immediately went to Settings, to click Themes, to try one or two of the 30 new themes that are being rolled out across Gmail servers. But it turns out I don't have Themes yet. Do you?Update: Themes arrived on Saturday. At the moment, I'm sticking with Default, though I've dabbled with reverting to Classic....
If there's one thing the internet loves, it's big ginger singers.Numero uno, of course, isRick Astley, but we shouldn't forget Simply Red'sMick Hucknall(very funny, but NSFW).And now Axl Rose is joining the web's strawberry superstars, by releasing the latest Guns n' Roses album, Chinese Democracy,on MySpace. (yes, the Chinese Democracy that's beenbrewing since the Chinese invented fireworks).I'm partial to a bit of Slash air guitar action now and then - but I can't help think that Axl's taken it all a bit far. Was he actually waiting for an entirely new music distribution model to bed in before he could finish the album? Couldn't he just take a lead from Metallica and the Beatles and stay away from my internets?Calm down.Anyway, all this is averyroundabout way of approaching this week's Friday Afternoon Question, which is:If you could remove one thing from the internet, what would it be?Best answer getsa free Dr Pepper.
