There is no shortage of every variety of zombie apocalypses in gaming, butSecond Chance Heroes(Rocket City Studios, iOS, 69p) is a dual-stick shooter (one for movement, one for attacking) that puts a fresh spin on its rotting corpse. The protagonists are historical figures – magical Cleopatra, chainsaw-wielding Abraham Lincoln, etc – cloned for battle by a prescient history teacher. And it's not all blood and guts, as the aforementioned educator realises that the undead eat brains to stave off boredom, so they can be distracted with a disco or other forms of entertainment. Some violence is required, and the addition of a multiplayer mode provides some welcome help with the huge waves of foes, but it's a shame no one thought to include Winston&nbsp;Churchill and his fiery cigar of doom.
Intriguingly,Pac-Man and the Ghostly Adventuresis better than might be expected for a tie-in game spun from the remorselessly contrived cartoon reboot of an arcade classic, but sadly that also leaves lots of room for it to be not very good at all. And it isn't, although there is at least a snappy joy to its basic platforming.The camera is unobtrusive, motion is smooth, and Pac-Man's ghost-snatching gobble – adapted into this 3D world as a dog-like lunge – is sharp and satisfyingly direct. There's also a clean, kinetic pleasure to his transformative powers, a joyful simplicity to throwing ice and fire attacks at enemies and a pleasing sense of momentum to swinging acrobatics using his chameleon's tongue.None of which solves the basic problem that by ripping Pac-Man from anything resembling his original gameplay context and giving him arms, legs and attitude,Ghostly Adventuresplaces his accrued brand value over what made him fun to play with in the first place, leaving the game simple and, overwhelmingly, hollow.
Welcome to undoubtedly one of the more bizarre games on Nintendo's 3DS, which is some statement. The role is to play a blacksmith's apprentice within an RPG, who creates and rents weapons to a series of heroes who want to defeat the Evil Lord. Rent out the wrong sword for the mission and you risk losing the weapon and your fee. It sounds unique, but it's actually a rudimentary and repetitive experience. You build a weapon by tapping the screen to match a beat before swiping to polish it.Thankfully,Weapon Shop de Omasseis rescued by its wonderful story and dialogue. It was written by comedian Yoshiyuki Hirai, and is riddled with jokes that mock RPG conventions. Plus there are brilliant characters, including an axe-loving grandmother, a lovestruck pirate and a menacing, cross-dressing beautician. It is charming – just a shame the gameplay doesn't match the excellent writing.
AfterThe Book of Mormon's success, the creators ofSouth Parkare finally getting the acclaim their filthy, but always satirically on-the-mark, cartoon deserves. Having proved with the lovingly mockingWorld of Warcraftepisode that they understand games and their fan base,South Park: The Stick of Truth, delivered with developers Obsidian, brings this sensibility to a well-crafted open-world RPG.Thrust intoSouth Park's world, you're a new kid, forced to pick a role as warrior, mage, thief or Jew as you join the Kingdom of Kupa Keep (thereafter, inevitably, referred to as the KKK). The combat is rewarding, turn-based fare, while looting is a joy for fans. You can wander into the town's buildings, discovering references to classic episodes – Cartman's Coon costume, his mum's sex toys – which can then be traded for money to buy more appropriately inappropriate items.It plays fantastically well, looks as good or as bad, depending on your viewpoint, as the cartoon, and the humour is spot on – if lacking the topical bent of the series. The only slight sour note isthe apparent self-censorship by Ubisoft of the game in Europe. But if you likeSouth Parkyou'll love this, and for everyone else there's whatever the manatees can come up with next forFamily Guy.
It is described as the greatest show (and tell) on Earth, a family-friendly festival of invention, creativity and resourcefulness. Think Glastonbury meetsTEDxand you get an idea. And now it's coming here. An unashamed celebration of geekdom, Maker Faire is, according to its founders, "an all-ages gathering of tech enthusiasts, crafters, educators, tinkerers, hobbyists, engineers, science clubs, authors, artists, students, and commercial exhibitors".To the uninitiated, that may sound like a glorifiedStar Trekconvention, butMaker Faireshave enjoyed huge success in the US, drawing hundreds of thousands of visitors and helping popularise a raft of product innovations including 3D printers and build-it-yourself computers, drones and robots.Today, at the South by Southwest music festival in Austin, Texas, Maker Faire will announce that it is to open its third annual flagship fair, the first outside the US, at the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in east London. The event, which from next year will run in the summer holidays for up to four weeks, is expected to draw up to 75,000 people.For the London Legacy Development Corporation it is a major coup that will help the 2012 London Games meet one of its key aims – regenerating a once unloved part of the capital."This is yet another example of how the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park is attracting the cream of world-class international events," said the mayor of London, Boris Johnson. "In turn, this is propelling forward our vision to cultivate a hotbed of tech talent on the site, creating thousands of jobs."But the arrival of Maker Faire also symbolises a fundamental shift taking place in the technology arena. Hi-tech titans are waking up to the possibilities of making everyday objects communicate and process information. Harnessing these capabilities, developing what is being called the"Internet of Things", will pay huge dividends, according to the likes of Cisco and Intel. Google, for example, recentlypaid $3.2bn for Nest, a home-appliance business that makes things like thermostats and carbon monoxide alarms which collect user behaviour data, allowing them to offer more personalised functionality.Consultant McKinsey explains: "Sensors and actuators embedded in physical objects – from roadways to pacemakers – are linked through wired and wireless networks, often using the same internet protocol (IP) that connects the internet. These networks churn out huge volumes of data that flow to computers for analysis. When objects can both sense the environment and communicate, they become tools for understanding complexity and responding to it swiftly."Put simply, the physical world is becoming a gigantic information system. Everything from your watch to what you wear will be connected one day. Consultancy firm Gartner estimates that, by 2020, there will be nearly 26bn devices connected to the Internet of Things.It may sound far-fetched, but this brave new world is already out there. McKinsey points out that pill-shaped microcameras can travel through the human body, sending back thousands of images to help doctors pinpoint the sources of illness; farming equipment with wireless links to data collected from remote satellites and ground sensors is now capable of recognising changes to crop conditions; billboards in Japan are examining passersby, assessing how they fit consumer profiles and adjusting their messages accordingly.Simultaneously, the obstacles that must be negotiated between coming up with an idea for a new device and delivering it to market are shrinking, and the demarcation lines between the professional device manufacturer and the amateur are blurring. Crowdfunding is connecting money to popular ideas. The maker movement is at the vanguard of this trend, as developments such as 3D printing and the use of open-source software create an explosion in the number of products being developed by everyone from enthusiastic individuals to start-ups, spinoffs and cottage industries.Anticipating this trend, Maker Faire claims it provides the cultural space for this new generation of makers to dazzle the world with inventions, many of which will help shape the Internet of Things."Many makers say they have no other place to share what they do," it explains on its website. "DIY  is often invisible in our communities, taking place in shops, garages and on kitchen tables. It's typically out of the spotlight of traditional art or science or craft events. Maker Faire makes visible these projects and ideas."Maker Faires certainlyappear to tap into latent demand. The two annual flagship events, in the San Francisco Bay Area and New York, plus nearly 100 mini-Faires around the globe (the next UK one is inNewcastle from 26-27 April), draw large crowds. In 2013 more than 530,000 people across 10 countries attended a Maker Faire, a 64% increase on the previous year and 335% up on 2011. Around half attended the events with children.A danger must be that the burgeoning maker movement becomes a victim of its own success – that what started as a grassroots initiative ends as little more than another technology showcase to attract corporate interests as they seek to cherrypick the new devices that will help power an increasingly connected world.But Dale Dougherty, the founder of Maker Faire, pledged that the event would not lose sight of its guiding ethos. "It should be creative and fun and engaging," Dougherty said. "Business opportunities may emerge, but that's not the goal. For me, it's about education and learning; really encouraging the next generation of builders and producers."Here East, the consortium that runs the 650,000 sq ft Olympic Park media centre that will host the UK event, believes there will be appetite for the US import. It points out that the maker movement in east London has grown rapidly in recent years with companies such asSugru, which produces "self-setting rubber for fixing, modifying and improving your stuff", andTechnology Will Save Us, which makes kits allowing gadget freaks to build everything from synthesisers to speakers, attracting global attention."This is an exciting opportunity for east London," said Gavin Poole, CEO of Here East. "Something on this scale, bringing product design and technology together, has never been done before."He said the intention was for the Here East site to become a tech-based campus that would be very different in feel from Shoreditch's Silicon Roundabout."The aim is to attract small companies who are into product design before they go to scale," he said, emphasising that Here East wanted to create an inclusive, interactive community, bringing in local schools and talent, including the hundreds of artists who work in Hackney Wick, across the river Lee from the park.Sceptics are likely to be wary of such ambitions. The Internet of Things is being promoted by vested interests with an enthusiasm not seen since the last dotcom boom. Cisco claims the Internet of Things will have a value of £8.6tn by 2023. Here East claims its vision of a super-connected world, largely built from the bottom up, will create more than 7,500 jobs in east London and add £450m to the UK's GDP.If these predictions come true, then the inventors beavering away in their sheds, creating ingenious devices, are no longer "mavericks". They are the future. The geeks will truly inherit the Earth.
One of the world’s leading cyberwarfare experts has warned of the damaging lack of government literacy in cybersecurity issues, pointing out that some senior officials don’t know how to use email, and that one US representative about to negotiate cybersecurity with China asked him what an “ISP” was.Speaking at the SXSW festival, Dr Peter W Singer, director of the Center for 21st Century Security &amp; Intelligence, cited a 2014 poll by the Pew research institute that found Americans are more afraid of cyberattack than attack by Iran or North Korea, climate change, the rise of China or authoritarian Russia.Sketching out the scale of technology in our lives, Singer said that 40 trillion emails are sent a year, that 30 trillion websites now exist and that 9 new pieces of malware are discovered every second. He claimed that 97% of Fortune 500 companies have admitted they’ve been hacked - the other 3% just aren’t ready to admit it yet.The consequent rise in cybercrime and state-sponsored attacks has not gone unnoticed. 100 nations now have cyber command, and the Pentagon’s own briefings, which contained the word ‘cyber’ 12 times during 2012, have already mentioned it 147 times so far this year.Yet former head of US homeland security Janet Napolitano once told Singer. “Don’t laugh, but I just don’t use email at all,” Singer recalled. “It wasn’t a fear of privacy or security - it’s because she just didn’t think it was useful. A supreme court justice also told me ‘I haven’t got round to email yet’ - and this is someone who will get to vote on everything from net neutrality to the NSA negotiations.”Obama himself, Singer said, had expressed concern that the complexity of the issue was overwhelming policy makers.Singer added that another US official about to negotiate cybersecurity with China asked him to explain what “ISP” meant. “That’s like going to negotiate with the Soviets and not knowing what ‘ICBM’ means. And I’ve had similar experiences with officials from the UK, China and Abu Dhabi.At the G20 conference diplomats were spearfished by an email with a link to nude photos of former French first lady Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, and many clicked - downloading spyware onto their computers.“Cybersecurity is crucial, and as intimate to your life as your bank account. It’s treated as an area only for IT folk, and the technical community that understands the hardware and software but not the wetware - the human side. Without proper tools we cannot understand both what is possible and what is proper. Past myth and future hype weave together to obscure to what actually happen with where we will be in the future.”Cybersecurity should be treated like public healthSinger also said many cybersecurity threats and solutions are misrepresented or overblown. Power lines are taken down far more often by squirrels, for example. The government response is often too reactionary - akin to the treatment of pirates and privateers in the age of sail - whereas investment in a public cyberhealth campaign would be far more effective.“Ben Franklin said an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention says that is true of public health but it is also true of cybersecurity… very basic cyber hygiene would go an very long way. The top control measures would stop 90% of all cyber attacks.”The most significant penetration of US secure networks happened when an infected USB stick was dropped in the car park after a ‘candy drop’; an employee picked it up and plugged it into his computer on their secure network. “That’s not cyber hygiene, that’s basic hygiene - the five second rule.”Another problem is that different parts of government operate in contradiction to each other. “Tor was originally paid for by Navy money, and pushed by state departments as a way of dissidents and state departments to protect themselves simultaneously, but if you use it you get swept up by the NSA who assumes you are up to no good. We have to figure out these balances.”Snowden - traitor or hero?The argument over NSA surveillance has been reduced to bumper sticker values, Singer argued.Three different kinds of activity have been exposed. The first is that the NSA carries out espionage against American enemies - smart, strategic espionage. The second is legally and politically questionable, and related to mass collection of American citizens’ information collected either directly by the agency or by its allies.“The third is what you could kindly call unstrategic - or stupid - directly targeting close American allies and leaders and undermining American technology companies. People want to say Snowden was a traitor or a whistleblower and we pull from the bucket we care the most about, but that’s a bumper sticker way of talking about it because people can simultaneously do both good and bad actions.”•Julian Assange tells SXSW audience: ‘NSA has grown to be a rogue agency’
If I had a bitcoin for every person I've met in the past six months who told me that bitcoin is a scam then I'd be a rich man. Or a poor one, depending in which day of the week we're talking about. Watching theexchange rate for bitcoins over the past monthis like seeing the outline of a rollercoaster on&nbsp;the horizon. On 7 January, for example, a bitcoin was trading at $934; by 27 February it was down to $528; and on 5 March it was $678. So I guess that if you were "investing" (ie speculating) in the things, you'd feel as sick as any Alton Towers customer on a bad day.But here's the really strange thing: while "normal" people – and many mainstream journalists – seem to think that this bitcoin stuff must be some kind of racket, some of the computer scientists and hackers of my acquaintance think it's the most interesting idea to have come along in ages. And in a way that discrepancy may be the key to understanding the phenomenon.Jonathan Swift famously observed that "when a true genius appears, you can know him by this sign: that all the dunces are in a confederacy against him". This is a bit unkind to my friends and relations, but it contains the germ of a truth. Could it be that the reason bitcoin stirs up such hostility and controversy is that it flies so brazenly in the face of what we have always assumed to be an incontrovertible truth – which in this case is the belief that credible currencies have to be issued and controlled by central banks?Pause for brief technical intermission.Wikipedia has a useful entry on bitcoin, describing it as "a peer-to-peer payment system and currency". It was created in 2009 by a fiendishly clever, pseudonymous individual calling himself Satoshi Nakamoto. (Sounds sinister already, doesn't it? One can almost imagine this Nakamoto cove reclining in an Eames chair, stroking a white cat.) It's a "cryptocurrency", so called because it uses cryptography to control the creation and transfer of bitcoins. (Cryptography, eh? The plot thickens. Where is 007?) Bitcoins are created by a computational process called mining, in which participants verify and record payments into a public ledger in exchange for transaction fees and newly minted bitcoins. Users send and receive bitcoins using wallet software on a PC, mobile phone, or a web application. Bitcoins can be obtained by mining or in exchange for products, services or other currencies. And some businesses now accept payment in them.In the public mind, however, an air of rackety seediness surrounds the currency. It was, for example, the favoured dosh of the shady characters who bought and sold illicit stuff on the (now closed)Silk Roadonline marketplace. And last week, MtGox, one of the leading bitcoin currency exchanges,filed for bankruptcy, saying that it was "highly likely" that a bug in its computer systems had enabled a person or persons unknown to steal 750,000 of its users' bitcoins. That's about $500m in old money, and since there's no such thing as deposit insurance in the cryptocurrency world, a lot of folks are suddenly finding themselves much poorer and are mightily pissed off.These, er, setbacks have prompted an orgy of I-told-you-so commentary, which is fair enough. But in the heat of battle, an important point may have been missed. Money serves three functions: as a medium of exchange, a unit of account and a store of value. Recent history shows that bitcoin performs thesecond and third of those functions badly: its volatility makes it useless as a hedge against risk. But there remains the first function – as a medium of exchange.And here things get really interesting because bitcoin seems to perform well in this role by making small online payments very cheap and easy. Ever since the web took off, one of the things that has stopped online commerce, publishing, etc, from realising their full potential is the high cost of secure online transactions. Typically, credit cards exact fees of between 2.5% and 5%, which makes "micropayments" (fractions of a penny per transaction) impossible. But it turns out that bitcoin does micropayments rather well, in which case it could be a real game-changer. And that may be what lies at the root of the geeky excitement about cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin may or may not endure. But the idea underpinning it might just be one whose time has come.
When I was six years old, I would cry myself to sleep at night. From around year one my school life was hard, but not in the academic way. My difficulty was I couldn't ever fit in with the others. Rather than run around a sports field, I preferred to read about the wider world or take things apart to see what made them tick. Sadly, this made me a target for bullying.One of the worst incidents occurred around year five, when I was 10. I was on the chubby side and a running "joke" began, the "humour" being that all farts began with me. For example, a blemish on the assembly room floor would result in: "Hey, Dan, did you sit here? There is a burn mark on the floor. Did you fart?"So it wasn't unusual when one morning one of my classmates claimed I had farted and the whole room burst out into gales of laughter. But what was unusual was that the teacher joined in. She made me go round opening all the windows. As I did it, everybody watched and stared, laughing and making comments as I passed.Events like this hurt. They hurt because they showed that even the people who were there to look after and protect children didn't really care. I wish I could say occasions like this were rare.It wasn't always bad though. During reception and the start of year one, I had friends, I did well, and for the most part was happy. School wasn't a huge challenge, and I enjoyed learning about the things I had not yet come across in books. But when I moved to a better-ranking school in year one, I never settled in, and they never quite welcomed me. And when I entered year two, my life began to change into a living hell.I remember how it started. At first it was a few students who used to make remarks about my weight that I pretended not to hear. But these were then adopted as names for me. So I soon became Fatty or Nerd to most of my peers. They would chant  them in the most horrible voices. And then came the quips. They were the worst to bear. "Hey, Fatty! Don't jump – we might have an earthquake." And so on.My young mind could not understand why they behaved like they did, so I began to blame myself. I thought that I had done something wrong. That I was responsible for everything that was happening. I struggled to try and fit in, to make it stop. But nothing worked.Then, when we moved into year three, things became physical. They would punch, kick, slap and push and for the first time, I turned to the people who were there to protect me: the teachers. They did nothing.I would spend a lunchtime writing a letter explaining what had happened; then the bullies might lose a break time. As you might expect, I soon gave up on the system. But this didn't mean that the bullies gave up on their need for self-inflation.When my parents found out and tried to talk to the teachers, still they didn't act. Recently I spoke to my parents about it and they recalled that one day they booked an appointment with the deputy head. When they arrived and explained the situation, she simply replied: "This meeting is over. Please leave."This happened a few times. Whenever we tried to get them to deal with the issue, it was swept under the carpet, brushed aside like a dirty little secret. We also tried going to our local council and were promised calls that never came.For the first year or so, I hoped that it would just be a phase, that people would grow out of it and that it would be over. I hoped that I could move on and have the happy childhood that adults seem to recall every time I said I wanted to grow up, to be done with school.Then, as if I needed more to differentiate me and give them another point for ridicule, I had to start wearing glasses. Eight pairs a year, in fact. Thrown over fences, torn from my face, chucked under cars, stamped on.Now I even turned to God. The one who answers prayers. Performs miracles. I tried every day. I begged. I pleaded. I asked. Yet putting my faith in God to solve my problems left me on the edge of suicide.I became quite violent for a time, responding in kind to the physical onslaught because I couldn't keep in the fury. It's not something I'm proud of, and it is a part of me that I fought to change. Violence solves nothing. I admit that it offered a temporary outlet for my anger and angst but it did not solve any problems.The first time I was properly violent, I had been riding my bike home from school. I had barely got any distance when someone pushed me over a low fence. I remember the anger boiling up inside, surging to get out. I tried to hold it in. I heard the boy laughing and I let it go. I picked up a fallen branch from a nearby tree, ran at him and swung it at his head. If I'd been an inch lower, he would have been blinded.I still remember my feeling of liberation – that something was finally being done about the problem. So it continued. And naturally I was the one the school was harder on, because they teach that sticking up for yourself in any way is bad. They teach us to allow ourselves to be manipulated and hurt.But then, in my darkest hours, the days where I'd spend my time considering the best way to end everything, my love of taking things apart to see how they worked led me to discover programming, a system of logic and creativity.Daniel Tomlinson at home on the south coast. Photograph: Richard Saker for the ObserverI discovered programming mostly by accident. I was curious about how lots of things worked, and was fascinated by the big black box in the corner of our dining room. Programming was a beacon of hope in a world dominated by sadness. It granted me the freedom to create and destroy, to craft worlds that were mine to manipulate. It also led me to discover some of the greatest friends I could ever imagine. People who would listen to me when I was down, offer advice, and treat me like a human being. An equal.Through this, I had an outlet, a way to channel my sadness, and that offered moments of true happiness when I built something new. I also developed a passion for making things that still comes through to this day. The joy of taking something from start through to completion, then seeing other people use them on a daily basis, is magical.Programming also allowed me to learn more, as it provided a practical application for the theories of maths and physics. The art of debugging taught me how to think about problems logically, rationally, and to persevere. It also taught me about teamwork and collaboration, allowing me to work with others in school without wanting to explode in anger. They still bullied me, but it gave me the resolve to block that out and continue with the task at hand. Its logical ways clicked with me, and I loved it.I loved that it (mostly) did as I said, nothing more, nothing less.I did still have dark times and bullying for many more years. The days were long and unforgiving, evenings peaceful but fleeting, nights long but sleepless. Some days I still wanted to end it. But the knowledge that people were there for me – people who didn't just sympathise and tell me that others would grow up soon – stopped me from ever harming myself, from ever making that leap, even though I faced more bad treatment in secondary school.I was beaten both physically and emotionally almost daily by those around me. I remember waking up every morning, physically shaking at the thought of rising and going to school. Some days I couldn't move with fear. I'd pull the duvet over my head to block out the world and hope that when I moved it, it would be Saturday. Other times I would pretend to be sick just to stay away from it all.I was once chased around the school and fields by someone wielding a stick, because I didn't agree with them. Nothing came of it. Nothing ever came of it. Schools cannot deal with the violence and troubles that happen under their noses. How can they? They have no punishments that really mean anything to the ones that receive them, and the parents of such students do little to reinforce the message.I recall that, on a particularly bad day, I ran out of an art class and kept running until I got home, because I couldn't bear to stay at the school any longer. I was scared and upset, I didn't know what to do. So I went home and worked on my own things, to give my mind a challenge, and to distract me from the pain.I was the one everyone teased – because they could. I even began to hate my own name, Daniel Leslie Tomlinson, because whenever anyone remembered the middle bit, I'd be laughed at until they tired of it again. They didn't care that I was named after my granddad; they found it humorous because the female version of the name sounds the same.I was affected academically, and over the years slipped from being a high-scoring student to barely scraping by. This was due to missed time, and the fact that when I did attend I felt so anxious that I ceased to function. Don't get me wrong; I didn't fail. I let myself down by getting lower marks than I was capable of.In my later school years, however, there were a couple of truly amazing teachers who helped me to get through my time in school. Their lessons and openness provided me an outlet whenever I needed it, and for that I shall always be thankful.I am now 17. When people hear about my school days, they often ask: "Is there anything you would change about your past?", and my answer is no. Because even though I suffered for so many years, it shaped the person I am today. A human being who stands up for those who cannot stand up for themselves. A human being who tries to improve the lives of others with everything I do, and who helps anyone that needs it.Although things at school stayed tough, programming gave me a life outside it. I cannot stress enough the importance of finding a passion and like-minded people if you are being bullied. Connecting with others taught me that it wasn't my fault, that I wasn't to blame, and that there was a better future ahead.Over the 10 years that I have been coding, I have met amazing people from all walks of life. I've worked on some of the coolest ideas that I've ever seen, won awards and travelled all around the country to meet people and attend or speak at conferences. It has increased my confidence around people, and allowed me to make some amazing friends.Software development has also given me a new life in a new place, doing a job that I love – building applications that people will be delighted to use every day. I'm looking forward to seeing what the future holds, new experiences that are yet to come, and new people that I'll get to meet.I also now have the opportunity to aid others who have bullying problems, and will help anyone who needs it. Bullying needs to stop, both in schools and out. It happens around us every day, and far too many people have the wrong attitude towards it. That must change.If you have been affected by any of the same issues as Daniel, contactbeatbullying.org
Small problem with this&nbsp;one: it's too small. In&nbsp;more ways than one. First, I'm quite tall and, even with the seat as low and far back as it goes, I&nbsp;can feel the roof interfering with my rug. It – the roof! – can come off (simple with the excellent folding hard-top of this Roadster Coupe version, which takes up no more boot space than the soft top), but the loan inevitably coincides with weather armageddon.The other direction it's too small in is lengthways; there aren't enough seats for my family. Hardly the car's fault – it doesn't pretend to be anything other than a two-seater – but it's complicating a Sunday trip to visit friends on the other side of town.Regular readers of this column will remember thatthe last time we faced this problem, my girlfriend was forced ignominiously on to public transport while my son and I roared off in a beautiful orange Jaguar. In the interest of fairness and chivalry, she should have one of the seats this time, but who gets the other? She says the boy, very nearly two, can't be trusted to cross London alone. So – the horror begins to dawn – it looks like I'm on the bus (my bicycle, actually: me v hurricane Katrina). Well, the MX-5 is more of a girl's car… boo, chauvinist, oink.There's another problem: she's not a world-famous motoring journalist, so who's assessing the car? Well, seeing as I'm saying it's a&nbsp;girl's car, I suppose she'd better. I&nbsp;can take it for a sly spin later, top off (the car!) in a rare weather window, to cast an expert eye over things, fill in any gaps. More boos.Yeah, she likes it, it's pretty. And they do look lovely in it, until they disappear, laughing, over the horizon. Its lowness means it's not the easiest car to get a child in and out of, or yourself if you're eight months pregnant (we're going to need our own bus soon). But once in, it feels good. Less small than it looked from the outside (she was worried she'd feel vulnerable and invisible to lorries). And loads of fun to drive, "quite nippy" (boo, racist).Inside, it's certainly not luxurious, a bit dated, too, but then there is a&nbsp;retro feel about an MX-5, even in its third generation, that's part of the charm. Maybe it's not the right car for this particular driver's juncture in life, but one that would have been&nbsp;very nice before, she says, as a girl about town. Or possibly even later, afterwards.What about ride and handling, bhp, what about low-end torque? You what? OK, move over love, I'll&nbsp;take it from here. Excellent r&amp;h; it's&nbsp;not the most powerful car, it doesn't need to be; as for torque… you know what, you can go to What&nbsp;Car magazine or whatever for&nbsp;all that.Mazda MX-5 Roadster Coupe 2.0 Sports TechMazda MX-5 Roadster Coupe 2.0 Sports Tech Photograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPrice£23,095Top speed136mphAcceleration0-60mph in 7.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption39.2mpgCO2emissions181g/kmEcorating5/10Cool rating8/10
Games currently doing the rounds includePac-Man And The Ghostly Adventures(Xbox 360, PS3, 3DS, Wii U, PC), where the insatiable yellow mascot devours more pills and ghosts in a lacklustre 3D platform game;Atelier Escha And Logy: Alchemists Of The Dusk Sky(PS3) is a role-playing game originally released in Japan last summer;SimBin Mega Bundle(PC) offers a sizeable clutch of middling racing games and their expansion packs;Phineas And Ferb(Wii, DS, 3DS, Wii U) produces more mild thrills for Disney's lightly offbeat couple; andRambo: The Video Game(Xbox 360, PS3, PC, pictured) is a crudely made light-gun game without a gun, leaving you to trail a crosshair around the screen with mouse or joypad, making frequent use of cover, in this quick tour of the original three Rambo films which manages to cheapen even the excellent First Blood.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewVideogame by-products of entertainment franchises have a long and ignominious history  of being cheaply made wastes of human effort, churned out to exploit the unwary. Sadly, South Park's previous game outings have fallen into this category, but The Stick Of Truth is a proper adventure game, unmistakably the work of Matt Stone and Trey Parker, and containing an extended fantasy-themed South Park episode to explore at your own pace. In Europe, some elements have been censored (including, it says in the press release, "A mini-game in which  the player is performing an abortion on the character Randy" and "Five anal probing scenes involving someone actually being probed"), and it's way too easy. But it's also very funny and the only way of witnessing Grand Wizard Cartman at work.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewPainting a charming cartoon vision of the world's destruction by zombies, Garden Warfare transplants PopCap's brilliant tower-defence game into a third-person shooter. With four roles on each team – from gunner to medic – all are spiced up by amusingly outlandish costumes, unique powers and equipment. Garden Ops is nearest to the original, getting you to defend a patch of shrubbery against waves of cute undead. The other multiplayer games boil down to team and individual death matches and something similar to Battlefield's rush mode. With a more stately pace than most shoot 'em ups, healing and playing your part in a team are at least as important as accuracy and a fast trigger finger. Although unlikely to unglue the masses from Call Of Duty or next week's awesome giant-robot game, Titanfall, this is a fun multiplayer shooter that won't emotionally scar your children.
Google is celebrating International Women's Day with a homepage doodle featuring footage of women from around the world including the education rights campaigner Malala Yousafzai and the British businesswoman and charity worker, Camila Batmanghelidjh.The search engine's creative team put together the doodle, which features 27 female chromosomes and a video package with the faces of more than 100 women as well as a musical soundtrack from the Belgian-Congolese vocal group Zap Mama. Others who make an appearance include the President of Lithuania, Dalia Grybauskaitė.The doodle was designed by Google with the intention of providing "a glimpse" of what some women across the world are doing and to focus in a positive way on their lives.International Women's Day has been observed since in the early 1900s, a time of turbulence in the industrialized world that saw booming population growth and the rise of radical ideologies. The first National Woman's Day (NWD) in the US was observed across the United States on 28 February, 1909.Clara Zetkin, a German Social Democrat, tabled the idea of an International Women's Day in 1910 during an international conference on women's rights in Copenhagen.The day is being marked in a variety of ways in countries around the world, from Afghanistan to Zambia. In the UK male presenters are to be banished from BBC Radio 1 for 39 hours this weekend to celebrate International Women's Day.
The Japanese government has declared bitcoin a potentially taxable entity in its preliminary analysis of the currency.In its statement, released March 7, the government cites 11 different laws and regulations to conclude that bitcoin is not a currency or asset covered by conventional trading laws.It also concurs withthe assessment delivered by US Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen in Februarythat trading in bitcoin does not legally overlap with banking, nor is the currency a financial instrument.The government leaves open the possibility that bitcoin can be taxed under income, corporate or consumption tax laws, however, and it restates that money laundering regulations can cover the currency.Japan’s assessment of bitcoin was prompted by the collapse of the Tokyo-based MtGox bitcoin exchange,which closed its website in late Febrauryand declared bankruptcy shortly after.In the company’s “application for commencement of a procedure of civil rehabilitation” – the Japanese procedure analogous to bankruptcy – it declares that around 850,000 bitcoins, belonging to users and Mt Gox itself, “had disappeared”.But members of Reddit’s bitcoin subforum discovered a transaction, dated Friday, of 180,000 bitcoins – worth around £70m –which appears to be linked to Mt Gox. The money comes from four bitcoin wallets, each of which have been inactive since 2011, and each of which is linked through a chain of transactions to a wallet known to be held by Gox. The movement of the money suggests a resoluton of sorts may be close at hand.•MtGox CEO speaks out
The 1TB drive on my Windows 7 PC is over 90% full, and a bit of housekeeping will only delay the inevitable. Also on the home network are a couple of former XP machines now running Windows 8.1 (used by my daughters for homework), various mobile devices (mostly Android), a smart TV, Raspberry Pi etc. My main concerns are adding more storage capacity and automating backups, as I am not good at doing that regularly. I’m not really bothered about media streaming, but may want to do that in the future.The obvious solution seems to be to add a NAS, which could be done fairly cheaply using something like the D-Link DSN-327L, but I’m also wondering about the Home Server option – something like Asus Home Server.IainA NAS (Network Attached Storage) box is not only the obvious solution, it’s the best solution. I wouldn’t recommend buying an Asus Home Server or similar device at this point, though current users have no need to change: it’s exceptionally easy to use. The first problem is that Microsoft announced that Home Server 2011 would be the last. The second problem is that Microsoft dropped a feature everyone liked, which was the ability to expand a Windows Home Server by plugging in external hard drives.A NAS is basically a computer with the slowest processor and smallest memory that the manufacturer can get away with, but has bays to hold from one to four hard drives. Most run a small version of Linux because it’s very reliable, runs on cheap ARM chips, and is free. The NAS connects directly to your Wi-Fi router, not your PC, and is always on. Everyone in the house can load, stream or store files when they need them, usually via Wi-Fi.When you buy a NAS, you’re paying for the box, processor, memory, disk controllers and software. Normally, you’d buy one, two or four separate hard drives to slot into the empty drive bays, depending on how much storage you need. Every NAS should come with software that can automatically back up PCs. But remember, it’s only a backup if you have at least two copies. If you are buying a NAS to free up space on your main PC, then you will only have one copy, and you will need another backup.What about RAID?A long time ago and far away, mainframes and minicomputers used very big, expensive hard drives. Someone had the idea of replacing them with arrays of small, cheap hard drives designed for personal computers. The drawback was that these cheap drives were relatively unreliable, and if you were installing 40 or 80 at a time, one or two would fail. If failures interrupted the server or lost data, that was very bad news indeed. The solution was to mirror data between pairs of drives, or stripe data across multiple drives. That halved the storage capacity, but it didn’t matter because cheap is cheap. The result was RAID, for Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks.However, I don’t think RAID is suitable for home users.The first problem is that RAID is a way of keeping servers running: it’s not a backup system. If a member of your family accidentally deletes the 500GB folder of irreplaceable home movies, then the NAS will merrily delete the same folder on the mirrored drive to keep them in sync. The only advantage of a RAID 1 mirrored backup is that your data survives if one of the hard drives fails, which is just the same as having a backup on a much cheaper external hard drive.The second problem is that RAID means putting all your eggs in one basket, which is the worst way to back stuff up. If your NAS gets fried by a freak power overload, nicked by a passing thief or goes up in flames with the rest of your house, then you have lost your originals and the backups simultaneously. When devising a backup strategy, think about storing files on different devices, or different media (DVD or Blu-ray?), in different places. For really important data, you should have a backup “off site” or in the cloud.Buying a boxWhen it comes to buying a box, Synology is a specialist NAS supplier and has the best reputation at the moment, along with QNAP. Its products are not the cheapest, but they are not particularly expensive either. The entry-level Synology DS214se 2-Bay Desktop NAS Enclosure currently costs£120 at Amazon.co.uk, and you can add a 3TB WD Red (not Green) OEM hard drive for £95.99. A more powerfulDS213Jcosts £180. You cancompare different modelson the Synology website.I hadn’t heard of the D-Link DSN-327L until you mentioned it, and it is remarkably cheap –£53.48 at Amazon– though it only has an 800MHz processor and 128MB of memory. It’s one of number of devices offering “home cloud” services to consumers – Western Digital owns the My Cloud name, while LaCie uses CloudBox – and will probably do all you need. However, the reviewer atExpert Reviewsstill reckons Synology is a better buy.PC Pro‘s top pick is the Synology DS214play, which has an Intel Atom and USB 3.In general, a more powerful NAS is needed to handle more simultaneous users, including media streaming, background torrenting or even hosting a website. You may not need these features at the moment, but you have enough devices to generate demand.How big a NAS do you need? The rule of thumb is to add up all the storage on all your family’s devices – PCs, tablets, smartphones etc – and double it. That’s the minimum. However, you can skip that and just decide how many 3TB drives you need. They only cost a little more than 2TB drives, and they are more reliable than 4TB drives. Also, 4TB drives don’t work in all NAS boxes, and that includes the DSN-327L. I suspect you’ll need two, but only just, so 6TB will give you plenty of headroom.There are alternatives to buying a NAS. For example, you could build one yourself, or re-purpose an old tower PC that has enough bays to hold several hard drives. You can use free software such asAmahi,FreeNASorOpen Media Vault. Indeed, you could even use an old Windows PC, accessing shared folders with software such asES File Explorer for AndroidandRDP. However, you won’t save much money, and usually the running costs will be higher, because they consume more power. On simplicty, convenience and price, the off-the-shelf NAS is hard to beat.
Photographers are up in arms about a decision by Getty Images to makethe bulk of its collection available to embed online free of chargefor non-commercial bodies.Participation in the scheme is mandatory for all of Getty Image’s contributors, with the exception of those who contribute to the elite Reportage by Getty Images and Contour by Getty Images.Users of the new embed tool can take almost any photo in Getty’s vast library of more than 30m images and post it free of charge on social media, without fear of litigation. The tool supports Twitter and blogging platform WordPress from launch, but Getty has plans to introduce others in the immediate future.It’s a huge repositioning from the company, which had previously developed a reputation for being litigious about unlicensed use of its photography,suing groups such as churches, charities and small businesses for infringement.Benji Lanyado, founder of image marketplacePicfair, says Getty’s motivation is clear. “People who were previously not paying for Getty images, and were never going to… now do not need to pay for Getty images. Instead of chasing infringers, Getty is offering them a deal.”Because the tool requires Getty code to be placed on the website the photo is embedded into, it also opens up whole new avenues of monetisation for the firm. The company has already been working with start-ups such as Kiosked, a Finnish firm which has the technology to turn any image into a clickable advert, enabling viewers to, for instance, purchase the dress Kate Middleton is wearing.But it hasn’t announced any such plans at the moment. And that has raised the ire of the photographers who ultimately supply all of its images.“It’s going to put people out of work, without the shadow of a doubt,”Jeff Moore, chairman of the British Press Photographers’ Association, told trade magazine BJP. “The first ones to fall will be small and independent freelancers and smaller agencies that are relying on small Internet sales.”Lanyado agrees, and has written an open letter to photographers in the wake of the deal, warning them to be wary of middlemen like Getty.“Getty was one of the big agencies that was helping the creative industry in trying to make the internet work, making it pay, and they decided to go into the opposite direction,” Moore continued. “This is a massively cynical move from Getty.”But the deal has downsides even if the user isn’t a photographer. Getty’s terms and conditions for those using its embedder are broad. The company “reserves the right in its sole discretion to remove Getty Images Content from the Embedded Viewer,” which Lanyado interprets to mean “they can disappear at any time, and/or be overlaid/replaced with adverts.”“If the bloggers take the deal, they are accepting a chunk of Getty real estate that will live on their site forever,” he adds. “What today is an image, might be an advert tomorrow, or simply nothing at all.”But Getty needn’t even go that far. If it manages to sink its hooks in across the social web, the company will be in possession of a whole new source of valuable data about how and when people use and share images. Combined with the power it already holds in the commercial photography market, it puts Getty in a unique position to entrench its domination.Getty’s CEO, Jonathan Klein, says that “innovation and disruption are the foundation of Getty Images”.“We are excited to open up our vast and growing image collection for easy, legal sharing in a new way that benefits our content contributors and partners, and advances our core mission to enable a more visually-rich world,” he adds.“Image agencies have progressively alienated their lines of supply for around a decade now,” Lanyado concludes. “The little guy – the photographer – is forgotten about. Images should be affordable, but they should not be free, and photographers should be able to control the prices.”•Is a picture really worth £1,000? A church and small businesses are just some of those accusing picture agencies of using heavy-handed tactics
The Last of Us, Naughty Dog’s hit for the Playstation 3, will be made into a movie.Neil Druckmann, the game’s creative director, will write the script, while Naughty Dog’s co-presidents Evan Wells and Christophe Balestra are signed on to the project as creative architects,reports Deadline Hollywood.“When I saw the quality of the storytelling, I knew the audience for this project was far greater than just the gaming community and that Neil Druckmann must write the screenplay,” said the president of Screen Gems, Clint Culpepper, who will be distributing the movie. Sam Raimi will also be involved in the movie, working under his Ghost House Pictures production company.The game chronicles the battles of Joel and Ellie, his 14-year-old companion, to survive in a post-apocalyptic world where half of humanity has been turned into shambling monstrosities by a fungal infection. It sold 3.4m copies in its first three weeks, and eventually stayed at number one in the UK sales charts for six weeks.Critics praised it for its “epic” story and the “well-drawn” relationship between Joel and Ellie, with the Guardian’s Nick Gillettdescribing it as“a memorable experience, its poignancy haunting you long after its denouement”.•Will we ever have love affairs with video game characters?
Thousands of the world’s security professionals, most of them middle-aged white males, gathered in San Francisco last week for the annual RSA Conference.Traditionally, it’s the time of year vendors hawk their gear in halls containing a perturbing whiff of ammonia, research announcements provide relief from the festival of commerce, and government mandarins hobnob with corporate types - all with the implied intent to work together to protect people’s data.Yet 2014’s event was always going to be a bit different. RSA, the security company hosting the event, had to defend itself against criticism over an alleged $10m deal with the National Security Agency (NSA) to include flawed encryption in its products.The company’s chief, Art Coviello, outright denied any wrongdoing, saying RSA was only following advice given by the US government’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).RSA’s excuses have convinced some onlookers, others remain sceptical. But the organisation that took far more flak this week was the NSA itself, which had its own booth on the trade floor, albeit a considerably plainer one than the surrounding neon-clad stalls of commercial firms.There was one criticism, amid the understandable ire around the damage done to global privacy, which stood out: that the NSA’s mass spying had perversely made life easier for digital criminals.Data sharing in dangerCross-border data-sharing mechanisms - a critical part in both online and non-internet crime investigations - have come under threat since the Edward Snowden leaks. Even though information-sharing deals covering banking and airline passenger data just about survived calls to suspend them, the Snowden files have caused problems for collaboration between public and private bodies.The heightened tensions lie not between law enforcement agencies, but between police and other organisations that potentially hold valuable information for investigations. “The impact is more [with] third parties giving more consideration to sharing their data with agencies or other departments,” said Charlie McMurdie, formerly the head of the defunct Metropolitan Police Central e-Crime Unit and now senior crime adviser at PricewaterhouseCoopers.“This can have a negative impact on law enforcement ability to respond to or progress investigations, but on the positive side [this] has also made third parties think more about where their data exists, security and sharing protocols, which isn’t a bad thing.”A recent European Commission report on trust between the US and the EU following the leaks last year said: “Information sharing is … an essential component of EU-US security cooperation, critically important to the common goal of preventing and combating serious crime and terrorism. However, recent revelations about US intelligence collection programmes have negatively affected the trust on which this cooperation is based. In particular, it has affected trust in the way personal data is processed.”Discussions are ongoing about an umbrella agreement covering law enforcement data sharing, with much talk of the need to ensure safeguards are in place, with “strict conditions”.The US government has already seen the impact. In response to a Guardian question on the effect of Snowden’s revelations on data sharing, Phyllis Schneck, the chief cybersecurity official at the US Department of Homeland Security, said the government body’s partners were “feeling it”.She said the data sharing environment had to be improved if the nation was to protect against people who wanted “to change and hurt our way of life”. “It’s so important to be able to combine what we know… We all have to make sure we get this right and we will, with full privacy and full civil rights,” Schneck said during a panel at the conference.Steven Chabinsky, former deputy assistant director for the FBI’s Cyber Division and now general counsel for offensive security firm Crowdstrike, said the information sharing problems that had emerged “have to be resolved”.Criminals learning from NSAIntelligence agency hacking techniques will also be adopted by criminals, according to security luminaries speaking with The Guardian. This has been seen in other nations in recent history.“The spear-phishing tricks we saw the Chinese secret police using against the Dalai Lama in 2008 were being used by Russian crooks to steal money from US companies by 2010. We predicted as much in … 2009,” said Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge. “A lot more people have become aware of what can be done.”Cryptography expert and author Bruce Schneier said some of the techniques the NSA used to hack routers are starting to be seen in criminal cases, amongst other attack types. Indeed, from compromises of much used but vulnerable mobile applications, to spying on people through their web cams, dark web dealers were already using the same methods as the NSA. “Today’s secret NSA programs are tomorrow’s PHD theses and the next day’s hacker tools,” he added.“The US has done an enormous amount of damage here. There is a basic level of trust that has been lost… There is a lot of international mistrust right now because the US was supposed to be a trusted keeper of everything, but it turned out they were subverting it with every chance they got. And the NSA keeps saying it’s not as bad as you think, but who the hell believes that?”The zero-day racePurposeful backdoors in security products - another revelation from leaked security agency documents - benefit all hackers. If firms have allowed for weaknesses in their product sets, they don’t just open up holes for agents to exploit, but criminals too. Organised crime groups are pumping money into hunting for such vulnerabilities, placing the everyday user at ever greater risk.Those crooks and the NSA are racing to uncover and use zero-day flaws - previously-unknown, unpatched weaknesses in software and hardware. After governments buy, discover or use these vulnerabilities, they often filter down into the wider criminal community, says Jason Steer, director of technology strategy at FireEye.“We know that governments purchase undisclosed zero-day vulnerabilities, and the providers of such zero-days such as Vupen openly acknowledge that government are big buyers of their research in text on their website,” Steer said. “All exploits have an inevitable lifecycle - from highly targeted usage to APT [advanced persistent threat] usage, then to broader cyber criminals and finally hacktivists.“Once an exploit is used in the wild, its effectiveness will drop as researchers in both the blackhat and whitehat communities discover it and learn about it. Once its effectiveness is weakened, any zero-day is picked up by the broader attacker community as this gives them an opportunity to monetise their window for a time, until the targeted software or hardware fixes the vulnerability - it’s quite simply a race.”Government malware = criminal malwareBut the NSA isn’t the only official body that is spurring on digital crime, whether willingly or unwittingly. In using offensive digital tools against one another, governments have brought about a degradation of co-operation on dealing with cybercrime, according to RSA chief Art Coviello.“The only ones deriving advantage from governments trying to gain advantage over one another on the internet are the criminals. Our lack of immediate, consistent and sustained cooperation, globally, gives them the equivalent of safe havens,” Coviello said during his keynote.And the introduction of government-owned malware on global networks only gives criminals yet more tools to play with. “The genie is out the bottle on the use of cyber weaponry and unlike nuclear weapons, cyber weapons are easily propagated and can be turned on the developer,” Coviello added.Anderson has concerns around organised criminals taking advantage. “If governments keep on giving millions of people access to this stuff, it’s only a matter of time before serious organised crime gets in there.”It’s long been believed governments across the world are paying cyber criminals to help them attack foreign entities too. While this has never been detailed, Coviello and numerous others in the security industry have claimed knowledge of it happening.This has all combined to create a chaotic, dangerous environment, where attack numbers continue to rise and aggressive, sophisticated techniques have been given a sense of legitimacy, whether the targets are governmental data or individuals’ money.“Paraphrasing a famous quote, those who seek military advantage riding the back of the tiger will end up inside,” Coviello said during his keynote. Many are now calling for the NSA and other government bodies contributing to the rise in digital crime to get off that tiger.
Spoiler alert: this article contains plot details from Batman: Arkham CityWednesday was one of those days in the video game industry where everyone simultaneously stops what they’re doing to watch the same trailer. In this case, it was Arkham Knight. Set to be the final Batman title from London developer Rocksteady Studios, the forthcoming title ends one of the defining action adventure series’ of the past decade. Not only did 2009 opener Arkham Asylum rejuvenate the super hero tie-in, it also brought both depth and accessibility to the third-person beat-’em-up genre. Alongside Christopher Nolan’s movies it explored and celebrated the dark heart of the Batman mythos. Also, it looked beautiful – as did the more expansive Arkham City follow-up.Batman: Arkham Knight – the initial trailer has already been picked apart by Bat fansNo surprise then, that the announcement of Arkham Knight has been greeted with breathless excitement – an excitement fuelled by the huge preview feature in Game Informer, the American magazine that tends to get the scoop on all such revelations. It was here that fans discovered exactly why the title will be on PC and next-gen consoles only: scale. The environment is set to be five times the size of Rocksteady’s previous game, and astonishingly, according to character artist Albert Feliu, the polygon count in one specific Arkham Knight character is bigger than that of the whole of Gotham in Arkham City. Maybe let that sink in for a minute, because it sounds preposterous.Anyway, according to Warner Bros, Batman: Arkham Knight’s plot picks up after the events of Batman: Arkham City, which cancels out the rumours circulating last year that Rocksteady was about to create a Silver Age Batman game. It also means that The Joker is dead, having succumbed to blood poisoning from the Titan formula. While comic book villains have a long and time-honoured tradition of coming back from the other side, Rocksteady’s Creative Director Sefton Hill confirmed at Arkham City’s launch that the clown prince of crime is gone for good – at least in the Rocksteady canon. The game’s other two antagonists, Hugo Strange and Ra’s al Ghul, also met with sticky ends, so presumably the Arkham City prison project has fallen apart.The Scarecrow and Mrs QuinnThere’s no word on who is providing the voice that hisses “abandon this city, or I will unleash your greatest fears,” at the start of the trailer, but since fear is basically Dr John Crane’s calling card, it’s clear that Scarecrow is the game’s lead antagonist. The seeds for this were laid in Arkham City; players who searched the game’s map extensively may have found an Easter Egg in the form of a boat, which contained an Arkham inmate driven mad by fear. They’ll also have found a shipping manifesto addressed to Crane listing several containers (contents unknown, but we’re betting it was fear gas). Indeed, the Game Informer Arkham Knight piece states that Scarecrow has discovered a new strain of the fear toxin and is threatening to gas the city resulting in a mass evacuation. This premise seems to be illustrated by some of the scenes in the trailer, which shows the streets of Gotham plunging into chaos, gang members roaming the streets and the Gotham City cops on the run, outnumbered and outgunned.It’ll be interesting to see which other members of Batman’s rogue’s gallery will take centre stage. The trailer shows Two-Face, The Penguin and Harley Quinn – and according to Game Informer, Troy Baker, Nolan North and Tara Strong-Charley will lend these characters their respective voices once again. The article also states that Wally Winghert will return to voice The Riddler and Kevin Conroy who voiced Batman in both Rocksteady’s games and the Batman animated series from the 1990s, which be on vocal duties once again for the caped crusader.Who else can we expect? Rocksteady is likely to keep quiet until the E3 exhibition in June, but anyone who played through the studio’s last game will remember that Batman had two unresolved encounters in Arkham City. The first was with the mysterious Azrael, who made a brief appearance if the player solved a series of etching puzzles. The second was with the masked killer, Hush, who evaded capture after the player tracked him to his macabre lair.Rocksteady has also confirmed that the game will boast a brand new arch rival that the studio has created from scratch with the help of DC Comics – this apparently, is the Arkham Knight of the title. Speaking to Game Informer, game director Sefton Hill said, “[the villain] is definitely a formidable foe for Batman.” Could this be a rogue vigilante or some wraith-like evil manifestation of the hero? Is this Batman’s Venom? The trailer doesn’t give us much, apart from a shadow.“It’s the car, right?”Along with his new enemy, Batman will have a new mode of transport in the form of the Batmobile, which features an array of special moves and a remote control feature allowing players to call it from any place in the city. For this reason, the urban layout has been widened, allowing for more vehicular action; Batman can apparently even eject from the car at speed, soaring into the air and zooming over the rooftops.This may well turn out to be a controversial addition. Part of the appeal of Rocksteady’s games has been the claustrophobic intensity – the way that Batman is trapped in these shadowy Gothic spaces with the scum of the city. It felt sort of symbolic of the character, apparently free to roam a whole city, but really trapped within its darkest haunts, with the criminals he stalks. Furthermore, travelling around open cities (especially those bereft of pedestrians) can often become tiresome, as players seek out the mission hotspots and begin to resent the long drives between them. But no doubt Rocksteady has thought of all that. Hill has said, “We’re not trying to create the biggest open-world game ever. We are trying to create a really rich, vibrant, dense open world.”The trailer also shows that the free-flowing combat from earlier games has been maintained. Along with throws, counters and cape flicks, it looks as though Batman may be able to use parts of his environment to take down foes and there are reports that Rocksteady will increase Batman’s attack arsenal to include ground strikes and using enemies’ own weapons against them. We can also expect lots of new texture and physics effects thanks to the abandonment of the PS3 and Xbox 360.Most important of all – far more so than any snippets of information one can glean from the cinematics – the fact there’s a trailer in circulation means we won’t have to wait too long for Rocksteady’s culminative Batman game. There’s no release date yet, just an assurance that this is a 2014 release, which means autumn. There will be plenty more to learn about Arkham Knight before that.• Batman: Arkham Knight is due out on PC, PS4 and Xbox One later this year• Batman: Arkham Knight announced
Whenever you think the bitcoin story can’t get any stranger, it does.A wretched few months for the currency culminated yesterday inthe apparent revelation of the true identity online currency’s creator, followed by strong denials, culminating in abizarre car chaseas a media scrum pursued a 64-year-old man across the streets of California.It’s only the latest in a string of misfortunes to strike bitcoin – the first of a generation of crypto-currencies: digital coinage not backed by any government or institution.First the main marketplace for actually spending bitcoins, the Silk Road – essentially an eBay for drugs –is shut down by US authorities. In the following weeks, several similar sites were hacked or shut down.Then disaster begins to strike bitcoin itself: a string of the largest exchanges (where bitcoin can be converted to real-world currency)are hacked, andseveral shut down. Some of the survivors faceinvestigation over money laundering. The currency’s value is well down from its highs.Just as bitcoin was reaching acceptability, attracting investment from major Silicon Valley players, and talk of “legitimate” services, the currency is back in crisis. Lots of fixes are being discussed, but almost never sensibly.The biggest hurdle facing those trying to rebuild bitcoin is a clear but rarely acknowledged truth: the coalition of bitcoin supporters is fraying. There are multiple visions of what the currency is for, and they’re mutually incompatible – and each calls for something different to happen next.The most ambitious and idealistic vision for bitcoin is the one that seems to have been shared by its earliest supporters: a libertarian currency beyond the reach of government or regulators. The supply of bitcoin is fixed, meaning no government could ever tinker with it – preventing the monetary policies which so influence the dollar, euro, and every other global currency.Similarly, the anonymous nature of bitcoin made it perfect for those wary of government interference, whether people simply hoping to buy some MDMA for the weekend, launder cash, avoid an oppressive regime, or just prove government isn’t a political necessity.To these initial true believers (or ne’er-do-wells, depending on your point of view), to make bitcoin respectable by falling in with regulators and government is to undermine the point of the currency. Here, the solution has to reside in technology: more secure wallets, clever tricks to make institutions trustworthy, and more. But for others, the case isn’t so clear.Perhaps the most cynical view of bitcoin is as a get-rich-quick scheme: the latest in a long line of Ponzi schemes or commodity bubbles – a 21st-century version of theDutch tulip mania.Such a view isn’t entirely baseless: while currencies vary in relative value, rapid changes are generally a very bad thing – and bitcoin in a few short years has fluctuated from being worth less than $1 to more than $1,000. Perhaps more surprising still, more than half of the total holdings of bitcoins lie in the hands offewer than 1,000 accounts. The top 1% is alive and well in the brave new world.For such people, the substantive future of bitcoin hardly matters. All that’s important is making sure enough suckers think they’re worth a fortune until you sell.There’s a more subtly opportunistic play taking place with bitcoin, though, and this is where the big-name and respectable players are: people trying to use the currency as a Trojan horse to fight the existing banking sector.There’s nothing Silicon Valley likes doing more than “disrupting” existing industries, whether that’s AirBnb taking on hotels or Uber going head-to-head across the world with taxi firms. But in practice, such efforts revolve at least as much around finding ways to circumvent (or simply ignore) existing laws and regulations as huge technical innovation: build a tech, roll it out, discover it breaks existing law, then blame the council/city/government for holding back the progression of history.Bitcoin is a handy way to extend this kind of “disruption” to banking. Services aiming to reduce the cost of sending money overseas more cheaply, for example, don’t need bitcoin at all. But saying your service is based on it gives you a chance to ride the hype machine – and perhaps even to turn a blind eye to some cumbersome and costly anti-money-laundering policies. And that saves a buck or two.It’s this camp that’s got the most to gain by making bitcoin respectable, and bringing regulators in a little – but not too much. Almost no services in this area tally whatsoever with the potential (for good or evil) of a stateless currency – here the stakes are more around quicker, easier, cheaper ways to move money around. All potentially to the good, but hardly revolutionary.No sensible conversation about saving or sinking bitcoin, then, can take place until people have the tricky one they’re skirting: what, exactly, do we want it to be?Whatever bitcoin really is, and whatever the right answers are for what should happen next, one thing’s for sure: chasing a Japanese man in a Prius isn’t going to tell anyone anything.•Is Bitcoin about to change the world?
Iain Cook, Martin Doherty and Lauren Mayberry have come to understand that new technology plays plural fundamental roles in a band like theirs. That said, there aren't all that many bands like Chvrches, whose three members quickly dispel the preconception that all songs begin with a thoughtful loner behind a pencil and a piano."Coming to practice with a song already written is banned," says Doherty. "The interesting thing about this band is that it's not one person's individual input that matters, it's what happens in the studio when everyone's together."According to Cook, it is during this primary collaborative stage that technology plays its first part. "We're inspired by pieces of technology. If we get a new synthesiser or a new drum machine or a certain sound, it can trigger off the momentum for a whole stream of creative ideas that we might never have thought of if we were just sitting with an electric guitar. The more new stuff we have in the studio, the better, because we have a broader palette to start from."Mayberry brings an open mind to the four potential additions to that palette: "Different things work for different people, and if this stuff helps more people to enjoy playing and writing music, that's great."1 AlphaSphereAlphaSphere.A spherical midi-controller covered with tensile, circular pads. Programmable to provide an infinite variety of loops, samples and software instruments in a single manual interface.alphasphere.com, from £678.90Mayberry"It looks cool especially with the lights going, but it would be hard to find your way around it on stage because it looks and feels the same all the way round. It seems lovely but I'd rather use a keyboard."Cook"The latex sensors remind me a bit ofVideodrome, the scene where the face comes through the TV. There is a skinlike, organic feel to it which is oddly satisfying, but at the same time it looks really dated."Doherty"I can see that, if I devoted the time to it, there could be some glory in the AlphaSphere; it could be useful as a control surface for clips, like a spherical Launchpad and the midi clock is pretty clever. Someone who spent the next two years mastering this could end up doing something really impressive. But it's not me. Having said that, give it six months and there'll be a band of four people who just play AlphaSpheres at the front of the stage."Mayberry"And we'll be the old people who didn't understand."VerdictVisually stimulating but possibly gimmicky.2 SkoogSkoog.A spongy cube aimed at newcomers to music and those less able to play traditional instruments. Five coloured pads control numerous software instruments, while an accompanying app teaches songs.skoogmusic.com, £499.95Cook"This seems to work like a different-lookingGuitar Herocontroller..."Mayberry"Which isn't necessarily a bad thing. I've been trying to teach myself guitar for the longest time and I can't get beyond a certain level of crapness. But I'm really good atGuitar Hero, so if there was a way to getGuitar Heroto actually teach you the guitar I would absolutely do that. It reminds me of the Jibber Jabber, that toy from the 90s with a big plastic head and the long neck which you shook to make a noise. I understand the importance of toys that make sounds and are tactile things as well, and in that context, or as an educational or therapeutic tool, I would vote for it. A way of understanding music that's based on colours and visual markers is often more approachable to people than a treble clef and a bass clef. Having that kind of visual reinforcement is useful in an educational context. Notation is pretty impenetrable and we know lots of great musicians who can't read traditional notation."VerdictEffective as a learning tool, less so as an instrument.3 SeaboardSeaboard.A full-sized stage piano whose rubbery, pliable keys respond to minute variations in the fingertips, allowing advanced dynamic expression.roli.com, £1,200Cook"Oh wow! It circumvents one of the major problems of the keyboard really, which is that you're playing on a grid. With this, you can play in between the notes. It's all black, which would make it hard to play if it was dark on stage – you'd have to put Tipp-Ex on all the sharps and flats – but some really nice thought has gone into it. I think there's room in the marketplace for things that are slightly changing the established hardware and things that are completely revolutionary. Maybe the key to an instrument like this is not to think of it as a piano at all, but even so it's an evolutionary instrument that I can see having real impact."Doherty"The aftertouch doesn't really blow me away – assignable aftertouch has been going on in synthesisers for a long time. But if there are infinite parameters that can be assigned to this controller, then we might be going somewhere much more interesting. This has by far the most real-world potential. It could be really amazing."VerdictA possibly much-needed evolution of the traditional keyboard.4 DeltarDeltar. Photograph: Sophia Evans for the ObserverA 12-stringed acoustic instrument in the shape of an irregular triangle-based pyramid. Supposed by its inventor to be acoustically superior to ordinary, pear-shaped stringed instruments.suzukimusic.co.uk/deltar, £1,499Mayberry"I'm not sure it would fit into a conventional band setting, but the resonance on it is really nice. The top end actually sounds less shrill than some guitars; it's quite warm. There's a Scottish guitar player guy who makes a lot of rhythm loops by banging on his guitar. Maybe he could use this, or Bon Iver on his next record? Or maybe it would be perfect for us, if only we understood it a bit more. Sound guys would hate us though."Cook"The Deltar looks like the kind of thing you'd see in a Bill and Ted movie where they travel back in time but still have to play heavy metal. Maybe it's brilliant; there was a man called Harry Partch who built a whole suite of strange musical instruments. They didn't really catch on but he was a genius. It does sound nice, don't get me wrong. I just don't really see the market for it."Martin"I really disagree with what Iain's saying. I mean, it looks terrible – worse than a keytar – but it gets really interesting when you let it ring out: it sustains way longer than a guitar. I think maybe it's a studio instrument, something you could use in a single context, maybe a folk album. Or Natasha Khan could get away with this. But I think if you used it on stage you'd have to hide it so you looked like less of a beamer.VerdictLute-meets- Flying V. Strangely ornamental, sounds good.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFBI believes small Pennsylvania hosting company is connected to Silk Road &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe newly published documents (which are dated from September 2013) specifically mention JTAN, a small hosting firm based in Easton, Pennsylvania that accepts payment in Bitcoin and previously offered “Privacy Services.” It also sells its services via anonymous accounts.Bitcoin and anonymous accounts? They simply must be doing something bad. Well, in this case that might be vaguely true.Implosion of Bitcoin Exchange Spawns Mutant Digital Currency &gt;&gt; Wired.comAs Mt. Gox was imploding, a website sprang up, Bitcoinbuilder.com, which let steel-stomached speculators buy the rights to assets locked inside the troubled exchange. And now, there’s a new effort to turn the whole sordid mess of IOUs into a brand new digital currency. It’s called Goxcoin. And according to Adam Levine, one of the backers of the proposal, they let speculators and Gox customers create a market for assets lost inside the company. Basically, if you’re freaked that the bankruptcy courts will never recover the money you stored in Gox, you can sell Goxcoin. And if you think those funds will eventually be recovered, you can buy Goxcoin.People will buy anything these days, even virtual currencies based on trapped virtual currencies, apparently.Judge Denies Apple Request to Ban Samsung Products &gt;&gt; WSJU.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who presided over the original trial between the two technology giants in their patent litigation that began in 2011, completed a $929.8 million damages award to Apple, according to court documents filed with the U.S. district court for the North District of California on Thursday. Samsung said it would appeal the amount of damages, noting it is “based on erroneous calculation methods.”Close to $1bn, Samsung might feel pretty aggrieved. Still, compared to Samsung’s marketing budget that’s just a drop in the ocean.High-res display processing company Pixelworks reveals Apple as major customer &gt;&gt; AppleInsiderIt’s unknown exactly what Apple has purchased from Pixelworks, but the company makes video and pixel processing semiconductors and software, benefitting from high-resolution screens like Apple’s Retina displays. Pixelworks says it delivers its technology as IP cores, semiconductors, software and custom ASIC solutions, allowing its customers to “deliver the highest video quality in a multitude of applications and form factors.”What has Apple bought here? New GPU tech, or maybe something to refine its retina display-equipped laptops?ComiXology Discovers Security Breach, Says Payment And Password Info Is Secure But Requires Reset &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe blanket password reset is being called a “precautionary measure” by the ComiXology team, which does still acknowledge that an “unauthorized individual” accessed a database containing ComiXology account holder usernames and emails, in addition the encrypted passwords associated with those accounts. The digital comics seller is also recommending that users modify their passwords on other services, too, if they were using the same or similar ones around the web.If there are accounts with data or potentially credit cards attached there’s a will to hack them.‘Wello’ iPhone case can track your blood pressure, temperature and more &gt;&gt; EngadgetCalled Wello, the case has sensors built in that can give you a picture of your overall health after holding it a special way for just a few seconds. The slim device measures your heart rate, blood pressure, temperature, and blood oxygen levels and displays the ECG waves from your heart you can even test your lung function through a small included attachment you blow into.You’re holding it wrong. Either that, or you’re technically dead.Squidge-droids maker updates iRobot for SUCK, SCRUB action &gt;&gt; The RegisterAt first glance, the Roomba 880 and Scooba 450 that iRobot CEO Colin Angle gave El Reg a sneak preview of appeared pretty much the same as previous models. However, there are significant changes in just about every respect but you’ll have to flip them over and take them apart to see where all the work has been done.It’s all new, honest.Former bank websites put to ‘sinister’ use &gt;&gt; BBC NewsAlmost 3,200 US banks have shut up shop over the last decade, according to the research by Prof Tyler Moore from the Southern Methodist University in Dallas and Prof Richard Clayton from the University of Cambridge.About one-third of the domains the banks used, 1,030 sites, have now passed into the hands of people who are abusing their formerly good reputation, found the research.Careful who you attempt to bank with, you might catch something nasty.You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Dorian S Nakamoto, the Japanese-American man named as bitcoin inventor Satoshi Nakamoto, has denied any link to the digital currency amid a farcical media chase through Los Angeles.Nakamoto, 64,disputed a Newsweek cover storythat on Thursday unmasked him as the “father of bitcoin”. His denial cast doubt on a putative scoop the magazine used to relaunch its print edition.Nakamoto made the denial in an interview with the Associated Press after a day of near-slapstick scenes in which dozens of journalists pursued him and an AP reporter through the city, provoking a social media storm. “I got nothing to do with it,”he said.It remained unclear whether Newsweek had got the right man – the enigmatic, anonymous architect of the troubled currency – or committed a credibility-shredding blunder.A media posse continued seeking Nakamoto on Thursday night after he left the AP office in downtown LA where he and the reporter had sought refuge earlier in the day.On Friday morning the plot thickened when apost by “Satoshi Nakamoto”appeared on the P2P Foundation’s Ning page saying: “I am not Dorian Nakamoto.” The post appeared in the same discussion thread where a person going by the name Satoshi Nakamoto first published the idea of bitcoin in February 2009 – the TechCrunch blog said the P2P foundation had confirmed the latest message was from aposter with the same email address.The Newsweek story, written by Leah McGrath Goodman, named him as “the mystery man behind the crypto-currency” which exploded in popularity in 2013 and supposedly made its founder worth $400m.During a recent encounter at the doorstep of his modest two-storey home in Temple City, a suburb in the San Gabriel valley, he tacitly acknowledged his role, said the report. “I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it,” it quoted him saying. “It’s been turned over to other people. They are in charge of it now. I no longer have any connection.”That version wobbled when Nakamoto told AP he had never heard of bitcoin until contacted by Newsweek three weeks ago.The confusion was the latest twist to bitcoin’s rollercoaster fortunes. After hitting a peak of $1,200 last year it tumbled to $130 last month after its most popular exchange, Mt Gox, collapsed. It was rebounding this week and valued at $665 on Thursday despite another scandal involving the bank Flexcoin. Detractors have accused bitcoin of facilitating drug smuggling and money laundering.Satoshi Nakamoto, a name attributed to the currency’s founder, was widely deemed a pseudonym for an elusive, genius hacker. Numerous media organisations tried and failed to find him.Dorian S Nakamoto, named by Newsweek as Satoshi Nakamoto. Photograph: Damian Dovarganes/APNewsweek, a venerable but struggling brand that had dropped its print edition in 2012, returned to newsstands this weektrumpeting its 4,500-word story under the headline “Bitcoin’s Face”.The article quoted his brother Arthur saying Nakamoto, born in Japan, was a bit eccentric, gifted at mathematics, had worked for defence and electronics companies and had a penchant for model trains.It said he graduated from California State Polytechnic University and changed his name to Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto in 1973, from which point he signed his name Dorian S Nakamoto.Within hours of publication dozens of journalists camped outside Nakamoto’s door, ringing the bell with no response, until their silver-haired, bespectacled quarry, dressed in a grey sports coat and striped shirt, emerged and said he wanted someone who spoke Japanese and would buy him lunch.“I’m not involved in bitcoin. Wait a minute, I want my free lunch first. I’m going with this guy,” Nakamoto said, pointing at an AP reporter. “I’m not in bitcoin, I don’t know anything about it.”Cameras followed as the pair headed in a Prius to a sushi restaurant. When reporters intruded they left and drove downtown, the pursuers tweeting all the way and making comparisons to the OJ Simpson highway chase in 1994.Twitter exploded in glee and indignation via the hashtag #bitcoinchase, some people enjoying the spectacle but others critical of what they called media hounding.A fake account, @DorianSatoshi, made jokey comments along the way. “Speeding west down the 10. I feel like this is going to end badly.” And: “So many offers for free lunch. Looks like this bitcoin thing is paying off for me after all!” Later: “Ugh. AP journo isn’t even asking me questions. He’s just pitching his idea for APcoin.”The pair took refuge in the news agency’s downtown headquarters, leaving a media mob outside. In AP’s report, published late on Thursday, the alleged currency mastermind said his English was imperfect and that the Newsweek reporter misinterpreted him when he said was “no longer involved in that”.“I’m saying I’m no longer in engineering. That’s it,” he said of the exchange. “And even if I was, when we get hired you have to sign this document, contract, saying you will not reveal anything we divulge during and after employment. So that’s what I implied. It sounded like I was involved before with bitcoin and looked like I’m not involved now. That’s not what I meant. I want to clarify that,” he said.McGrath Goodman, who spent two months researching the story, responded that she stood by her version of the exchange on his doorstep. “There was no confusion whatsoever about the context of our conversation – and his acknowledgment of his involvement in bitcoin.”
With his creative partner Trey Parker, Matt Stone created both the enduringly popular adult cartoon seriesSouth Parkand the smash-hit musicalThe Book of Mormon.Pairing boyish, gross-out comedy with biting parody, they are two of the darkest satirists in US media.Working with video-game developer Obsidian Entertainment, Stone has spent the last few years both writing and overseeingSouth Park: The Stick of Truth, a game that's far from the usual throwaway licensed cash-in. Instead it's an interactive extension of theSouth Parkuniverse, with the same shocking and irresistible sense of humour.Here he talks about comedy's ever-expanding boundaries and the challenges of writing for interactive rather than passive comedy.Most licensed video games are farmed out and there is precious little involvement from the people who created the brand. Why did you and Trey involve yourself so closely with theSouth Parkvideo game?We did do some cheap licensed games when the show first came out 15 years ago. I think they were on the N64 [Nintendo console] and they stank. We didn't like them. That's why we haven't done one since.We like video games and it's one of those things that matters to us. Doing a big show there are a lot of licensed products that you have to live with that aren't your favourites, like T-shirts and stuff; that's the deal with the devil.But when it's a real thing like a video game, it's different. It was the disappointment with the older ones that made us think, OK, if we ever do it again, we have to do it right, or at least intend to do it right, and when the PS3 and Xbox 360 came out we started talking about it.We could finally do the graphics in a way where it looked like you were in the show.Why do you think people are more discerning about games now than they  used to be?It was a real learning process doing this, because when you putSouth Parkon TV, it's basically free. You're watching commercials, but you turn it on and there it is. For a video game it's very different. People are spending $60 – or, in the future, when it's in the bargain bin, more like $10 – but for most people it's a big purchase that you might forgo something else to afford.And even apart from money, it's also a time investment. I don't start a video game until like three people have told me it's amazing, because I don't want to get three hours into a game and have it stink.I think the way people consume video games and how expensive they are makes it a different contract with the audience. It was the same withBook of Mormon - people are coming to the theatre, they're driving there, they're dressing up sometimes.It's a lot of money – it has to be on a different level because people consume it differently.An image from South Park: The Stick of Truth, an interactive extension of the South Park universe.WhenSouth Parkfirst hit TV there was a huge moral panic around the show - 17 years later, how has the American public's conservatism changed? Are there things you could make jokes about then that you can't now?No, it's all the other way. It's crazily more permissive than when we started. The standards were much, much higher when  we started out.You go back and watch the first season ofSouth Parkand it's pretty slow and not the best written and junky-looking, but it would almost play on Nickelodeon at this point.There are dirty words but, conceptually, we couldn't have covered the material that we do now. And yet, in the first year, that's when we were getting all the calls from the network and we had to fight for it, and that's when we were on the cover of magazines that said: "Don't let your children watch".It's hilarious, people would probably show it to younger kids now. I think things have loosened up and, generally, I think that's pretty good. It's a lot of the reason why television has become so dominant right now.Part of it is proliferation of channels and being able to do more shit on American TV. Look where theBreaking Bads of the world go now.That would not have been a mass-marketed thing back in the 90s.In Europe and Australia, some scenes in the video game have been censored.I was told that Australia has different standards. They have their own ratings system, as does Europe, so I was told that we had to submit it for ratings and they come back and tell you this will pass, this won't. Ultimately, the full version of the game is in North America, so at least that version is out there, but anywhere it's censored [in the other version], we just put in little black cards explaining what has happened.It's not that big a deal. It doesn't change things that much, but we weren't going to change the game downwards somewhere and just not tell anybody. You'll see how ridiculous that is.How do you feel about that?It does feel like a double standard, a little bit. We weren't willing to change the content, but also it doesn't ruin the game – it's like 40 seconds' worth of the whole game. As long as we could make a joke out of the fact that they made us cut this, that was fine.On TV only one episode ofSouth Parkhas been censored. Would you have had to censor the scenes in the game for TV? Do you think that people feel differently about the same content when it's in a game?There is an interactiveness that makes it different. In movies and television you can do stuff that's morally grey very easily, because you get to show consequences, you get to show reward, but in a video game there's a reason why everything is a Nazi, zombie, or alien - these are pretty clear moral choices.There are things that make people more uncomfortable in an interactive world, definitely. But that said, what we had in the game, we could have shown  that on TV pretty easily, especially now.Have the challenges of writingStick of Truthgiven you an insight into why games traditionally haven't been very good at comedy?A lot of comedy is timing and it's hard to control comic timing in an open world where you're not in control of when the joke happens. It's not really a writer's medium, because you can't write and mould and change on the fly like you can in a live show. Timing is one of those things that's pretty crucial to comedy and pretty hard for video games.Do you think that American comedy  has become more permissive during the 17 years thatSouth Parkhas been on air?There were always theRichard Pryorsand theMonty PythonsandEddie Murphys.People have done raw comedy for a long time. That kind of comedy always existed, but it is easier to find on TV and in our living rooms now. But then, so is pornography.Maybe it's a technology thing as much as anything, but I do think American TV has opened up hugely to a lot that it wouldn't have been tackled a decade ago or two decades ago.The big great shows that everyone loves now are more adult-orientated – they're more free with language, and it's just great.The Stick of Truthwas released on 7 March for Playstation 3, PC and Xbox 360
It's Friday.
The former Telstra director Bill Scales will audit the process that led to Labor’s National Broadband Network policy and the establishment of NBN Co, the communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, announced on Friday.Scales, who also served as chairman of the Productivity Commission, “brings a wealth of experience in public policy and telecommunications to the role”, Turnbull said.The audit’s terms of reference stretch from April 2008, when former the communications minister Stephen Conroy issued a request for proposals for an NBN solution, up to May 2010, when the NBN implementation study was released.In particular, it will examine “the origin and basis for NBN Co’s mandate to run fibre to the premises (FTTP) to 90% to 93% of Australian premises” and “the approach taken in regard to obtaining cost benefit or independent reviews of the project”.The Coalition has been critical of the cost of FTTP, and after coming to office in September 2013, scrapped it in favour of using a mix of technologies, including fibre, copper and coaxial cable, depending on what is “most economically efficient” in each area, Turnbull has said.In a statement, Turnbull said that Scales would consult “legally available information”, ruling out access to the previous government’s cabinet documents. The Abbott government has come under fire forhanding overLabor cabinet documents to a royal commission into 2009’s home insulation scheme, breaking a tradition that such documents should be kept secret.The audit, which will report by 7 July, will run alongside other inquiries into the NBN policy, including a review into NBN Co’s internal governance and a cost-benefit analysis of the project. Two other inquiries announced by the government, a strategic review of the NBN and a survey into broadband quality around Australia, have been completed.A spokesman for Jason Clare, Labor’s shadow communications minister, said Turnbull “seems to have an unhealthy obsession with Stephen Conroy, and fighting old wars. The people of Australia want him to build the NBN, not play politics.”
Getty Images, which holds one of the largest photo collections in the world, has changed its rights policy as a reaction to uncredited photo-sharing becoming increasingly straightforward.Getty announced on Wednesday that it is removing watermarks from 35m images in its photo collection, and making those photos free for non-commercial use. The photos will incorporate an embed tool that includes photographer attribution and a link back to Getty’s home site starting on Thursday.The company said these policies make it easier for people to share their photos on social media and personal blogs.Traditionally, any organization that wants to use other people’s photos must pay for rights. But thanks to screenshots and image downloading functions, it’s become easy – and increasingly common – for any organization or individual to capture a Getty photo without paying for rights.Craig Peters, Getty’s senior vice-president of business development, content and marketing,told the British Journal of Photographythat technological developments moved the company to make this decision.“What we’ve seen is a significant amount of infringement online in an area, unfortunately, that we can’t control, because this is how the internet has developed,” Peters said. “What we’re trying to do here is to put a legal method in place for that to happen and that actually benefits our content owners.”Websites that generate revenue are not necessarily considered commercial by Getty, meaning blogs that use Google Ads and news sites can legally use the free images as long as they aren’t used to promote or advertise products and businesses.In October 2013, a US federal jury ordered Getty and Agence France-Presse to pay $1.2m to photojournalist Daniel Morel after the agencies used photos from his personal Twitter account.
Britain's flourishing crowdfunding industry has lashed out at regulators, claiming it would be damaged by rules published on Thursday that aim to prevent ordinary investors spending more than 10% of their savings buying shares in peer-to-peer funded companies.TheFinancial Conduct Authority(FCA) has moved to protect investors and stem the flow of cash from small savers towards crowdfunding platforms, which raise £1,700 an hour in the UK for fledgling businesses.From 1 April, investment in companies who raise funds on sites such Crowdcube by offering shares in ventures to investors will be restricted to savers advised by professionals, linked to corporate finance or venture capital firms, or those certified as sophisticated or high net worth. Savers who do not tick one of these boxes will have to sign a statement saying they will spend no more than 10% of their assets – excluding homes and pensions - on crowdfunding in any given year.Barry James, founder of theCrowdfunding Centre, said the rule would lock ordinary investors out. "Make no mistake, the infamous 10% rule, however it's dressed up, takes the crowd out of equity crowdfunding. Over the centuries Britain has led the world with inventions and innovations – and then thrown away that lead."The rule change will not affect some of the better known sites such as Kickstarter and Indiegogo, which do not offer shares in ventures but instead ask for donations.The French government last month relaxed the rules around this new form of finance, saying ventures could raise up to €1m (£827,951) per campaign per year without having to notify the financial markets authority, a higher ceiling than the previous €100,000 limit.Stephen Hazell-Smith, a fund manager and architect of the Aim alternative investment market, said: "Last week the French regulator threw open the doors to its adult population to invest in equity crowdfunding as it pleases. How absurd to have the French beating us in a sector where we have the infrastructure in place to lead the world."Peer-to-peer lending and crowdfunding is booming in the UK, with money pouring into projects including thePebblesmartwatch, theUbuntu Edgesmartphone and theOculus Riftvirtual reality gaming headset. British investors provided £480m in loans and bought £28m in unlisted securities in 2013, up 150% on the previous year.Female entrepreneurs have been particularly successful in sourcing funds online, with 40% of all campaigns that reach their goal led by women, according to the Crowdfunding Centre, a higher rate than is found in traditional venture capital or angel-backed projects.The FCA says the 10% rule only applies to the first two times a person invests. After that, individuals can self-certify as experienced investors by filling out a form. It argues the new rules protect the vulnerable, such as young and elderly people and those with learning difficulties, who may be "more susceptible to the emotive advertising highlighting the social benefits" of a venture. The FCA also believes younger investors may be "more susceptible to social network promotion platforms"."Consumers need to to be clear on what they're getting into and what the risks of crowdfunding are," said FCA policy director Christopher Woolard. "Our rules provide this clarity and extra protection for consumers, balanced by a desire to ensure firms and individuals continue to have access to this innovative source of funding."
There’s an interesting question that reverberates through the history of game design – and will only become louder in the next generation era. It is a question about story and agency, narrative and gameplay, it is about the notion of freedom within ever larger virtual environments. The question is this: how does an open-world game tell a story that resonates with every player when one of the strengths of this genre is that it offers us infinite opportunities to mess with the narrative?On the last gen, noble protagonists would often become psychos in the hands of players. In LA Noire, you were supposed to be a cop solving a series of murders, but you could also mow down pedestrians with reckless abandon. Players who did this should have seen their version of Cole Phelps banged up in the same padded cell as the murderer he was putting away, but no – the game carries on regardless. Some insiders almost apologetically refer to this phenomenon as ludonarrative dissonance – the mismatch of story and gameplay. The only open world games to successfully navigated the grey area between agency and narrative have done so by either embracing the tendency of players to behave like sociopaths (Prototype, Grand Theft Auto 5) or by playing everything for laughs (the Saints Row franchise).The future of freedomIf the next generation of open-world games are to truly move the genre forward, they will require next gen thinking and this can’t just come in the form of power trip stories, increased environment space and online modes. Since open-world games are largely character-driven, at some point developers are going to have to try and take a stab at marrying the concerns of their game’s plot with the fact that the player is entirely off the leash.Watch Dogs may not solve this problem wholly, but it makes a square go of it. It doesn’t cage the player, but it doesn’t let them off, either. Instead it allows you to plough through the environment like a combine harvester, while hurling moral fishhooks into your face.Hacking systems will be a key element of the game, but how about social engineering?It’s been a while since we last heard from Ubisoft on its ambitious cyberpunk thriller, so here’s a re-cap. In an alternative version of modern day Chicago, the covert activities of a vigilante named Aiden Pearce have taken a rather personal toll. Pearce has graduated from adolescent street thug to keyboard warrior; his hacking and social engineering skills ensured he made plenty of underworld contacts, while his aptitude for antisocial behaviour have driven him towards a multitude of clandestine activities and scams.Unfortunately, the latter have resulted in a group of heavies coming after him, and ultimately, the death of his niece. Pearce is now out for revenge against forces that are still bent on his destruction. Driven by guilt and a primal need for survival, Pearce sets about tracking down those who have spread misery and pain into his life.People as objectsYes, this premise sounds like fairly standard stuff in video games – a damaged antihero raging against the machine – but in the case of Watch Dogs it’s necessary to put players in Pearce’s headspace. Since he’s a hacker, Pearce is very used to regarding pretty much everyone in his immediate vicinity as simply a means to an end or… well, nothing. People are non-entities on the other end of a Wi-Fi connection. On top of that, Pearce is single-minded when it comes to his goals and he possesses a sort of ethical tunnel vision when it comes to accomplishing them.In other words, Pearce’s mind-set bears a stark similarity to that of your average player. Everything’s permitted because nothing is real. People are pixels. Violence is a tool. Any altercation resulting in the death of an innocent doesn’t matter, because they weren’t real people to begin with.Pearce’s attitude allows the player into his head. But don’t think that the developers let the player off that easy. As they wander through the game’s open world map – a rather realistic representation of the Windy City – players can activate the Profiler feature on Pearce’s phone, which sucks in the data from the smartphones of any NPC in his vicinity.In future open-world games, will players have to be more mindful of how they treat non-player characters?This is useful for gathering resources, since snatching bank details and social data out of the air is as easy for Pearce as breathing. However, he also picks up personal details of the people around him. A woman battling bipolar disorder, a man embroiled in a vicious custody battle with his ex-wife, and the concerned aunt of an abused child are simply three examples plucked out of the datasphere in Watch Dogs. As the NPCs become small pockets of humanity, the developers prick the conscience of each individual player. They don’t allow participants a complete abdication from responsibility for Pearce’s actions. If you’re going to mug this guy on the street, what will happen to him and his family?That may not concern you and Pearce can be as violent or as heartless as the player likes. But in the end, it seems that the way people play Watch Dogs will say a lot about their moral fibre – or lack thereof. True, it doesn’t look as though there will be gameplay consequences to wanton destruction, although there is a reputation gauge that changes depending on every action. But perhaps that’s part of the evolution, freeing player morality from the simple “gamified” systems we’ve seen in the likes of Fable and Dishonored. It’s difficult to truly express your own moral countenance when there’s a potential scoring system to worry about.Snuff movie moralityIn many ways, Watch Dogs’s open world structure and its mechanics are similar to those in the Grand Theft Auto franchise. Players are able to buy weapons, hijack cars and cause all manner of freewheeling mayhem that will attract the NPC cops like moths to a floodlight. But the deal it strikes with each individual player’s morality is more reminiscent of another Rockstar Games title: Manhunt.Like that controversial snuff movie sim, Watch Dogs presents players with the choice to be merciful, often to the protagonist’s monetary detriment. But Manhunt’s torture porn pact only ever involved a choice on a scale of brutality visited on loathsome killers. Over the last generation, the evolving concept of agency has brought in more profound moral conundrums that have really pushed the concept of narrative and culpability to breaking point. The Last of Us, Bioshock Infinite, Walking Dead – all asked questions of us, that the plot couldn’t always accommodate. It’s a healthy problem to have. It means games are growing.In Watch Dogs, player empathy is a factor in peripheral activities as well as the main storyline. The developers are teasing players to emotionally invest in the transitory background characters as well as the star cast members. It seems Watch Dogs is a universe in which randomly slaying passers-by is as likely to lead to guilt as it is to glee. It’s the kind of next-gen thinking the open-world genre – indeed, games development as a whole – requires.•Watch Dogs is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 27 May. A Wii U release is as yet undated•Watch Dogs – preview
Music streaming service Spotify has announced that it will acquire The Echo Nest, a Massachusetts-based music data firm, for an undisclosed sum.The Echo Nest’s core product is a database of the characteristics of 30m songs, put together automatically through a mixture of techniques.As well as music fingerprinting – recognising and naming songs by listening to them – the information the company holds can be used to do things like music recommendation, playlist generation and data feeds.Thecompany also provides hooks to developersto let them use their in independent applications, while licensing their technology to larger clients including MTV and the BBC. Its music hack days have resulted in the creation of a number of popular services, from Paul Lamere’sInfinite JukeboxtoThis Is My Jam, which was spun off as a separate company in 2013.As part of Spotify, The Echo Nest’s technology will be used by the Swedish firm to drive its music discovery features, and help partners build new music experiences. The service will remain free and open for external developers, and Spotify says that the developer community is “crucial to the success of both Spotify and The Echo Nest and will remain a priority for the combined companies”.“We’ve been fans of The Echo Nest for a really long time and honoured to have their talented team join Spotify,” added Daniel Ek, founder and CEO, Spotify.Jim Lucchese, CEO of The Echo Nest, said that “since founding The Echo Nest, Brian Whitman and Tristan Jehan have created a company completely and beautifully obsessed with understanding the world of music to help fans discover more music”.“Joining forces with Spotify gives us the opportunity to continue doing so as part of the fastest-growing service in the world; we’re thrilled to be part of a team equally as passionate about connecting more people with more music,” he continued.Spotify’s acquisition reflects its growing strength in the digital radio market, which is itself increasing rapidly; in the US, digital radio ad spending increased 26.3% in 2013 to reach $1.65bn, according to stats from eMarketer, even while conventional radio ad spending dropped 1.2% in the same year.•Spotify app Guilty Pledgers raises money for charity from cheesy tunes
Satoshi Nakamoto, the creator of Bitcoin, is reportedly a 64-year-old Japanese-American man who lives in California, makes parts for model steam trains using computer-aided design, and has spent the past few years battling ill-health, first prostate cancer, and later a stroke.And,according to Newsweek reporter Leah McGrath Goodman, his name really is Satoshi Nakamoto.Nakamoto, Goodman discovered, had changed his name in 1973 to Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto and now signs it as Dorian S Nakamoto. Goodman searched for all Satoshi Nakamotos “both dead and alive” in North America and beyond for one that matched the profile. But when she found DS Nakamoto, he was unwilling to confirm or deny his involvement with the cryptocurrency directly.Despite discussing his steam train hobby with her, he “ceased responding to emails I’d sent him immediately after I began asking about bitcoin,” Moore writes. And when she goes to meet him “he looks down, staring at the pavement and categorically refuses to answer questions”.Faced with his lack of co-operation – and a denial, passed through Nakamoto’s son Eric – Moore cites circumstantial evidence to back up her claim. Nakamoto is a libertarian, “very wary of the government, taxes and people in charge”, according to his daughter, who taught his children to “not be under the government’s thumb”. And in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, he worked as a software engineer for the FAA, doing “very secret” security and communications work.Some in the bitcoin community are wary of the claim – and the desire to uncover Nakamoto in the first place. Bitcoin’s lead developer, Gavin Andresen, who is quoted extensively in the piece,says he is“disappointed Newsweek decided to dox the Nakamoto family”, and that he “regret[s] talking to Leah”.Members of the BitcoinTalk forum, the semi-official home of the community, responded with disbelief. “The article presents ZERO evidence that this guy named Satoshi Nakamoto is the inventor of Bitcoin... NewsWeek is going to get burned on this...,” said one user, while another echoed comments on other forums that “unless he can do a signed transaction from an address known to be that of the originator of bitcoin,” then they wouldn’t believe the story.•Bitcoin bank Flexcoin closes after hack attack
If you've always had a soft spot for Simba, then Mara, the real-life star of theDisneynaturefeature filmAfrican Cats, will melt your heart. But how are these majesticanimals brought to the big screen? And what goes on when the cameras are off? Now is your chance to find out.Lifting the lid on wildlife filmography,African Catswriter and director Keith Scholey will be presenting a peek behind the scenes of the film's productionon 20 March. And as former head of the BBC Natural History Unit and producer of some of the best-known natural history programmes on TV, includingBig Cat Diaryand David Attenborough'sThe Private Life of Plants,Scholey is no stranger to capturing footage of both flora and fauna.Taking place in Claverton, Bath, the event is run by Tusk, a charity dedicated to the conservation and protection of Africa's astonishingwildlife. If you're wild to hear more, then enter our competition to win two tickets to the talk. Email the correct answer to the following question to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk before 12 March, with your postal address and phone number. What is the collective noun for a group of lions? One lucky reader will be picked at random from the correct entries. For terms and conditions see the online version of this article at http://gu.com/p/3na4z.1. The Win a pair of tickets to the talk The Secrets of Filming African Cats competition' (the "competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM", the "Promoter" or "We"), their group companies or family members, TuskTrust, their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected with the competition.3. Entry into the competition is deemed as acceptance of these terms and conditions.4. To enter the competition you must email the correct answer to the question above to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk, together with your name, telephone number and postal address. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the competition, please email us at tech.monthly@observer.co.uk with The Secrets of Filming African Cats Competition in the subject line.5 Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your competition entry to us.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The competition closes at 23:59 on Tuesday 11 March 2014. Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. One winner will be chosen from a random draw of correct entries.9. The winner will receive a pair of tickets for the Tusk Trust talk The Secrets of Filming African Cats taking place at Wessex Water Headquarters, Claverton, Bath BA2 7WW on 20 March 2014 from 6.30pm (the "event").  More details of the event can be found here: http://www.tusk.org/the-secrets-of-filming-african-cats.asp.  GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize including, without limitation, travel to or from the event, accommodation and/or meals.10. The winner will be notified by email by GNM on or before 13 March 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. Due to the time limited nature of the prize, if the winner does not respond within three days of being notified, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner (and that winner will have to respond to the email from GNM within three days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If a winner rejects their prize, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be sent to the winner by GNM by 19 March 2014.12. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.13. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.14. The name and county of the winner can be obtained after 20 March 2014 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Observer Tech Monthly, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The winner may be required for promotional activity related to the Competition and each winner shall participate in such activity on the Promoter's reasonable request.15. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 14 above.16. No purchase necessary.17. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury as a result of its negligence.18. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition.19. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into.&nbsp; GNM reserves the right to discount entries if it suspects fraudulent bulk Entries or multiple entries have been submitted to inappropriately influence or manipulate the selection of the winner.20. GNM &nbsp;shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any othe circumstances amounting to force majeure.21. The competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.22. Promoter: Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
Navigating Inle Lake:'Peaceful navigation on Inle Lake, Myanmar'. Photograph: Piccia Neri/GuardianWitnessRed East Morning:'A brilliant dawn breaks on the horizon far out in the open Atlantic as the ship slowly trundles east'. Photograph: Rubbermaid/GuardianWitnessPosition check:'Confirming our location in the Austrian Alps'. Photograph: rob85a/GuardianWitnessA load of hot air:'I was fortunate enough to go on safari in the Masai Mara for the migrations last summer. We never did do the early morning balloon ride although it certainly woke us up each morning. It seemed such a fantastic way to experience the plains and stunning sunrises. I sometimes envied the gracefulness by which they navigated the park whilst our Land Cruisers jolted over the rough terrain!' Photograph: rouleurmatt/GuardianWitnessThe Useless Signpost:'Me and my dad were walking from Teggs Nose in Macclesfied and got a bit lost. Walking down a country lane we stumbled on this sign, which made us both chuckle for a while, but didn't help our cause one bit!!' Photograph: Barneybard/GuardianWitness…IT WAS WET!…'I took this photo on a research trip to Vietnam. It is taken at a village (in Vin Bao area) near between Hanoi and Hai Phong. I have more photos of the area'. Photograph: kavehblacksmith/GuardianWitnessNavigating the old way.Photograph: Sameer Raj/GuardianWitnessChecking the GPS between South Georgia and Tristan da Cunha:'In 2006 I made a trip with the 3-mast barque "Europa" from Ushuaia to Antarctica and from there to South Georgia, Tristan da Cunha and Cape Town. During the ocean passage we practised astro navigation'. Photograph: JacSpaans/GuardianWitnessOne way:'Local maintenance men repainting road markings in our apartment complex Beijing'. Photograph: billy109/GuardianWitnessTrig point, England:'At the top of Scafell'. Photograph: Jim Barter/GuardianWitness
The sound and smell of sizzling bacon might be the pinnacle of early-morning iPhone alarm clocks wake up calls … or just a way to torture yourself on a wet weekday morning.Meat producer Oscar Mayer has created a small iPhone accessory that plugs into the headphone jack and emits the sound and smell of bacon sizzling in the pan on demand to rouse the slumbering.“With nearly 2m mentions of #bacon on Instagram, it seems people never get tired of bacon,” said Oscar Mayer’s senior director of marketing and advertising Tom Bick. “Oscar Mayer is thrilled to bring the first-ever bacon-scented mobile device to market, giving bacon aficionados a new reason to welcome their morning alarm clocks.”The novel alarm clock is probably the greatest achievement bacon-technology blending, but sadly it will not be available to purchase. The only way to get a Wake Up and Smell the Bacon device is to enter Oscar Mayer’s competition in the US.“Only this scent can guide you to your greatest awakening,” said Phil Roudenbusch, head of the Oscar Mayer Institute for the Advancement of Bacon. “Experience bacon with all your senses. Like the deepest root, like the stormiest ocean, it’s briny cure endures. Bacon exceeds everything you ever imagined.”Oscar Mayer might not be the first toproduce a scent-emitting iPhone accessory, but with bacon-lovers everywhere salivating at the thought, it could turn out to be the most popular.• Oral B’s smarttoothbrush lets dentists spy on your brushing
The latest Google Doodle celebrates the birthday of Victorian poet Elizabeth Barrett Browning. She was one of the most highly regarded poets of her era and, unusually for the early Victorian period, arguably outshone her husband, a fellow poet.According to the Poetry Foundation, "An example of the reach of her fame may be seen in the influence she had upon a recluse poet who lived in the rural college town of Amherst, Massachusetts. A framed portrait of Mrs Browning hung in the bedroom of Emily Dickinson, whose life, she said, was transfigured by the poetry of 'that Foreign Lady'." Many other writers, including Edgar Allan Poe, have credited her as an inspiration for their work.Born in Durham in 1806 to a family of plantation owners, Elizabeth was the oldest of 12 children and soon came to despise the slavery her family depended on.It was a work entitled Poems, published in 1844, that brought her to the attention of Robert Browning, six years her junior. The letter he wrote congratulating her on her work was the first of 574 that passed between them over two years.The pair moved to Florence, where they lived out most of their married life. Elizabeth died, aged 55, in 1861.
The road to this summer’s World Cup in Brazil is a thoroughfare pockmarked with uncertainties. Will the fans be safe? Will the stadiums be finished?Mercifully, one element of the tournament that isn’t up in the air is its official videogame. One can state, without doubt, that it will be completed on time.As has become traditional, the game is being developed by EA Canada, and is an offshoot of the all-conquering FIFA series. But this year, there is a rather strange twist: despite the incredible commercial and critical success of FIFA 14 on the most recently released consoles, the World Cup title is exclusive to PS3 and Xbox 360.There’s only one place we can begin, then, when sitting down with line producer Matt Prior, and that’s by launching a studs-up tackle towards the elephant in the room – the lack of PS4 and Xbox One versions.   “We have a certain amount of development resources we can put towards the game, and we ultimately want to get it to as many people as we possibly can,” he says. “Right now, that means Xbox 360 and PS3 only. The reach of those consoles is currently greater than that of the PS4 and Xbox One, particularly in Latin America – and to have alienated the host nation wouldn’t have been good.“But I do think our game holds up against PS4 and Xbox One games, and in this instance it’s a disappointment that the newer consoles aren’t backwards compatible. There will be an offering for next-gen guys through Ultimate Team, which we’ll talk more about at a later date.”Simulation and innovationThankfully, he’s not wrong about the game holding up well. After a day spent playing it at the Electronic Arts UK headquarters in Guildford, I can confirm that while it lacks the polish of ”new” FIFA, it still does a sterling job of recreating the tournament in virtual form, and – crucially – contains innovations that will surely carry over to FIFA 15 acrossallformats. “Nothing we do is throwaway,” says Prior. “It’ll all roll into future iterations.”On the field of play, some of these improvements are animation based – attackers cleverly adjusting their feet to caress airborne passes delivered behind them in a single movement, defenders clambering on and over forwards to head balls clear – while others concern AI. Back fours are noticeably more compact, no longer offering oceans of space for wingers to cut into, and players both accelerate and decelerate with more verve than in previous outings. “We wanted players who reacted more explosively to your controller inputs,” explains Prior.Also reworked are penalties, which EA felt were too difficult for the casual players who make up 50% of the target audience for this particular game. Now they’re harder to miss – stop the needle in the green part of the accuracy meter and you’re guaranteed a shot on target – and more fun for the keeper, too. Each face button corresponds to an action that the netminder can trigger during the run-up: on PS3, Circle points towards a corner, Cross provides Grobbelaar-esque jelly legs, Triangle gets the keeper to wave his arms around, while Square seemingly has him pretending to hold a cape out for an imaginary bull. They’re ultimately pointless, like taunts in a fighting game, but fun all the same.The USA team lines up in one of the game's accurately modelled stadiumsIt adds up to a much more action-packed, and therefore often frantic, experience than last year’s Fifa 14 – whichever console you played it on. But while the gameplay can be described as arcade-esque, the trimmings surrounding what happens on the pitch are anything but. Prior’s team has gone to the usual lengths to ensure that you really feel part of the summer’s footy frenzy, with the game packing in all 203 teams from the qualifying stages, made up of 7,469 players – all of whom have their names in the game. “We got poor old Clive Tyldesley to sit in the studio and record every last one,” reveals Prior. “I felt for him when he got to Madagascar and Burkina Faso.”Matches take place at all 12 stadiums from this summer’s World Cup, and a few other big ones are in there, too (Wembley, Amsterdam Arena, Santiago Bernabéu, Stadio Olimpico to name four), in case you wish to replay a team’s entire qualifying campaign. Once dropped into a stadium for a match, you’re treated to the customary shots of supporters partying both in the stands and, in a neat touch, at ”fan fests“ back in their country of origin.   “We’ve got those ‘crowd at home’ scenes for every team in the world, with fans watching and reacting accordingly,” says Prior. “For the bigger sides they take place at unique landmarks: The Colosseum, Trafalgar Square, Brandenburg Gate, Champs-Élysées and so on.” With one very noticeable exception, however. “We couldn’t show the Eiffel Tower because that’s architecturally licensed. The whole thing is a bit of a minefield. We had to pick and choose dependent on lawyers.”Talk radioAlso adding to the tournament atmosphere are two talk shows which you can select to accompany your qualifying or finals campaigns in between matches. Andy Goldstein and Ian Darke front EA Sports Talk Radio (see what they’ve done there?), while the Men In Blazers station features two Brits (one Liverpool fan, one Chelsea) who have made a name for themselves across the pond with caustic input to NBC’s soccer coverage. Their inclusion is intended to work on two levels: by giving you instant feedback on recent results, and adding an extra dazzle of magic to the illusion that you’re part of a national side playing in a major tournament.I’m surprised by how well this feature works. In my five hours with the game, I hear no repetition whatsoever from the talking heads. While playing a finals campaign as Brazil, there’s a surprisingly in-depth preview of the game with Cameroon, followed by a humorous monologue from Darke on how to pronounce the Fluminese attacker Fred’s name. Men In Blazers serve up similarly entertaining opinions, for instance selecting Manuel Neuer for their World Cup Ultimate Team on the basis of his ability to stop referees giving goals in World Cup knockout stages using his mind. FIFA games aren’t exactly known for hilarity, so these shows are a very welcome change of tone from the brain-breaking Europop dirge found in EA’s club football game year after year.Ultimate exclusionOn the subject of Ultimate Team, it’s conspicuous by its absence given the manner in which the card-and-coin-collecting mode dominates modern Fifa titles. Again, Prior has a clear explanation: “We looked at Ultimate Team and decided against including it. For one, 50% of our users are brand new to Fifa, and FUT is a more hardcore mode. Secondly, it’s a hell of a lot of work and committing resources. Bringing the UI over would have meant having to sacrifice somewhere in the region of three other game modes. It’s that big. Finally, the mechanic behind Ultimate Team is that it’s a club football thing. It doesn’t really gel with the core concept of what World Cup football is about.”In fairness, those other modes on offer are plentiful. In addition to playing through the World Cup offline from day one of either Qualifying or the Finals, you get an online World Cup against up to 32 human players, Captain Your Country (steer one player – or, with mates, a collection of players – from semi-anonymity to Maracana glory), Story of Qualifying (replay or change the course of 60 real life scenarios) and more.   Indeed, the most fun I have with the game is via Story of Qualifying, trying to replicate American Samoa’s first ever win, a 2-0 triumph against Tonga.And that, really, demonstrates the depth on offer here – while most casual players will stick with trying to win the World Cup with Brazil, Germany or (more fool them) Roy’s ”pride” of Lions, the dedicated should find equal enjoyment in a match between two nations from which they won’t know a single player. It’s of course a blow that this isn’t bound for PS4 or Xbox One. But even so, EA’s latest football offering promises a Yaya Toure-strong accompaniment to the greatest show on turf.• 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil is released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on 17 April.• Fifa 14 review
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.MetroTwit vanishes as Twitter restrictions claim another victim &gt;&gt; PCWorldIn a blog post, MetroTwit explained that it ran into Twitter’s “ access token limit,” which is Twitter’s way of making sure no third-party client becomes too popular. Essentially, more people wanted to use MetroTwit than Twitter would allow.Twitter wants people to use its own mobile apps and website, and that has a cost.Has Privacy Become a Luxury Good? &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIn our data-saturated economy, privacy is becoming a luxury good. After all, as the saying goes, if you aren’t paying for the product, you are the product. And currently, we aren’t paying for very much of our technology.Quite.Microsoft’s Nadella Manages Legacy of Ballmer-Board Split &gt;&gt; BloombergThey were frustrated by his tendency to talk more than listen, the people said, and his reaction to the pushback on Nokia was for some the last straw. The board rejected the first deal as too expensive and complex, including not only the handset division but also a mapping unit Microsoft didn’t need. Even without maps, Fitch Ratings called the price “excessive” in a note yesterday, citing a deterioration in the user base for Windows-based phones.Nokia was apparently the straw that broke the camel’s back. If you were in any doubt whether Steve Ballmer was pushed or not, that should clarify things.Samsung ‘Galaxy Glass’ wants to turn your hands into an augmented reality keyboard &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintSamsung appears to be working on an augmented reality keyboard that virtually projects letters on to a user’s fingers for typing. This not only reveals a new input method but also adds weight to the rumour Sammy is working on a set of “Galaxy Glass” smart glasses.A keyboard projected onto your fingers sounds like one of the most fiddly things to use in existence. It could answer the problem of how do you enter text into your smart wearable when you don’t want to seem like a burke talking to something strapped to your face.EE rolling out even nippier LTE-A to whole of London &gt;&gt; RecombuAs if the rest of the UK didn’t hate London enough already, we’re now treating the M25 like a massive data moat. EE is rolling out its super-nippy LTE-A ‘4.5G’ service to everywhere inside the circular road from hell, with you Northern types having to make do with bog-standard 4G for a bit longer. So there.Hold on there, most of us haven’t even picked up 4G yet, let alone 4.5G.Samsung’s KitKat update seems to remove benchmark-boosting “shenanigans” &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAfter applying the KitKat update, none of the apps behave any differently from any other application. Most of the time, the CPU cores are running at lower frequencies, and individual cores are often turned off. While running the tests, the CPUs approach their maximum clock speeds but are allowed to fluctuate as they would under actual use rather than staying artificially inflated.Has Samsung finally realised a numbers game is pointless? It’s the experience that counts. The specifications and relatively toned-down Galaxy S5 certainly suggest so.Apple security rules leave inherited iPad useless, say sons &gt;&gt; BBC NewsAfter her death, they discovered they did not know her Apple ID and password, but were asked to provide written consent for the device to be unlocked.The issue of a digital legacy is certainly a big one. How do you pass on things that are digital, password protected or even biometrically locked when you die?San Francisco bar bans Google Glass for fear of secret recordings &gt;&gt; LA TimesA sign posted at the Willows at Folsom and 12th streets features a picture of the wearable computer with the familiar red circle and a slash over it, along with a message saying customers “have expressed concerns with being recorded while enjoying themselves.”Quite. Who wants to be caught on camera while having a drink. Perhaps they should ban mobile phones while they’re at it?You can followGuardian Technology’s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Dyson has unveiled its latest innovative fan, updating its notoriously noisy predecessor by using advanced acoustic engineering.Dyson has spent three years and £40m on the Cool fan, the update to its premium £250 Air Multiplier bladeless fans. Engineers have added a ‘Helmholtz acoustic cavity’ that mutes sound waves and makes them 75% quieter than the previous generation.“Air enters the Helmholtz cavity in the base of the fan increasing the air pressure within the cavity causing the sound energy to be dissipated and making the machine quieter,” explained Nick Schneider an acoustic engineer for Dyson talking to the Guardian.Sweeter soundsThe Cool fan is not only quieter, but in a similar way to the improvements the company made to its AirBlade high velocity hand driers, which were incredibly loud when first launched, Dyson has tuned the sound so that it is much more acceptable to human ears.“The cavity has been specifically designed with an exact geometry to target a frequency of sound at 1,000Hz, which people find especially irritating, making the sound quality – how it actually sounds in operation – much more pleasant too,” said Schneider.The new Cool fan is the product of 65 engineers working over three years with £40m spent in research and development, managing to win the Noise Abatement Society’s Quiet Mark award for technology that makes modern life quieter and less noisy.Like the Air Multiplier before it, the Cool fan hides a power-efficient electric motor in its base, which draws air in at high speed and fires it up into the main ring of the fan. The air is the projected as a constant channel of air towards the target, providing smoother cooling without the buffeting associated with regular fans.‘Hundreds of incremental changes’“At Dyson we make hundreds of incremental changes rather than one leap forward at a time,” said Schneider. “That means we produce and test hundreds of prototypes for each project. 640 prototypes from handmade models to 3D printed designs were made during the development of the Cool fan.”The Cool fan is equipped with a nine-hour timer and different power levels, operating near silent according to Schneider, at low and medium power levels.“They are extremely quiet and much more energy efficient compared to other fans,” said Schneider of the premium fans that cost upwards of £219.99 or around five to 10 times as much as simpler, standard bladed fans.• Dyson removes the problem filtersas it tries to reinvent the vacuum cleaner again
The battle for the car between Apple, Google and Microsoft has ignited this year with the launch of Apple’s CarPlay and Google’s Android-based Open Automotive Alliance.Car manufacturers are lining up behind their respective technology banners, with each one pledging allegiance to one or another. Some sit across multiple camps, but others are steadfastly pro-Apple or pro-Google, with Microsoft and the others looking like they’ve been left holding mouldy cheese.The Apple CarPlay campApple's CarPlay system being shown off by Volvo at the International Motor Show in Geneva. Photograph: Fabrice Coffrini/AFP/Getty ImagesCarPlay is Apple’s latest move into the in-car entertainment and information systems. It is an evolution of its previous car connectivity, which saw music pulled from iPods and iPhones into car stereos via the dock connector.It uses Apple’s new Lightning Connector, which means it is only compatible with the iPhone 5, 5S and 5C, but allows far greater connectivity, including the ability to power the navigation system of the car, place calls and read messages aloud as well as command the car and the iPhone via Apple’s voice assistant Siri.Apple announced the new technology at the International Motor Show in Geneva this week, along with a large list of car manufacturers which are soon to adopt Apple’s in-car systems.Ferrari, Mercedes-Benz and Volvo were the first to announce that CarPlay would be fitted to certain new cars in 2014. BMW, Ford, General Motors (Vauxhall in the UK), Honda, Hyundai, Jaguar, Land Rover, Kia, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Peugeot, Citroën, Subaru, Suzuki and Toyota, also all announced that they are working on integrating Apple’s CarPlay into vehicles further down the road.The Google campGoogle's OAA aims to use Android to power in-car information and entertainment systems.In January, Google launched its own assault on the in-car space called theOpen Automotive Alliance(OAA). As Google’s involvement might suggest, the OAA’s aim is to bring the Android platform to cars in 2014 in a meaningful way – not just installing Android from a phone into the car but to tailor it specifically to the in-car experience.“The Open Automotive Alliance is a group of leading automakers and technology companies that share a vision for making technology in the car safer, more seamless and more intuitive for everyone,” says an OAA statement on its website.The theory is that the OAA will allow car manufacturers more differentiation than many other competing systems, while maintaining cross-compatibility from a common software across different car brands.Currently the OAA boasts Audi, General Motors, Honda and Hyundai from the car manufacturers, with Google and chipmaker Nvidia from the technology industry, which means there will be a clash between the Google and Apple camps.Honda, Hyundai and General Motors are pledged to both Google and Apple, which means that models compatible with Android and the iPhone are likely from all three manufacturers, but not necessarily in the same car.The Microsoft campFord's Sync system is powered by Microsoft's Windows Embedded Automotive.Microsoft has been doing in-car technology and mobile phone connectivity since 1998, when the AutoPC was released as a joint project between Microsoft and in-car equipment manufacturer Clarion.The Auto PC evolved into Windows CE for Automotive in 2000, changing name to Microsoft Auto before being officially renamedWindows Embedded Automotive(WEA) in 2010.Microsoft powers three different car manufacturers’ in-car systems, most famously Ford’s often-clunky Sync system, which launched in 2007 and enables users to control the radio and other in-car entertainment features via voice, as well as make and manage calls on a connected phone. It is available in a range of Ford cars, including the Focus and Fiesta in the UK.Fiat’s Blue&amp;Me in-car system that connects to a mobile phone via USB or Bluetooth is powered by Microsoft’s WEA, and is available in cars from Fiat, Alfa Romeo and Lancia.Kia’s first generation of its UVO voice and touch-control infotainment system also used Microsoft’s WEA, but Kia switched to an Android-powered UVO system in 2014.The GENIVI Alliance campThe GENIVI Alliance wants to put an open-source Meego platform in cars.If having three separate camps wasn’t enough to complicate the in-car market, a separate group called theGENIVI Allianceformed in 2009 has been working on an in-car system built around Meego, the operating system abandoned by Nokia.The Alliance aims to drive adoption of an open-source development platform for cars, and was founded by BMW, Intel, General Motors and others, with Volvo, Nissan, Honda, Hyundai, Jaguar Land Rover and Renault numbered among the members.The Connected Car Consortium campA video showing a 2011 Alpine car stereo with integrated MirrorLink technology connecting to a Nokia smartphone.The final contender for the in-car space is the Connected Car Consortium’sMirrorLink, a system that displays apps and functions from smartphones on a car’s screens controllable via touchscreen or buttons.It boasts a wide range of device compatibility, with audio streaming as well as screen mirroring available for various smartphones and other devices.MirrorLink started off life as a Nokia project called Terminal Mode first presented in 2009 before being renamed MirrorLink in 2011. By 2012 the Connected Car Consortium had 56 members including car manufacturers such as General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Toyota and Volkswagen, as well as smartphone manufacturers LG, Sony, HTC and Samsung.Sony’s Xperia Z series of Android smartphones included the MirrorLink capability, but few cars were equipped with the technology, with most relying on aftermarket car stereos from Sony and Alpine to provide compatibility.Multi-campersSome car manufacturers have a finger in every in-car pie. Photograph: Linda NylindIt is unclear quite how the new in-car connectivity camps are going to co-operate, if at all. Certain cars may only come equipped with compatibility for the iPhone – others may only be capable of connecting to an Android smartphone for instance.However, a few car manufacturers sit across different camps. Ford for example, currently uses Microsoft’s systems but is also signed up to Apple’s CarPlay. Kia uses Android for its current in-car systems, but is also a CarPlay member.General Motors, which produces Vauxhall cars in the UK, is signed up to both Apple’s CarPlay and Google’s OAA as well as the GENIVI Alliance, and so are Honda and Hyundai, which means drivers might get the choice of Android or iPhone compatibility at the point of buying a new car.It is entirely possible that OAA cars could support Apple’s CarPlay as the systems currently being shown off by Ferrari, Mercedes and Volvo at the International Motor Show in Geneva run atop BlackBerry’s QNX software, which has been adopted by the automotive industry because of its history of reliability.Unless Apple specifically excludes the OAA in its licensing agreements for CarPlay, some cars could default to Android but switch to iPhone connectivity when an iPhone is plugged into the system. How that would work for the driver is unknown at this point, but either way 2014 promises the most interesting and exciting technology to hit in-car systems in decades.• CarPlay is Apple’s attempt at aland grab for the automotive market
It's Thursday.
Apple has reportedly moved $8.9bn in profits from Australia to Ireland in the past 10 years, sparking renewed calls to curb corporate tax avoidance.The Australian Financial Review has reportedthat it had obtained documents from Apple Sales International, an Irish company that is at the core of Apple’s tax arrangements, which showed the company’s estimated income from 2002 to 2013. Apple reported pre-tax earnings in Australia that totalled just $88.5m last year, but sent $2bn of income to Ireland via Singapore in the same period, according to the AFR.The shadow treasurer, Chris Bowen, said the federal government had not been doing enough to counter tax avoidance, after the Coalition announced it would not be supporting the closure of some loopholes in the banking regime.“It’s not fair to other Australian businesses that do pay their fair share of tax if some companies are able to shift profits around to avoid tax,” he said on Thursday.But the trade minister, Andrew Robb, defended the government, and said it was committed to closing loopholes.“We are very strongly committed to seeking to capture that tax which has been avoided inappropriately,” he said on ABC Radio.The finance minister, Mathias Cormann, said the government was working through the G20 to stop international tax loopholes.“Our view is – and that is a view that is shared around the world – that business should pay their fair share of tax where they earn profits,” Cormann said.Apple did not provide a response to questions about the story, but in a statement to a parliamentary oversight committee in April last year, Apple’s Australia vice-president, Tony King, said: “Our tax affairs in Australia are very straightforward.“We report to the ATO all the revenue that we derive in the Australian market. We report to the ATO all the costs of doing business in the Australian market . . . We are very open with the Australian Tax Office.“We pay our taxes when they are due, not only income tax expense but GST, ­payroll and any other tax that might be incurred in doing business in Australia.”
The US government has moved to drop key charges against the activist-journalist Barrett Brown, including the most controversial count that he transferred stolen property by posting a hyperlink to a website containing hacked material.Federal prosecutors had come under widespread criticism for seeking to prosecute Brown for the republishing of a hyperlink. Lawyers, publishers and internet freedom campaigners had warned it could set a precedent that would have put a chill on the culture of linking across the web.Candina Heath, the assistant US attorney for the Northern District of Texas, lodged in a Dallas federal court on Wednesday amotion to dismiss 11 of the 17 countsagainst Brown. The counts all related to the hack of the website of private intelligence firm Stratfor in 2011 by the hacking collective Anonymous.Brown, 32, copied a hyperlink from an internet chat room that linked to a website that contained some of the hacked email addresses and credit card details that had been unloaded from the Stratfor website. He then reposted the link on his own internet chat room, Project PM.The US government’s decision to drop counts one and three to 12 in the indictment relating to the Stratfor hack came just a day after lawyers for Brown fileda legal memorandumcalling for those counts to be dropped.Brown’s attorneys arguedin the memo that the prosecution was a violation of the First Amendment right to free speech, saying that “republishing a hyperlink does not itself move, convey, select, place or otherwise transfer, a file or document from one location to another”.Federal prosecutors have given no further information about why they decided to drop the counts, and a request for comment was not immediately returned. One possible explanation is that government lawyers assessed the steep hill they had to climb overcoming First Amendment protections and decided instead to focus on the other charges still facing Brown.The activist, who wrote for the Guardian and other publications before his arrest in September 2012, remains accused of count two in this indictment – that he committed access device fraud relating to the credit card details released in the Anonymous hack. He also faces two separate indictments, one for obstruction of justice by allegedly attempting to hide laptops, and the other for allegedly making threats in a YouTube video against an FBI officer and disclosing information about an FBI agent and his family.In total, Brown still faces a possible maximum prison sentence of 70 years, though an additional 35 years have been removed through the dismissed counts.Ahmed Ghappour, Brown’s attorney, told the Guardian: “I think the government did the right thing dropping the charges. We will continue to fight for Barrett every way we can.”Brown’s supporters hailed the dismissal of the counts as a massive victory. “The charges against Barrett Brown for linking were flawed from the beginning. In the face of a rigorous legal challenge mounted by his defense, the government has finally recognized it and signaled that this is a battle they don’t want to fight,” said Kevin Gallagher, director of the Free Barrett Brown network.He added: “Today, Barrett Brown is one big step closer to being free.”The prosecution’s case that by posting the hyperlink Brown had engaged in the transmission of stolen property had prompted widespread alarm among First Amendment lawyers, campaigners, news organisations as well as other publishers who feared it would send a chill across the internet. Kevin Goldberg, a First Amendment expert who is legal counsel for the American Society of News Editors, told the Guardian that: “If we can be held criminally liable for hyperlinking to a website, the implications are profound.”
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, Guardian tech reporterSamuel Gibbstalks toSeth Combs, founder of theSol Republicbrand of headphones, about the rise of quality high-end headphones in the consumer electronics market.Also Aleks speaks to the Guardian'sJames Ballabout a recent encounter he had with the people who hold the keys to the internet.Click here to read James' article and watch a film documenting the internet key-holders verification ceremony.Finally Aleks and Samuel are joined by Guardian tech reporterAlex Hernto discuss this week's tech news including the the rise and fall of bitcoin exchange MtGox, why Facebook bought a fleet of drones, and Google's Project Tango opens up a brave new world in 3D space-mapping technologies on our smartphones.
The Japanese cabinet is to consider how best to apply the country’s existing laws to bitcoin – with a view to taxing the currency.The authorities will look at taxing transactions, but have yet to crack the problem of bitcoin’s much-vaunted anonymity. With no central registry of ownership, it takes a great deal of effort to link a digital holding of bitcoin with an individual in the real world.“We haven’t yet thoroughly grasped the situation, but some kind of regulation is needed from the perspective of consumer protection, and we will also discuss [bitcoin] from the perspective of imposing asset tax,” said Takuya Hirai, head of an IT panel in the ruling Liberal Democratic party ahead of Friday’s cabinet meeting.In the wake of the collapse of Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange MtGox, the country’s government has been forced to reassess its earlier view,stated by its Financial Services Agency, that “bitcoin isn’t a currency … therefore bitcoin exchanges are not a subject to our regulatory oversight”.A former insider at MtGox told Reuters the exchange had repeatedly approached the FSA in the past, asking it to define the handling of bitcoin, but received no definitive answer. Last week, the FSA said it had not recently been in contact with MtGox, but did not specify whether it had ever been in touch with the company. A lawyer for MtGox declined to comment.Japan does not want to go it alone in trying to get a regulatory grip on bitcoin. Any regulation of the cryptocurrency should involve international cooperation to avoid loopholes, vice finance minister Jiro Aichi said last week.Japan’s investigation follows the clarification by the UK’s HMRC that bitcoin should be treated as a currency for tax purposes. In Britain, traders buying and selling bitcoin no longer have to pay VAT on their purchases of the currency, but are instead liable for capital gains tax or income tax if they make a profit on their speculation.It is unknown how many bitcoin traders did, in fact, pay VAT on their purchases of bitcoinbefore HMRC changed its official advice.•Bitcoin bank Flexcoin closes after hack attack
Microsoft’s rival to Apple’s Siri and Google Now – codenamed Cortana – has made a brief, unofficial debut in a leaked video.The YouTube video shows what appears to be Cortana running on a Windows Phone, including the set up routine that requires a Microsoft account and some example questions. The voice component of the incoming voice-controlled digital assistant was not present in the video.Cortana is Microsoft’s voice-controlled assistant for Windows Phone, named after the artificial intelligence character that plays a major role in Microsoft’s Xboxvideo game series Halo.The digital assistant is expected to be able to use machine learning and access to the“Satori” knowledge repositorythat Microsoft’sBingsearch engine uses for data, facts and figures.Recent leaks of the Windows Phone 8.1 software update have indicated that Cortana will be able to answer questions and display results for things like the weather, stocks and shares, as well as location-based information like mapping and places.Cortana is expected to debut on Windows Phone 8.1 around the beginning of April, but could also be integrated into Windows and Microsoft’s Xbox gaming system as part of Microsoft’s unifying search and Bing.• Apple’s Siri forms anintegral part of its new CarPlay in-car system, allowing drivers to control navigation and entertainment via voice while having messages read aloud
South Park: The Stick of Truth is a great game – that’s certainly something mostreviewers have agreed on. Developed by veteran studio Obsidian Entertainment, responsible for a range of successful adventure titles, and written by South Park creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker, it is easily the most faithful tie-in with the scurrilous animated series. But the fact that several scenes have been censored in Europe – apparently by the title’s own publisher Ubisoft – has had fans in uproar. In a game that boasts the CircumSythe as a special move, cuts are to be expected, but not those of the censorious kind. So why?Games have, of course, often fallen foul of overzealous ratings boards in the past. In the UK both Carmageddon and Manhunt 2 were threatened with bans unless graphic scenes were removed, although both were eventually released, while in Germany, the country’s own classification system, USK, comes down heavily on violent content. If there were some sort of official national censorship going on here, however, we would surely expect a hefty dose of righteous indignation from the show’s creators, both of whom have fought any interference in the TV show, most notoriously when a depiction of Muhammed was censored in the ”Cartoon Wars” episodes, despite the prophet having already appeared in the earlier episode, ”Super Best Friends“.But censors weren’t at fault for this – it was Ubisoft’s choice. Six 20 second scenes have been removed from the Xbox 360 and PS3 editions, including an alien probe and two abortion sequences. The only comment the company’s spokespeople are willing (or able) to give is that this was a ”market decision made by Ubisoft EMEA” – which isn’t particularly enlightening, especially whenthe PC version is apparently to be released uncut(at least in most of Europe – it‘s likely the German version will remain censored). When querying the reason, we were pointed in the direction of the Ubisoft and Obsidian forums, but these only had a series of posts from enraged fans, with no further engagement from either company.On Sunday,someone claiming to be the game’s producer then appeared on Redditto explain the situation, but the comments have since been removed. “Only the North/South American one is completely uncensored on every platform,” the source wrote. “The Australian one is censored on all platforms, the European and Russian ones are censored on console only, and the German one is censored on console for anal probing etc, and censored on both console and PC for swastikas, Heil Hitler arm salutes, etc. To avoid a ‘Hot Coffee’ type situation, the 20-second-or-so gameplay/cutscene is removed completely from the disc and replaced with the screen you see at the link (times six more 20-second scenes).”But that doesn’t explain much. Console releases are routinely self-censored for the German market without affecting the rest of the continent; and if this was about the depiction of Swastikas and Nazi salutes (which is illegal in Germany underthe country’s criminal code,Strafgesetzbuch, section 86a), why were the alien probe scenes edited out too? Indeed, it seems Ubisoft hasn’t even managed to remove Nazi symbolism from the censored version. PC gaming siteRock Paper Shotgun has reported that the German release of the game seems to have been delayedbecause somehow Swastikas have remained in the localised version.Also, the comparison with theHot Coffee scandalis disingenuous; that involved a game – GTA: San Andreas – being pulled from the shelves for a hidden interactive sex sequence, which was found on the disc and distributed by hackers, whereas what’s been removed here are portions of the game integral to the plot. These mini-games, as tasteless and juvenile as they may be, are entirely in keeping with the rest of the experience – and with an 18 certificate, they would not have been problematic for Europe’s video games ratings board, Pegi. Indeed, the organisation confirmed to us that it was passed uncut at 18 with the scenes intact and then, when resubmitted with the self-imposed cuts, was again passed as an 18. Pegi also made clear that it does not have the ability to censor video games nor has it ever done so – it simply rates them.Its spokesman said: ‘The game was assessed by us and deemed acceptable for a Pegi 18 rating. For some games released in the UK, we are obliged to consider UK legislation as the Video Recordings Act 2010 currently affects video games. This consideration applies to games that are likely to attain a Pegi 12, 16 or 18 rating and which may contain potentially harmful or illegal material. As there was no such issue with the game, it was duly given its Pegi 18 uncut.“Let me emphasise that we did not censor or edit the game in any shape or form. Some time later, the publisher made a decision to make alterations to the game which meant it had to be re-submitted to us as a different version. We are not privy to reasons why the game was edited and cannot, therefore, give you any other details. This version was subsequently rated 18 uncut also”.Probing the reasonsSo there seems no good reason to remove interactive versions of jokes dating back to the cartoon’s inception. The very first episode is, after all, called Cartman Gets An Anal Probe.Within the game, the cuts have been treated with the attitude fans of the series would expect. Comically explicit descriptions, apparently constructed by Stone and Parker, of what would have happened are placed over a holder card of the European flag and a face-palming statue to replace those scenes. However, it will still leave gamers and South Park fans feeling uncomfortable. It highlights the disparity in treatment between interactive entertainment and it’s non-gaming counterparts, and it seems somehow more invasive when this comes from inside the studio rather than a meddling censor or hand-wringing politician.If Ubisoft thought that removing those sequences would reduce the rating to a Pegi 16, they were wrong, so why not admit that and restore the removed content? The company must have known what it was getting when it greenlit the project, and if the cuts were carried out for commercial reasons as the terse statement suggests, it seems peculiarly wrong-headed. Leaving aside the free marketing the controversy may have stirred up, the game is aimed squarely at South Park fans and they would certainly not be shocked by anything in the missing sections.The only shock will be that two creators who have railed against censorship for the last 17 years seem happy to keep quiet now. The removal of these sections may not harm the quality of the game, but it certainly damages its integrity.•South Park: The Stick of Truth – review•Inside Pegi and why Saints Row IV won’t be banned in Britain
Roku has shrunk the streaming set top box down to the size of a USB stick that plugs directly into the television.The new Roku Streaming Stick slots into a TV’s HMDI port making any television smart and providing a full video streaming experience with access to 750 apps or streaming channels including the BBC iPlayer, 4OD, YouTube, Netflix and access to a personal videos or music stored on a smartphone or tablet computer.“Consumers want a ton of entertainment, a friendly user interface, and options to control the experience with a remote or mobile device. The new Roku Streaming Stick gives consumers more choice for streaming entertainment to the TV than any other device,” said Jim Funk, senior vice president of product management at Roku.Roku apps for Android and iPhone tooThe Streaming Stick condenses the technology of Roku’s very capable set top boxes into the much smaller, discreet stick form. It is capable of streaming TV and movies at up to full HD 1080p and is controlled by a small remote.Roku apps for Android and the iPhone are also available, allowing streaming content from a smartphone or tablet to the Stick as well as acting like a remote.Previously available in a similar form in the US that required a special type of TV, the new Streaming Stick costs £50 and will work with any TV with a spare HDMI port.The Roku Streaming Stick competes directly with the £99 Apple TV as well as Google’s $35 Chromecast, which was launched in the US in July last year but has yet to make it to the UK.• The Roku 3 streaming boxis a small, sleek and unobtrusive box, but not quite as discreet as the Streaming Stick
It's Wednesday.
