Britain spent less as a proportion of national income on research and development than the rest of the EU in 2012 despite the government's apparent innovation push to boost growth.UK R&amp;D spending overall fell 3% when adjusted for inflation to £27bn in 2012, according to the Office for National Statistics, as both government and business investment fell.It amounted to 1.72% of gross domestic product, lower than the 2.06% equivalent for the EU, and far short of the target to increase UK R&amp;D investment to 2.5% of GDP by 2014,established by the previous Labour government.The target was part of a broader plan to back science and innovation in Britain, a theme continued by the current government amid an engineering skills shortage bemoaned by Britain's manufacturers.Responding to the fall in 2012, the shadow business secretary, Chuka Umunna, said Labour's vision was for long-term balanced growth, led by innovation, to create more high-skilled jobs."Under this government, things have gone into reverse. At a time when we urgently need to see more innovation and investment so Britain can better compete, it is disappointing that R&amp;D spending fell so significantly during 2012," he said.Business spending, which accounts for the majority of UK R&amp;D, fell by 2% in 2012 to £17.1bn, while government spending dropped 8% to £2.2bn compared with 2011.The manufacturing trade body EEF said the fall in investment threatened Britain's ability to compete internationally."It is disappointing to see the latest data showing expenditure drop back by both government and business, as investment in R&amp;D and innovation is critical if the UK economy is going to compete in fast-growing markets," said Lee Hopley, EEF's chief economist.She added: "The drop in government expenditure is a particular concern, as this has a key role to play in crowding-in private-sector investment."The government should address this by cementing recent positive policy steps to boost science and innovation by ensuring support joins up at every stage, from basic research through to commercialisation. This will enable more companies to bring more products and services to market."The current government has continued to promote growth in R&amp;D as a national priority, as part of a broader and long-term aim to rebalance the economy away from a reliance on debt-fuelled spending and the financial services sector and towards manufacturing and exports.A spokeswoman for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said the government was "committed to supporting business R&amp;D", with a range of measures including R&amp;D tax credits."The government has also maintained the ring-fenced science and research budget at £4.6bn a year, and increased capital investment to £1.1bn a year," she said."Catapult centres" – technology and innovation clusters where UK businesses, scientists and engineers are encouraged to work together to turn R&amp;D into new products and services – have been created and attracted funding.The government has identified seven areas of focus for catapult centres, which are high-value manufacturing, cell therapy, offshore renewable energy, satellite applications, digital economy, future cities and transport systems.Over the longer term, the ONS research shows UK spending on R&amp;D has increased, and was 56% higher in 2012 than in 1985. Spending levels peaked in 2011 at £27.9bn, equivalent to 1.77% of GDP. However, as a proportion of national income the peak came almost 30 years ago in 1986 at 2.14%.Business spending, which accounts for 63% of UK R&amp;D, was focused on pharmaceuticals in 2012 at £4.2bn, followed by computer programming, motor vehicles and parts, aerospace, machinery and equipment, and telecommunications.
King Digital Entertainment, the London games studio behind the mobile hit Candy Crush Saga, is to make history as the most valuable British internet company to join the stock markets after pricing its initial public offering at $7.6bn (£4.6bn).The new dotcom fever, together with buoyant stock markets, have boosted King's valuation by $2bn in less than a month. At $7.6bn it will be valued more than four times higher than Take-Two Interactive, the company behind Grand Theft Auto. Analysts had valued King at $5.5bn in February, but the company said on Wednesday its shares would be priced at between $21 and $24 each.The popularity of King's confectionery-themed smartphone and tablet game will make a multimillionaire of its chief executive, Riccardo Zacconi, whose 10.4% stake could be worth as much as $745m, and chairman, Melvyn Morris, who owns a 12.2% interest. Zacconi and Morris, a former director of Derby FC, first worked together at the Midlands-based matchmaking site uDate, which they sold for $150m to Interactive Corporation in 2002.Between them, the company's 11-strong management team own shares which at the upper end of the range could be worth almost $2.2bn.Most are selling a small percentage of their holdings, although staff will be free to sell more shares six months after the flotation. No formal date has been set, but leaks suggest King will come to market on 25 March.The King pricing came as retailers Pets at Home and Poundland also debuted on the stock market. Poundland was priced at the top of its initial range, valuing the company at £750m, but the shares still soared 19%, adding £150m to the value of the business.Pets at Home performed less well, closing down 4% from its offer level of 245p. At Wednesday night's share price the company was valued at £1.2bn .The King investment is also one of the most successful ever for the British private equity firm Apax, which in 2005 invested around $63m and now owns more than 48% of the shares, making its holding worth nearly $3.5bn.King's latest filing with the US markets regulator, the Securities and Exchange Commission, reveals that a minimum of 22.2m shares will be sold in the float, raising $530m, of which about $326m will be kept by the company to invest in expanding its operations around the world. The balance will go to stockholders.It remains to be seen whether the British taxman will benefit from King's success, however, because the company moved its tax registration from Malta to Ireland last year. The role of its British subsidiary, which houses games designers and administrative functions in offices near Tottenham Court Road in London, has been defined as the "provision of management services to other companies" in company accounts.King makes its games available to download for free and most of its money is raised from purchases made during play. Millions have been persuaded to part with £1 for what are called "paid boosters" including lollipop hammers, coconut wheels and extra lives.Unlike many internet firms joining the stock market or being snapped up by bigger rivals, King has been profitable for four of the last five years, making nearly $570m after tax in 2013 on revenues of $1.88bn.New data shows that in February, 144 million people were active daily players of King games, reorganising brightly coloured sweets in Candy Crush, bursting their way through levels in Bubble Witch and sorting fruit in Farm Heroes.The games, which mostly involve making rows of objects explode by lining up three or more of the same shape or colour, have proved highly addictive with King notching up more than 1.4bn plays a day.King's valuation, which is based on 315m shares priced at $24, comfortably outstrips that of fellow games company Zynga, which was worth $7bn at its 2012 stock market flotation but has seen its fortunes go into reverse.Its opening price will mean the company is worth about half Twitter's initial valuation, but many times the previous UK record set by the demerger of internet service provider Thus from Scottish Power in 1999. The company was then valued at £2.2bn ($3.7bn at today's exchange rate), while Lastminute.com, which became a poster child for the dotcom crash, floated at £570m in March 2000.Two US private equity firms are preparing for big returns from their investments in British retailers. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts bought Pets at Home four years ago for £995m. After pricing the offer at 245p a share on Wednesday, KKR and other shareholders will pocket £210m gross from the offer, but the buyout group will retain a 46.2% stake after the flotation.Warburg Pincus, another private equity group, paid £200m for Poundland in 2010. The discount retailer's market debut will raise £375m and a maximum stake of 38%.
A newly discovered security flaw in the Android version of WhatsApp allows another application to upload a user’s entire database of chats to a third-party server, without their consent.The error stems from the Android operating system’s handling of external storage, as well as lax security standards in the WhatsApp application itself.As detailed by Bas Bosschert, a dutch security consultant, the flaw allows any Android application with access to the device’s SD card to read and upload WhatsApp’s database.“The WhatsApp database is saved on the SD card which can be read by any Android application if the user allows it to access the SD card,” Bosschert says. “And, as the majority of people allow everything on their Android device, this is not much of a problem.”Android’s part in the weakness comes from the fact that the operating system only allows all-or-nothing access to the SD card. Any application which can read and write to the external storage can thus also read what other applications have stored there.WhatsApp not only uses that external storage to hold its database, but on earlier versions of the app, does so without any encryption at all.Bosschert adds that even later versions, which encrypt the database, do so using a key which can be easily extracted from the app using third-party tools likeWhatsApp Xtract.He concludes that “every application can read the WhatsApp database and it is also possible to read the chats from the encrypted databases.“Facebook didn’t need to buy WhatsApp to read your chats.”In order to avoid the risk of having their chats stolen, users should be wary of granting suspicious apps access to the SD card; a theoretical example given by Bosschert is a Flappy Bird clone app. If the application is from an untrusted publisher, they should exercise caution over granting the permissions it requests upon launch, especially if they include access to the SD card.Opinion is split over whether WhatsApp or Android itself is more to blame for the flaw. Android’s policy of allowing total access to the SD card is at odds with Apple’s far more controlled security on iOS devices, where every app is “sandboxed” in a way that prevents others from accessing its data.That Android openness allows developers to build programs which would be impossible on an iOS device, but also opens up the risk of errors such as that which has affected WhatsApp.But this breach is the latest in a long string of security holes at WhatsApp. In October, a security researcher showed thatit was possible to decrypt messages as they were sentusing no more than data gained through eavesdropping on the WhatsApp connection.And security researchers point out that one of the flaws which enabled this latest attack has been known about for more than a year; the WhatsApp Xtract tool, used to decrypted the database, was released in May 2012.“Embedding cryptography into any product entails many subtleties, both at the granular level of code, and at the level of architecture,” explains Adrian Culley, Global Technical Consultant at Damballa. “In the fast moving world of mobile apps, advice is not always sought from skilled cryptographers at an early enough stage in development.”WhatsApp, in an FAQ on its site, says that “WhatsApp communication between your phone and our server is encrypted.”“Even though data sent through our app is encrypted,” it continues, “remember that if your phone or your friend’s phone is being used by someone else, it may be possible for them to read your WhatsApp messages. Please be aware of who has physical access to your phone.”That warning was not enough for Germany’s privacy regulators whorecommended in Februarythat users switch to a more secure service.
As comebacks go, it may not quite be up there with Elvis Presley’s ‘68 special or the forthcoming Monty Python reunion, but fans of ridiculously difficult smartphone game Flappy Bird may soon have cause for excitement.The title was nicknamed “the new Angry Birds” when it topped the Apple Apps charts in January, selling millions of downloads and becoming a much discussed cultural icon. However, developer, Dong Nguyen, withdrew his game from the Apple and Android stores in February, seemingly worried about its addictive qualities and driven to depression by Twitter insults and even death threats. Ironically, after withdrawing the game, he receivedfurther abuse and threats, many demanding that it be re-instated.But according toan interview with Rolling Stone magazine, Nguyen is considering bringing the game back – albeit with an added warning to take regular breaks. The young Vietnamese developer, who worked on a couple of games before his unexpected blockbuster says that he was overwhelmed by the success of Flappy Bird, a game in which players must fly through a series of pipes by tapping the screen to flap the bird’s wings.Some have criticised the title for its simplicity and graphical similarities to the Super Mario Bros series; others, like games designer and author Ian Bogost, havepraised its compulsive nature. Whatever the case, the return of the original will be a relief to the sorts of people who considered buying highly priced second-hand iPhones on eBay, just to experience the game’s avian delights.Since its absence from smartphone app stores,a cottage industry in Flappy Bird clones has grown up, with dozens of games sporting titles like Hoppy Frog and Splashy Fish dominating the charts. There are also versions that run on PC and Mac, includingone massively multiplayer take on the recipe. So whatever happens with the original title, we are assured of many flappy returns.•Flappy Bird creator takes down madly popular game as he had threatened• Flappy Bird is dead - but brilliant mechanics made it fly
Pressure groups China Labor Watch and Green America say Apple should stop using harmful chemicals including the solvents n-hexane and benzene in its manufacturing.But they said that they were not calling for a customer boycott of the products, and that any reports suggesting that were “misinterpretation”.The groups will call on Wednesday for Apple to “stop needlessly exposing workers in Chinese manufacturing facilities to toxic chemicals now causing severe illnesses” arguing that using those chemicals rather than alternatives saves it a “shockingly small amount of money”.“Together with Green America, we demand that Apple takes responsibility and removes chemicals like the solvents n-hexane and the carcinogen benzene, which is known to cause leukaemia providing its workers with a legal standard of welfare,” Kevin Slaten, programme co-ordinator at China Labor Watch, told the Guardian.Nerve damage, paralysis and cancerThe solventn-hexaneis used to clean electronic displays, including Apple’s iPhone. It is used rather than conventional solvents such as isopropanol or other alcohols because it evaporates around three times faster: that means washed screens are dry more quickly, so workers can clean more of them in a given period. But exposure can cause nerve damage and even paralysis. N-hexane has been blamed for a number of poisoning episodes at iPhone manufacturing plants in China.Benzene is used as a cleaning and coating agent for electronic components. But it is also a carcinogen which can cause reproductive abnormalities and leukemia.Apple’sSupplier Responsibility Reportdoes not specifically mention either n-hexane or benzene, but does state that “suppliers shall identify, evaluate, and control worker exposure to hazardous chemical, biological, and physical agents.”Apple states that “suppliers must eliminate chemical hazards where possible” and where that is not possible that suppliers should provide physical systems to prevent exposure, or “administrative controls such as safe work procedures” when physical systems are not possible.An Apple spokesperson told the Guardian that it requires all its suppliers to meet or exceed the safety standards for the handling of hazardous chemicals set by the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Osha), which is 500 parts per million (ppm) for n-hexane in general industry or 1.8g per cubic metre, and 1ppm for benzene.‘Bad Apple’Green America and China Labor Watch will hold a “Bad Apple” press conference at 1730GMT in New York on Wednesday to outline what they say are Apple’s failings in electronics manufacturing safety and what can be done about it, as well as how individuals can get involved in “nudging” Apple into adopting safer chemical procedures in its factories.“We are targeting Apple because it has given itself a tremendous amount of responsibility but actions speak louder than words, and it has the potential to drive change because of the sheer size of its manufacturing base in China,” said Slaten.But Slaten said that Apple was not alone in needing to stop its use of such chemicals, citing other major rivals.“[Apple] is not alone in these labor conditions breaches, however; Samsung, HP, Dell and others all need to reform too.”“When workers come to these factories they deal with harmful chemicals every day and they need to be educated about them. Unfortunately training in most factories is not adequate with some receiving as little as 10 minutes pre-job rather than the 24 hours legal requirement,” Slaten explained.An Apple spokesman provided the Guardian with the following statement:“Over the past decade, Apple has led the industry in removing toxics like lead and mercury, brominated flame retardants and PVC from our products, which is good for workers as well as consumers. When it comes to handling chemicals and toxic substances, we require that our suppliers around the world meet or exceed respected US safety standards such as Osha, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, and the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists. Last year, we conducted nearly 200 factory inspections which focused on hazardous chemicals, to make sure those facilities meet our strict standards. We also provide suppliers with training in hazardous chemical management, industrial hygiene and personal protection equipment as part of the Apple Supplier EHS Academy in Suzhou, China.”• Workers’ rights ‘flouted’ atApple’s iPhone factory in Chinawhere new, cheaper devices are being produced illegally, according to China Labor Watch• This article was updated at 17:30 to include statements from Apple.
This week on our Tech Weekly podcast withAleks Krotoski, Stuart Dredge reports from this year's South by South West festival and the reaction toEdward Snowden's video address.Click here for all our coverage of tech at SXSW.Charles ArthurandSamuel Gibbsjoin Aleks to discuss this week's news about Apple's tax arrangements and the bookHaunted Empire: Apple After Steve Jobs by Yukari Iwatani Kane.Ahead of the Bafta awards for excellence in computer gaming,Keith Stuartmeets three of this year's nominees to discuss the best of UK gaming:Jack de QuidtandDan Pearce, nominated for their game Castles in the Sky in the best debut game category; andBarry Meadefrom Fireproof Games, whose puzzle adventure Room Two is nominated in the best British game and best mobile and handheld categories.Click here to see all the nominees and winners.
Google has acquired the Santa Clara-based gaming company Green Throttle, which made an Android-based game system and controller, fuelling speculation it will offer its own console or set-top box.Two of the three founders of Green Throttle Gaming – Matt Crowley, formerly of Nokia and Palm, and Karl Townsend, who was lead engineer on the original and second generation Palm Pilot handheld computers released in the late 1990s – have joined the search giant in the deal.Pando Daily, whichfirst reportedthe Green Throttle acquisition, said its sources indicated that the “parts and labour” from Green Throttle would be used to help Google’s internal development of a new Google TV replacement device, potentially under the Nexus brand asreported by technology newsletter The Informationat the end of 2013.Google confirmed the acquisition but did not elaborate on the specifics of their forthcoming roles within the company.Charles Huang, co-founder of Guitar Hero creator RedOctane, will not join Google and will retain the rights to the Green Throttle brand.Google TV was launched amid fanfare in October 2010, but it struggled badly, with Logitech, the maker of an early set-top box, losing millions of dollars on it. Last year Google launched Chromecast, a small plug-in attachment for TV sets which could play content from the web; Sundar Pichai, Google’s head of ChromeOS and Android, said last week that it hadsold “millions” of them in the USand would expand to other countries soon.Controllers and Android consolesGreen Throttle Gaming created an Android app which was necessary to use its “Atlas” controller, which resembled a Microsoft Xbox 360 joypad but connected via Bluetooth to Android phones and tablets.But the company pulled itsAndroid appfrom the Google Play store in November 2013. Figures from Google Play suggest that the app had had only a few thousand downloads, which in turn suggests that too few controllers had sold to create a sustainable business. However it continued to sell the Atlas controller through Amazon despite the lack of necessary app support.The purchase gives Google the assets required to create its own set top box, similar to the Apple TV or the Android-based games console Ouya. Areport from the Wall Street Journalindicated that Google was developing its own gaming console in 2013, capitalising on the large library and success of Android smartphone and tablet games.Afurther reportdetailed a Google-developed set top box with a camera and motion sensor, similar to Microsoft’s Kinect motion tracking system for the Xbox.• Google faces aUS lawsuit over unauthorised in-app purchases
The US launch of acclaimed sci-fi shooter Titanfall was hit by technical problems on Tuesday. The Xbox Live online gaming service went down, rendering the Xbox 360 and Xbox One versions of the game unplayable for several hours.Early in the evening, console owners found they were not able to sign in for access to their online accounts. Microsoft spokesperson Larry Hryb was quick to point out on Twitter that the issue was with the Live system and not with the game:If you are having issues signing into Xbox Live, we are aware of it and actively working on the issue. This is not a#Titanfallissue&mdash; Larry Hryb (@majornelson)March 11, 2014Microsoft later tweeted that the issues had been resolved, but theXbox Live Status sitelisted the service as limited well into the evening.Titanfall is likely to be a key release for Xbox One. Developed by Respawn Entertainment, a studio set up by former Call of Duty developers, it’s a science fiction shooter, pitching futuristic military factions against each other on a variety of planets. The game is multiplayer only so relies on an internet connection.Several recent major releases have been similarly hit by technical glitches in the all-important launch period. Grand Theft Auto: Online, SimCity and Diablo III all suffered major server failures, to the chagrin of gamers. This was a minor glitch in comparison, but Titanfall owners will be wary, especially as there is no offline component.Meanwhile, publisher Electronic Arts is listing aseries of known issueswith the game that have surfaced since the launch. These include connection errors, game crashes and lack of voice communications on Xbox 360 and Xbox One.Titanfall is released in Europe on Friday.
The inventor of the world wide web believes an online "Magna Carta" is needed to protect and enshrine the independence of the medium he created and the rights of its users worldwide.Sir Tim Berners-Lee told the Guardian the web had come under increasing attack from governments and corporate influence and that new rules were needed to protect the "open, neutral" system.Speaking exactly 25 years after he wrote the first draft of the first proposal for what would become the world wide web, the computer scientist said: "We need a global constitution – a bill of rights."Berners-Lee's Magna Carta plan is to be taken upas part of an initiative called "the web we want", which calls on people to generate a digital bill of rights in each country – a statement of principles he hopes will be supported by public institutions, government officials and corporations."Unless we have an open, neutral internet we can rely on without worrying about what's happening at the back door, we can't have open government, good democracy, good healthcare, connected communities and diversity of culture. It's not naive to think we can have that, but it is naive to think we can just sit back and get it."Berners-Lee has been an outspoken critic of the American and British spy agencies' surveillance of citizens following the revelations by National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden. In the light of what has emerged, he said, people were looking for an overhaul of how the security services were managed.His views also echo across the technology industry, where there is particular anger about the efforts by the NSA and Britain's GCHQ to undermine encryption and security tools – something many cybersecurity experts say has been counterproductive and undermined everyone's security.Principles of privacy, free speech and responsible anonymity would be explored in the Magna Carta scheme. "These issues have crept up on us," Berners-Lee said. "Our rights are being infringed more and more on every side, and the danger is that we get used to it. So I want to use the 25th anniversary for us all to do that, to take the web back into our own hands and define the web we want for the next 25 years."The web constitution proposal should also examine the impact of copyright laws and the cultural-societal issues around the ethics of technology.While regional regulation and cultural sensitivities would vary, Berners-Lee said he believed a shared document of principle could provide an international standard for the values of the open web.He is optimistic that the "web we want" campaign can be mainstream, despite the apparent lack of awareness of public interest in the Snowden story."I wouldn't say people in the UK are apathetic – I would say that they have greater trust in their government than other countries. They have the attitude that we voted for them, so let them get on and do it."But we need our lawyers and our politicians to understand programming, to understand what can be done with a computer. We also need to revisit a lot of legal structure, copyright law – the laws that put people in jail which have been largely set up to protect the movie producers … None of this has been set up to preserve the day to day discourse between individuals and the day to day democracy that we need to run the country," he said.Berners-Lee also spoke out strongly in favour of changing a key and controversial element of internet governance that would remove a small but symbolic piece of US control. The US has clung on to the Iana contract, which controls the dominant database of all domain names, but has faced increased pressure post-Snowden.He said: "The removal of the explicit link to the US department of commerce is long overdue. The US can't have a global place in the running of something which is so non-national. There is huge momentum towards that uncoupling but it is right that we keep a multi-stakeholder approach, and one where governments and companies are both kept at arm's length."Berners-Lee also reiterated his concern that the web could be balkanised by countries or organisations carving up the digital space to work under their own rules, whether for censorship, regulation or commerce.We all have to play a role in that future, he said, citing resistance to proposed copyright theft regulation.He said: "The key thing is getting people to fight for the web and to see the harm that a fractured web would bring. Like any human system, the web needs policing and of course we need national laws, but we must not turn the network into a series of national silos."Berners-Lee also starred in the London 2012 Olympics, typing the words "this is for everyone" on a computer in the centre of the arena. He has stuck firmly to the principle of openness, inclusivity and democracy since he invented the web in 1989, choosing not to commercialise his model. Rejecting the idea that government and commercial control of such a powerful medium was inevitable, Berners-Lee said it would be impossible: "Not until they prise the keyboards from our cold, dead fingers."Creator of web free to use for everyoneAs a boy growing up in south-west London, Tim Berners-Lee was a keen trainspotter, which led to his interest in model railways and then electronics.But computers were already familiar concept in the family home – both his parents worked on the creation of the world's first commercially built computer, the Ferranti Mk1.Berners-Lee got a first in physics at Oxford and then worked in a series of engineering roles. But it was at Cern, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, in Geneva where he embarked on projects which would lead to the creation of the world wide web.His aim was to allow researchers all over the world to share documents and his first proposals were judged as "vague but interesting" by a manager at Cern.He combined existing technology such as the internet and hypertext and combined them to produce an immense interconnected document storage system. Berners-Lee labelled it the world wide web, although his Francophone collaborators found it difficult to pronounce.The web was first open to new users in 1991, and in 1992, the first browser was created to scan and select the millions of documents which already existed.Although the web has seen the creation and loss of countless fortunes, Berners-Lee and his team ensured that it was free to use for everyone.Berners-Lee now works through various organisations to ensure that the web is accessible to all and that the concept of the neutrality of the net is observed by governments and corporations.
Web history graphic
Now it’s hard to imagine a world without Google and Facebook, but 25 years ago when the internet was still called the world wide web, the landscape was very different.From the familiar screech of the modem whenever you picked up the phone, the novelty of speaking to complete strangers to the sheer frustration of sub-par firewalls - plenty has changed since we first started logging online. We want to hear what your first impressions of the internet were. Did you find it all a little odd or overwhelming? Or were you excited about the new opportunities offered by the web?Share your photos, videos and stories with GuardianWitness and we’ll choose the most interesting to feature on the site. To contribute via GuardianWitness, click on the blue ‘contribute’ button.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
From hunting distant planets to identifying whale song, scientists have been asking the public for help with creating and trawling vast data sets for research. Called "citizen science", it has led to major discoveries.1 Humans rock at pattern recognitionGalaxy Zoowas one of the first citizen science projects. It showed people galaxies and asked them to classify their shape. After seven months, volunteers had analysed 900,000 galaxies online. Galaxy Zoo, the largest study in the field, was based on analysis of 3,000 galaxies.Could a computer have achieved the same? It's unlikely, even the most powerful computers can't beat the human brain's ability to analyse patterns and spot anomalies.2 Zooniverse recently hit a  million membersZooniverseis a platform that grew out of the Galaxy Zooproject. In February it reached one million registered volunteers. It was initially focussed around astronomy projects, but it has branched out into a range of research, including a project that models Earth's climate using historic ship's logs,Old Weather, and another that is trying to understand what whales are saying,Whale FM.3 One of citizen science's biggest success stories began by accidentFolditis a website where the public models the folding of proteins, work that contributes to advances in synthetic chemistry and genetics. But that's not what its creators at the University of Washington initially intended. In 2005 they released Rosetta, which used people's spare computing power to experiment with protein shapes. It included a visualization that showed what the program was doing but, when users found they could model the shapes better than the software, the team rewrote the software to allow user input and thus Foldit was born in 2008.4 It's not just for fun, citizen science is generating good researchIn 2012, a planet in a four-star solar system, a rare and complex orbital setup, was discovered by members of the public through thePlanet Huntersproject. In total, there have been around 60 papers published by Zooniverse's projects, the majority space-related – Foldit has seen seven academic papers published.5 But it's not a "magic bullet"The types of scientific problems that can be solved by involving volunteers online are limited. They usually involve large amounts of data than can be boiled down into a visual challenge that requires  pattern analysis. Much scientific research can't be reduced in this way and so it's no surprise that the most successful projects have been centred around genetics or astronomical data.6 Engagement and education is also importantAt its best, citizen science is a two-way street that makes the public participants in the research. One project in the Congo basin saw locals mapping instances of deforestation and poaching with GPS devices, information that was then fed into other research on the destruction of forests.7 Gamification could be  the futureInstead of simply enticing volunteers with the feel-good factor of contributing to scientific research, some new projects are presented as games. These includeFraxinus, a Facebook game that aids tree fungus research, andPlay to Cure, an iOS and Android app from Cancer Research.The hope is to divert the time people spend gaming towards scientific research.8 Not everyone's convincedSome see the gamification of citizen science projects as detracting from the public education and research element of the movement. Platforms like Zooniverse take pains to cite the contributions of their volunteers, casting them as scientific collaborators, rather than just thumbs jabbing away at iPhone screens. On the other hand, one can take the pragmatic view that with so many people playing games on their smartphones, even tapping into a small fraction of that energy could have a huge impact on research.9 Don't think citizen science just happens on your computerObservations of the natural world, particularly wildlife, is an area where the public was engaged long beforethe internet or even computers. New examples include "BioBlitz", events where families join naturalists to make a record of the species in an area within 24 hours,  British Trust for Ornithology's citzen scienceGarden Bird Watchsurvey was launched in 1994 and is still going strong while the "Christmas Bird Count", an annual census of birds launched in 1900, takes the challenge to an international audience and is administered by the National Audubon Society in the states.10 It's not newMembers of the public have long contributed to scientific research. Charles Darwin corresponded with amateur naturalists around the world, developing his theory of evolution with the evidence they provided.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWorldwide tablet growth forecast to slow as new and replacement purchases in mature markets begin to level off &gt;&gt; IDCAccording to the International Data Corporation (IDC) Worldwide Quarterly Tablet Tracker, the total tablet market, inclusive of both tablets and 2-in-1 devices, is forecast to grow 19.4% in 2014, down from a growth rate of 51.6% in 2013. IDC reduced the 2014 forecast by -3.6% from its previous projection to 260.9 million units worldwide. The reduction in the short-term forecast was due to slowing consumer purchases as hardware iterations slow and the installed base—particularly in mature markets—continues to grow.Over the course of the past two years average selling prices (ASPs) have declined rapidly in the tablet market, but this too appears to be slowing. In 2012, ASPs declined -18.3% from the previous year, and in 2013 prices dropped another -14.6%. Price erosion has started to slowly bottom out, with ASPs forecast to drop a modest -3.6% in 2014. IDC believes ASP declines will slow for several reasons; chief among them are the growth of higher-priced commercial shipments and a consumer movement away from ultra-low cost products.Notable that it's not offering a sales split between "tablets" and "2-in-1 devices". But it's still heavily skewed towards consumers, which won't help Microsoft.Chart: Pandora maintains lead In crowded audio streaming space &gt;&gt; StatistaAccording to the 2014 edition ofEdison'sannual audio report "The Infinite Dial", Pandora remains the most popular music streaming service in the United States. 31% of those polled for the report stated to have used Pandora within the last month. That puts the ad-supported online radio healthily in front of iHeartRadio and iTunes Radio which were used by 9% and 8% of the respondents, respectively. Ranked fourth, Spotify was the first on-demand streaming service on the list with an adoption rate of 6%.Google Play All Access at 3%. It's taken only six months for iTunes Radio to go from zero to pass Spotify, which launched there in July 2011. The survey was of 2,023 Americans aged 12 and older (see theoriginal reportwhich has some very interesting insights). MIA: Xbox Music.QR codes on energy bills - aka "technologists make lousy decisions" &gt;&gt; The PlatformMatt Baxter-Reynolds:Given that the sector of society that has the greatest sensitivity to energy costs is that which is at the less affluent end of the spectrum, QR codes are a horrendously expensive barrier to entry for this information. Firstly, you need to have a smartphone, and either a cellular data contract or access to the internet. Secondly, you need to have a QR app, and such things are not a standard feature on any mobile OS platform. Thirdly, you have to know how to use it.Fourthly, the fact this is being done with QR codes precludes PCs from having access to this information. Imagine you don't have a smartphone and/or internet access, and you go into a library to use a PC. You can't scan the QR code.How app companies are turning privacy into a commodity &gt;&gt; MotherboardOmlet, a new privacy-based social media platform launching today at SXSW, has an idea. They call it the "privacy economy." It's a notion that could really only be incubated in Silicon Valley's minor league, but it emerges from deep within the American capitalist psyche: find a problem, then make some money off of it. But, should we really be thinking of a human right as some sort of economy to be exploited for profit?Only Microsoft knows the true Windows XP numbers - but isn't telling | Microsoft windows &gt;&gt; InfoWorldGalen Gruman, ahead of the XPocalypse:Here's what I want to know: When Microsoft rolls out its final set of XP patches next month, how many "real" bought-and-paid-for copies of Windows XP will be updated?If we're looking at 500 million PCs headed to the rubbish heap of patching history, then there's no question Microsoft has a huge problem on its hands. Keizer's options for Microsoft redeeming its security reputation should be mandatory.But what if we're only looking at 10 million? Or even 5?Yes, it's possible that the estimates of exposed, upgradeable "genuine" PCs is off by an order of magnitude - or two.First, the volume of pirated XP machines boggles even my imagination. Estimates put the number of XP machines in China alone at 300 million. I hate to sound cynical, but in my experience, maybe 1% of those machines have "genuine" bought-and-paid-for versions of XP.Yik Yak banned as schools grapple with toxic anonymous social chat &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityGraham Cluley:Described as a cross between SnapChat and Twitter, Yik Yak is a location-based app that creates an anonymous social chat room of up to 500 nearby users who connect through GPS tracking on their mobile phones.One of its co-founders, Brooks Buffington, told CNN that Yik Yak has, within its first four months, already racked up a few hundred thousand users - mainly in Southeast/East coast college campuses.In fact, the application supposedly restricts use to those over the age of 17, in acknowledgement of the idea that it takes a bit of maturity to post comments anonymously about the people and things around us without it turning into a YouTube-comments-like toxic waste dump.I say "supposedly" because there's no way to prevent somebody under the age of 17 from signing up, as parents have pointed out.iOS 8: Apple polishes Maps data, adds public transit directions service &gt;&gt; 9to5MacThanks to extensive engineering work and acquisitions of several companies such BroadMap, Embark, and HopStop, Apple's database for iOS Maps will be upgraded with enhanced data so it is more reliable, according to sources. The new application will also be injected with new points of interests and new labels to make places such as airports, parks, train stations, bus stops, highways, and freeways easier to find, the sources added. Sources also say that the mapping application's cartography design has been tweaked to be slightly cleaner and to make streets more visible.In addition to the mapping data changes, Apple will add one of the most important mobile features to Maps this year: public transit directions.Overdue.Apple is also working on unique ways for integrating indoor mapping views and enhanced car integration for future versions of iOS. Sources say that Apple has also begun work on augmented reality functionality that leverages the iPhone's compass hardware to visually see nearby points of interest.Apps such as Localscope already do this - but its usefulness is limited.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
1989Tim Berners-Lee  proposes the webBerners-Lee writes a paper entitled Information management: a proposal that envisages a system of interlinked documents that would be stored in a variety of locations, and contain non-hierarchical links to one another. These documents could be looked at using a 'browser' application, which would open the internet to potential mass use.1991The web is bornThe first web pages begin to appear. At first they are of limited general appeal, but the system has become a reality.1993-94Browsers developA computer screen logged on to the Netscape Navigator internet search engine. Photograph: Garry WeaserThe web's transition to the mainstream is helped by the appearance of Mosaic, an intuitive, user-friendly browser, in 1993, and then a year later by Netscape Navigator, which attains an 80% share of web browser&nbsp;usage by&nbsp;1996.1996Internet Explorer 3.0Internet Explorer 3.0 is provided free of charge with Windows 95, a practice known as 'bundling' that later brings Microsoft to the attention of anti-monopoly bodies in the US and EU. With its  massive market dominance and tendency to favour Microsoft's own applications such as Media Player, there comes a de facto influence on emerging web technologies; if it doesn't work on IE, it doesn't work for most users. The web is at risk of becoming a proprietary technology.1997GoogleBefore Google, sites such as Yahoo! created searchable directories of websites, but Google's focus on technology and indexing gives the impression that it is a gateway to the whole web.1998Blog commentsBlogging emerged in the mid-1990s but the launch of Open Diary in 1998 is a watershed because it is the first significant platform to encourage reader responses or comments on individual blogposts.Monica LewinskyA picture of Monica Lewinsky and Bill Clinton taken on 17 November 1995. Photograph: APWhen the Drudge Report, a gossipy news blog, breaks the story on 17 January of then US president Bill Clinton's relationship with Monica Lewinsky, its headline is "Newsweek kills story on White House intern", reflecting the impotence of offline media to control the news agenda in an online world.2001WikipediaWikipedia is founded as a "multilingual, web-based, free-content encyclopedia", to which anyone can contribute, and which anyone can access.  By 2014 the English-language version has about 4.5million entries.2003The great firewallThe Chinese government begins to pursue several initiativesto counter the potentially subversive influence of the open web, including this system of web filters that allows the authorities to block individual web pages, whole websites, or any page referencing a particular term.2004FacebookFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Photograph: Jonathan Ernst /ReutersThe site, which  only becomes generally accessible in 2006, helps millions of people become more active online but is not on the open web as many of its pages, for good reasons, are only accessible to signed-in users.2006Google's Chinese censorshipThe search enginecompromises with the governmentin Beijing on the issue of censoring search results, in order to get access to the billion-strong Chinese market.2007iPhoneThe iPhone, like Facebook, is another innovation that makes many people more active online, but at the same time draws them away from the open web, in this case into Apple's app ecosystem. Apps are small applications that may use the internet, or even web protocols, but are not usually web browsers.2008Google Chrome browser and Chrome OSGoogle releases a suite of products including a freeware browser called Chrome, and an operating system that consists of the Chrome browser plus a set of web-based applications to replace traditional, locally installed software.2009TrafiguraTrafigura's super-injunction against Guardian News and MediaThe open web comes to the defence of old media in October, whenblogs and tweeters reveal that the oil company behind a gagging order against the Guardian is Trafigura.2010WikiLeaksIn April, WikiLeaks makes the first release from the cache of documents it has received from Bradley Manningwhich includes video footage of a US army helicopter firing on civilians. Later that year,the US embassy cablesmake public a vast trove of diplomatic memos.2011Anti-WikiLeaks subpoenas  and responseThe US government responds to the WikiLeaks revelations by issuing subpoenas to Twitter and Google to reveal what they know about users suspected of involvement. Twitter reacts by informing the users. Elsewhere,a number of companies withdraw their services from WikiLeaks, including Visa, Paypal and Apple, which removes a WikiLeaks app from its store.The Arab springA general view of Tahrir Square in Cairo, taken in November 2012. Photograph: Gianluigi Guercia/AFP/Getty ImagesParticularly in Egypt and Tunisia, Twitter and Facebook play a key role in the spread of revolutions that shake the Arab world over the year.2012Sopa, Pipa, ActaThe Stop Online Piracy act(Sopa) and the Protect Intellectual Property Act (Pipa) are two pieces of proposed US legislation that their proponents claim will protect copyright owners. Others say the effect will be web censorship. Wikipedia takes the threat so seriously that it goes on strike for a day. Both bills falter.Two Twitter trialsThe law around free expression on the web has been tested several times in the UK in recent years, with differing outcomes. In one case a trainee accountant is convicted of sending a menacing tweet about his local airport. The high court eventually overturns the sentence. The court also finds in favour of Lord McAlpine in a case against Sally Bercow, who had sent a tweet wrongly linking him to paedophile allegations.2013The NSA filesA child holds a cut out of Edward Snowden. Photograph: Philippe Lopez/AFPClassified documents leaked by Edward Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor, reveals a number of mass-surveillance programmes undertaken by the NSA and Britain's surveillance agency,&nbsp;GCHQ.2014Cameron's 'opt-in' censorshipDavid Cameron pushes for default content filters operated by internet service providers, with users able to request that they be lifted, saying it will protect children from pornography. Campaigner Cory Doctorow says it will fail in this, but succeed in establishing "a regime of unaccountable censorship". The opt-in version goes live.
Samsung will miss out on launch-day sales of its new Galaxy S5 smartphone in its key home market of South Korea, as mobile operators there face a 45-day government sales ban.With the Galaxy S5’s launch scheduled for 11 April, the ban - which affects both new subscriptions and upgrades - will be in force at the country’s two largest operators, SK Telecom and KT. The smallest, LG UPlus, with about 18m subscribers, will have a 16-day window before a ban is reinstated from 27 April to 18 May.Imposed by the government as a penalty for breaching local laws subsiding phones by more than 270,000 won (£152), the ban prevents the operators from selling or upgrading phones for various periods between 13 March and 19 May.“South Korea is the ninth biggest smartphone market in the world and it is the fifth biggest market for Samsung,” said Francisco Jeronimo, European mobile devices research director for IDC. “Last year it represented 4.5% of Samsung’s total smartphone shipments, so this will definitely have an impact.”Data from research company Mediacells forecasts sales of around 16m smartphones in South Korea this year - an average of 1.3m per month - in a country where total smartphone ownership is at 70%. Samsunghas claimedto have two-thirds of the South Korean mobile phone market, a claimbacked up by Flurry Analyticsin November 2013. That means a sales ban on smartphones could disproportionately affect it.However Jeronimo expects the sales ban to have only a short-term effect, as it will only postpone the handset’s launch there. He thinks it is unlikely to have an impact on its overall success.“The impact would be much stronger if only Samsung devices were suspended in South Korea, which is not the case. All vendors will face the same problem,” said Jeronimo.But the ban will hit Galaxy S5 sales to end users in the crucial first month, which is important for publicity purposes. Samsung has previously publicised the speed with which generations of its flagship Galaxy phones have sold; that might now lose momentum.It’s unclear whether the operators will build stock of the S5 during the ban, which extends for almost a month beyond the launch. But that might allow Samsung to legitimately claim that the handsets have been “sold” because it will not have financial responsibility for them.The Galaxy S5 replaces Samsung’s previous flagship Android smartphone, the S4, which had failed to live up to sales expectations. Analysts reckon that its sales only kept pace with those of 2012’s S3, despite the smartphone market growing by about 50% in the same period. Apple’s iPhone sales grew by 13% to 153m in 2013.Sweetening the dealThe S5 has an integrated heart rate monitor and fingerprint scanner. Samsung also announced last week that it will bundle around £300 worth of applications and services, including 50GB of Dropbox storage space for two years, three months of Evernote’s premium service and several fitness apps and services.The ban on sales was handed down by the South Korean telecoms regulator on Friday last week, with the nation’s biggest operator SK Telecom blocked from 5 April to 19 May, the second-largest KT banned from 12 March to 26 April, and the smaller LG UPlus banned from 13 March to 4 April and 27 April to 18 May. The three companies were previously banned from sales on the same grounds in January 2013.Samsung refused to comment on the potential impact of the ban.• Samsung Galaxy S5:can fitness and fingerprint scanning beat Apple’s iPhone 5S?
Ina recent column, security expert Bruce Schneier proposed breaking up the NSA – handing its offensive capabilities work to US Cyber Command and its law enforcement work to the FBI, and terminating its programme of attacking internet security. In place of this, Schneier proposed that “instead of working to deliberately weaken security for everyone, the NSA should work to improve security for everyone.” This is a profoundly good idea for reasons that may not be obvious at first blush.People who worry about security and freedom on the internet have long struggled with the problem of communicating the urgent stakes to the wider public. We speak in jargon that’s a jumble of mixed metaphors – viruses, malware, trojans, zero days, exploits, vulnerabilities, RATs – that are the striated fossil remains of successive efforts to come to grips with the issue. When we do manage to make people alarmed about the stakes, we have very little comfort to offer them, because Internet security isn’t something individuals can solve.I remember well the day this all hit home for me. It was nearly exactly a year ago, and I was out on tour with my novelHomeland, which tells the story of a group of young people who come into possession of a large trove of government leaks that detail a series of illegal programmes through which supposedly democratic governments spy on people by compromising their computers. I kicked the tour off at the gorgeous, daring Seattle Public Library main branch, in a hi-tech auditorium to an audience of 21st-century dwellers in one of the technology revolution’s hotspots, home of Microsoft and Starbucks (an unsung technology story – the coffee chain is basically an IT shop that uses technology to manage and deploy coffee around the world).I explained the book’s premise, and then talked about how this stuff works in the real world. I laid out a parade of awfuls, including a demonstrated attack that hijacked implanted defibrillators from 10 metres’ distance and caused them to compromise other defibrillators that came into range, implanting an instruction to deliver lethal shocks at a certain time in the future. I talked about Cassidy Wolf, the reigning Miss Teen USA, whose computer had been taken over by a “sextortionist” who captured nude photos of her and then threatened to release them if she didn’t perform live sex shows for him. I talked about the future of self-driving cars, smart buildings, implanted hearing aids and robotic limbs, and explained that the world is made out of computers that we put our bodies into, and that we put inside our bodies.These computers are badly secured. What’s more, governments and their intelligence agencies are actively working to undermine the security of our computers and networks. This was before the Snowden revelations, but we already knew that governments were buying “zero-day vulnerabilities” from security researchers. These are critical bugs that can be leveraged to compromise entire systems. Until recently, the normal response to the discovery of one of these “vulns” was to report them to the vendor so they could be repaired.But spy-agencies and law-enforcement have created a bustling marketplace for “zero-days,” which are weaponised for the purpose of attacking the computers and networks of “bad guys”. The incentives have shifted, and now a newly discovered bug had a good chance of remaining unpatched and live in the field because governments wanted to be able to use it to hack their enemies.Scientists formulate theories that they attempt to prove through experiments that are reviewed by peers, who attempt to spot flaws in the reasoning and methodology. Scientific theories are in a state of continuous, tumultuous improvement as old ideas are overturned in part or whole, and replaced with new ones.Security is science on meth. There is a bedrock of security that is considered relatively stable – the mathematics of scrambling and descrambling messages – but everything above that bedrock has all the stability of a half-set custard. That is, the best way to use those stable, well-validated algorithms is mostly up for grabs, as the complex interplay of incompatible systems, human error, legacy systems, regulations, laziness, recklessness, naivete, adversarial cunning and perverse commercial incentives all jumble together in ways that open the American retailer Target to the loss of 100m credit card numbers, and the whole internet to GCHQ spying.As Schneier says: “Anyone can design a security system that works so well that he can’t figure out how to break it.” That is to say, your best effort at security is, by definition, only secure against people who are at least as dumb as you are. Unless you happen to be the smartest person in the world, you need to subject your security system to the kind of scrutiny that scientists use to validate their theories, and be prepared to incrementally patch and refactor things as new errors are discovered and reported.Hence: “Security is a process, not a product” – another useful Schneierism. This is a distinction that sets security engineering apart from other engineering disciplines. Other kinds of engineers exist in a changing world, but security’s change is of a different sort altogether. For example, structural engineering is a field under continuous improvement, and tomorrow’s structural engineers will be able to apply better techniques to their work, but no one worries that someone will invent a way of making skyscrapers collapse tomorrow through application of an easily automated, low-cost technique.The difference is that security engineering is an adversarial discipline. A structural engineer must contend with the forces of entropy and gravity, of harsh winds and rising seas. But a security engineer must contend with enemy security engineers who labour every hour of every day to find flaws in her work and use those flaws to covertly undermine it.I think there’s a good case security engineering not being “engineering” at all. Engineers try to erect and maintain infrastructure against threats that are indifferent to them. These threats may be powerful – floods in the Philippines, earthquakes in Haiti – but they aren’t deliberate. The world doesn’t have a will. It doesn’t care if the earth shakes or not.But security adversaries want to break security. They lack the relentless force of physics, but exert something totally nonphysical: cunning.Security as an exercise in public healthIf security isn’t engineering, what is it?I think there’s a good case to be made for security as an exercise in public health. It sounds weird at first, but the parallels are fascinating and deep and instructive.Last year, when I finished that talk in Seattle, a talk about all the ways that insecure computers put us all at risk, a woman in the audience put up her hand and said, “Well, you’ve scared the hell out of me. Now what do I do? How do I make my computers secure?”And I had to answer: “You can’t. No one of us can. I was a systems administrator 15 years ago. That means that I’m barely qualified to plug in a WiFi router today. I can’t make my devices secure and neither can you. Not when our governments are buying up information about flaws in our computers and weaponising them as part of their crime-fighting and anti-terrorism strategies. Not when it isillegal to tell peopleif there are flaws in their computers, where such a disclosure might compromise someone’s anti-copying strategy.But: If I had just stood here and spent an hour telling you about water-borne parasites; if I had told you about how inadequate water-treatment would put you and everyone you love at risk of horrifying illness and terrible, painful death; if I had explained that our very civilisation was at risk because the intelligence services were pursuing a strategy of keeping information about pathogens secret so they can weaponise them, knowing that no one is working on a cure; you would not ask me ‘How can I purify the water coming out of my tap?’”Because when it comes to public health, individual action only gets you so far. It doesn’t matter how good your water is, if your neighbour’s water gives him cholera, there’s a good chance you’ll get cholera, too. And even if you stay healthy, you’re not going to have a very good time of it when everyone else in your country is striken and has taken to their beds.If you discovered that your government was hoarding information about water-borne parasites instead of trying to eradicate them; if you discovered that they were more interested in weaponising typhus than they were in curing it, you would demand that your government treat your water-supply with the gravitas and seriousness that it is due.The public health analogy is suprisingly apt here. The public health threat-model is in a state of continuous flux, because our well-being is under continuous, deliberate attack from pathogens for whom we are, at best, host organisms, and at worst, dinner. Evolution drives these organisms to a continuously shifting array of tactics to slide past our defenses.Public health isn’t just about pathogens, either – its thorniest problems are about human behaviour and social policy. HIV is a blood-borne disease, but disrupting its spread requires changes to our attitudes about sex, pharmaceutical patents, drugs policy and harm minimisation. Almost everything interesting about HIV is too big to fit on a microscope slide.And so it is for security: crypto is awesome maths, but it’s just maths. Security requires good password choice, good password management, good laws about compelled crypto disclosure, transparency into corporate security practices, and, of course, an end to the governmental practice of spending $250M/year on anti-security sabotage through the NSA/GCHQ programmes Bullrun and Edgehill.Everything involves the internetBut for me, the most important parallel between public health and internet security is their significance to our societal wellbeing. Everything we do today involves the internet. Everything we do tomorrow will require the internet. If you live near a nuclear power plant, fly in airplanes, ride in cars or trains, have an implanted pacemaker, keep money in the bank, or carry a phone, your safety and well-being depend on a robust, evolving, practice of network security.This is the most alarming part of the Snowden revelations: not just that spies are spying on all of us – that they are actively sabotaging all of our technical infrastructure to ensure that they can continue to spy on us.There is no way to weaken security in a way that makes it possible to spy on “bad guys” without making all of us vulnerable to bad guys, too. The goal of national security is totally incompatible with the tactic of weakening the nation’s information security.“Virus” has been a term of art in the security world for decades, and with good reason. It’s a term that resonates with people, even people with only a cursory grasp of technology. As we strive to make the public and our elected representatives understand what’s at stake, let’s expand that pathogen/epidemiology metaphor. We’d never allow MI5 to suppress information on curing typhus so they could attack terrorists by infecting them with it. We need to stop allowing the NSA and GCHQ to suppress information on fixing bugs in our computers, phones, cars, houses, planes, and bodies.If GCHQ wants to improve the national security of the United Kingdom – if the NSA want to impove the American national security – they should be fixing our technology, not breaking it. The technology of Britons and Americans is under continuous, deadly attack from criminals, from foreign spies, and from creeps. Our security is better served by armouring us against these threats than it is by undermining security so that cops and spies have an easier time attacking “bad guys.”
Apple has updated its iPhone software to version 7.1, fixing a number of issues that had frustrated users - including abrupt crashes, problems reading fingerprints and vertigo effects for some. It also refines the software’s appearance, boosts its speed on the iPhone 4, and adds options for photography and for choosing the gender of the voice of Siri, its built-in “assistant”.Released almost exactly six months after iOS 7.0, the update also blocks an exploit which had been used to “jailbreak” phones, and solidifies a security fix introduced in February to prevent snooping on web sessions.The update fixes a number of complaints that people had had around iOS 7, whose interface was completely revamped from its predecessor released in September 2012, in a crash project led by chief designer Jonathan Ive and software chief Craig Federighi following their promotion in October 2012 as chief executiveTim Cook fired Scott Forstall, who had overseen all iOS development from before the first iPhone’s launch.The update, of around 270MB, is available for free over the air.One of the key improvements consists of fixes to “Springboard”, the background app which controls the home screen and the behaviour of background apps. Some users of iOS 7 found that their screen would abruptly show a black Apple icon on a white screen for a couple of seconds while they were using an app. After a few seconds, the phone would return to its “locked screen” state - indicating that it had not rebooted completely, but that the Springboard app had crashed.Another improvement listed by Apple is to Touch ID, its fingerprint recognition system built into the iPhone 5S. Some users have found that recognition is inconsistent; Apple’s page for the updateeffectively acknowledges this, saying “Touch ID fingerprint recognition is improved”.Apple also says that “iPhone 4 users” - using phones which may date back to June 2010 - “will enjoy improved responsiveness and performance”. While iOS 7.0 did work on the iPhone 4, some effects such as translucency were turned off to save processing power, and apps launched more slowly, according tobenchmarks by Ars Technica. Early reactions, such as Jon Moltz’s, suggest that iPhone 4 performance has improved.Reduction in motionOne accessibility tweak deals with thecomplaints that some users had about getting “motion sickness”from iOS 7’s “zoom” effects. The “Reduce Motion” option in the Accessibility part of the Settings (Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Accessibility) will turn off zooming and movement in the Weather app, Messages app and the multitasking user interface animations.Users of the top-end iPhone 5S will find that the camera automatically enables the HDR (high dynamic range) setting, which blends the best elements of three separate exposures into a single photo, and can give pictures a more realistic appearance because it mimics how the eye perceives scenes.The update also brings numerous small tweaks to interface elements such as the phone icon, power-off slider, the “weight” of fonts and the built-in software keyboard.There is a fix included for the“goto fail” bugwhich had meant that earlier versions of iOS 7.0 did not properly connect to secure sites over SSL.The iOS 7.1 update also adds support for Apple’s new CarPlay in-car connection. The system puts an iPhone 5, 5S or 5C at the heart of a car’s information and entertainment system, connecting via the Lightning port and displaying an enlarged version of the iPhone’s screen on the in-car displays.CarPlay allows drivers to access music and radio content as well as turn-by-turn navigation through Apple maps, which will be able to anticipate destinations based on recent trips and information sifted from contacts, emails and text messages. Drivers can command the system using Siri for voice recognition, and have Siri place calls and read and reply to messages aloud.Cars from Ferrari, Mercedes-Benz and Volvo with CarPlay compatibility will be available this year, with BMW, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Jaguar, Land Rover, Kia, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Peugeot, Citroën, Subaru, Suzuki and Toyota all planning CarPlay integration in cars further down the road.The video below shows all of the changes in iOS 7.1.iTwe4kz provides a video walkthrough of all the changes in iOS 7.1 from the previous version.
Ha!Scott WeemsNeuroscientist reveals the science behind humour and laughter and their importance in daily life.Night School: Wake up to the Power of SleepRichard WisemanAn insight into the sleeping brain and how to get the most out of your slumber.Beasts: What Animals Can Teach Us about the Origins of Good and EvilJeffrey Moussaieff MassonWhat humans have learnt about our emotions through observing animals, from orcas to chimpanzees.The Improbable Primate: How Water Shaped Human EvolutionClive FinlaysonThe impact that ecological factors, particularly water, have had on human evolution.30-Second Brain: The 50 Most Mind-blowing Ideas In Neuroscience, Each Explained in a Half a MinuteAnil Seth (Ed.)Get to grips with what is happening inside your brain in under 300 words.It Began With Babbage: The Genesis of Computer ScienceSubrata DasguptaA history of computer science, from Charles Babbage's concept of programmable computing in 1819 to today.Drugged: The Science and Culture Behind Psychotropic DrugsRichard J MillerCombines science and history to show that antidepressants stem from rocket fuel and much more.Haunted Empire: Apple After Steve JobsYukari Iwatani KaneA look at the struggles and triumphs of Apple in the two years since Steve Jobs's death.The Lazarus Effect: The Science Rewriting the Boundaries Between Life and DeathDr Sam ParniaArgues that death from heart attack may not be a single moment but a process – the "grey zone".Beyond Flying: Rethinking Air Travel in a Globally Connected WorldChris Watson14 authors share stories of cutting air travel to reduce their carbon footprints.Rebecca Gale
What's the story?A cursed soul, lost in limbo. An ancient, ruined kingdom. Foul malevolence amassed against you, with annihilation all but certain. Like its forebear, Dark Souls IIkeeps the story details vague, leaving it to the player to explore the new realm of Drangleic and uncover its lore themselves – while frequently dying, of course.GameplayContinuing as a third-person action RPG, changes from the first game are subtle. Combat is almost untouched, attacks are still mapped to shoulder buttons, so it's out of battle you'll notice adjustments. Bonfires – brief areas of respite – now allow teleportation between them, making traversing the dark yet beautiful world a shade easier, while accessories allow for greater customisation of skills.Highs and LowsThe crushing difficulty ofDarkSouls IIis both blessing and curse, and central to the series' appeal. Returning players will relish pitting their skills against hordes of new and terrifyingly grotesque monsters, while newcomers looking for more challenging fare will be well met. Conversely, those qualities, and somewhat unclear mechanics, will be a turn-off for the unprepared.Verdict"You will lose everything" warnsDark Souls IIin its opening scene. What it omits is that you won't care. Indeed, you'll gladly sacrifice at the altar of this addictive gothic adventure. Beyond the endless deaths, there is always a hunger to explore further, and a thrilling sense that next time you can do better. A unique, if demanding, title.
Google faces a class action lawsuit claiming it is “unfairly profiting” from freemium games in the Play store that enable “unauthorised charges for in-app game currency without parents’ knowledge”.The lawsuit has been filed against Google in the US District Court for the Northern District of California by a New York mother, Llana Imber-Gluck, whose child spent $68.95 on the “Crystal” virtual currency in the Marvel Run Jump Smash! game without her permission.“Google has unfairly profited by marketing free or low-cost games to children and by permitting them to easily rack up charges for worthless in-game currency, by failing to incorporate reasonable controls such as simply requiring the entry of a password,”said Shanon J. Carsonof Berger &amp; Montague, one of the attorneys representing Imber-Gluck. Berger &amp; Montague represented parents in asimilar class action suit against Apple in 2011which led to a settlement of around $100m.Credit cards and passwordsThe Google Play store requires a payment method be attached to store accounts to purchase content, including games, music, movies and books, even if it is available for free.By default Google requires the user to enter their password to confirm purchases, but this requirement can be turned off. Subsequent purchases, including those made in-app within 30 minutes of the password being entered, do not require further authentication.The lawsuit alleges that this 30-minute window after the initial password entry “is designed to enable children to purchase in-game currency without parental permission and without having to enter a password”, according to apress release issued by Berger &amp; Montague.Freemium trendFreemium games, where the apps are offered for free or at nominal cost below £2 but offer in-app purchases that either provide virtual currency to allow players to continue playing the game beyond a point or time limit, or which allow the purchase of new characters, items or levels, have become a large trend within the last three years.Publishers offer the games for free because smartphone and tablets users are increasingly reticent to pay the upfront sums of £10 or over that are traditionally associated with games for other platforms like consoles. But that has meant most have struggled to recoup their investments in game development.Publishers such as King have found great success with the “freemium” model, with games like Candy Crush Saga consistently ranking in the top grossing games across multiple platforms, including Google’s Play store.Following Apple“Google is certainly aware that its primary competitor, Apple, has taken steps to end this unfair practice, and Google should do the same,” said Carson.Apple wasforced to pay at least $32.5m to consumers in January this yearafter a similar class action lawsuit brought the use of in-app purchases to the attention of the US Federal Trade Commission. The federal complaint meant that Apple had to provide a full refund for in-app purchases made without permission from account holders. Apple had already agreed to pay out to parents following the class-action suit, agreeing to the FTC decree on the basis that it had already done what it was being required to change.“This practice is widespread, has been condemned by the Federal Trade Commission and is being investigated by the European Union’s consumer protection officials,” said Edwin J. Kilpela, Jr. of Del Sole Cavanaugh Stroyd, who also represents Imber-Gluck in the lawsuit. “A company of Google’s size and sophistication either is or should be aware that it is permitting unauthorised charges by minor children. We look forward to vindicating the rights of consumers victimised by Google’s policies in this regard.”Google did not respond to requests for comment by the time of publication.• Who isresponsible for kids and in-app purchases?
Namco; PC, PS3, Xbox 360 (version tested), 16+, £35In the basement of a derelict cliff-top house in Majula, where the reeds tilt, the birds craw and the rock-face is craggy, a map of Dark Souls II's world is etched into the granite floor. A flame burns above this location on the game map, and its rugged contours provide unlikely sanctuary in this otherwise grimly inhospitable world. Like its critically acclaimed predecessor, Dark Souls 2 is a dark fantasy world that views you as a foreign body; it sends its multitude of minions – skeletal charioteers, raggedy pirates, mummified swimmers, oaken giants and other assorted indescribable night terrors – to expel you at every turn. But here in numinous Majula, you're safe for a while.In this basement – an optional locale, inaccessible unless you retrieve the relevant key from the relevant far-flung person – you chat to a pensive cartographer. He has no explanation for the ethereal fire, but he understands its worth. "There is something greatly comforting about that flame," he says. "It seems to fulfill something precious within the soul."Warmth, refuge, hope – From Software, the idiosyncratic studio behind the Dark Souls titles, understands the primal appeal of fire. It's hard-coded into the game. As you flinch and tumble through the diverse locations (the dingy Elizabethan docks of No-Man's Wharf; the crumbling ramparts of The Lost Bastille; the luminous poison-green cave walls of Black Gulch and a dozen more) you long to find one of the few bonfires that punctuate the world, a rare point of safety, where you will respawn if killed, allowing you to infiltrate a little farther into the mystery. So it was in 2011's Dark Souls, but here the fire burns more brightly: the world is filled with torches which, when lit, provide a reminder of where you've been, a mark of hope on the otherwise hopeless landscape.Dark Souls has a reputation for being a difficult game. It's a half-truth: Dark Souls is an unforgiving game, but it's never less than fair. The odds are stacked against you and the game's perils are multitudinous. As well as the cast of monsters, you've falling rocks, doorways that lead to sheer drops and other environmental hazards to deal with. But they are at least consistent. You soon fall in line. You take tentative steps, always walk with your shield raised, watch while the game's awful bosses swing their giant clubs and scythes at you in order to learn their rhythms of combat. Fears that this sequel might have been dumbed down are unfounded. There are many times when you'll come up against an enemy that requires a great many attempts before, in a drunken swell of endorphins, you finally remove them from the game world.There have, however, been some fundamental changes to the way the game is structured. You are now able to teleport between discovered bonfires from the beginning of the game (something you were only able to do late into its predecessor). It makes the game seem more forgiving, but it's more than a concession. The teleportation function allows you to extend your reach into the world on multiple fronts, flitting between them when you become bogged down or reach an impasse. It makes the game less linear; this adventure and its itinerary is entirely yours.Other changes: the game now reduces the number of enemies in a location if you repeatedly die there, which has the benefit of aiding progress, but at the expense of reducing the number of 'resources' from which you can collect souls, the game's currency for buying equipment and statistical upgrades. At the start of the game you are given just one use of 'Estus', a health-restoring substance quaffed from a golden flask. Now you must locate Estus fragments in the world, and upgrade the flask to increase the amount of health you can regain before revisiting a bonfire.Finally, you can equip four status-affecting rings on your character (twice as many as before). These offer crucial benefits: one ring gradually restores your health; another allows you to survive higher falls... They drastically alter your chances in the world, allowing for greater customisation to boot. These are subtle changes but they alter the experience in fundamental ways. By the end of the game, it's difficult to imagine ever going back to how it was before.As with its predecessor Dark Souls II's story is told not in Tolkien-esque reams of descriptive text, but in snatches and fragments. Item descriptions reveal something of the world in which they were smithed and travellers slumped against rocks mutter about their experiences. The cast is much larger than before, and adds a great deal to the curious and memorable ambiance. Not that they offer much help, beyond the odd trinket, but many can be lured back to Majula where you begin to build a ragtag commune; the sense of community that comes from the presence of these others is potent.You must pay attention; there's no mission marker leading you on to the next objective. Your rate of progress is not only dictated by your skill and aptitude, but also how observant you are to notice and log the nooks and pathways that open up as the game unfurls. It's possible to miss great swathes of the world if you for example, neglect to talk to a particular character, or miss a darkened corridor. It's also a game that demands you make meaningful choices, ones that incur losses. When you pledge allegiance to one of the game's covenants (clubs or guilds, for which you must carry out tasks), you do so at the expense of others, whose benefits you can no longer enjoy.It's a huge game, larger than its forebear and it offers perhaps the greatest sense of discovery, victory and, at times, frustration of any video game yet made. There is something mystical in its secrecy, in the obscured rules and storyline that compel you to explore deeper and deeper; there is something primal in the David vs. Goliath stand-offs with hulking beasts and the satisfaction of licking your wounds by a bonfire thereafter; there is something human in the delight at defining your character according to your own individual whims and tastes, choosing their weapons and armour and particular aptitudes; there is something playful in the risk/reward dynamic of venturing back into the world to collect what was dropped at the point at which you were last felled.Dark Souls II is an extraordinary game. If it stops short of fulfilling something precious within the soul, it certainly has the heart, mind and fingers covered.
Edward Snowden chose to make his first public appearance since his spectacular ex-filtration of thousands of secret NSA documents to an audience of technology people at the annual SXSW Interactive festival in Austin, Texas on Monday.It’s been a decade since I last spoke at SXSW, and the past 10 years have seen the conference swell an unbelievable (and at times, unmanageable) size, spilling out into the conference rooms of nearby hotels and venues. The exact cause of this spectacular growth is hard to put your on. In part, it may just be an instance of the network-effect phenomenon that has caused other counter-culture/tech events like Comic-Con and Burning Man to grow to bursting – but it’s clear that many of the bright young geeks in attendance are here because they’re chasing the legendary SXSW break-out effect that is credited with bringing Airbnb, Twitter and Foursquare to global prominence.Everybody would like to talk to Snowden, from politicians (he provided a testimony to an EU committee examining mass surveillance last week) to book agents (he is a crisp and engaging writer with a flair for writing that is memorable without being showy) to movie people. But Snowden chose to talk to nerds.Snowden was beamed into the packed ballroom – as well as several satellite rooms and as many as a million viewers on a livestream – by means of a Google Hangout video-chat, his image and voice thoroughly glitched-out by a journey through seven proxies. He appeared as a jittery, semi-frozen Max Headroom bust against a chromakeyed background of the First Amendment, his voice an inconsistent gargle.This was not an easy technical feat. Washington Post journalist Barton Gellman and I were Snowden’s opening act, and there was a lot of nervous backstage joking before we went on as ACLU technologist Christopher Soghoian wrestled with the Snowden link. Soghoian and the ACLU’s Ben Wizner took the stage after Gellman and I stepped down, vamping for a few minutes while the bugs were ironed out, and then Snowden appeared, to thunderous applause.Snowden quickly explained why he’d opted to speak to this audience: SXSW’s technologists were “the people who can really fix” the deficiencies in the internet and its applications “to enforce our rights and protect standards, even though Congress hasn’t gotten to the point of doing that.” Spies have treated the internet as “an adversarial global freefire scenario, and we need to protect people against it. The NSA has advanced policies that erode Fourth Amendment protections through the proactive seizure of communications. This demands a policy response, but we need a technical response from makers. The NSA is setting fire to the future of the internet and you guys are the firefighters.”And we were off.Serious security tools are notoriously hard to useThe mainstream debate over internet surveillance has focused on privacy breaches. At last, the privacy advocates who’ve spent decades trying to get internet users exercised about their privacy, Snowden’s revelations have prompted 86% of American internet users to take a step toward protecting their privacy. Alas, almost everything that a nontechnical person might do to make his internet experience more private will be useless.That’s because all the serious security tools are notoriously hard to use. Snowden and Soghoian called on toolmakers to make their products “secure out of the box.” They both emphasised the need to make the security features of common internet technologies easier, with Snowden singling out Moxie Marlinspike’s startup Whisper for praise for its work in improving the user experience and user interface for cryptographic tools.But as Soghoian pointed out, the majority of internet users will not download a program to replace the defaults that come with their devices, nor will they change the default configurations of those apps. However, when internet giants can be convinced to switch on cryptographic protection for the link to their users’ browsers, millions can benefit without ever having to take any action. And if the giants can’t be convinced, they can be shamed – as Yahoo was when Barton Gellman and Ashkan Soltani splashed the news of their laxness on the front page of the Washington Post last October, resulting, finally, in the company going to more secure defaults in January 2014.Soghoian pointed out that everyone had something to worry about when it came to mass surveillance: “The government has collected a massive database of everyone’s private communications: everyone who’s called abortion clinic, everyone who’s called Alcoholics Anonymous, everyone who’s called a gay bookstore. Many Americans don’t want this stored. Whatever your politics, you know that your call to a church or gun store is not the government’s business. The person who sits in the Oval Office changes every few years and the person who sits there next may not be someone who you like.”But privacy is only the surface of the NSA leaks. For cryptographers and many civil libertarians, the real worry is the integrity of the internet itself. All three speakers railed against the NSA’s programme of sabotaging security standards as well as the security of networks and networked devices.Snowden described the unique recklessness of an American intelligence agency undermining internet security. “Our country’s economic success is based on our intellectual property – our ability to create, share, communicate and compete. Since 9/11, former NSA director Michael Hayden and current NSA director Keith Alexander have elevated offense at the expense of defense of our communications. They’ve eroded protection of our communications at the expense of defense of our communications.“This is a problem because America has more to lose than anyone else when every attack can succeed. When you’re the country whose vault is more full than anyone else’s in the world it doesn’t make sense to attack all day without defending. It doesn’t make sense to weaken standards on vaults worldwide to create a back door that anyone can walk into. This weakens our national security and everyone else’s because we all rely on the same standards.“Without security, we have nothing. Our economy can’t succeed.”Soghoian made sure that the commercial implications of this were not lost on the entrepreneurial types in the audience, those who’d come to SXSW hoping to win the tech lottery. “Google, Yahoo and other internet companies want to sit between the conversations you have with your friends and add value. They want to mine your information, tell you about restaurants and suggest things that help you. That business model is incompatible with your security, with your having a secure, end-to-end connection to your friends.“The irony of the fact that we’re using Google Hangouts to talk to Edward Snowden isn’t lost on me. End-to-end secure video conferencing tools aren’t polished. They’re not good enough to bounce traffic through seven proxies. In many cases, you have to choose between tools that are easy, reliable and polished and tools that are secure, but hard to use.“Big companies have hundreds of developers to put on to user interface design. That’s not try of companies that are optimised for security. Those tend to be made by geeks, for geeks. But small developers can play a role. The next Twitter or WhatsApp should be both encrypted end-to-end and usable.“Remember, adding security is easier for new companies than it is for the big incumbents. The big guys can’t deliver security to their users, because they’re hampered by their business-models. You can tell customers that if they give you $5 a month for encrypted communications, no one will be able to watch them. Many people will be willing to pay for that.”But end-to-end security isn’t just good for privacy: it’s also a way of nudging spies and police toward proportionate surveillance. Snowden pointed out that suspects who use end-to-end security aren’t immune to spying, but they can only be surveilled through targeted, intensive attacks against their computers and phones. The expense of these attacks ensure that spies target people specifically in a way that is “more constitutional and more overseen,” since each event will be more visible to judges and oversight committees.“Mass surveillance isn’t effective,” Snowden said. “We spied on everyone and found it didn’t work.” But contractors like Snowden’s former employer Booz Allen found mass surveillance contracts to be so lucrative that they lobbied for its continuation. As a result, surveillance resources were deployed without regard to real threats, meaning that specific, repeated warnings about Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab (the underwear bomber) and the Tsarnaev brothers (the Boston Marathon bombers) fell through the cracks.‘We had an oversight model that could have worked’Web inventor Tim Berners-Lee had the honour of asking the first question, asking Snowden how he’d change the web to make it more accountable, given the reality that spies will always try to collect information.Snowden acknowledged that this was a complex problem, with lots of moving parts, made more complex by the secret nature of spy agencies. Still: “We had an oversight model that could have worked” – meaning the Congressional and judicial oversight systems for the NSA – “But the overseers weren’t interested in oversight – the Senate and House intelligence committees championed surveillance. James Clapper lied, and the congressmen who knew he’d lied allowed Americans to believe he’d told the truth.”He went on to condemn the secret Foreign Intelligence Service Act Court, “a secret rubber-stamp court” to approve spying warrants. He said that the court was secret because the government had an interest in not tipping off suspects, but that a court shouldn’t interpret the constitution with only the NSA’s lawyers present to present arguments. He called for public advocates, “trusted public figures, civil rights champions to advocate for us. To tell us, these guys are lying to you. Otherwise how can we vote? Without information we can’t consent.”For the remainder of the questions and remarks, Snowden and his co-panelists returned to technical questions, emphasising the fact that technology is the first line of defense for internet users.Snowden reminded the technologists in the room that “Crypto works. It’s not an arcane black art. It is a basic protection, the Defense Against the Dark Arts for the digital world. We must implement it, actively research it,” going on to ask the audience to take on “a moral, philosophical and technical commitment to enforce and defend our liberties.”Soghoian contrasted the importance of cryptography with the risk that internet users were exposed to by the NSA and GCHQ’s programmes of security sabotage. He was withering on the subject the NSA’s undermining of the US National Institute for Standards in Technology’s cryptography projects, saying it had “radicalised mild-mannered cryptographers. Consumers don’t choose their cryptographic algorithms, the people who choose them are the cryptographers. Those people arereally pissed and they should be mad.“But they can make a difference. It’s a good sign that they’re mad. The tools that come out in a year or two will be more secure, because the tech community feels it was lied to.”Snowden addressed the global audience, reiterating that the US has more to lose form being hacked, but “every citizen, every country has something to lose form unwarranted, unjustified surveillance of our private lives. If we don’t resolve these issues, if the NSA isn’t restrained, every government will treat their actions as a green light to do the same.“Governments have stopped talking about the ‘public interest’ and started talking about the ‘national interest’. When these diverge, something is wrong.“Would I do this again? Absolutely yes. No matter what happens to me. I took an oath to support and defend constitution and I saw it was being violated on a mass scale. The interpretation of constitution had been changed in secret from ‘no unreasonable search and seizure’ to ‘any seizure is fine, just don’t search it.’ That’s something the public had the right to know.”Snowden’s video feed winked out to a standing ovation.
I grew up at a time when gaming was peripheral, and it suited my view of myself. But as I get older it's becoming more and more clear to me how fortunate and privileged I am in my public voice, and also how far game is from the cultural underdog I projected it to be.It began last year withGTA5. Rockstar's wildly veering juggernaut careered down main street, piling through its pedestrian detractors, and won the title of the world's most successful entertainment release 2013. At the same time, demonstrators in San Franciscobegan smashing bus windowsin protest at the gentrification of the tech-boom area. Google itself became known less for its slogan, "Don't Be Evil", as forbuying up surveillance and military robot companies. And back at home, those of us who had always loved games unwrappedGTA5and began playing with excitement, pride and gradual, creeping horror.It's not nice to feel you're on the wrong side. For me, game had always been a place for outsiders to call home.GTAdisabused me of this. It felt like where you came to be one of the dicks. I enjoy defending game from its laziest detractors and I believe in its future as an artform. But without an acknowledgement of the hubristic complacency and aggressive homogeny at the centre of the tech industry, I fear its most inspiring mainstream works will never come.I've written for games a little and I've been shocked at how overwhelmingly male and overwhelmingly white it is. Really, blazingly, Apple-product, light-bouncingly white (and I say that coming from theatre). Should it matter? What is the issue with power and money being located and multiplied among the same group over and over?I believe broadening the industry is artistically valuable, economically profitable and most importantly, right.Last year, women made up almost half of the gaming audience and only around 5% of games' protagonists (acknowledging that 40% of games have genderless protagonists). That's still weird. Ethnic diversity statistics are even harder to find, mirroring workforce diversity statistics from within tech companies which they refuse to give out.Of course there are steps forward in mainstream games. I'm enjoyingThe Walking Dead: Episode 2, which has always featured interesting, well-written central characters of colour. And like the excellentLast of Us: Left Behind,TWDis handing off from the paternal male protagonist's viewpoint to that of the young girl he used to protect. This isn't entirely surprising. Culturally, we have always been more comfortable with little girl protagonists (Alice in Wonderland,The Wizard of Oz,The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe), accepting a combination of courage and vulnerability in them that we refuse adult female creations.Last of Us: Left Behind.The exception to this is the excellentTomb Raider,which has recently received a definitive edition release. It has one of the best written scripts around byRhianna Pratchett. The game has the courage really to show what it might feel like to fight for one's life marooned on an island. It explores the mindset required to overcome seemingly impossible obstacles. And it can do this because its script expresses her fear in order to have her conquer it. Fear's an emotion often denied male protagonists because of our refusal to conflate masculinity and vulnerability. This is just one example of how broadening the scope of who builds and features in mainstream games makes them better, not just different.The dominant contemporary solution to these homogeneity problems is expressed inSheryl Sandberg's bookLean In(just sold to Sony in a major motion picture deal). It basically encourages the rest of us to try harder. It advocates stepping further towards the mainstream, further into it, becoming more like the thing that is excluding you. I've sat around glass conference tables as the only woman and been tempted to lean. It's thrilling as well as pressurising to feel important yet different, to speak for "women" in a room (after all, who will contradict me?) It's also totally, devastatingly false. And dangerous, asbell hooks has brilliantly outlined.I can't speak for women of different socio-economic backgrounds, older women, women of colour. By leaning in to a dominant system, fitting in too far, I eventually barely even speak for myself. I speak for the system.But some women in tech are choosing to do the opposite, opting instead to, ''lean out'' to work and create.One of those is Shanley Kane, who along with Amelia Greenhall, left the mainstream tech industry last year to foundModel View Culture, a media company providing writing about technology, culture and diversity with a site as crisp and clean as the prose it contains.Kane is an impressive, passionate writer and entrepreneur who addresses inequalities in the tech industry accurately and without apology. "While many groups in technology ARE under-represented, we are here, have always been here and are doing amazing things," Kane writes. "Changing the tech industry from within can be extremely challenging – questioning and critiquing the status quo can really endanger your job and career."I believe we can do better than mainstream releases likeGTA5in terms of character, story and heart. I believe listening to original voices such asChristine LoveandMattie Briceis an essential part of that. I cannot wait to see what we can do as an industry on the brink of such creativity and power. But let's remember where we came from, those who felt ostracised by the mainstream. Let's recognise that the refusal of the industry to disclose any diversity statistics is telling and damning. Let's encourage all who might experience "imposter syndrome" to feel their perspective is more valuable because it has so far remained unrepresented, not less. When I asked Shanley Kane what she was afraid would happen in the future in tech, she answered with more hope and insight than any futurologist. She replied simply: "I'm not afraid."
What's the Story?South Parkhas experienced a lot of weirdness over the years, so a town-widewar between the familiar foul-mouthed children – plus you, as the new kid – barely registers as particularly unusual. But Developer Obsidian's RPG spins out into alien cover-ups, government conspiracies, Nazi zombies, and subterranean adventures with gnomes and crab people.GameplaySouth Park's answer toFinal Fantasy, Stick of Truthoffers equal parts exploration and turn-based combat. Battles initially seem simplistic, with only your customised character and one of six buddies from the show's cast to fight with, but soon reveal a surprising complexity thanks to combat modifiers and plentiful skills. Humorous side quests make for a more varied experience, too.Highs and LowsWhile the game's script and visuals are pitch perfect – no surprise, given the involvement of series creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone – it feels limp. The TV show is strongest when it satirises contemporary culture, and this lacks that edge.VerdictThat the console versions have been toned down for Europe (the PC release is uncut) seems particularly odd. Even at its sharply written best,South Parkthrives on obscenity – mature content is unlikely to shock the fanbase. Censorship aside,The Stick of Truthis a  solid RPG that lovingly adapts its source material, but misses some opportunities along the way.
What's the story?The moments ofThe Last of Usin which players control Ellie rather than main protagonist Joel are some of the most memorable in the game. It's heartening to see Naughty Dog ignore the naysayers when it comes to female protagonists and focus its only piece of single-player downloadable content (DLC) on Ellie alone.GameplayOne storyline is where Ellie searches a mall for supplies with which to help the injured Joel, encountering bandits and infected along the way. The other is set before she has met Joel, and has her exploring another mall with her friend Riley, focusing on conversation rather than combat.Highs and lowsThe combat is made more interesting with moments in which bandits and infected come together, posing a threat to each other as well as to Ellie, but loses its impact when it falls back on an unrealistic wave pattern. The real selling point is in the quieter moments that tell the story of Ellie and Riley.The verdictRather than add events after the ending, this prequel manages to add backstory without lessening the impact of the original plot. The moments that take place during the timeline of the game might seem like an unnecessary excuse for combat, but they make the emotional resonance of the story of Ellie and Riley stand out that much more.
What's the story?This is the first game from Shining Rock Software, an independent development studio consisting of one man. Two-and-a-half years in the making,the game represents Luke Hodorowicz's vision of a better kind of city-building game.GameplayThough there's no real plot as such, the explanation for the game is that the few settlers with which players begin have been banished from their home. Play is a matter of building their new settlement and keeping them alive, while considering sustainability as they make use of the natural resources that the land provides.Highs and lowsWhat sets this city-builder apart is its focus on the individual settlers, each of whom can be followed from their home to their assigned work to other day-to-day activities. Unfortunately, that may not be enough to sustain some players. who work out the optimal strategy for success early on and are then left with a relatively easy game.The verdictThe focus on pure settlement in a medieval age will appeal to those who dislike city sims that bring in modern industry or military action. With no end game, however, and lacking the variety needed to support emergent narrative, there's little reason to come back once you've worked out the basic formula for survival.
What's the Story?Donkey Kong's birthday has beenruined by an invasion of ice-spewing pirate penguins.The plot here is merely a flimsy device to justify another lengthy platforming adventure for Nintendo's great ape, but c'mon – ice-spewing pirate penguins are a brilliantly deranged concept worthy of note.GameplayInitially,Tropical Freezeseems overly traditional – guide DK left to right, avoiding hazards, and collecting bananas. However, support characters change how you navigate levels. Diddy Kong's jetpack allows slow descents, Dixie offers an elevated jump, and Cranky can hop on a cane over otherwise lethal terrain. The result requires finesse and clever use of abilities over reflexes.Highs and LowsEach stage has a wealth of items secreted away in them, making them compulsively replayable. Even if there weren't gubbins to hunt down, there is an impetus to return just to revel in the exceptional music and lush visuals of the locations, rich with background details. Unfortunately, difficulty can spike suddenly, making for the occasional frustrating moment.VerdictIt's tempting to callTropical Freezea "return to form" but that would be inaccurate. It's more of a refinement of a refinement, with Retro Studios honing in with clinical precision on what makes the Donkey Kong Country series work best. There are no real surprises here, only tweaks to a formula, but the result is fantastically enjoyable.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSolidoodle 4: Testing the home 3-D printer &gt;&gt; SlateSeth Stevenson:When the Solidoodle 4 — retailing for $1,000, and vaguely resembling an obese microwave — arrived at the Slate offices, I eagerly unpacked it in my cubicle. I threaded the spool of filament (like a bobbin of yarn, if the yarn was made of ABS plastic and the bobbin was the size of a paint can) into the printer's nozzle. I connected the printer to my laptop's USB port. I fired the thing up, with a whir and a hum. I assumed I'd soon be awash in an endless supply of newly conjured 3-D stuff.But the moment I attempted to print my first object, I realised that this device isn't really designed for the average, moderately tech-savvy consumer. It's made for people who possess either A) infinite patience, B) a preternatural attention to detail, or, preferably, C) a post-graduate degree in mechanical engineering. For example, the program you download to your computer so you can control the printer is full of buttons labeled with phrases like "Go Dump Area" and "Flow Multiply" and "Kill Slicer" and — somehow both reassuring and worrisome at the same time — "Emergency Stop."This last function made me acutely aware that a powerful machine was perched upon my desk.The photos are wonderful.Malaysia air crash: why do airlines keep 'black box' flight data trapped on planes? &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe answer is mostly about one issue: cost. Sending all the data from each flight in real time via satellite would be enormously expensive. A 2002 study by L-3 Aviation Recorders and a satellite provider found that a U.S. airline flying a global network would need to spend $300 million per year to transmit all its flight data, even assuming a 50 percent reduction in future satellite transmission costs. And that's just a single airline. Commercial airline disasters, meanwhile, are becoming even more uncommon as technology and techniques improve—in part thanks to lessons from past crashes—so there's little incentive for investing heavily in real-time data.Businessweeklast explored this question in July 2009as French and Brazilian authorities searched a wide section of the Atlantic Ocean for a missing Air France (AF:FP) flight. The data recorders aboard the Airbus (AIR:FP) A330 remained missing for almost two years, some 2 miles beneath the surface, before searchers finally recovered them.Why flying 'Internet drones' over Africa is a dumb, libertarian fantasy &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailIain Marlow lets rip:This is an international export of the libertarian ethos that tends to afflict innovators elsewhere in the Valley, such as PayPal co-founder and venture capitalist Peter Thiel, who wants to build an independent island country (coincidentally, with someone who used to work at Google) or those promoting Bitcoin. Why do Google and Facebook want to soar over extremely complicated but opportunity-rich countries such as Nigeria, Mali and the Central African Republic? The answer is obvious: They want to avoid the messy realities on the ground. Presumably, they also want to avoid paying taxes. I spoke to a telecom infrastructure executive in Lagos, Nigeria, who was getting his towers blown up by Islamist extremists in Northern Nigeria. That's an unacceptable risk to most established corporations, outside of the energy sector. That's why most handset and Internet companies tend to do their encouragement of Internet adoption in Africa indirectly, such as funding innovation hubs like the Co-Creation Hub (CCHub) in Lagos…Nano-dot patterned sapphire substrate for LED &gt;&gt; DisplayBlogJin Kim:Compared to a conventional flat sapphire substrate with a 385nm wavelength, the front luminance of a nano-dot patterned PSS is more than double, and total luminous flux is 1.8x. What does this mean? To attain the same brightness:The same LEDs can be driven at 50% power.The number of LEDs can be halved.Of course brightness can be more than doubled using the same number of nano-dot PSS LEDs. New displays using nano-dot PSS LEDs will sport roughly double the brightness or double the battery life or somewhere in between.Customer samples in April 2014; manufacturing intended to start in... 2016. Darn.KitKat update for HTC One pulled in the UK following 'difficulties' &gt;&gt; Android CentralWhile HTC America managed a speedy rollout for Android 4.4 on the HTC One, things haven't gone quite so smoothly in the UK. The country wasn't included in the first raft of European territories to get KitKat in late January. And now, a week after the company tweeted news of KitKat's arrival in Blighty, there's official news of the update being withdrawn due to "difficulties."An HTC statement given to Android Central reads —"We are aware that a limited number of HTC users are experiencing difficulties with the KitKat update. As a result, all FOTA updates have been temporarily suspended.…"The US rollout wasn't trouble-free either. No word on a restart. (Here's thestatus page.)It's time for the Pebble appstore on Android, new partner apps, and SXSW! &gt;&gt; Pebble BlogWe're excited to announce that the Pebble Android app featuring the Pebble appstore isnow available for download from the Google Play store. It's taken a bit longer than expected, but we wanted our Android users to enjoy the same seamless and delightful experience we recently provided to Pebblers on iOS.Who made that progress bar? &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDaniel Engber:At a 1985 conference on the nascent field of computer-human interactions, a graduate student named Brad A. Myers presented a paper on the importance of what he called "percent-done progress indicators." "I had the sense that they were useful and important, and not used as much as they should have been," Myers says today. (He's now on the faculty at Carnegie Mellon University.) He told his colleagues that progress bars made computer users less anxious and more efficient, and could even help them to "relax effectively" at work.To prove his point, Myers asked 48 fellow students to run searches on a computer database, with and without a progress bar for guidance.Even though progress bars lie, they're a lie that we like.Increasing adoption of tablets and smartphones continues to hamper Saudi PC market &gt;&gt; IDCThe Saudi PC market declined 7.5% year on year during the final quarter of 2013, according to the latest insights from International Data Corporation (IDC). The global research firm's most recent findings show a total of 442,818 units were shipped during Q4 2013. Shipments of portable devices slumped 16.9% over the same period to total 335,418 units, which is consistent with the global trend.These declines were widely anticipated as the market is still recovering from the major declines suffered during the previous two quarters. "The major inhibitor to the PC market's growth in Saudi Arabia is the perpetually rising demand for tablets and smartphones across the Kingdom," says Abdulaziz Alanazi, a research analyst at IDC Saudi Arabia. "The lack of consumer familiarity with Windows 8 is also an issue, as the new operating system is installed on most new PCs, which is delaying many purchase decisions."There were also local effects (government labour legislation). But it's the same story as in so many places.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
In a state-of-the-art, painfully trendy office space in downtown Stockholm, my daughter Vera, aged seven, is a kid in a digital sweet shop. She's playing her favouriteToca Boca gameon the CEO's iPad. We don't have an iPad at home and she has only played these games on an iPhone before. She is amusing herself withToca Mini, a game where you create weird and cute characters: she is making what looks like a sloth out of a white ET-style prototype.The sloth has piggy black eyes. This makes her laugh. I have no idea why she finds it so entertaining. You don't really do anything and nothing much happens. I&nbsp;complain about this. "That's Toca Boca for you," laughs CEO and co-founder Björn Jeffery. "She gets it." And, the inference is that I don't.Toca Boca calls itself "the world's leading digital toy app creator for iOS and Android". The apps have been downloaded more than 50 million times. In January the company won two awards fromBeste Kinder Appsa popular German review site:Toca TailorandToca Hair&nbsp;Salon Me, were selected in the best innovative apps and games for kids categories.Toca Tailor Fairy Tales: a dress up game.My two youngest children, Vera and Jack, three, are captivated by the games. In a world where everyone is worried about shoot 'em up games and&nbsp;stranger danger, these cartoon cakes, robot nurses and smiley butterflies seem innocuous. Is there something I'm not getting? The company headquarters in Sweden should have the answer. And Vera is&nbsp;the guinea pig.Jeffery explains that it is just supposed to be fun. Nothing more, nothing less. Toca Boca divides children's activities into five categories: active play (sport), make-believe, manipulative play (building stuff), creative play (drawing) and learning play (books and games). "Most children like all five types of play. But then you look at the app store and think: 'How is it addressing these types of play?' Everything in the app store is in the last category – games and books. But that's how adults play. It'sCandy Crush, basically."Vera pipes up: "Candy Crushis fun!" Me: "When have you ever played&nbsp;Candy Crush?" (I have never played it and don't have it on my phone.) "On Auntie Trudy's phone." (That's my sister.) She turns back to the&nbsp;sloth.It's difficult to know as a parent what's helpful and what's harmful. Toca Boca's colourful, psychedelic graphics are not a million miles away from the design ofTalking Angela, the app that fell victim to a Facebook hoax in Februarythat paedophiles were scripting the creature's questions.Talking Angelais a relative of Talking Tom, the animated cat who is another favourite in our house. Tom and Angela are harmless. There is no predator on the other side of the cat's face.Still, I can understand why you might worry about these things. I monitor screentime with my three children (Jack, Vera and Will, 10) where possible. We have been through theClub Penguinphase, theMoshi Monstersphase, and we are in the midst of theMinecraftphase. I have reservations about all these sites – but not enough to ban them. The one app brand I&nbsp;can't find anything wrong with is also&nbsp;the one I understand the least: Toca Boca.The company was founded in autumn 2010 and released its first two apps in early 2011. In the past three years it has built a significant market share, going up against much bigger hitters such asAngry BirdsandDisney. In&nbsp;late 2013, Toca Boca reached 50 million downloads at Apple's App Store. The apps are on sale&nbsp;in 160 countries. Their biggest market? The US (18.3 million of those 50 million), followed by the UK (3.7 million). The growth&nbsp;has been impressive: only 20 months earlier it was on five million downloads. The firm has now launched&nbsp;24 apps, including ,Toca&nbsp;Pet Doctor, where you can choose one of 15 animals and lavish love and care upon it (with no Tamagotchi-style consequences).Toca Tea Party: 'Press on the screen and it goes 'nom nom nom' and the food disappears. Then you can get new food. Then you wash up'Toca Boca's office is in central Stockholm, just across the courtyard from the imposing headquarters of the country's most successful men's underwear retailer, Björn Borg. (Yes, that Björn Borg. Now he makes pants.) The office space for the team of 25 was masterminded by a theatre designer: it's full of child-sized cut-outs of Toca Boca characters, abandoned merchandising prototypes ("We've said&nbsp;no to 99% of the merchandising deals we've been offered") and retro toys (including a vintageOperationboard game). There isLego&nbsp;everywhere and cartoon drawings are pinned to the walls. Later, Jeffrey tells me they had wanted the intros to their apps to have the same jokey, fun feeling of the opening toThe&nbsp;Simpsonswhere Bart is drawing on a blackboard. The Lego is no accident either: they never say it, but I feel like they're trying to create a digital version of Lego. This is a long-term brand they're building. And they're thinking&nbsp;big.The age range Toca Boca is focusing on – three to eight years – is interesting. Jeffery has a theory that after the age of nine children react differently to games and take on the mindset we're familiar with as adults. What are you supposed to do in the game? What are the rules? How do you win? How do you get to the next level? Children of eight and under who interact with these games don't care about these things. They just play. They make it up as they go along. It's a completely different way of looking at the world. And it reminds me of the thing many psychologists consider crucial in theories of success and fulfilment: developing a "learning mindset" where you're immersed in what you're doing and learning; you're not judging what's right and wrong, whether you've "succeeded" or "failed". There is none of that result-oriented stuff in Toca Boca and if you try to interact with their games as an adult, I guarantee that it will show you just how depressingly goal-focused and play-phobic you have become.Björn Jeffery is an unlikely digital tycoon. With an English father and Swedish mother, Jeffery was born in London and moved to Sweden at the age of three. He speaks flawless English in a cut-glass accent, but his sensibility seems Scandinavian: he is relaxed and open about the company's aims. He's based between Stockholm and San Francisco and, no, he doesn't have any kids. Toca Boca is owned byBonnier, a&nbsp;privately held Swedish media company founded in 1804. (They're very keen to mention this. This isn't a flash-in-the-pan venture capital startup. It has long-term aims.) They operate a series of publishing ventures in 17 countries, including the UK'sHot Key Books. Jeffery started out working in research and development for Bonnier only to make a painful discovery for a&nbsp;publishing house: "The future isn't in&nbsp;books."In 2009 when everyone was talking – pre-iPad – about what Apple might launch next, Jeffery produced an online mock-up of magazines to read on a "big iPhone". The similarity to iPad's idea was coincidental. More importantly, the video of the experiment went viral. "It gave the company some digital confidence. When the iPad came out we started looking at what people were actually doing with it. They were surfing the web, watching videos, playing games. And kids were starting to get access to the iPads. Parents weren't necessarily buying them for their kids but there was a 'family iPad'. That access changed everything. The children had a stake."The iPad's touchscreen, and children's easy familiarity with it, was a game-changer, says Jeffery, because it was so intuitive. He continues: "Kids aren't small adults. So we went against the idea of games and went towards the idea of toys. We wanted no stress – and especially no stressy music." He is talking about the "pressure" music you get on games. "We do what makes sense for the screen. So take the hair salon app, for example: there are no points, there is no score, it's just play. It's a very non-radical idea. But most apps are usually about winning, losing, getting high scores, getting to the next level. Instead we wanted a 'digital toy', not a game."The apps have other worthy aims, many of which then happen to have a commercial payoff. There is no language and no text, for example, which automatically makes the apps global. (There are sounds – like monsters going "Wheee".) And, as Jeffery says: "All the apps are unisex. Which is rare. All the characters can wear dresses. It just didn't feel very modern to us to do anything else. If you want to do a game with 'hair salon' or 'tailor' then it can easily go one way. When we took the idea on we decided we would not go with stereotypes. There is a new kind of parent who really looks for these things."Children can play the shopkeeper or the customer.My friend Carla is this kind of parent: she has two boys aged three and six. She backs up all Toca Boca's claims without even knowing that it makes them. "It came up on a search engine for apps," she says. "We didn't know anyone else who was playing with them when we discovered them but then all of a sudden lots of people seemed to be into them. The kids just love them. The first one they had was the kitchen one where you feed this moose. Now they've got the car one, which is a bit more complicated."She explains the attraction: "It's like the way that Lego just has this weird appeal and it shouldn't be as successful as it is. Because it's just coloured bricks. But they will play with those for ages. Toca Boca is the same. It has no real purpose. You just play. It all looks beautiful too. And in a bizarre way, like Lego, it's tactile, if an app can be tactile. The way the sausage sizzles or you can puree a lemon … It's quite realistic. And it's kind of old-fashioned in a way. Like Play-Doh."It is supposed to be old-fashioned. A lot of the staff used to work in children's television programming for SVT, Sweden's equivalent to the BBC: they care about what children enjoy. They are not programmed to care about what's cool and what makes&nbsp;money. Game designer Chris Lindgren, originally from Malmö, regularly takes her ideas to test on children in kindergartens and after-school clubs: the game has to work in real life before it can become an app.Toca Tea Partystarted as a game with cardboard cups and paper cakes. "Adults look at everything and think: 'How do I win?'" Lindgren says. "Children play and learn about the world. Everything we do is everyday themes and activities: playing house, playing shops."There's another responsible dimension here that keeps the parents coming back: "We have no in-app purchasing opportunities. Obviously," says Jeffery. Last month theEuropean commission announced it would be holding talkswith Apple, Google and app writers about protecting consumers from "unexpected purchases" that can crop up through these in-app opportunities. More than half of online games in the EU are advertised as "free" but carry hidden costs. There was a case in the UK where two parents were able to get a refund when theirson spent £980 buying virtual doughnuts in a Simpsons game. In 2011 an eight-year-old girl ran up a bill of £4,000 playingMy HorseandSmurfs' Village. (Apple sent a refund to her father.)Of Toca Boca 24 apps, four are free,&nbsp;the rest are priced at about £1.99. "You pay once and that's it." It's a model that is working so far and Jeffrey&nbsp;is happy with it. "Friv, for example," Jeffrey says, referencing Vera's favourite website, "makes money&nbsp;from advertising. And a lot of the ads are not that appropriate." I know what he means. Friv is not banned (yet) in our house but I monitor its use a lot more carefully since I found out that Vera was playing&nbsp;Shopaholic: Paris. This was without spending any real money. Obviously. But with a "sensible budget" – so she told me – of £300. I am telling myself it helps with maths. Last time I checked they were advertising women's fashion brand Hoss Intropia on Friv – but that's just my cookies. What advertising has Vera seen on there? "By the side it tells you to 'open your windows and tell everyone about friv.com'. And it says 'Click here' a lot. I&nbsp;don't click on it."Being able to design things without thinking about traditional marketing considerations is one of the benefits of digital, says Jeffery: "Kids should play with whatever they want to play with. A lot of toys exclude children. You can see it just from looking on the shelves in Toys R Us. And if you're a toy manufacturer and you don't make a toy that comes in the&nbsp;colour pink then there is no space on the shelf for you. Well, there is infinite space in the app store. I&nbsp;would&nbsp;like to think we could have done this in&nbsp;the physical world. But I&nbsp;don't know."Toca Boca is not trying to claim it's educational. But maybe even the claim that it broadens the imagination is hard&nbsp;to stand up. Mike van Duuren, senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Winchester, who wrote his thesis on how children perceive artificially intelligent objects, says: "I just downloadedToca Boca DoctorandRobotto my phone. The free versions seemed rather dull and claims of stimulating imagination would seem rather inflated to me." (The thing is, they are not dull if you are three. Or seven.) "I think there are some interesting apps around for children. Such as perhaps ones that are utility-based: for example, there are apps for young people with Asperger syndrome that provide information about social scripts (ie what is and what is not conventional in certain social situations). Other than that, I would prefer to take my five-year-old for a walk in the park or even a&nbsp;trip to the science museum."Fair enough. Richard Joiner from the University of Bath, who has conducted research into how children use tablets, is sceptical about the idea that the secret of Toca Boca's success is&nbsp;that below a certain age children aren't interested in "winning": "I&nbsp;think that children can, and do, play competitively before the age of eight. But I do think it is possible to create apps where children just play for the fun of it and not to win. There are certainly classic theories of play from Jean Piaget andJerome Brunerthat talk about the importance of play. [Computer scientist and expert on artificial intelligence] Seymour Papert&nbsp;is another person who talked about how play develops children's&nbsp;minds."What is interesting is that with apps you can give children toys to play with that are different to physical toys, which could help them develop skills that are hard to develop with just physical toys."As we get up to leave the Toca Boca office, bracing ourselves for a lavish display of Björn Borg's Y-fronts, I struggle to tear Vera away from the screen: "You can make anything you want out of this," she is muttering, "anything." As we leave I turn to her: "You're not getting an iPad after this." She replies: "You don't need an iPad. You just need a dad with an iPhone." At least she realises I will still not be putting it on my phone.Vera, seven, spells out the attraction of her favourite appsToca StoreVera:"You choose what you want to get in the shop … You could buy food. Like pasta, rice. Or dolls. And toys. And if you don't have enough money, it gives you more money by giving you another purse. It goes "ping" when you get another purse and then you've got more money. If you know how to add up really small numbers you can do that. It's really fun. And you don't have to be in real life."Viv:"Why is it better than real life?"Vera:"You know it's not that risky in case you get something wrong. It will always wait for you to finish what you're doing."Toca Tea PartyVera:"You choose your food and then you eat it and you can choose if you want to have some more and then you&nbsp;wash up. If you want to eat the food, you press on the screen and it goes 'nom nom nom' and the food disappears. Then you can get new food. Then you wash up. You soak it and when it comes out it's all&nbsp;shiny."Viv:"This game sounds a bit repetitive."Vera:"What does that mean?"Viv:"It's when something is the same all the time."Viv:"Yes. You just keep on going and it's&nbsp;the same. I don't mind that."Toca MiniVera:"You have this sort of doll-person who is all white and you have to paint him or her. And then you can add eyes and hair and other things. It has a really cool background. I don't think you can change the background. Once I made a basketball player on Toca Mini. It was a boy and he had a number 5 on his T-shirt. You can add on eyes and the face. But not until you have chosen everything else. You can also add nose and mouth."Toca Tailor Fairy TalesVera:"This is when you go into there and you can choose what you want to have – a&nbsp;boy or a girl and you can dress them and change the colours of them by clicking an arrow or a special box. You can change the design and how long or short you want their clothes to be."Viv:"How is that a fairy tale?"Vera:"Because it's about elves. You can get elves' hats and shoes."Viv:"Is there a story?"Vera:"No. If there was a story it would make it clearer how it was meant to be. But I don't mind that there's no story."Viv:"So you just make thisa person, and then what happens?"Vera:"You make another person. You keep on going."Viv:"And then what?"Vera:"I don't know. Maybe go off and play a different game?"
In Titanfall, the war zones are alive with activity. Not just the usual chaos of players scurrying through buildings, blasting each other, but peripheral events, too. Gigantic star cruisers float overhead as smaller craft zip around them firing missiles at distant buildings; towering monsters lope across looming alien backdrops, attacking defensive walls; engineering robots make futile attempts to repair damaged facilities. Developer Respawn Entertainment wanted to instil in its multiplayer-only title a sense of narrative cohesion, a feeling that these distant planets exist beyond the frenzied firefights going on in the foreground.And about those fights.In a blogpost last summer, programmer Jon Shiring explained in clear terms the benefits of Microsoft’s ‘cloud’ platform – that ethereal marketing construct that has reared its mystical head in every Xbox One publicity drive since last May. Because of the cloud, he said, Titanfall matches won’t have to be hosted by players, which causes all sorts of problems, not least the capacity of the host to cheat or just leave the game, stranding everyone else in the process. Instead, every Titanfall bout will be on a dedicated server, ensuring all players get the same performance, and that the game experience is stable.It’s a boast that Respawn had to put to the test last month during its Titanfall beta test, which saw the servers opened up to two million players. ”We learned a lot of important lessons,” says Shiring, speaking to the Guardian days after the beta closed. “The whole point of the beta was to make sure that it scales up well. We completely maxed out every data centre in Europe at one point, and we still had more people who wanted to play so we started to invisibly shuffle them over to east coast US data centres so they could take part. We weren’t planning on doing that but we just thought, well, let’s push it until it breaks. That was our mentality.”The wisdom of cloudsIn his blogpost last year, Shiring admitted that the term ‘cloud computing’ has become almost meaningless, a fancy ad man’s idiom for ‘a lot of servers’. But with Titanfall is seems, there has been a clear benefit. The game runs on the Microsoft Azure cloud platform, a vast infrastructure of severs with a global network of data centres. Microsoft’s business model is to rent space on the platform to web companies and even government agencies needing cloud computing resources, so this is in no way unique to Xbox One: any developer on any machine could run a cloud gaming service via Azure. The advantage for developers, though, is that, according to Shiring, Microsoft is offering access to the platform at a massively reduced rate to game makers. Studios that could never afford to harness Azure or rent their own dedicated worldwide server network, can now get on Microsoft’s.According to Shiring, the benefits aren’t just about being able to offer dedicated servers, it’s about virtualising the online experience and moving a lot of the processing tasks away from the gamer’s machine – known as the client – and toward the server. With a large network of servers available, Respawn is able to seamlessly shift players around when data centres get over-crowded, finding them spaces in other areas. And since the beta, the company has worked out how to track those ‘orphaned’ players – people who have been shifted to a more remote centre – and get them back to their nearest node when things quiten down. ”So, if you’re in Germany you’d rather be on the Amsterdam data server, but we may may move you over to Ireland if the Amsterdam one fills up,” explains Shiring. “And since the beta, we now have the knowledge that whenever you search again, you’d really rather be back in Amsterdam. We can invisibly shuffle you back so you get the lower ping.”Virtual worldsVirtualised cloud hosting of this sort has been used for a while in massively-mulitplayer online games, and Mojangemploys a similar set-upwith its multiplayer hosting service, Minecraft Realms. But using cloud-based or virtualised environments is a really new thing in first-person shooters where latency is much more of an issue. Titanfall is essentially taking the entire multiplayer experience and running it on the server-side - it should mean better in-game performance, smoother matchmaking, and improved social functionality. We’ll need to wait for the launch to see how all this holds up.For Yusuf Mehdi, the chief marketing and strategy officer for Xbox, this is exciting stuff. It is the evidence Microsoft needs that its approach to the cloud is going to deliver results. “We’re thrilled about what Titanfall is doing to showcase the future of gaming on Xbox One,” he told us. “It takes advantage of the cloud architecture that we’ve built behind Xbox One, which is really new - our Thunderhead servers give you the ability to do a lot of cloud compute, which means very high performance, very fluid games - and in this case a multiplayer world that can operate at incredible performance levels.”Another key benefit of this set up is that Titanfall is able to do all its AI calculations on the server rather than on your console. This has allowed the designers to fill the landscapes with computer-controlled soldiers who get involved in the action, carrying out their own tasks and helping players. It also means that when you call in a Titan, it can function on its own accord until you get into it, either finding its way to you and following you around or guarding one location – depending on the commands you give it.Intelligent balanceGetting the computer-controlled troopers to the right level of intelligence has been a major balancing issue accroding to Shiring. “Earlier versions were much tougher,” he says. “They were really formidable, and we’ve dialled it back to the point we think it’s fun. Spectres are harder to fight than the regular guys, but they’re set for fun not for technical prowess - we’re not here to impress everyone with how smart we are at writing AI.“The grunts and spectres are there to help out. They’ll capture points for you, they’ll hold and defend points - the spectres will leap a couple of storeys up onto the top of buildings if you’re annoying them. There are a lot of different AI behaviours that are all very tuned. It’s really easy to make AI that just laser beams everyone with headshots - the trick is to make them behave so that they don’t look like an aim bot. They have their own thought processes – they scan the world, they look for targets, if you listen to their voice chat you’ll hear that they lose sight and call to each other, they’ll call out when you’re approaching them. When you’re in a titan and you come up on one, if they’re a grunt, they’ll get scared and fall to the ground and you can stomp on them, or they’ll run away - there are a lot of different behaviours happening”• Titanfall: a complete beginners’ guide• Titanfall v Destiny – how this war will change shooters for everOf course, a lot of gamers have questioned the value of filling the battlegrounds with AI characters, especially when human contests are limited to six players versus six, which is a low number compared to titles like Call of Duty and Battlefield. Was Respawn just aiming for a different feel of game when it added the AIs? “I’d love to be able to tell you that we knew exactly what we were making when we started,“ laughs Shiring. “Honestly, we just said, let’s try having AI in the world and see what it’s like - we can have them do things the player wouldn’t want to do, we can have interesting fights against them... There was no larger goal, it was just to see how it works.“And they so provide a lot of value. One thing hardcore players don’t think about is that new players want to know where they should be going - and the AI are really good at showing you where the fight is. When you spawn in and see a group of guys with their guns pointed in a certain direction, shouting and firing, it’s really natural for you to think, okay, I’ll head that way. There’s a lot of subtle stuff like that. And if you can stay on the parameter while an AI is capturing and holding a point, suddenly the game is a lot more interesting. We didn’t add them to make up for any shortcomings, we could do whatever we wanted. The AI, the player counts, all these things come together to make a game that hopefully people will want to play.”Player vs systemAccording to Shiring, access to a low-cost cloud computing network is going to change the way studios design games. ”The two biggest aspects will be that server CPU and the server bandwidth - that’s what allowed us to make Titanfall,“ he says. “When you’re trying to rely on individual PCs or consoles as your server CPU, basically you’re stealing that resource from the player when you could be using the machine’s processing power to make the game look and play better for them - all that fun stuff. By having that reserve CPU out on the server - and it’s significant, it’s like a two-core machine– it’s a different philosophy: it becomes, well, lets use what’s there as efficiently as possible and there’s no benefit tonotusing it - there’s no downside to clients at all, the game just gets better.“And the bandwidth is what lets us have so many moving things in the world - we have the AI running around and the spaceships in the sky, all of this is creating network traffic , but as we’re not bandwidth constrained, it’s not this overwhelming technical task anymore. You can say to the designers, go to town dude, try what you like, and it’s just going to work. We’ve really let the designers go crazy on the game. When you get into that mindset… people have ideas of what it’s definitely not okay to talk about while designing multiplayer games and a lot of that goes away. We’re pushing the edge right now, but I have a feeling that other people will arrive at the same conclusions we have.”Mehdi is clearly onboard with this idea of computing tasks handled in the cloud ether. ”It’s what we’re most excited about,” he says. “That was the reason behind investing so heavily in getting these Thunderhead cloud servers and building our architecture. A lot of games can now offload compute-intensive tasks to the cloud architecture - we can scale that up and down as needs demand. It allows much master game design, it allows smaller studios to build incredible games because they can use our bandwidth as opposed to having to buy and run their own servers, which is costly and time consuming. I think this is really going to open up the whole open-world concept - the idea of multiplayer gaming in a large environment that’s actually living and changing.”Cloud controversyThere are still issues though, and still concerns. Titanfall’s grunts and titans work in a very specific way in a constrained landscape, so it will be interesting to see how other game types utilise server-side AI.Speaking to Eurogamer last year, EA Dice chief Patrick Bach was skeptical about using the cloud in some real-time gaming calculations, calling the concept “gimmick”. “In practise we’re doing things in real-time,” he told the site, “so you don’t want to send an explosion up to a cloud, calculate it then send the data back down and then it goes poof. We still need to have stuff done in real-time, but I can see other things you could potentially do with it.”I take this back to Shiring, an ex-member of the Infinity Ward coding team, and ask, really, what are the key differences between working on Titanfall and working on Call of Duty? ”Honestly the biggest thing is the ability to rely on dedicated servers because it frees up so much programming time,” he says. “All the client-side stuff goes away and that’s really gnarly because players can come and go at any time - the sever is the only node in the hub that’s guaranteed to stay there so if you move everything onto the server all the logic becomes really simple, which means we get to spend our time making the game really fun, instead of spending the whole project getting the thing working. It’s not magic, but I got to cut corners - we freed up a lot of programmer time to work on the game rather than the infrastructure.”But what about the future, what about more sophisticated implementations than a multiplayer first-person shooter taking in confined arenas? We talk about the prospect of massively multiplayer, procedurally generated online worlds; the sorts of things Microsoft hyped during the early days of the Xbox One promotional drive. What about games where the world is online and inhabitable and modifiable by thousands at the same time? ”That’s interesting,” he says. “I mean, we’ve seen it in Minecraft obviously, but I’d like to see it in games like ours. And having the servers out there makes this a lot more reasonable to attempt. You can have the server hold an emergent persistent world, save your state and reload it and keep going from there.But cloud computing remains controversial. It’s a concept that, however filled with potential, still concerns those who worry about the ownership of games. With Titanfall, a multiplayer-only title, it sort of makes sense that lots of the computing is done on remote servers, but what happens when single-player adventures start offloading tasks to the cloud? What happens when Microsoft or the publisher shuts those servers? Of course, the concept of ’owning’ movies, music and games has become more complex since the dawn of digital distribution, but as more of the control cedes to the corporations and service providers, darker questions are raised.For now though, many developers like Shiring are excited by the potential of this new technological generation – and it is hard not to be similarly enthused while talking to them. “Everyone is free to make whatever they want now - there aren’t really any massive constraints left,” he says at one point. “We have lots of ram, lots of CPU cores, so it’s a different mentality to a lot of older engines - all the work is much more evenly spread. It’s up to studios to come up with good ideas.“That’s more exciting to me than any new rendering or shader tech. We can more or less make whatever game we want to make at this point”• Titanfall is released on PC, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 11 March in the US, and 14 March in Europe. As this is a multiplayer-only title, the Guardian will not run a review until the game has been tested on public servers.
Hackers took over the Reddit account and personal blog of Mark Karpeles, the chief executive of shuttered bitcoin exchange MtGox, on Sunday night.The anonymous attackers used the accounts to post an angry letter accusing Karpeles of stealing bitcoins from his site’s former users, and posted a 750Mb zip file which they say comprises data stolen directly from MtGox’s servers.“It’s time that MTGOX got the bitcoin communities wrath instead of Bitcoin Community getting Goxed,” the hackers wrote on Karpeles’ blog, “Magical Tux“ (andcrossposted to Pastebin). “This release would have been sooner, but in spirit of responsible disclosure and making sure all of ducks were in a row, it took a few days longer than would have liked to verify the data.”Several members of the bitcoin community claim to have found their own transactions included in the dump, which would indicate that the leak is genuine. The hacker or hackers themselves say they were careful to strip out any passwords from the database. Butother reports suggestthat a second scam could be involved, with an application contained within the zip file, called TibanneBackOffice, apparently stealing users’ bitcoin wallets.The hackers imply that one particular line in the data, which shows MtGox as holding 951,000 bitcoins at the time of its collapse, is proof of the company’s malfeasance, annotating the line with the comment: “That fat fuck has been lying!!” However, others who have downloaded the database point out that it remains possible that MtGox’s internal accounts were out of sync with the amount of money they actually held.Roubini: it’s a Ponzi schemeThe release of the MtGox database followed a stinging attack on bitcoin by influential economist Nouriel Roubini.Writing on Twitter, Roubinisaid that, apart from a base for criminal activities, “bitcoin is not a currency”. “Bitcoin is not a unit of account as no price of goods and services is set in Bitcoin unit nor it ever will. So it isn’t a currency,”he added.Instead, he contended thatbitcoin is between“a Ponzi game and a conduit for criminal/illegal activities. And it isn’t safe given hacking of it.”A Ponzi, or “pyramid”, scheme relies on taking money from people joining it to pay out as interest to people who joined earlier; as such it is unsustainable. Bernie Madoff operated a giant pyramid scheme, for which he was jailed. But pyramid schemes were also blamed for a collapse in the Albanian economy in 1996/7, when theyamounted to almost half of the country’s GDP- and their collapse led to civil war and thousands of deaths.Less damage seems to have been caused by a site called “Ponzicoin”, which offered 120% repayments on bitcoins deposited with it through what its creator openly acknowledged was a pyramid scheme - illegal in a number of countries.According to the site’s creator, all depositors have been refunded; he blamed hackers for compromising his site and, he said, making it appear that he had run off with their money.•US prosecutors last year charged a man in Texas with running a bitcoin Ponzi scheme
Encryptions tools must be simplified and made accessible for the mainstream, Pulitzer-winning journalist Barton Gellman said on Monday, calling on the tech industry to have the courage and ingenuity to help address the disparity of power between the people and their government.Addressing the SXSW festival shortly before Edward Snowden’s live speech by video, Gellman said we are a long way off simple, transparent encryption tools. He cited Pew research which found that 88% of Americans say they have taken steps to protect their privacy in some form.“With all the user interface brains out there we could get easier tools,” he said. “But it’s not just the ability to encrypt, it’s a frame of mind, a workflow and a discipline that is alien to most people, and that is the opposite to the open nature of the consumer internet. You could use Tor to access a site a hundred times, but the 101st time you forget, you may as well not have used Tor.”“There are people at this conference who have taken very considerable risk to protect the privacy of their customers and have put themselves at the edge of the door to jail and it will take courage as well as ingenuity to change the way things work.”Metadata is more powerful than phone tappingGellman, who interviewed Snowden in Russia in 2013, said Snowden has highlighted the peak indifference to security. Metadata is incredibly potent as a method of surveillance, yet most internet users fail to understand how powerful it can be in aggregate.“One of the great gifts of Snowden is that he has shown what surveillance can do,” he said. Gellman told of a colleague who said he wasn’t concerned about metadata and his privacy, a colleague who used Twitter heavily and with location stamps.So Gellman downloaded three months worth of Twitter location stamps and plotted them on a Google map, plotting the times, frequency and significance of each location. His horrified colleague consequently changed much of his behaviour online.“I would rather someone listened in to all my phone calls than accessed my metadata - you can learn much more about me from that metadata.”Whistleblowers - traitors or lantern bearers?Gellman doesn’t like the word ‘whistleblower’. On one side are many in government who say he signed an agreement not to disclose information, and that disclosing specific unlawful behaviour, or waste, should be dealt with by internal channels. Snowden himself did speak to around ten supervisors and to colleagues informally with some questions about their work, and at one point asked if what they were doing would pass ‘the front page test’.“That’s a pretty bold thing to do when you’re gathering documents and speaking to three reporters,” he said. “But the illegality test is too narrow.“If the idea is genuine that the government works for us, and information is power, we are living inside a one-way mirror because they know more and more about us and we know less and less about them. There’s a huge disparity of power.”“Do we think it’s a good idea to listen to every call, to bust encryption standards… if it’s a big policy question, and stuff is being done behind our backs that might shock us if we knew about it, there’s pretty good reason to put it out there. Forget whistleblower - it should be lantern holder.”How has the NSA surveillance story stayed live?“Snowden paid very careful attention to what had happened to other whistleblowers that hadn’t had a long-term impact, and was careful to produce the documents… If Snowden had asked me 6-8 months later [if this story and still been live] but he has got to have exceed every plausible estimation about impact. It’s because he didn’t realise the documents all at once.”That pace was less about Snowden releasing the documents slowly but about the work journalists need to do to verify and interrogate before they publish.Doctorow said he was most concerned by the programmes known as Bullrun in the US and Edgehill in the UK, which saw the NSA spend $250,000 a year spend trying to sabotage security standards and have backdoors built into security products.“In the second world war, countries had their own encryption tools but now we share networks and tools, and if you can undermine the random number generator - if you can make it less random - and that’s what the NSA was doing by trying to trick, buy or persuade companies to make their encryption more breakable,” said Gellman. “They would create an encryption standard that only they would break - that would let them be both information assurance and signal intelligence.”Was Prism effectively a front for the more substantial fibre optic and undersea cable tapping? Interviewing Gellman, Cory Doctorow said: “The reason for Prism was to give them a plausible reason to know about the things they knew from the fibre taps and not alerting the companies.” When Prism started Twitter barely existed, Facebook was limited to college campuses and Google was tiny.How did Snowden get the documents out?Asked whether he has been harassed when writing about Snowden, Gellman said no.“I have not been harassed. I’ve had some interesting exchanges with government reps of various temperatures. But I speak to them before every story. If they want to demonstrate falsity I want to hear it, and if they want to tell me about specific damage I would be doing then it want to hear that too. I get warnings about the espionage act and I assume that I’m more interesting than I used to be. And Google has warned me that they believe a state-sponsored hacker is attempting to compromise my computer… I assume that is more likely to be a foreign agency.”“Do I worry about doing harm and putting lives at risk? Of course I do. There are things in the documents I don’t think should be published and there are things Snowden doesn’t think should be published…“He’s a very smart guy on a lot of levels, and a very nimble mind. There lots of boundaries he draws with me, and as a reporter I look for side-channel attacks… Genghis Khan didn’t try to known down the Great Wall of China - he bribed the guards and put up ladders. But he Snowden won’t tell me how he got the documents out, for example.”•23andMe admits FDA order ‘significantly’ hampered its business
Haunted Empire: Apple After Steve Jobs is a terrific book title.Pity the book doesn’t live up to it. Or, indeed, provide us with any clear indication of whether the company best known for its iPhones and iPads (let’s call it an “empire” for convenience) is indeed haunted. I’d really like to know whether rank and file employees at Apple’s Cupertino headquarters constantly look over their shoulder, troubled by the question of whether “Steve would” (or wouldn’t) “have done that”.Reading the author’s note that leads the book, you expect the answer to be a shoo-in. Yukari Iwatani Kane is a former Wall Street Journal reporter (an imprimatur that demands precision in facts), who covered Apple from about 2011 for that paper. She’s quick to point out that “although I had access to the company’s media events and some of its executives during my reporting for the newspaper, Apple chose not to grant any further access apart from one shareholders’ meeting.” Presumably, that’s “further access” sought because she was writing a book. Reality check: Apple doesn’t give special access to anyone, unless they’re writing Steve Jobs’s biography. And that chance has gone.But fear not, says Kane: “Even so, I was able to draw from more than two hundreds interviews with nearly two hundred sources who have firsthand knowledge of Apple’s world in the United States, Europe and Asia. They include Apple executives and employees - past and present...”At this, the reader perks up: surely we’re going to hear about whether the empire that Steve Jobs built is, you know, haunted?Certainly that “200 interviews” figure sounds impressive. In 2011 I wrote “Digital Wars” (published 2012, second edition - updated to February 2014 - imminent) contrasting how Apple, Microsoft and Google’s management and development style had helped or hindered their progress in search, digital music, smartphones, tablets and (in the new edition) China. I haven’t tried to count up how many interviews I carried out over the years leading up to it. It might be 200. It might be less. I’d never try to do a headcount, though. Doing so seems distinctly strange, to be honest; it’s as though the writer is nudging us to put our faith into the sheer number. Never mind the quality, feel the width.Can you keep a secret?Apple is - let’s be clear - a difficult company to report on. Far more so than any other, it has a cult of secrecy, not only about when and what new or updated products it will launch, but also about its workings and internal interactions; you don’t get documentaries taking you around Jonathan Ive’s design labs. Apple cultivates mystique, and prefers to let its devices do the talking. That’s also why there’s a ready market for books which try to lift the lid on what does go on there. For which, I’d definitely recommend a short but highly worthwhile ebook, “Design Crazy” by Max Chafkin, which is entirely made up of interviews with former Apple staff and observers (perhaps as many as 200 - I didn’t count) and explaining how the company designs products, the fights that has sometimes caused, and how they are resolved. It will tell you far more about Apple as it was and is than Kane’s book. Also helpful is “Jony Ive” by Leander Kahney - though I found it a little too admiring where Chafkin’s is astringent.The problem is this: Steve Jobs was a compelling figure. There was nobody quite like him in technology because he had had the success (with Apple in its early days) and the failure (with NeXT, his next startup), and returned to make Apple a success again, pulling it back by its shirttails as it teetered on the cliff of bankruptcy (from which it was only 90 days away in 1996 when he rejoined). He could spin plausible lines, and near-enough lies, and enthuse people into believing him. As a manager, he was by all accounts ruthless, charming and terrifying. His death has highlighted how none of the Apple executives quite has his ability to hold a stage and spin a story.This much is known. Tim Cook, picked by Jobs, often looks ill at ease on stage. He’s regarded as a numbers guy, the man who helped pull Apple out of that nosedive in the late 1990s (he joined in 1998) and since then has grown it to be the only other company besides the gigantic conglomerate Samsung which can turn out more than 50m smartphones for sale in a single three-month period.I read this book hoping to get a clearer picture of Cook. But as with many areas, the books fails to give that. We are treated to some quite routine biography about his upbringing in Alabama, from which we learn nothing useful save that he thinks you get ahead through hard work (I’m guessing at least 10 interviews were spent on that). He’s tough on other executives and on suppliers. Well, yes.I also found it puzzling that so much of the book - about the first 90 pages of a 338-pager - were about the with-Jobs Apple, even including those 1990s escapades. Isn’t this well-known? Perhaps not, but while it offered a couple of little nuggets, it noticeably lacked insight into the design process, or indeed any process inside the company.What happened to the narrative?Once Jobs dies, though, things fall apart. Not Apple - the book. (In passing, could I say that I really detest the use of the word “passing” for “death”? It just sounds mimsy, as though the writer is worried about upsetting an audience of maiden aunts. People die. It’s death. It’s natural.) There’s no clear narrative structure; no portrait is painted. Kane jumps about all over the shop. Jobs dies, and we go to China, where Apple’s “supply chain” which assembles iDevices mostly lies. Then we’re at Buckingham Palace and learning a little more about Jonathan Ive, the head of design, a linchpin in the company. Then we’re pondering whether Siri, Apple’s voice-driven “assistant”, is a flop or a flier, and if so (either way) whose responsibility that was.Here’s the problem with the latter chapter, which is quite typical of many: the acquisition of the Siri technology happened while Jobs was alive. Did he OK that acquisition? He certainly used it before he died, though the phone using it hadn’t been released. So... are Siri’s limitations down to Jobs? Or not? Those 200 interviews provide no answer - though there is the tantalising nugget that the team behind Siri has an entire backstory worked out for it, which can in theory be teased out by asking the right questions.With Siri sort-of done, we jump - for no apparent reason - to Apple’s patent battle with Samsung, which spilled over into courtrooms. Here, I feel Kane shows a lack of insight into the subtle complications of patents (they’re not all born equal; and Apple can’t sue Google over features in the Android software, but can sue companies which sell physical things that embody Android software). Again she doesn’t answer how strongly Apple’s executives post-Jobs feel about the whole patent thing. My impression, having talked to them since Jobs’s death, is that they’re just as determined to pursue the cases. People outside Apple may view that as quixotic, but inside they clearly don’t. You wouldn’t discover that from the book, though.Disrupt thisThen we jump (why?) to Clayton Christensen, the high priest of disruption theory. This chapter immediately undermines itself by quoting Chistensen from 2007 saying that the iPhone would fail. Remind us - how did that play out again? Kane, however, tries to shore up her interviewee’s position by saying that by 2013 “he was starting to look prescient as Apple’s iPhone and iPad began to steadily lose market share to Android smartphones and tablets.”At this, my teeth began to grind. So six years on, Christensen had been vindicated in his prediction (quoted in the chapter) that “the existing players in the industry are heavily motivated to beat [the iPhone]”? Nonsense. Android phones weren’t on sale when the iPhone arrived. Apple and Android, have swept away all the mobile OSs that existed then, and many of the companies that sold them: Nokia has dwindled, BlackBerry is on life support, Palm is gone, Windows Mobile is dead, and no mobile OS introduced since 2009 has had any significant impact on the market. There’s iOS, and there’s Android, which looks and feels a lot like iOS, because the Android engineers in 2007 who were building a BlackBerry-alike watched Steve Jobs unveil the iPhone and realised they needed to change course damn fast, and - to their vast credit - did.And “market share”? The trouble with that metric is that it overlooks two things: who’s earning the profits (and so who can afford to stay in the market), and whether the company whose market share is being eroded might perhaps be doing better, year-on-year, than before because the overall market is expanding. I’ve writtenat lengthonwhy “market share” is a crude, often misleading metric. Apple is selling more phones annually, and gaining in overall mobile market share - but it’s losing smartphone market share because the smartphone market is growing. Apple has however got a giant chunk of mobile profits, so it can keep expanding while companies like HTC, Sony, LG and Motorola nurse losses and struggle. The same holds in tablets: Apple truly doesn’t care if a zillion $50 tablets are sold. It just won’t compete for the wafer-thin profits (if any) at that price. It’ll stick with selling fewer tablets for more profit to people who want a premium device. If that’s a company in trouble - well, we’d all like that problem. But if you don’t understand that Apple doesn’t care about market share in that way, you don’t understand Apple at all.From Christensen we’re off to China, again for no discernible reason - it tells us nothing about how Apple’s executives and staff think about how their roles might have changed since Jobs’s death - and then to a dull recap of the Apple-Samsung trial of summer 2012 (lawyers’ court arguments don’t make good reading; they’re just posturing) and then to the launch of the iPhone 5 in September 2012.Busted flush?By this time, Kane has pretty much decided that because Apple’s current lineup doesn’t contain Steve Jobs, that it’s a busted flush. Unveiling the iPhone 5 in 2012, Cook is wooden on stage. Schiller’s touting of its larger screen (compared to previous iPhones) was - apparently - a jab at Samsung’s Galaxy Note. I missed that reference myself, though I was watching the same presentation. And “[Schiller’s] remark signalled Apple’s increasing vulnerability”. Huh? The iPhone 5 sold more than any previous iPhone. Vulnerability to what?I found the bizarre attribution of meaning to events which didn’t seem to have meaning more and more intrusive. I also found it incongruous to have an American journalist from the WSJ offering her own interpretations; I thought it was an article of faith in that trade to get someone else to express your opinions - just choose carefully so they’re the ones you wanted to express anyway. But hardly any experts are quoted in the whole book; a pity, as they could have provided a narrative framework.More to the point, didn’t any of Kane’s 200 interviewees or her time on the WSJ team reporting on Apple uncover anything about the tension inside the company about the iPhone 5? It simultaneously changed the screen sizeanddumped the 30-pin connector it had used since 2003, replacing it with a thinner 8-pin one that was incompatible with hundreds of millions of third-party boom boxes. For third-party developers, it meant rewriting their apps just to fit the iPhone 5 screen, which was longer but not wider. For makers of music players, it meant redesigns and inventory headaches. Would Steve Jobs have done that? Post-Jobs Apple did, with the same lack of compunction with which Jobs used to hand out mandates. Does that mean it’shauntedby the spirit of Jobs (would he had done it)? Or not?After the skirmish with the iPhone 5 comes the disaster of the Apple Maps launch. But here again, there’s none of the background of the vicious manoeuvring between Apple and Google that led to Apple kicking Google off the iPhone 5 for both video and maps. A giant failing of this book is its focus only on Apple. You simply can’t write about its position without also writing about Google and Microsoft and their ambitions, at the very least. Their strategies are so interlocked, with each feinting while also trying to move to places the other wants to reach, that any examination of them in isolation is a map without landmarks. Nor is there any insight into what people thought inside Apple about the maps debacle. Would it have “never happened with Steve”? Or was it because of his Google-hatin’ ways? (Neither, actually. Jobs would have done what Cook did: OK’d it, apologised for the mess, and fired and torn strips off people internally. Jobs did just that on other failures.)Interpret thisKane also falls prey to simplistic interpretation, thinking that because Google offered a maps app for the iPhone, that it would be a hit. That overlooks the power of defaults. (Google Maps is nowhardly used on the iPhone compared to Apple Maps.) You have to understand how people use technology to give your readers context.The book lumbers on, through a riot in China (I had no idea what the point of the chapter was), to a chapter on the talkative foreman of the Samsung-Apple trial post-verdict and how Apple’s win wasn’t much of a win at all, to one called “Critical Mass” which isn’t really about anything specific, to “Holy Grail” which is actually about Apple’s taxes (yet again omits the unholy row going on in other countries over lots of US companies’ taxes) and then diverts into the antitrust decision over Apple’s attempts to get book publishers to go with its pricing model for ebooks on the iPad.What’s the inclusion of the latter subject trying to show? Kane’s overarching thesis is that without Steve Jobs, Apple is doomed to a downward spiral as innovation and staff leak out. (No information is offered on the latter, not even from the job site Glassdoor.com, but hey ho.) The ebooks decision though largely grew from Jobs’s intrusions into the negotiations - one of his draft emails was a crucial piece of prosecution evidence.So should we conclude that post-Jobs, Apple won’t make stupid antitrust-breaching decisions? Or is it that his acts hang over the company like a pall - in which case, wouldn’t staff welcome moving on to new ground? Kane seems to want it both ways. Everything Jobs did was wonderful, except the stuff that left Apple screwed when it tried to do anything else. This, though, rests on the concept of the Immaculate Jobs, which anyone who’s covered Apple for any time will tell you is bunk. Tons of mistakes happened under his watch; and he could be as shortsighted as anyone, the two biggest examples being that he didn’t want third-party apps on the iPhone, and he didn’t want the iPod to work on Windows. If he’d prevailed, he would have sunk the company.By this stage of the book (page 307) I was reading through whatever the visual equivalent of gritted teeth is. “The Red Chair” details, excruciatingly, Tim Cook’s hey-he’s-not-as-cool-as-Steve-Jobs appearance at the All Things D conference in May 2013. Kane clearly thinks he did poorly by not leaping to his feet and announcing a new iThing, or giving the crowd some ole Southern charm like a Bill Clinton of technology. Cook basically didn’t have a lot to tell people, because Apple wasn’t going to release a new product category in 2013. Cook did offer a head fake by talking about how “wearables” are “interesting” (perhaps thus driving Samsung to hurriedly release its critically panned Galaxy Gear “smartwatch”).Roiling in the deepShe then heads to the June 2013 Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in San Francisco, where apparently “Apple was revealing its true nature: the endless self-congratulation, the perpetual breeziness so obviously straining to respond to roiling doubts.” Apple hardly has a monopoly on self-congratulatory breeziness in Silicon Valley - have you read a blogpost from Yahoo, Google or pretty much any startup recently? - but from where I sat in the media pen of the same audience, I didn’t feel a fog of roiling doubts overhead. Apple is a bit like the weather: it doesn’t work by other peoples’ timetables. It just does stuff when it’s ready. Having written about all three of Apple, Microsoft and Google since the 1990s, I know that each has its own rhythms for releasing stuff. In Google’s case, it’s pretty much no rhythm; stuff just bursts out when someone hits a button. Microsoft moves in a lockstep. And Apple fiddles with it until it’s done.But for someone with a thesis and a book deadline, that’s not enough. One could play “what if?” - what if Apple had launched a wearable something or a new set-top box last April? Would that have exorcised the ghost that Kane seems sure haunts the corridors of 1 Infinite Loop? I suspect not. After all, any new Apple product launch is met by derision -the iPod was too pricey and had too little storage,the iPhone was an overpriced gewgawfrom a company new to mobile,the iPad was just a big iPod Touch. No doubt the next iThing will attract much the same derision from plenty of outlets, but the real test - how it gets used, and by how many people, and whether it’s profitable enough to continue with - won’t be known for some time. But someone who needs a quick hit saying that Apple’s well has run dry will find plenty of material.Kane manages this with the book’s epilogue, which mentions the iPhone 5S with its fingerprint sensor in a single line. Apparently a new feature that loads of people use and which enhances their security (most phone users don’t use passcodes) and which comes from a company (Authentec) bought after Steve Jobs died, well, that’s not interesting. But the lower-priced iPhone 5C and its failure to mimic hot cakes sales-wise in its first month? Now you’ve got somethingdoomyto write about! (Sales of the 5C have picked up since the new year, following price cuts. You’d almost think Apple had some sort of strategy there rather than doing this stuff randomly.) The “gold iPhone” is compared unfavourably to blue-sky research from Google on understanding death, which was enthusiastically hyped up by tech bloggers.Only one of those two things, though, is on sale now; the other might never happen.Google kills a lot of projects, in case people had forgotten. Do you prefer your innovation in the palm of your hand, or in an uncertain future?Ultimately, I was unsatisfied by this book. Still, as I say, it’s a great title. I’d still like to know whether staff at Apple rue the day, and wish ol’ Steve was still there - or if they just shrug and say “yeah, got stuff to do right now” and move on. Trouble is, this book won’t tell you. Perhaps someone else will one day.•Haunted Empire: Apple After Steve Jobsby Yukari Iwatani Kane: £16 from the Guardian bookshop• Design Crazy by Max Chafkin: £0.99 (iBooks;Amazon Kindle)•Jony Iveby Leander Kahney: £11.99 from the Guardian bookshop (also on iBooks; Amazon; Amazon Kindle)•Digital Wars: Apple, Google, Microsoft and the Battle for the Internetby Charles Arthur (£11.99 from the Guardian bookshop;second edition available from 3 May)
Name:5G.Age:Minus two years.Appearance:Look, over there! You missed it. Now it's over there! Too late. Quick, now it's … no, it's gone again.Are you trying to say that 5G is fast?That's exactly what I'm trying to say. You know 4G?The thing that gives you internet on your phone?Yes, that's right. Well, forget 4G. 4G's old hat. David Cameronhas just announced a dealto develop 5G technology with Germany, and it's going to be 1,000 times faster than 4G.Oh. My phone still only goes up to 3G.3G? What are you, some sort of loser? How long does it take you to download a film to your phone?I don't really download films to my phone. I&nbsp;mainly just use it for Facebook and Angry Bir …One second! That's how quickly you can download a film on 5G. In the time it took me to tell you that, I could have downloaded every film that Michael Bay ever made. Pow!What's the benefit of that?Who genuinely needs to download a film in less than a second?People with … people who want to … oh, look, I don't know. But it sounds cool, right?This isn't just about films, is it?Nope. Cameron says he wants the UK to be the most digital nation&nbsp;in the G8, and this is simply a step towards&nbsp;achieving that.What did he say exactly?"Countries like the UK&nbsp;and Germany will only succeed if we have a relentless drive for new ideas and innovations".And unnecessarily fast mobile internet is one of those innovations.Yes. But he's also investing £73m in The Internet of Things.Wait, the what? I'm confused. Isn't the internet already a thing?For now. Soon it will be our pulsating sentient overlord that feasts on the blood of the young but, look, we'll worry about that when we have to.So what's the Internet of Things?In the future, your watch will take your blood pressure and then tell your fridge to preventatively buy in vegetables and probiotic yoghurt, because the things you own know you better than you know yourself. That's theInternet of Things.I want to go and live in a cave.A whole film in one&nbsp;second! Pow!Do say:"5G is the future of technology."Don't say:"Until 6G comes along, at which point you'll be made to feel like a failure for only having&nbsp;5G."
I'm a music critic and I love good sound quality, but I don't think it's always necessary. Music is made for different purposes and places: pop for whinnying out of a radio on a hot summer's day, hip-hop for distorting out of a rolled-down car window. But lots of digitally downloadable music does sound fairly shoddy – the price we pay for convenience.Digital-to-analogue converters promise to change this, however. The market is becoming crowded with them.What Hi-Fi?lists 74 modelsranging from £33 to nearly £8,000. But what do they do? DACs add analogue signals to digital data, magically making compressed files sound uncompressed – giving your crappy computer files an aural makeover.TheDenon DA-300USB DACis the newest kid on this block. A slinky piece of kit with minimal controls – an on-off switch, a volume dial, a touch-screen button to switch between inputs – it is very simply, rather sexily, hi-tech. To make it work, you plug it into a computer by USB, or a CD player by the usual input/output mini-jacks. Attach your headphones or an amp, and it acts as a huge, external soundcard. Hey presto: rubbish sound files suddenly turn into symphonies.Reaching that stage is a struggle if you're an amateur, though. The DA-300USB's introduction booklet isn't particularly helpful – there's a dearth of information about Mac compatibility and guidance about switching sound inputs would have been welcome. Furthermore, the machine doesn't come with an USB2 lead, an odd state of affairs when that's required to make it all work. Luckily, I had my own.Does the DA-300USB deliver on its promises? First up, I tried it out on pop. Choosinglighters-in-the-air track XOoff the latestBeyoncé album, the song's synth washes and drums sounded slightly flashy and tinny through my iTunes MP3. Through the DA-300USB, they were warmer and richer, with more bottom-end depth and power.Next, I played some expansive electronic music to try to broaden its effects. The results were less impressive.Talk Talk's April 5th (a brooding 1986 track that I play loud and often to clear out the cobwebs) should have sounded skyscraping. It sounded broadly the same. An MP4 of Olympians by electronic duoFuck Buttons(played during the athletes' parade at the 2012 Olympics opening ceremony) met the same fate. Perhaps tracks produced brilliantly to begin with sound good enough already.However, the DA-300USB did transform an online stream of a demo recording ofREM's first cassette release – the crappiest quality recording I could find. Radio Free Europe gained lower frequencies that I'd never heard before and its guitar notes chimed out like pure, clear bells. In a way, this experience felt like cheating, of course, as this wasn't the original rough-and-ready recording I knew. Nevertheless, it felt impressive to be hearing a remastering job live.If you fancy this magic in your own home, the DA-300USB certainly works, although it won't turn your ears entirely inside out. As for me? I'll be back at my whinnying radio, turning the bass up to 11, listening to music as it was always meant to be.•RRP £329.More details: denon.co.uk
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMalware designed to take over cameras and record audio enters Google Play &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe scourge of the remote access trojan (RAT) — thosepredatory apps that use Web microphones and cameras to surreptitiously spy on victims— has formally entered the Android arena. Not only have researchers found a covert RAT briefly available for download in the official Google Play store, they have also detected a full-featured toolkit for sale in underground forums that could make it easy for other peeping Toms to do the same thing.The specific RAT in Google Play was disguised as a legitimate app called Parental Control, according to Marc Rogers, principal security researcher at Lookout Mobile, a provider of antimalware software for Android phones. He doesn't know exactly how long it was available on Google servers, but he believes it wasn't long. It was downloaded 10 to 50 times.Small, but worrying. The app was able to evade Google's "Bouncer" - which searches for malicious apps.Microsoft's Nadella manages legacy of Ballmer-board split &gt;&gt; BusinessweekBallmer's relations with the board hit a low when he shouted at a June meeting that if he didn't get his way he couldn't be CEO, people briefed on the meeting said. The flare-up was over his proposed purchase of most of Nokia Oyj, and part of an ongoing debate: Should Microsoft be a software company or a hardware company too?Several directors and co-founder and then-Chairman Bill Gates - Ballmer's longtime friend and advocate -- initially balked at the move into making smartphones, according to people familiar with the situation. So, at first, did Nadella, signalling his position in a straw poll to gauge executives' reaction to the deal. Nadella later changed his mind."Nokia brings mobile-first depth across hardware, software, design, global supply chain expertise and deep understanding and connections across the mobile market," Nadella said yesterday in an emailed statement. "This is the right move for Microsoft."Great reporting by Dina Bass, Beth Jinks and Peter Burrows; it shows that the cracks have been widening at Microsoft for some time. And that the board is concerned about Windows Phone's lack of traction.Android personalization apps: the battle for app, content and service discovery &gt;&gt; FlurryDiscovering relevant content and services within apps has also been a big challenge. Consumers want such a service. As an example, if a consumer is searching for a flight to Las Vegas, in an ideal scenario the phone or discovery service would launch whatever flight booking app is installed on the phone and send the consumer directly to the reservations page. But apps (alongside the content and services in them) can't be crawled. They are not just about index and links, and hence are hard to "page rank." As a result it is difficult for a search engine to discover apps and offer consumers an entry point.Consumer behavior on mobile is very different than the desktop web. The de-facto behavior on the web is to launch the browser to google.com, type a sentence and be re-directed to content. The de-facto behavior in mobile is to launch an app (previously installed on the device) and enjoy the comprehensive experience offered within it. You are rarely, if ever, linked out to a mobile webpage from an app or sent to another app. Each experience is essentially an island unto itself, completely reliant on the consumer to come ashore.The industry and some major mobile players are looking to solve this problem and the battle is raging for the "gateway" for mobile apps, content and services. In short, the Google position for mobile is up for grabs and billions of dollars are at stake.Facebook Home was just the stumbling start - a bit like the early Yahoo pages.Satoshi: why Newsweek isn't convincing &gt;&gt; Felix SalmonThe Reuters blogger explains it so both sides can understand it:As befits a debate which is centered on bitcoin, a lot of the incomprehension comes down to trust and faith. Bitcoin is a protocol which requires faith in no individual, institution, or state — all you need to believe in is cryptography. Dorian Nakamoto could have told Goodman explicitly that yes, he invented bitcoin — and still a lot of the bitcoin faithful would not be fully convinced unless and until Dorian proved that assertion cryptographically.Note that "isn't convincing" doesn't mean "is wrong".Chart: smartphone shoppers rarely close the deal &gt;&gt; StatistaAccording to research published by Monetate, a provider of e-commerce solutions, tablets and smartphones accounted for 27% of e-commerce website traffic in Q4 2013, up from 18% in Q4 2012.Tablets account for more traffic than smartphones do, and the conversion rate on tablets is much higher than it is on smartphones. The data suggests that tablet users actually make purchases on their device while smartphone users browse products and check prices on the go but turn to bigger devices or actual brick-and-mortar stores to make the purchase.Differences between platforms too.If the Moon were only 1 pixel: a tediously accurate map of the solar system &gt;&gt; Josh WorthLots of scrolling involved. Space is really very big, isn't it?Get real, IDC - PC sales will plummet in 2014 &gt;&gt; InfoWorldWoody Leonhard:One year ago today,IDC predicted"the second half of 2013 [will] regain some marginal momentum partly as a rubber band effect from 2012, and largely thanks to the outcome of industry restructuring, better channel involvement, and potentially greater acceptance of Windows 8. We also anticipate a new refresh cycle momentum in the commercial segment driven by the end of Window XP life support." At that time, the group changed its prediction for 2013 PC shipments, from an increase of 2.8%, to a decrease of 1.3%. The freshly restated figures from IDC show a 9.8% decrease in 2013. Somebody missed the boat. Hell, they missed a flotilla of boats.We're supposed to believe that 2014 shipments will only fall 6 percent? Pshaw. Somebody needs a wakeup call.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Monday! What could be better?!
Augmented reality is building a bridge between video games and books, redefining both in the process.Wonderbook thrust augmented books into the mainstream in 2012The concept behind augmented reality books is simple: a physical book contains many elements that elude the human eye, only visible through the use of various apps, gadgets and other devices. Sony's PlayStation 3 "game"Wonderbook, for example, came with a stocky hardback, a camera, a "Move" control wand and a series of disks. Sitting in front of a TV with the book, the player could see themselves and their surroundings on screen. By waving the Move, interactive visuals and audio poured from the book and into living rooms across the world. Even JK Rowling was captivated, crafting the Harry Potter companionBook of Spellsfor Wonderbook with Sony.In 2014, the trend continuesThe French Connectionis the first volume in the Jack Hunter series of children's stories to introduce interactive augmented reality – or AR – elements. Unlike Sony's effort, the book works alone as a readable novel. But with the help of an app and a smartphone, images on its pages unlock a portal through which readers can access a number of games and interactive stories.The best examples don't stop at the corners of the pagesDespite a title sporting technology's most overused prefix, the non-fiction AR bookiDinosaur(2013) allows kids with access to a tablet to bring the title's Jurassic subject matter to life in virtual form. What's more, they can take control and lead virtual tyrannosaurs around their living room, all viewed through the screen and camera or a tablet. Operating beyond the confines of a pure "game" as an attempt to interest the digital generation in print,iDinosaurdoes an impressive job.AR books aren't just for gadget-rich youngstersEven Penguin has tried its hand at AR books by releasing a string of classics, hiding virtual elements on their covers only visible through a smartphone running a specific app.Great ExpectationsandMoby-Dickboth enjoyed such treatment, suggesting that in future the disconnect between books and covers may need to be written to include the concept of "virtual" covers.No book or AR tech? No problemToday a gaming form from the past, considered by many to be lost – text-based games – still thrives on mobile. Text adventures – games made entirely from words – continue to be a experimental playground for storytelling and, like their AR counterparts, blur the line between book and game.Blackbarplays with censorship to lead readers on a guessing game through a series of letters, whileParadox Factorpresents a science thriller that harks back to a time when theFighting Fantasyseries of game books offered eager readers entirely print-based adventures.SIX OF THE BEST GAMING DOCUMENTARIES1Get Lamp(2010)A Fascinatingexploration of text-only games and the culture around them, from their early-80s heyday to the present.Today mainstream games sell through spectacle, consumers are enticed through muscular visuals, vast worlds and cinematic action. Once, however, games built from nothing but text thrived.Get Lamptakes a look at those games and their relevance today. It is a low-fi doc prone to the sentimental, but takes the viewer on a journey through a world of gaming all too often forgotten now that Call of Duty and Angry Birds are household names.2King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters(2007)This melodramatic tale about the battle for the Donkey Kong world record delivers an almost pantomime drama set amid the glow of arcade cabinets.The team behind King of Kong were in the right place at the right time, following humble teacher Steve Wiebe and demonised oddity Billy Mitchell as they do battle over the Donkey Kong World record. Throughout the film, a captivating melodrama unfolds that is as likely to delight the non-gamer as the devoted arcade dweller. The documentary is something of a pantomime set under the glow of vintage arcade cabinets and its cast of eccentrics make sure it is consistently charming and surprising.3Indie Game The Movie(2012)This look at small teams risking it all for their ideas delivers an affectionate depiction of what it is to craft games.A tale of two independent development teams risking it all to bring their creative visions to the world, Indie Game The Movie is superbly shot and thoughtfully edited. It certainly succeeds in translating the intricate process of games development, but its greatest strength is in capturing the emotions that building a game demand and the strain of the process on the human mind. Its real stars are the duo behind Super Meat Boy, who are happy to be on camera where they prove both hilarious and vulnerable.4 Second Skin (2008)Online realms are heralded as both new frontiers for identity and demonised for consuming their occupants. This film considers those that inhabit them. Multiplayer online games such as World of WarCraft and EverQuest II offer intriguing contrasts. To some, they are a liberating place to experiment with identity and break free fromeality. For others they are voids that engender addiction and wastefully consume the lives of their inhabitants.Second Skinponders the experience of seven such residents, casting a lens over both the potential and pitfalls of a life devoted to online dominions, with absorbing results.5 Chasing Ghosts: Beyond the Arcade (2007)Hunting down the young gamers who starred in a 1982 Life magazine piece, this film brilliantly explores the golden age of the arcade.While King of Kong is a real-world drama about what it is to chase high scores,Chasing Ghostslooks at the lives of the people involved. It centres on the now middle-aged stars of aLifepiece that gathered the world's best arcade players. Through reminiscences about their youth, a detailed picture is painted of the role games can play in an individual's life and what it is to carry that experience into adulthood.6 Focus: A Documentary (2011)Focus tells the story of one of the stars of the competitive world of beat 'em up gaming.There have been a number of documentaries aboutthis, butFocusis distinct in its concentration on one player, Mike Ross, and a year in his life. His experience near the top of the players that travel the world and court huge fan bases is interesting, but where Focus shines is in revealing the community as a bona fide youth subculture.IN THE KITBAGAs the power of mobiles and tablets increases, a new wave of hardware designed for portable gaming is competing for attention.MadCatz, famed for its arcade sticks, is among the latest to offer such a product with theFREQ.M. Taking all that is common to a home gaming headset – earphones, a mic, robust build quality and equaliser presets for games – the FREQ.M shrinks everything to a portable, wireless form. The result is impressive, and should please both smartphone owners and developers that give mobile games an audio polish typically reserved for more powerful platforms. The FREQ.M also remains compatible with many home platforms, and includes wired functionality, perfect for long plane flights.PIXEL PERFECTVeteran Welsh games makerJeff Minteris remarkably prolific, but to this day one of his most famous works isTempest 2000; a remake of the 1981 arcade shooterTempest. Now Minter has returned to the game again withTxKfor PlayStation Vita. Like its predecessors,TxKis a tunnel shooter, which sees you guide an abstract vessel through a wireframe tube, dodging and shooting. Very fast and realised in slashes of neon that look splendid on the Vita's screen,TxKis a quality game, but from its pace to a musical score inspired by 90s UK breakbeat hardcore, it is a celebration of retro. Whether you've been plugging away atTempestlonger than Minter himself, or are a genre newcomer,TxK's 100 levels will thrill.minotaurproject.co.uk
Britain aims to double to £100bn by 2025 the amount of economic benefit generated by making full use of unused "white space" digital frequencies, David Cameron will pledge on Monday.In a speech to the CeBIT 2014 trade fair in Hanover, the prime minister will declare that Britain is playing its part in "a world on fast forward" as he launches a new Spectrum Strategy to ensure that unused frequencies for digital television broadcasts are opened up for wide commercial use.The unused frequencies are known as "white space" and will provide the "raw material that will underpin the next revolution in wireless communications", Ofcom's chief technology officer Steve Unger said last year.The prime minister, who was invited by Angela Merkel to join her in opening the high-tech trade fair, will highlight the commercial opportunities as he says that greater use of spectrum will lead to an increase from £50bn to £100bn in its economic benefits by 2025.The new strategy is a key part of the "internet of things" – the name for technology that allows everyday devices, including fridges, to communicate over the internet. The prime minister, who announced an extra £45m to help develop the "internet of things", said he could envisage a world in which electricity meters "talk to the grid to get you the best deals", health monitors heart rates and fridges can order milk when they detect supplies are low.Cameron said: "What remarkable progress we see. Today we can put in our pockets a computer more powerful than any computer in the world 20 years ago."Just a decade ago – Skype was a typo, a tweet was something you heard from a bird, a cloud was something you saw in the sky – not somewhere you stored your data. Companies that are starting in people's garages and bedrooms one year are going stratospheric the next."This is a world on fast forward a world of permanent technological revolution and in this world, countries like the UK and Germany will only succeed if we have a relentless drive for new ideas and innovations."The new spectrum strategy will include a 13-point plan to work with Ofcom to exploit unused frequencies. Cameron said: "We're getting the infrastructure in place, with our regulator, Ofcom, taking a flexible approach to the use of Spectrum. Indeed as our Spectrum Strategy will set out tomorrow, we aim to double the economic benefits of spectrum to UK companies and consumers from roughly £50bn today, to £100bn in 2025. We'll do this by allowing new applications to come on line, new kinds of mobile technologies to be used, more data usage to be enjoyed and greater broadcasting services to be made available."
David Guttenfelderhas visited North Korean more than any other western photographer, regularly visiting in the past decade. Instagram, he says, has become just as essential as his work for Associated Press.AP’s chief Asia photographer, Guttenfelder says that using a phone camera allowed his to take less formal shots that felt less invasive, and more intimate, particularly since North Korea lifted its own smartphone ban in March 2013.His follower account has grown from around 100 this time last year to more than 300,000 now.Inside the Masudae Assembly Hall in #Pyongyang, two women wait to lead us down a red carpet to meet Kim Yong Nam, the head of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly of North Korea. Photograph:David Guttenfelder“When you’re a news photographer you run past al the intimate little mundane things of life, but they are part of the whole picture of the place, the piece sod the puzzle that when you put them all together reveal something about the place… If I just photographed what the world expected, I’d be ignoring all these other things.”Guttenfelder, who travelled to North Korea with Eric Schmidt in January 2013, has to work with a minder-cum-fixer, applying in writing for permission before a trip.“I have to ask permission in writing wherever I go. And there are some very difficult discussions after the pictures are published - we often local horns because they have a very different idea of how Korea should be covered,” he said.“I thought Instagram would be a simple place to share but it has become one of the most important ways for me to open a window to the place, to remind people that there is something worth exploring and discovering there.“I want to be there as the country changes and I’m in a position to witness history.”Tractor, wagon, &amp; bicycle in the North Korean countryside.•‘What does ISP mean?’ - how government officials are flunking security challenges
Genetics will be a cheap and critical part of daily life, 23andme co-founder Anne Wojcicki has told the SXSW festival, claiming that genetics should be used for preventative medicine to bring down the cost of healthcare.Sketching out the scale of an industry worth more than $3 trillion, Wojcicki said that working on Wall Street, she had seen how the industry has a profit incentive for illness, making money from everything from flu to diabetes and obesity.“Obesity is awesome from a Wall Street perspective,” she said. “It’s not just one disease - there are all sorts of related diseases to profit from.”Wojcicki described how the industry makes money on everything from sleep apnoea and diabetes drugs to specialist bathing systems and wound care. Growth is good for business - even if that growth is increased rates of obesity and related diabetes that is predicted to rise to 10% of the world’s population.Part of the economic incentive is that treatment makes more money than prevention. Five per cent of people are pre-disposed to blood clots, yet doctors don’t routinely screen women who take birth control pills because it is cheaper to treat them if they develop a blood clot.Wojcicki said she was dismissed by one doctor who said: “The problem with 23andMe is that you generate non-billable information.” The US health industry generates $2.7 trillion in expenses, so the aim is to maximise the billing.We are pioneersWojcicki admitted the move by the US Food and Drug Administration service in November tostop 23andMe marketing its genetic testing servicehad hampered the company.“It has slowed up the number of people signing up,” she said. “But we have 650,000 people in our database and are being inundated with requests from academics and foreign partners. We have more of this data than anyone else in the world…“We are pioneers. We’ve had a lot of ups and downs but we have lots of tenacity to push on through. It will take time money and effort to figure out the path forward.” That path involves submitting applications that detail 23andme as a medical device, she said.Genetics are the basis for personalised medicine“23andMe set out to try and change healthcare - this is not an easy business. This is not coffee shop in Austin. The system sucks and we have to do something to try to change it,” she said, adding that 23andMe is about preventative healthcare.“The principle is that genetic information is the basis for personalised medicine - you don’t want to gee your child benadryl on an overnight flight to Europe if you know that it will make them hyper. Knowing your genetic health risks will help you make better decisions.”The moment of discovery, or receiving details of any genetic conditions through a test, can become a trigger moment for someone to change their lifestyle and improve their health. She also explained that by choosing to allow their health data to be aggregated and studied by 23andMe’s scientific research team, customers are contributing to a giant pool of health care data that can help understand inherited diseases and conditions.Genetics is going to become extremely cheap and part of our daily life, she said. In China, the Beijing Genome Institute is now the largest genome testing firm in the world, and Saudi Arabia, the UK and others are all strong in this area.Google monetizing gut bacteria?Interviewer Kara Swisher asked whether it was ethical that 23andme - whose investors include Google - should make money from gathering genetic information. “Do you need all this information? I don’t love Google having data on my gut bacteria - they will figure out how to monetize my gut bacteria.”Wojcicki said 23andMe is legitimate in charging because it is providing a service. “One of the reasons we went direct to consumer is so that you own the data. If your insurance accompany pays they own it, but if you pay you own your own data, and if you then want to share it that’s your right.“Privacy is the foundation of what we do, but we have found that people want to share this information - not on Facebook necessarily but with physicians and family… People don’t have to participate in our research, but some people have begged us to use their data because they have a fatal disease and want to do as much as they can to help future generations.”•Google’s Sundar Pichai on wearable tech: “We’re just scratching the surface”
1The importance of  "permissionless innovation"The thing that is most extraordinary about the internet is the way it enablespermissionlessinnovation. This stems from two epoch-making design decisions made by its creators in the early 1970s: that there would be no central ownership or control; and that the network would not be optimised for any particular application: all it would do is take in data-packets from an application at one end, and do its best to deliver those packets to their destination.It was entirely agnostic about the contents of those packets. If you had an idea for an application that could be realised using data-packets (and were smart enough to write the necessary software) then the network would do it for you with no questions asked. This had the effect of dramatically lowering the bar for innovation, and it resulted in an explosion of creativity.What the designers of the internet created, in effect, was a global machine for springing surprises. The web was the first really big surprise and it came from an individual – Tim Berners-Lee – who, with a small group of helpers, wrote the necessary software and designed the protocols needed to implement the idea. And then he launched it on the world by putting it on the Cern internet server in 1991, without having to ask anybody's permission.2The web is not  the internetAlthough many people (including some who should know better) often confuse the two. Neither is Google the internet, nor Facebook the internet. Think of the net as analogous to the tracks and signalling of a railway system, and applications – such as the web, Skype, file-sharing and streaming media – as  kinds of traffic which run on that infrastructure. The web is important, but it's only one of the things that runs on  the net.3The importance of having a network that is free and openThe internet was created by government and runs on open source software. Nobody "owns" it. Yet on this "free" foundation, colossal enterprises and fortunes have been built – a fact that the neoliberal fanatics who run internet companies often seem to forget. Berners-Lee could have been as rich as Croesus if he had viewed the web as a commercial opportunity. But he didn't – he persuaded Cern that it should be given to the world as a free resource. So the web in its turn became, like the internet, a platform for permissionless innovation. That's why a Harvard undergraduate was able to launch Facebook on the back of the web.4Many of the things that are  built on the web are neither  free nor openMark Zuckerberg was able to build Facebook because the web was free and open. But he hasn't returned the compliment: his creation is not a platform from which young innovators can freely spring the next set of surprises. The same holds for most of the others who have built fortunes from exploiting the facilities offered by the web.The only real exception is Wikipedia.5Tim Berners-Lee is  Gutenberg's true heirIn 1455, with his revolution in printing, Johannes Gutenberg single-handedly launched a transformation in mankind's communications environment – a transformation that has shaped human society ever since. Berners-Lee is the first individual since then to have done anything comparable.6The web is not  a static thingThe web we use today is quite different from the one that appeared 25 years ago. In fact it has been evolving at a furious pace. You can think of this evolution in geological "eras". Web 1.0 was the read-only, static web that existed until the late 1990s. Web 2.0 is the web of blogging, Web services, mapping, mashups and so on – the web that American commentator David Weinberger describes as "small pieces, loosely joined". The outlines of web 3.0 are only just beginning to appear as web applications that can "understand" the content of web pages (the so-called "semantic web"), the web of data (applications that can read, analyse and mine the torrent of data that's now routinely published on websites), and so on.  And after that there will be web 4.0 and so on ad infinitum.7Power lawsrule OKIn many areas of life, the law of averages applies – most things are statistically distributed in a pattern that looks like a bell. This pattern is called the "normal distribution". Take human height. Most people are of average height and there are relatively small number of very tall and very short people. But very few – if any – online phenomena follow a normal distribution. Instead they follow what statisticians call a power law distribution, which is why a very small number of the billions of websites in the world attract the overwhelming bulk of the traffic while the long tail of other websites has very little.8The web is now dominated  by corporationsDespite the fact that anybody can launch a website, the vast majority of the top 100 websites are run by corporations. The only real exception is Wikipedia.9Web dominance gives  companies awesome  (and unregulated) powersTake Google, the dominant search engine. If a Google search doesn't find your site, then in effect you don't exist. And this will get worse as more of the world's business moves online. Every so often, Google tweaks its search algorithms in order to thwart those who are trying to "game" them in what's called search engine optimisation. Every time Google rolls out the new tweaks, however, entrepreneurs and organisations find that their online business or service suffers or disappears altogether. And there's no real comeback for them.10The web has become a memory prosthesis for the worldHave you noticed how you no longer try to remember some things because you know that if you need to retrieve them you can do so just by Googling?11The web shows the power  of networkingThe web is based on the idea of "hypertext" – documents in which some terms are dynamically linked to other documents. But Berners-Lee didn't invent hypertext –Ted Nelson did in 1963and there were lots of hypertext systems in existence long before Berners-Lee started thinking about the web. But the existing  systems all worked by interlinking documents on the same computer. The twist that Berners-Lee added was to use the internet to link documents that could be stored anywhere. And that was what made the difference.12The web has unleashed a wave of human creativityBefore the web, "ordinary" people could publish their ideas and creations only if they could persuade media gatekeepers (editors, publishers, broadcasters) to give them prominence. But the web has given people a global publishing platform for their writing (Blogger, Wordpress, Typepad, Tumblr), photographs (Flickr, Picasa, Facebook), audio and video (YouTube, Vimeo); and people have leapt at the opportunity.13The web should have been a read-write medium from the beginningBerners-Lee's original desire was for a web that would enable people not only to publish, but also to modify, web pages, but in the end practical considerations led to the compromise of a read-only web. Anybody could publish, but only the authors or owners of web pages could modify them. This led to the evolution of the web in a particular direction and it was probably the factor that guaranteed that corporations would in the end become dominant.14The web would be much more useful if web pages were machine-understandableWeb pages are, by definition, machine-readable. But machines can't understand what they "read" because they can't do semantics. So they can't easily determine whether the word "Casablanca" refers to a city or to a movie. Berners-Lee's proposal for the "semantic web" – ie a way of restructuring web pages to make it easier for computers to distinguish between, say, Casablanca the city andCasablancathe movie – is one approach, but it would require a lot of work upfront and is unlikely to happen on a large scale. What may be more useful are increasingly powerful machine-learning techniques that will make computers better at understanding context.15The importance of   killer appsA killer application is one that makes the adoption of a technology a no-brainer. The spreadsheet was the killer app for the first Apple computer. Email was the first killer app for the Arpanet – the internet's precursor.  The web was the internet's first killer app. Before the web – and especially before the first graphical browser, Mosaic, appeared in 1993 – almost nobody knew or cared about the internet (which had been running since 1983). But after the web appeared, suddenly people "got" it, and the rest is history.16WWW  is linguistically uniqueWell, perhaps not, but Douglas Adams claimed that it was the only set of initials that took longer to say than the thing it was supposed to represent.17The web is a startling illustration of the power of softwareSoftware is pure "thought stuff". You have an idea; you write some instructions in a special language (a computer program); and then you feed it to a machine that obeys your instructions to the letter. It's a kind of secular magic. Berners-Lee had an idea; he wrote the code; he put it on the net, and the network did the rest. And in the process he changed the world.18The web needs a  micro-payment systemIn addition to being just a read-only system, the other initial drawback of the web was that it did not have a mechanism for rewarding people who published on it. That was because no efficient online payment system existed for securely processing very small transactions at large volumes.  (Credit-card systems are too expensive and clumsy for small transactions.)  But the absence of a micro-payment system led to the evolution of the web in a dysfunctional way: companies offered "free" services that had a hidden and undeclared cost, namely the exploitation of the personal data of users. This led to the grossly tilted playing field that we have today, in which online companies get users to do most of the work while only the companies reap the financial rewards.19We thought that the HTTPS protocol would make the web secure. We were wrongHTTP is the protocol (agreed set of conventions) that normally regulates conversations between your web browser and a web server. But it's insecure because anybody monitoring the interaction can read it. HTTPS (stands for HTTP Secure) was developed to encrypt in-transit interactions containing sensitive data (eg your credit card details).The Snowden revelationsabout US National Security Agency surveillance suggest that the agency may havedeliberately weakenedthis and other key internet protocols.20The web has an impact on the environment.  We just don't know how big it isThe web is largely powered by huge server farms located all over the world that need large quantities of electricity for computers and cooling. (Not to mention the carbon footprint and natural resource costs of the construction of these installations.) Nobody really knows what the overall environmental impact of the web is, but it's definitely non-trivial. A couple of years ago, Google claimed that its carbon footprint was on a par withthat of Laos or the United Nations. The company now claims that each of its users is responsible for abouteight grams of carbon dioxide emissions every day.Facebook claimsthat, despite its users' more intensive engagement with the service, it has a significantly lower carbon footprint than Google.21The web that we see is just  the tip of an icebergThe web is huge – nobody knows how big it is, but what we do know is that the part of it that is reached and indexed by search engines is just the surface. Most of the web is buried deep down – in dynamically generated web pages, pages that are not linked to by other pages and sites that require logins – which are not reached by these engines. Most experts think that this deep (hidden) web is several orders of magnitude larger than the2.3 billion pagesthat we can see.22Tim Berners-Lee's boss was the first of many people who didn't get it initiallyBerners-Lee's manager at Cern scribbled "vague but interesting" on the first proposal  Berners-Lee submitted to him. Most people confronted with something that is totally new probably react the same way.23The web has been the fastest-growing communication medium of all timeOne measure is how long a medium takes to reach the first 50 million users.  It took broadcast radio 38 years and television 13 years. The web got there in four.24Web users are ruthless readersThe average page visit lasts less than a minute.The first 10 seconds are criticalfor users' decision to stay or leave. The probability of their leaving is very high during these seconds. They're still highly likely to leave during the next 20 seconds. It's only after they have stayed on a page for about 30 seconds that the chances improve that they will finish it.25Is the web  making us stupid?Writers likeNick Carrare convinced that it is. He thinks that fewer people engage in contemplative activities because the web distracts them so much. "With the exception of alphabets and number systems," he writes, "the net may well be the single most powerful mind-altering technology that has ever come into general use." But technology giveth and technology taketh away. For every techno-pessimist like Carr, there are thinkers like Clay Shirky, Jeff Jarvis, Yochai Benkler, Don Tapscott and many others (including me) who think that the benefits far outweigh the costs.John Naughton's From Gutenberg to Zuckerbergis published by Quercus
Shortly after the YouTube sensation that wasJeremy Paxman's October interview with Russell Brand, Paxmanwrote a pithy columnabout his disillusion with Westminster politics. In it, he explained that what makes politicians "unappetising" is their hunger for power, that they are drawn to politics because they want to be in charge. This observation stayed with me, resurfacing during a conversation with an equally disillusioned entrepreneur who told me that contemporary politicians are followers, not leaders.Within the context of technology – an industry defined by those who pioneer the new – this couldn't be more true. Before the 2010 general election, I combed through the manifestos of every significant party to compare their plans for technology. It didn't take long. The only effort was from the Conservatives, who had picked on their traditional themes of entrepreneurialism and small business to stake out the fleshy looking UK startup scene.One semi-successful election later and the coalition government launched theTech Cityinitiative – in the Labour borough of Hackney – giving a name to a pre-existing cluster of successful developers, designers and entrepreneurs in east London. In the words of my entrepreneur friend, another initiative based on following rather than leading.For 2014 the focus is now on introducing computer science to the national schools curriculum in September and the complementaryYear of Codeinitiative.Throughout all of this, where has Labour been? No technology manifesto. No vision for how the technology community in Hackney and the rest of east London – the capital's most deprived and challenged areas – could unlock digital skills and training for a whole new generation of workers. While the Conservatives eased themselves skilfully into the established business networks of the startup community, where was Labour's voice on rebuilding this increasingly essential and vibrant British industry?Labour has been missing a trick. What better precedent than the one set by the honourable Sir Tim Berners-Lee in the open world wide web that he conceived 25 years ago this month? The values of the open web, it could be argued, are inherently liberal. The neutrality, the democracy of the platform which Berners-Lee himself still campaigns to protect means that for everyone with access, the web is equal to all who use it. Upskilling, crowdsourcing and networked communities are all fundamental Labour values for a digital age.The web has disrupted and torn open every industry in turn. In training and education, every enlightenment from changing a tyre to degree-level physics is available, usually for free, online. Study at home from YouTube, or join an online course. But the potential for upskilling and empowering individuals is vast.What used to be called "the wisdom of crowds" could offer the public sector a structure for more openness and even funding. Crowdfunding sites now span everything from gadgets and musicians to sustainable energy and publishing. Combine the platforms with the principle of making every public sector open and accountable, in plain English, with highly visible objectives. Looking to a socially transformative project such asZopa,the peer-to-peer lending service, the impact could be significant.And for community organisation, existing experiments around group-buying clubs could be formalised and expanded for the benefit of poorer communities. Others, such asStreetbank,encourage people to pass on goods or to use their time and skills to help neighbours; perhaps the most touching repercussion of our increasingly online lives is that real-world experiences are even more valuable.Even the unions, of which a new generation is sadly ignorant and detached, have a powerful incarnation here, exploring how online networks can unify communities around shared goals. Given the insecurity of many low-paid jobs, sweeping benefit cuts, the extremely high cost of living and the anger over executive bonuses, the timing couldn't be better.But there is finally movement. Most significantly, shadow home secretaryYvette Cooperhas recently outlined how oversight of the UK's security services might be overhauled under a Labour government. The current system is unsustainable and will lead to a breakdown of public trust, she argued, stating that legislation needs to be brought up to date with technology.It is a belated but important moment in the public debate postSnowden, and one in which informed and long-sighted UK politicians are essential. The muted UK reaction and debate stands in stark contrast to the US, where, critically, the wealthy and powerful tech lobby has its roots in the web libertarianism of Silicon Valley and defends its independence ferociously.In the UK, our relationship with the web is perhaps less emotive. But we need a strong and technologically confident Labour party to interrogate this government's flaccid approach to the universal right to privacy and its unwillingness to engage in a meaningful debate over the acceptable limits of state security surveillance.We also need a Labour party that can seize the stage for this debate on its own terms, backing it up with a compelling vision for a new era in which the internet empowers, organises and unifies the citizens of the UK. Social and vocational opportunity on that scale would be a truly great achievement for British engineering – and that really would be a manifesto worth following.
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxyis unparalleled in its exposition ofDouglas Adams's view of the world – unsurprising, really, because he wrote it. One of my favourite scenes is where Arthur Dent and Ford Prefect findthemselves being captured by robots. The world, meanwhile, has been conquered by marketing people and shoe shops."What's the matter with him?" Dent asks about one person who is moaning."Oh, his feet are the wrong size for his shoes," snarls the marketing droid.It's classic Adams, capturing an attitude that imprisons huge amounts of thinking within a throwaway remark. Fit the feet to the shoes, not the other way around. Take the manufactured item and fit the human into it.That phrase keeps springing to mind. The other day Isaw a blogpostby someone who had come across a new Bluetooth headphone that linked to an app and decided that they could&nbsp;see how you would want to use it in a&nbsp;future that looks like an only slightly enhanced present, where your movements are tracked by benevolent machine learning systems that can work out the things you'd want a beep in your ear to alert you to – rather like the character inHer, the film about a man who falls in love with the character inside his&nbsp;computer."Imagine walking around a city and&nbsp;being able to get audible notifications of things you might be interested in. Local places to visit, sights to see, breaking news alerts. And that's just the obvious stuff," our&nbsp;blogger wrote breathlessly.It's classic technologist thinking: here's a solution, what problems can it solve? Personally, when I'm walking&nbsp;around a strange city, either as a tourist or for work, what I reallydon'twant is to have beeps and bloops from my smartphone, which when I pull it out tells&nbsp;me that I'm just passing the site of a famous insurrection – or is it telling me that there's breaking&nbsp;news about some far‑away&nbsp;event?Even if you're thinking "well, it might be nice", consider how long you'd have to work configuring the app. Local news alerts? News alerts from where you live (which might be another country)? Nah, don't want those. Two buttons to turn off. OK, restaurant recommendations? No. Another flick. Umm, historical things? Sure. Sights to see? Yes, let's leave those on. Metro stations? Bus stations? Won't you see those? What about getting geotagged recommendations from shops that want to sell you stuff based on your proximity. But no, you say, this is a future with benevolent watching machines that will intuitively know our desires! No flicking preferences on and off for you!Which is even more worrying, really. I can't configure the machine? Surely I can, or things start to get scary; why is this machine insisting that I look at that ancient site? I'm not interested in it and I'm late for a meeting. Also, I'd like to know the way&nbsp;to the railway station. Even if I have to tell the machine "I'm not interested in that", it counts as configuration; just not by scrolling through an interface, but trying to work out how to get the machine to&nbsp;stop bugging me with beeps aimed at getting me to do this or that, like a&nbsp;laboratory rat.Adams would have had a field day with the idea (though you could argue that he already did: Eddie the Shipboard Computer was hardly the most tractable of devices).The sorrow, of course, is that Adams isn't here to see how true we keep being to his vision of people who try to fit the problem to the solution, instead of the other way around. He died in May 2001 – though you can still find his website, and his writing, atdouglasadams.com. I commend it: it fits every foot. And head.
You're being called "the first Brit in space". That's quite a thing to have on your business card.Yes, I'll board the International Space Station in November 2015. Helen Sharman was the first Brit in space back in '91, but they're calling me the first official Brit in space because I'm the first UK government astronaut, if you like. Helen's was a kind of private, commercial-sponsored flight. But yeah, it's a big deal!Is the space station full of 90s tech?Sort of. It's very weird [laughs]. I used to be a military test pilot so I'm trained to be extremely critical of cockpits and ergonomics. We strive for a very high level of performance in our military aircraft. I thought the space industry would be along the same lines, but the ISS first launched in 1998. Even then, the Russians used the same blueprints as for the Mir space station, so some of it goes back even further, to the late 70s. Then a Soviet space station is attached to an American one, with European and Japanese labs attached to that … Well, it's never going to be seamless. There's a lot of workarounds and old technology. On the Soyuz craft, the Russians have an "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" philosophy, so there are huge oxygen valves that haven't been changed since the 60s.Sounds a bit Doctor Who or slightly steampunk?Yes! It's a funny, fascinating blend of old and new. And it'll stay that way because the ISS will be up there until 2024. New technology's constantly going on board. We've got highly advanced equipment like the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer, which looks for dark matter outside the space station, but an antiquated environment in other respects. There's iPads and Google Glasses, mixed with clunky, shoebox-sized units. But it all works and that's the beauty of it. We've managed to bring nations and technologies together.Are you a gadget fiend back on earth?My main passion is anything involving engines or speed – flying, motorbikes, scuba-diving, skiing – but I do love gadgets as well. Unfortunately with my two little boys, aged five and two, there's limited amount of hi-tech gadgetry I can afford to have in the house!Are you an Apple addict?Yes, my family's gone Apple crazy. Two years ago, we didn't have a single Apple device. Now we've got Macs, iPads and smart TVs. My iPhone is absolutely vital day to day. All our schedules are on there and if someone in Russia changes my timetable, it pops up on my phone.What's your favourite app?A great one called The Night Sky. You point your device at the sky and it'll show you what's out there at that time: planets, stars, it even tracks space stations and satellites.What's your favourite gadget?Watches are my weakness. My favourite – and most expensive – is a Space Discovery Watch. My European astronaut colleague Christer Fuglesang, who's Swedish, designed it for his mission on the Discovery Space Shuttle. It's beautifully engineered with two modules: one classic timepiece, then you pop that out and pop in a lightweight electronic module with G-force sensors, linear accelerators, countdown timers and everything you could possibly want for spaceflight. It's a pretty special watch. They only made 128.Are you into 3D printers?We're flying one to the ISS in August, so we can print out components, like plastic ducting for air ventilation pipes. We're starting out with fairly lo-tech materials but eventually we'll work up to tools and equipment. We try to prevent too much stuff having to be flown up there, so the flexibility of what you can produce with just one printer is incredible. Now companies like SpaceX are using 3D printing with titanium alloys to actually manufacture rocket parts.What's your favourite computer game?Tomahawk Apacheon the Amstrad 64. That shows my age! I'd play it relentlessly when I was in 16, which was funny as I ended up spending 10 years of my life flying the real Apache and absolutely loving it.Are mobiles banned at the dinner table?It's an individual thing: technology is there for us to use as we see fit. Personally, when I'm with people, the mobile stays in the pocket with vibrate mode on. Live in the moment, that's my philosophy. But having said that, I spend a lot of my time isolated, away from friends and family, and that's why I love connectivity. When you're on a mission, the space agency set up a video conferencing suite in your home. I spent 12 days living under the ocean and was able to Facetime my family every day, which was incredible.Your phone bill must be massive.[Laughs] I've got no idea who pays the bill. But what I do know is that most astronauts try to call as many people as they can while they're in space, because it's just so cool to do it.Do you use social media?I really enjoy Twitter. It's a great medium for reaching out to people and useful to keep track of what's going on. For me, it's really important to share this whole experience. I'm in a privileged position, so see it as my responsibility to encourage people to get involved.
Q Can I use an old computer to create a hub for films and music to be played on our Apple TV and iPad?Giles, via emailA Yes you can. iTunes even includes a wireless streaming feature callediTunes home sharing. It allows you to share your media collection with any device running iOS, iTunes, and the Apple TV.Setting up iTunes home sharing is the easiest way to get started with streaming media. Install and open iTunes on the host computer. Choose File &gt; Home Sharing &gt; Turn on Home Sharing. When prompted, enter your Apple ID and password. Sign in with the same Apple ID on any device you wish to stream to.If you wish to share with non-Apple devices, something likeFreeNASis a much better choice but is more complicated to set up. LuckilyLifehackermade a step by step guide for the process. It's worth noting that FreeNAS would not allow you to stream to Apple TV. You can use the FreeNAS Plex plugin to stream to the Plex app on iOS and on most internet enabled TVs as well as some streaming boxes such as the Roku.QI have a tablet. Why should I be interested in e-readers such as the Kindle?Mia, via emailA If you love to read books, then an e-reader is likely to be a worthwhile device.E-readersare often seen as a less functional tablet because they lack the colour screens, apps, cameras and web browsers.However, it is the simplicity of an e-reader that makes it so useful. E-readers usually offer e-ink screens, that are more akin to paper than an LCD or LED panel that you would find on a tablet or laptop. E-ink screens strain  your eyes less if you read for extended periods. This is because they do not have bright backlights and also often give better visibility in daylight.The battery life is often far better than that of a tablet, as the e-ink display has very low power requirements. The Kindle and the Nook both give around three weeks of battery life.QMy son wants to learn how to build iPhone apps. What's the best way to get him started?Becca, via emailA Software development is a highly sought-after skill by people in many industries because of the problem-solving and debugging skills that it teaches.To build iPhone apps, you need to own an Intel Mac running Mac OS X Snow Leopard, Xcode (a free-to-download software development kit built by Apple, available at the Mac app store) and if you wish to run the apps on your iPhone, you also need to join theiOS Developer programfor £60. This can take some time to set up, but once achieved, it does not need to be done again for a while.When you have all the prerequisites, you can then begin to learn about the coding side of it. There are some great resources available, both paid for and free. The best includeYour First iOS 7 Appby Ash Furrow, £6, a book that takes you from creating your first project inside Xcode, through to submitting it to the store. AlsoTreehouse(14-day trial, then £15 a month), is an online learning service that offers high quality screen casts and videos for lots of different programming languages, platforms, design and even things like how to run your own business.And check outRay Wenderlich, a blog dedicated to iOS, Android, and related tutorials on how to build a variety of apps and games. This is more likely to be beneficial after first experimenting with Xcode. It has many tutorials written by professional developers that can help you to progress as a developer and learn about lots of different areas of the system frameworks to use inside your own applications. For learning to code in general, there are also fantastic free websites such asCodeAcademy, that teach various programming languages through interactive prompts, and guides. There are also school organisations such asCodeClubthat aim to bring in local professionals to teach programming in schools.QI'm trying to buy a new computer and am seeing lots about USB 3 and USB 2 ports. What is the difference? Will my HP printer still work?Kelsey, via emailA USB 3.0 is the latest version of the Universal Serial Bus transfer protocol and is a large speed improvement over USB 2.0. Fortunately, the ports are identical on a hardware level and a USB 3 port will work with both USB 2 and USB 3 devices and a USB 2 port will work with both USB 2 and USB 3 devices. However, you will be limited to the performance of the slowest device on that port. You will continue to get the same functionality with older devices. But as USB 3 becomes more widespread, you will notice that peripherals will perform much faster.As long as you have thecorrect drivers, any USB devices (such as printers, cameras, and hard drives) should work with USB 2 and 3. The only downside to a computer having a mix of 2.0 and 3.0 USB ports is that, in the future, you might be limited by the older ports.Daniel is a freelance programmer for iOS and the web. He has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador for Young Rewired State and can be found on Twitter @DanToml. If you have a tech problem for Daniel, email tech.questions@observer.co.uk with your full name and where you live
