Looking to create an "ecosystem" with its content, the Guardian has launched its Open Platform, a set of tools it hopes will encourage developers to create applications with its content and data. The content will be free, but the terms of service require developers to carry Guardian ads on any application or service developed as part of a yet-to-be-created ad network."The model is free. You can use our ­content elsewhere in the web. What do we get out of it? We want you to help us build an ad network," said Matt McAlister, head of the Guardian Developer Network.The platform launched with two components, a content API and a collection of data, the Data Store. API stands for "application programming interface", but it's basically a way forwebsites and services to work with each otherand share data.Tag – you're itTo find related Guardian articles, the API can draw on the tagging system from its own content management system, internal search engine for guardian.co.uk provided by Endeca and a related-content service powered byZemanta. That content is then packaged in standardised formats including XML, JSON and Atom which can easily be added to external sites."We feel like we are fuelling an ecosystem," McAlister said. Ecosystem is a popular industry term for a technology that allows partners and external developers to build new products and services around a device such as the iPod or a web service such as Twitter. In the late 1990s, web content was largely held together with links and wasn't easily portable, but with the development of XML and an alphabet soup of other standard data formats including RDF, RSS, JSON and Atom, content became easier to syndicate.The data formats also go beyond text. RSS 2.0 enabled multimedia feeds allowing podcasts and easily syndicated video. Location information could be embedded using GeoRSS. Guardian Developer highlighted applications that McAlister and others created in less than an hour using the API. "The API dramatically reduces the cost of experimentation. New prototypes can be developed in less man hours than it would take to have a meeting to discuss the project," says McAlister.APIs also fuel mashups – combinations of content and data. San Francisco design firm Stamen worked with Guardian developers using data from OpenStreetMap to create an application that will allow ­anyone toadd location information to Guardian content.Guardian developerChris Thorpecreated a prototype service that will allow people totag Guardian content. The Guardian also released client libraries inRuby,Java,PythonandPHPto help developers write applications using the APIs. The Python libraries are licenced under a BSD licence, though the licencing terms of the other libraries are still being determined. An API explorer allows developers to easily make test queries. Partners or developers will need to apply for an API key, and terms of use allow for 5,000 API calls a day.Increasingly, APIs are not just about text content but also data, which was the other element of the Open Platform launch, a repository of hand-picked data from Guardian editors, called theData Store.Simon Rogers, the Guardian's graphics news editor, has collected 80 sets of data including environmental, population and economic data. The Guardian has also partnered withcarbon data ­service AMEE.Spread out journalismAt the moment, the data sets hosted on Google Spreadsheets are only exportable, not editable by people outside the Guardian. Rogers has highlighted some of the data sets on anewly launched Datablog(guardian.co.uk/news/datablog), and he offers some suggestions on how the information might be used for visualisations or other applications. "The whole idea is to spread out journalism," ­McAlister said, and APIs can lead to explosive growth.Twitter's API drives 20 times more ­traffic to the service than its own website does, andTwitter's web market share passed that of social news site Diggin January. Third parties using Twitter's API have developed a huge range of services and applications that have helped drive Twitter's growth spurt.But the parallel with Twitter leads to questions about the business model, even with popular services.McAlister will be working with the initial partners to develop an ad model for the Open Platform. It's too early to talk about what form that might take, but he said a possible model is that partners keep revenue from their ads and the Guardian retains rev­enue from its ads. There will also be an ad-free service based on existing syndication models.
Richard Stallman once wrote that the point about free software is it is "free as in freedom, not free as in beer", meaning that people should be at liberty to do as they pleased with software, rather than subscribe to its restrictive licences. As the recession takes hold, the stress may be on the second half of his now-famous aphorism. To the millions downloading free software in a recession, the point is that it is free – as in free beer.Since Stallman first made his rallying cry as the founder of the free software movement in the 1980s, the way that software has been developed and distributed has been transformed. There cannot be a corner of the industrialised world that doesn't rely on some form of free software. But free software, and the open source movement it inspired, has so far affected mostly the back-end world of servers and databases, or taken over from software, like the web browser, that was already available at zero cost.Office politicsWhat remains largely untouched is the paid-for applications we run on our computers – the operating systems and desktop applications licensed from software giants such as Microsoft, Adobe and Apple. But with money becoming increasingly scarce, and the free alternatives growing in sophistication, free is finally threatening to go mainstream.Take OpenOffice, the leading alternative to a paid-for "proprietary" software application. As the downturn started, its download figures began to rocket. According to Oregon State University, since it launched its third version in mid-October, OpenOffice has been downloaded more than 42m times. That's roughly four times (3.75) every second. Or, put another way, that's 13,500 times every hour, 324,000 every day, that someone, somewhere in the world has chosen to download software for free, rather than pay for a software application that costs."We chose it because of cost," confesses Chris Waite, the IT director of Travel Republic, a large online travel agent based in Kingston upon Thames. Listed as the fastest-growing private company in 2007, the company installed OpenOffice through necessity. It now runs it on all 120 desktops. "The cost of the Microsoft Office suite is prohibitive, so we chose Open­Office and it does everything we need," he says. "It's saved us about £18,000. I just wish we'd deployed more open source software from the outset." Doubtless many others companies will be making similar calculations.Think of any paid-for application and there is now a serious free or open source alternative, each growing in sophistication and putting pressure on the "proprietary" market leader. Everything from office software (OpenOffice), image processing (Gimp), vector graphics (Inkscape), audio recording (Audacity) to email clients (Thunderbird) – the list goes on. Although none of these applications is yet a market leader, free software has already had one effect on paid-for applications. "The overall price of software has been downwards for several years," explains Bianca Granetto, a software analyst for Gartner. "You have got free options, or nearly-free options, such as Google's web-based applications, severely disrupting the market. If you are a big CIO spending millions on email and office software, you are starting to question whether that's reasonable. Open source has long been an open question, but the economic recession is making it a viable alternative."In November, the US analystClickstream reported(http://bit.ly/open2) that 5% of internet users used OpenOffice in the last six months. By comparison, 51% used Microsoft Office, suggesting that Microsoft had 10 times as many users as OpenOffice. But this also suggests that Microsoft's dominance could be declining, as three years ago it enjoyed 95% of the market. Now that share could be down to 90%. Microsoft acknowledges it has been forced to make "lots of fantastic offers available" to preserve its position, but insists its Office business remains "incredibly healthy". Nicholas McGrath, director of platform strategy at Microsoft UK, admits that open source software "continues to challenge Microsoft to ensure that they are listening to customers, providing products that are easy-to-use and have great support behind them … if we don't continue to innovate then we are going to be challenged".Where Microsoft is increasingly challenged is in the public sector. From Birmingham to Brussels, local and regional governments are switching to OpenOffice in a bid to confront the hegemony of Microsoft. "The idea of using open source software not originated by an American multinational corporation seems to go down particularly well in the French public service," says John McCreesh, marketing project lead of OpenOffice.org. This paper is a recent convert to OpenOffice, but the biggest commercial adopter is Peugeot-Citroen, which has installed the application on as many as 20,000 workstations. Even PC World, one of the biggest resellers of Microsoft Office, recently deployed OpenOffice at its tills. Where OpenOffice is surprisingly weak is where you may expect it to be strongest. AYet although the Indian government has distributed 7m CDs of the software, OpenOffice remains weak in the developing world. "In those economies piracy is so rife we've made little impact," admits John McCreesh, marketing project leader of OpenOffice.org. "One is free as in free, the other is free as in illegal."The latest version of OpenOffice, when added to previous versions and other variants such as Novell's Go-oo, takes the estimated user base of the software to something approaching 150 million worldwide. Microsoft Office has at least 10 times as many. But McCreesh says that many companies are considering the open option when it's time to upgrade. "It's interesting that Microsoft are slipping the release date of their next version of Office," he says. "They're not stupid. They know that as soon as people are faced with upgrade costs they'll start looking at the competition."One of the criticisms of free alternatives is they lack sophistication. But for Ford &amp; Warren, a large legal practice in Leeds, the software is more than capable of producing complex documents for its 200 employees. "What you don't want to do when you are cutting cost is to cut quality," explains Keith Hearn, the firm's managing partner.Sharing the downloadAnd free alternatives continue to improve. Gimp, for example, has for years been dogged by criticism that it was unworkable. But volunteer developers have worked to overcome its limitations. "There are problems with open source just as there are with proprietary projects," says Michael J Hammel, an author of several Gimp textbooks. "But with open source there is more transparency and a chance to fix those problems. It's a matter of when the world will realise that sharing ideas instead of selling them is a better long-term solution."OpenOffice is essentially owned by Sun Microsystems but, like Gimp, it is built by an army of volunteers and so makes no profit. Even so, a project as enlightened as OpenOffice is not open enough for some. Michael Meeks, an engineer at Novell, is one of the architects of Go-oo. He sees the increasing mass adoption of free applications as creating a crossroads. "The traditional model of software development is falling apart at the seams. We see the long timelines and bad project management endemic of propriety software being frequently disastrous. The open source development model has a huge number of attractions, particularly getting code out early. People will switch increasingly to that model."How many people will take advantage of that model could all depend on how tightly the recession takes hold.
World of goldcraftAfter reading [the article] I believe there are some definite issues with it . In the article, it glorifies the business of "gold farming" and treats it like it's an acceptable alternative. Hiring someone to do something for you may be OK in real life, but it is not acceptable in World of Warcraft! (Welcome to the new gold mines, 5 March, 2009.) It technically classifies as cheating. While yes, I know you're only writing about, you glorify it, but yYou fail to mention in the article that this method of obtaining gold or other in-game items of currencies via paying a gold-farming company  is in direct violation of the WoW terms of use section 2 A-D. The following excerpt of said portion of the terms of use says, in these exact words:. "A. use cheats, automation software (bots), hacks, mods or any other unauthorised third-party software designed to modify the World of Warcraft experience;"exploit the game or any of its parts, including without limitation the service, for any commercial purpose, including without limitation (a) use at a cyber cafe, computer gaming center or any other location-based site without the express written consent of Blizzard; (b) for gathering in-game currency, items or resources for sale outside the game; or (c) performing in-game services in exchange for payment outside the game, eg, power-levelling;C. use any unauthorised third-party software that intercepts, "mines", or otherwise collects information from or through the game or the service, including without limitation any software that reads areas of RAM used by the game to store information about a character or the game environment; provided, however, that Blizzard may, at its sole and absolute discretion, allow the use of certain third party user interfaces;D. modify or cause to be modified any files that are a part of the game client or the service in any way not expressly authorised by Blizzard; "As you can see, goldmining violates "exploit the game or any of its parts, including without limitation the service, for any commercial purpose" or "perform in-game services in exchange for payment outside the game, eg, power-levelling".Not only are gold-farming companies themselves a violation of the terms of use, but the way these companies, such as the one mentioned in your article, engage in their work also breaks the following: "A. use cheats, automation software (bots), hacks, mods or any other unauthorised third-party software designed to modify the World of Warcraft experience"; "C. use any unauthorised third-party software that intercepts, 'mines', or otherwise collects information from or through the game or the service, including without limitation any software that reads areas of RAM used by the game to store information about a character or the game environment;" and "D. modify or cause to be modified any files that are a part of the game client or the service in any way not expressly authorized by Blizzard". These companies use hacking, key logging, etc, to engage in their work. So, I wanted to inform you that you're glorifying something that just gets you banned from WoW.. And, really, do you want to pay $50 to NOT be able to play the game?Luke Phillips,Indianapolis• Re your gold-farming article the other day, interesting read, although I'd have liked to have read a response from the makers of WoW – Blizzard. Did they not want to comment? I presume you're aware any form of real-world trading of WoW resources is both illegal and will result in the instant loss of your account. For a game that probably takes the average person over a year to reach the top levels (well, me, anyway), comparing the loss of all that time against "20 real-life hours farming gold", doesn't really compare.Given the ridiculous amounts of money Blizz makes, they must have someone lobbying congress to bitch about the Chinese illegal trade. That'd make an interesting read too. Know anyone who might want to write about it?Jamie Booth,Manchester• I failed to see anything in your story dealing with the fact that gold selling is actually against the TOS of World of Warcraft. I also did not see anything in your story about how not all gold comes from "grinding" by the farmers but a good amount also comes from accounts being hacked and computers being attacked by key loggers which can steal more than just game account info. It seems to glorify a business that actually would be nice to have wiped out and that is hated by those who are honest or who have been the victim of a malicious attack on thier account.Shaun Hartley,POST TOWN• Interesting piece by Rowenna Davis, but she portrays it as an interesting developing web industry while neglecting to mention that gold farming is against the Blizzard ToS and that there's evidence to suggest that some of these outfits farm their gold through hacked or compromised accounts.Technically, her source, Jamie al-Banna, is violating his agreement with Blizzard, may well have benefited from illegal hacking, and should have his account shut down. Curious to know why the information relating to web security was left out.Alex Scroxton,London•I always thought playing computer games was a pretty brainless activity and here's the confirmation: you don't need actually to "play" at all (oops! there go all those unconvincing arguments about the skills and mental agility that gaming helps to develop) you just outsource it to some poor underpaid sod in China.It's just as well that breathing is reflexive or some of these folk might never figure it out.Root Cartwright,RadlettI doubt this includes the people that hijack accounts to sell everything off to get their gold to sell. I was pretty much neutral on the subject till they started the account hijacking, now I am fervently against it.forums.3305local.comInteresting article on gold farming at the Guardian. However, the reporter should look into the relationship between the gaming companies (like Blizzard) and the gold farming companies. I'm sure there is a story there.literateria2.blogspot.comAnd while Blizzard officially forbids gold farming, the Chinese government is realistic about it: it happens, you can't stop, so let's make some money off it. To that end, it has recently imposed a "gold-farming tax". Too bad it can't be bothered to regulate the industry.As for the customers, it's like this: yeah, big deal, these gold farmers may have it rough, but I'd rather take the money I earned after one hour of work, and pay them for the goods, than sit there and play the game for the 20 hours it would take to earn X-amount of gold.So hooray for anything, I guess.www.crunchgear.comI can't help but imagine a 400lb man in a specially reinforced chair surrounded by empty Dorito packets, in a room that smells of BO and sorrow. 45Forty-five minutes in and I still haven't engaged in any duels or whatever this game is supposed to be about. I think about giving up for the day around this point. But eventually another dancing whore takes pity on me and we have a fight, which she wins. Getting my ass kicked by someone called coolgirl34 counts as something of a lowest ebb moment.interpolgroupieswearblack.wordpress.comIf, as some economists have suggested, the recession is a prelude to greater financial parity on a global scale, will gold farming or its equivalents become an increasingly attractive employment option in the West as the traditional options for blue-collar work erode?futurismic.comIs there no end to their stupidity, laziness and venality. You can't even be bothered to play the game you're addictied to? How do you manage to keep breathing without someone to do it for you?shinyshinyshiny.blogspot.comHardly new news, but still interesting.kalivor.livejournal.comNowhere is it actually mentioned that Blizzard considers these companies to be against the terms of service, or that many times the gold obtained by these companies isn't earned through simple grinding, but by hacking, keylogging, and exploiting. Even if (emphasis on the if) these companies are making millions of dollars a year, they're stealing accounts and cheating in-game to do it.Rowenna Davis also did interviews with both the gold farmer and a player in the UK buying money from him (bannz0red?), but again, there's no insight at all from the player whose account was hacked and bank was looted, or the player who is able to earn as much gold as they need and have a life outside the game (there are plenty of those to go around). Would have been nice to see the issue from players who aren't actually breaking the game's terms of service.www.worldofwc3.com/wpblogI have never gone near a MMORPG, and never intend to, so I find this story utterly baffling in every sense. While I find it beyond belief that there are players in the Wwest so beyond lazy and so utterly selfish that they consider it perfectly acceptable that someone is sitting in a freezing office doing the slightly less fun parts of the game for about 30p an hour on their behalf, and from this case study that selfishness is pretty evident in one player, though I assume there are also plenty who have been buying the gold with no idea as to where it came from, what I find even stranger is that they continue to play the game despite its obvious flaws and talk about it as if it actually inhabits the real world.topazbean.wordpress.comI've played WoW on and off since its launch and have not yet been tempted to buy virtual gold. But then I'm not trying to keep up with hardcore players who have time to burn. If I was then the temptation would be there and clearly the market is a real and viable one.www.davincibook.comI wrote about making a living by accumulating gold and other valuables in MMPORGs in my crime novel Players, published less than two years ago (I called it "click farming" rather than "gold farming"; same difference). It's an even bigger business now, and naturally enough most of the labour has mostly migrated to China, where it's cheapest. Wonder what these keyboard cowboys are going to do with all that processing power when gamers in the Wwest can't afford to buy virtual wealth and prestige any more.unlikelyworlds.blogspot.comA really interesting article about the source of all that annoying spam email that hits your MMO account.The tone is a bit morally ambiguous, a bit like to industry itself. It overlooks the whole issue that any such gold mining is immediately in breach of the EULA of whatever MMO you happen to be playing. And of course you have some net-twat wittering on about new economy/development 2.0 (yuck)Also, the workers are poorly paid and work long hours, though anyone who's been to the UAE, or bought underwear from Primark can't claim to be whiter than white.I quite liked the bit about the division of labour between the geek-boy/proles and the college-educated young woman who did the marketing/client liaison.www.eparsnip.com/blogThe only threat to the market would be if too many of your customers themselves lose their jobs and end up cash poor/time rich themselves. Expect to get spam from Middle East gold farmers before too long.www.itp.netBiometric timeBeing a conspiracy theorist these days, I can only assume that the proposed biometric programme at St Neots college is a government-funded scheme to "backdoor" more data into their biometric database (School puts a brave face on biometrics, 5 March). Certainly, if Scott Preston, deputy principal no less, thinks this is the way to acquire information about sixth form attendance, he is plainly in the wrong job; just don't ask the rest of us to subscribe to such a daft suggestion that its the best way.Alan Gent,CheadleShare the WikiSeth Finkelstein wonders how Wikipedia can keep up with the flood of material that it stores (Inclusion or deletion?, 5 March). He doesn't suggest a solution, but what about file sharing, in the manner of music files? If you wish to contribute to Wiki, you have to keep so much data on your own hard disk and make it available to others. Then the unit price of storing each article really does become trivial.John Davies,LancasterI suspect that a lot of the traffic that comes to Wikipedia through search engines actually comes through algorithms of the sort, "Do a search and pick a Wikipedia entry if it shows up in the top five, otherwise pick whatever seems relevant". Here, search engines are being used as a "Wikipedia+": Wikipedia, plus the rest of the web if Wikipedia failed. If the search engine failed to turn up Wikipedia in the top five, and the user later found a Wikipedia entry on the topic that he or she felt should have been up there, the user may start bypassing the search engine and go directly to Wikipedia.whatisresearch.wordpress.comOpen to suggestionsI'm very, very pleased that the goal of "make goods and services cheap" v "make the poor rich" made it in [to Vic Keegan's article, Can we build a world with open source?, 5 March]. That was really unexpected. Would have been nice if Appropedia had made it in too.vinay.howtolivewiki.comTypically, business models around open source have to focus on other ways of making money than through selling the innovation per se (since it is shared, under certain conditions). So the really interesting question coming from all this is not whether the open source model can work (of course it can), but whether it will be successful, and whether it will encourage or discourage faster innovation.jorendewachter.comNo way nanoLooks like more tech from America that won't make it out of the design phase and cost billions (Nanotechnology goes to war, 5 March).blog.wired.comOnly a matter of time before it trickles down to consumer applications, especially in entertainment.8ninths.comIT crowd is no funOK – so IT is a serious business but could TechnologyGuardian lighten up a bit? Is the target audience mainly nerds and litter trays? Oh how I miss technophobe, a little treasure of light relief. Perhaps a cartoon – or something – occasionally, please? Here's hoping. From a tech-savvy but humour-starved gran.Ali Hill,BridlingtonUnintelligent designRegarding your article (Web design trumps graphic design, 23 February) about Jakob Nielsen's site, I would love to have been able to comment underneath but short of that facility my response would have been: "Oh, so it was designed?" Come on, it never looked good, even when it was launched in the late 90s – it has more in common with intranet design than an aesthetically pleasing and pleasant user experience. Just as bad has been the site's broken links – something I've found every time I've visited!Yes, the information's good though.(No, my company's site isn't representative – I know – it's appalling too: I've only just started the process of righting that issue.)Michael Rawling,user experience and interfaces, IVIS Group LtdNanotech promisesBlue is the colourEvery time I read a Guardian article, I need to override your styles (using Firebug) to add the underline back on links – they are impossible to spot otherwise. If the link/text colour weren't so similar, of course, this would be less of a problem.Bobby Jack,LondonEmail us at tech@guardian.co.uk
Blaming the victim is common in IT: users are to blame because they don't patch their systems, choose lousy passwords, fall for phishing attacks, and  so on. But, while users are, and will continue to be, amajorsourceof security problems, focusing on them is an unhelpful way to think .People regularly don't do things they are supposed to: changing the oil in their cars, going to the dentist, replacing the batteries in their smoke detectors. Why? Because people learn from experience. If something is immediately harmful, ie, touching a hot stove or petting a live tiger, they quickly learn not to do it. But if someone skips an oil change, ignores a computer patch, orchooses a lousy password, it's unlikely to matter . No feedback, no learning.We've tried to solve this in several ways. We give people rules of thumb: oil change every 5,000 miles;secure password guidelines. Or we send notifications: smoke alarms beep at us, dentists send postcards, Google warns us if we are about to visit a website suspected of hosting malware. But, again, the effects of ignoring these aren't generally felt immediately.This makes security primarily a hindrance to the user. It's a recurring obstacle: something that interferes with the seamless performance of the user's task. And it's human nature, wired into our reasoning skills, to remove recurring obstacles. So, if the consequences of bypassing security aren't obvious, then people will naturally do it.This is the problem with Microsoft's User Account Control (UAC). Introduced in Vista, the idea is to improve security by limiting the privileges applications have when they're running. But the security promptspop up too frequently, and there's rarely any ill-effect from ignoring them. So people do ignore them.This doesn't mean user education is worthless. On the contrary, user education is an important part of any corporate security program. And at home, the more users understand security threats and hacker tactics, the more secure their systems are likely to be. But we should also recognise thelimitations of education.The solution is to better design ­security systems that assume uneducated users: to prevent them from changing security settings that would leave them exposed to undue risk, or – even better – to take security out of their hands entirely.For example, we all know that backups are a good thing. But if you forget to do a backup this week, nothing terrible happens. In fact, nothing terrible happens for years on end when you forget. So, despite what you know, you start believing that backups aren't really that important. Apple got the solution right with itsbackup utility Time Machine. Install it, plug in an external hard drive, and you are automatically backed up against hardware failure and human error. It's easier to use it than not.For its part, Microsoft has made great strides in securing its operating system, providing default security settings in Windows XP and even more in Windows Vista to ensure that, when a naive user plugs a computer in, it's not defenceless.Unfortunately, blaming the user can be good business. Mobile phone companies save money if they canbill their customerswhen a calling card number is stolen and used fraudulently  . British banks save money byblaming userswhen they are victims of chip-and-pin fraud . This is continuing, with some banks going so far as to accuse the victim of perpetrating the fraud, despite evidence oflarge-scalefraud by organised crime syndicates .The legal system needs to fix the business problems, but system designers need to work on the technical problems. They must accept that security systems that require the user to do the right thing are doomed to fail. And then they must design resilient security nevertheless.Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer: schneier.com
I blame the BBC. It was Tim Weber, the BBC's business editor, who sparked it off with a tweet (on Twitter, obviously) to Dave Winer, the RSS guru: "1st rule of starting new PC: Go to website of your preferred Anti-Virus s[oft]ware provider, download, install" (http://bit.ly/malware22). He was responding to Winer, who had remarked: "The bad guys *are* clever. They patch your system so it goes to their bizarro version of the Symantec site. Takes yr $ installs more malware [http://bit.ly/malware23]." Winer, of course, was in infected PC hell, trying to get out (http://bit.ly/malware24).I thought Weber's remark – and Winer's experience – indicated something disastrous: that people are completely inured to malware, and responded to that effect on Twitter. Oh, yes, the internet, Windows, everywhere, it's completely overrun, nowhere is safe. Hang on, though. How did we get here? And is there any way of getting out of it?If phones or TVs or radios or set-top boxes had a similar malware problem, there'd be chaos. We'd have never shifted from the letter or the telegraph, telephones would have driven us mad, we'd never have got used to gathering around the glowing TV screen in case we got weird pop-up programmes that leered at us and took our money. You would just lose your trust in things. My tweet, of course, triggered a standard Windows v Mac religious debate, which wasn't what I wanted to get into. If both Windows and Macs were overrun with malware, I'd be using Linux, or BeOS, or whatever could get the job done with the least inconvenience. (Presently, for me that's Apple's OS X, and I don't run any antivirus or antispyware programs.)My point was that we're inured to malware on Windows, just as, in precisely the same way, we're inured to road deaths. Quick: how many people died in the UK in road deaths in 2007 (the most recent year I could find numbers for)? And how many died in air crashes? The reality is that they're of an order of different magnitude: 2,940 on roads against six in air crashes. Oh, you say, but that's because people spend so much more time on the road. They're safe really. Well, no, they're not. People are dying. We've just got so used to those deaths that we think that's how it should be. Road deaths? Oh, they're awful. But aren't seatbelts wonderful! And side impact protection! And crush zones! Yes, because we've introduced them, reducing the inherent risk of a potentially dangerous activity.Malware, though, is everywhere with computers – to be precise, with Windows. It's so bad that the first step you should do in setting up a PC is go to an antivirus site and install protection. It's as though cars didn't come with effective seatbelts or brakes, that you had to drive (rather warily) to your nearest garage as soon as you took delivery to get it sorted out. Sure, you'd get a million miles per gallon. But you'd still have the problems of crashes and deaths.Thankfully, we don't see many – any? – deaths due to malware. But it's a similar effect: we've become so used to the problem we don't see it any more. It's the elephant in the C:&nbsp;drive, in the IFrame, in the codec. The reason is obvious. Windows began as a stand-alone system; it was never meant to be networked, so never had the built-in security considerations that Unix, being built for timesharing multi-user systems, did. When the internet came along, catching Windows 95's developers by surprise, security was a bit of an add-on. XP did better, but backwards compatibility left security holes that were exploited as PC sales exploded.How do we get out of here? Windows&nbsp;7 looks like it's finally reaching a balance where it's secure yet doesn't drive users mad in being so. Perhaps, just perhaps, we're on the verge of reducing the tide of malware before the waters close over people's heads.
Imagined future not shownMicrosoft's vision of the computing future of 2019 is fascinating, not least because a) it's so like Minority Report b) it has people who fly! In half-empty aeroplanes! With oil at $400 a barrel!Hello? Is that John Sergeant?If you don't want to see Apple's co-founder Steve Wozniak dancing, you can just watch this clip of him on "Dancing With the Stars". He sort of browses around the floor as though on safari.Bridges to nowhereBlowing up bridges, set to opera. Relaxing and pleasing at the same time. Next, blowing up buildings to Tosca?• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
If Tony Blair's mantra was education, education, education then Gordon Brown's should be bandwidth, bandwidth, bandwidth. Why? If Britain is to create new jobs for those lost in the global meltdown, one thing is certain - they will in some way be using broadband, or high-speed access to the internet. And the faster the speeds, the more likely the UK will be able to stake a claim to become a world leader in the mind-boggling new industries that superfast broadband will generate. Who dares wins. Some of these we can already guess at, such as not having to leave home to go to the doctor, remote education, home working that feels like you are in the office, virtual worlds, very high-definition television and life-size videoconferencing or holograms in your back room. But mostly they will be applications we can't yet imagine. Hands up all those who 15 years ago predicted the video revolution or that you could run your own global television channel from yourmobile phone for free? With broadband, supply creates its own demand.In this context, last week's report by Ofcom - freeing BT from restrictions to make it profitable enough to build a national network of optical fibres of huge capacity - is a triumph of political realism. If it finally ends BT's 25-year sleep - yes, it has been that long since this debate started - then glory be. Just as Ofcom forced BT to open its local exchanges to competitors, thereby expediting the country's take-up of standard broadband, maybe this will do the same for superfast broadband, even in a global recession. This might happen if only because Virgin - and hats off to it - is setting a cracking pace by promising that speeds of up to 50Mbps, nearly nine times faster than current rates, will be available to 50% of homes by mid-2009. This is great. But hang on. Neither Virgin nor BT is offering fibre to the home (FTTH), except for new developments. It is fibre to a cabinet (FTTC) near your home: the last bit of the journey will be along 50-year-old copper wire. Ofcom's assessment is that this combination of fibre and copper could take virtually the whole country to broadband speeds of 50Mbps, compared with 6Mbps now. That's good for the country and a triumph for engineers able to squeeze so much speed from an old copper cable.But stand back a bit. Why on earth should data travel halfway around the world at lightning speeds only to slow down as they reach your home? It may not be in BT's commercial interest to do this, but why can't the government - which is pouring zillions into a collapsed banking system - invest more in the industries of the future that could replace the banking jobs? If superfast broadband can enable remote health and education, we don't want it to be dependent on BT's profits squeeze. It is the government's job to build an efficient health service, not BT's. A speed of 50Mbps a few years hence sounds good, but others are already building 100Mbps and more. Do we want to be left behind in an area where we could have a comparative advantage?If BT can't afford to build the final link, then why can't it be financed by a combination of house owners (maybe aided by tax incentives), local authorities (so they can attract new industries) and government, with its duty to build national infrastructures. This is not just about Britain's place in the world. Lord Carter, the communications minister, has explained, admirably, that his espousal of a broadband speed of "only" 2Mbps is a national safety net to ensure that poor people are not left behind. But superfast broadband brings its own digital divide issues. If it enables a revolution in healthcare and education then everyone should benefit, not just richer people. Working with market forces is admirable despite the, er, market failure in the banking sector. But market forces would never have built the health service or our education system. Sometimes a government's gotta do what a government's gotta do.victorkeegan.com
Laptops on mains powerI have bought a Toshiba laptop for home use, connected to the mains supply. Should I remove the battery?Claude HuttonJS:Most laptop batteries are now lithium-ion designs that only work for a limited number of cycles (ie, charging and discharging). They also suffer more from oxidation due to heat and when kept fully charged, so your battery should last longer if you remove it.The Battery Universitysays laptop temperatures can climb to 45C, and "the battery's life expectancy when operating at high temperature is half compared with running at a more moderate 20C (68F) or lower".However, the BU also says: "Lithium-ion is well suited for laptop users who continually switch from fixed power to battery use. This user pattern is typical for those in the sales, service and medical field."Deleted user recoveryI've deleted a user account in Windows XP and belatedly discovered there may be a file in it with data that was not saved.David CambridgeJS:Use an admin account to look in the C:\Documents and Settings\ folder for the name of the user account. If there is no folder or there's nothing in it, the files have been deleted. In this case, "deleted" means the space they occupied has been marked as free for re-use. If the space has not been used for new data, then you may be able to recover the file with an undelete program or something more sophisticated such asRecover My Files. Search using the name of the file or at least the extension (pst, doc or whatever) to eliminate unwanted clutter. The more you use the PC, however, the more likely it is that the file will be overwritten.Unfunny intervalheheheEvery time I try to access Google the reply is printed in some indecipherable language. I then receive a message purporting to be from Microsoft telling me that I have a virus by the name of intervalhehehe and need to install Anti Spyware - at a cost of $39.95.Margaret GilesJS:This is a Trojan that appears to be connected with an infected version of WinRAR, and you might have downloaded it from a Google "sponsored link" (ie, an advertisement).Security Labshas published details and screen shots. Update your antivirus software, restart your PC in safe mode and run a scan. If that does not remove the virus, download and runSuperAntiSpyware.If you have problems accessing the web, go to your C:\Windows directory, press F3 and search for hosts. (It's in the C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\ETC folder.) When you find the file called HOSTS, delete it and restart your PC. This should stop the redirection, but does not remove the Trojan.Backchat• Lee Corless asked about "cloud computing" and I mentioned Microsoft's Business Productivity Online Suite. Microsoft's Gill Le Fevre has provided a betterlinkfor any small firms looking to sign up and recommends that interested businesses take advantage of the free trial.• Noel Hannan adds: "In answer to Lee Corless's query, he should consider using Microsoft Office SharePoint Server 2007 (or WSS 3.0, its lite equivalent) from a managed service supplier to support his small but distributed organisation - it offers all the functions he mentions. We are using this approach successfully (admittedly we are in the role of the 'supplier' in this instance) for the clinical research networks funded by the National Institute for Health Research."• Peter Skillern asked about using a tiny Eee Box B204 as an entertainment system, including Blu-ray. Asus UK says it has now released the Eee Box 206 (&pound;309.99) "with added functionality to enable seamless enjoyment ofhigh definition entertainment."• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Dick Tracy-style phone comingHyundai Mobile UK says it will launch its &pound;200 MB-910 mobile phone watch this summer following "significant interest".Key-shaped USBLaCie has launched some key-shaped USB storage devices designed to fit on your keyring.Play smart, play safe!To help parents, Microsoft has produced a 24-page Family Guide to Video Gaming (PDF).It's a wrappzWrappz is offering design-your-own vinyl covers that you can stick on to your iPod or other device to provide decoration and protection.Save Bletchley ParkThere's an online petition to save Bletchley Park, home of Colossus code-breaking, at a new Saving Bletchley Park website.Play for changeThe Playing For Change Foundation is "dedicated to connecting the world through music".Hi-def Jiminy CricketBlu-ray's backers say that Pinocchio, the Platinum Edition, was the 1,000th Blu-ray title to be launched in the UK.Animation breakdownTate Modern, at Bankside in London, is holding a study day on animation on 21 March (020-7887 8888).
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 16 March 2009Above we wrongly described Tim Berners-Lee as the inventor of the internet. Berners-Lee created the world wide web.Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of the world wide web, yesterday warned MPs and peers that they should not allow third parties, including commercial companies, to snoop on people's internet browsing."We use the internet without a thought that a third party would know what we have just clicked on," said Berners-Lee, the British computer scientist who proposed a project for sharing and uploading academic data in 1980."Yet the URLs [webpages] which people use reveal a huge amount about their lives, loves, hates and fears. This is extremely sensitive information."People use the web in a crisis, when wondering whether they have a sexually transmitted disease, or cancer, when wondering if they are homosexual and whether to talk about it ... We use the internet to decide what is true and what is not, to discuss political views, to inform ourselves as voters in a democracy."Berners-Lee, credited with the communications breakthrough that led to the use of the internet as we know it today, said people would consider using the web in a different light if they knew they were being monitored and the data would be shared with a third party such as an advertising company."There will be a huge commercial pressure to release this data," he said. "The principle should be that it is not to be collected in the first place."His remarks, at a Westminster roundtable discussion about the commercial use of data on the internet, followed trials by BT and a company called Phorm aimed at monitoring of 30,000 individuals' internet use in order to deliver targeted advertisements based on their search interests.The recent development of behaviour-targeted advertising has alarmed privacy campaigners.In its simplest form, a website, such as the online retailer Amazon, will keep a record of which pages a user has visited and show them relevant advertisements the next time they visit.But privacy concerns arise when records of web activity are shared or sold to other commercial third parties, particularly if they involve a search engine such as Google, which stores millions of users' searches.Lady Miller, the Liberal Democrat peer who convened the meeting, said the age of innocence on the internet was over."We must come to terms with the cynical reality that, unless parliament does something, business will ride roughshod with internet users' data," she said."Our privacy laws are outmoded and uncoordinated, completely unsuited to the competitive commercial environment that is developing on the internet."She said the internet was developing so quickly that it was bound to be seen as a goldmine by companies such as Phorm, Google and Microsoft, which she claimed were waiting to get their hands on data to sell it to the highest bidder.Berners-Lee said personal users could turn to encrypted surfing as a way of protecting their privacy, but warned this would make the process more expensive and slow down the user's computer.He said there were considerable risks of abuse of such histories of personal internet use, including the selling of personal profiles, using it to determine job applications and insurance premiums, and the danger of criminal predators stalking and targeting victims."The power of this information is so great that the commercial incentive for companies or individuals to misuse it will be huge," he said. "It is essential to have absolute clarity that it is illegal."
It may seem contrary - even churlish - to doubt a technology claimed to have prevented millions of pounds of fraudulent insurance and benefit claims around the world. Yet that's what Francisco Lacerda, a professor of linguistics at Stockholm University, and Anders Eriksson, professor of phonetics at Gothenburg University, have done in a scientific paper.They say the system, used to try to detect people lying in phone calls made to 25 UK councils and a number of car insurers, is no more reliable than flipping a coin - and that millions of pounds have been spent on a technology that has not been validated scientifically, and for which the claims about its function are "at the astrology end of the validity spectrum".The claims publicly made for the voice risk analysis (VRA) software being used by trained operators at some local councils since May 2007 sound impressive. "Phone lie detector led to 160 Birmingham benefit cheat investigations", said theBirmingham Post. The Department for Work and Pensions has already spent &pound;1.5m installing 150 "seats" of the software - plus training from its UK reseller, Amersham-based DigiLog, for each group - in councils, as part of two sets of pilot tests of the VRA system.Insurance claimHighway Insurance, which has used DigiLog's product since 2002, claimed in 2007 that the system has "successfully prevented more than &pound;11m in potentially fraudulent motor insurance claims" because "Highway has screened nearly 19,000 motor claims cases since 2002, with more than 15% repudiated or withdrawn."That suggests the system works. But perhaps the wording is important: it says they were potentially, not demonstrably, fraudulent. Scientists say telling people they are being monitored by a "lie detector" (real or not) makes them more likely to be truthful. The example cited in Lacerda and Eriksson's paper is of prison inmates interviewed about their drug use, and then tested by urinalysis and hair samples - an objective method. With "lie detection", only 14% lied; without it, 40% did.The software is from Nemesysco, an Israeli company, which licenses DigiLog to sell it in the UK. Sales to the government are handled jointly by DigiLog (which does the staff training) and Capita. Nemesysco claims it applies "layered voice analysis" (LVA): "LVA uses a patented technology to detect 'brain activity traces' using the voice as a medium. By utilising a wide-range spectrum analysis to detect minute involuntary changes in the speech waveform itself,LVAcan detect anomalies in brain activity and classify them in terms of stress, excitement, deception and varying emotional states".In the UK, the system is known as VRA. Callers to Harrow council to make a housing benefit claim are warned their call may be subjected to voice analysis. The DigiLog software monitors the line that operator is on: if it reckons patterns in the voice indicate some form of stress, the operator hears a beep. Thus alerted, the operator is trained to begin asking questions that may uncover the truth.Harrow visits anyone who chooses not to take part in a VRA call; it says there has been only one complaint since its introduction, "indicating that customers do not feel intimidated by the process". It claims the technology has saved it about &pound;110,000 in benefits payments, helped identify 126 incorrectly awarded single-person council tax discounts - worth &pound;40,000 - and prompted reviews of 304 claims. Of these, 47 were no longer valid, saving another &pound;70,000. Birmingham city council is equivocal: no prosecutions have followed VRA's use - and in some cases, the benefits paid have even been raised.Yet nobody testing the system seems to have tried generating the beep in the operator's ear by the electronic equivalent of a coin flip. Measuring the difference in effectiveness between random beeps and the proper system (without telling the operator) would be a scientific "blind" test: that could show whether the system is worth its cost or whether it was just the more assertive questions, allied to the "lie detector" warning, that made the difference.In the absence of such scientific investigation, the next best step is to analyse the software. In a paper titled "Charlatanry in forensic speech science: a problem to be taken seriously", published in the International Journal of Speech, Language and the Law, Eriksson and Lacerda analysed the code in the 2003 patent forNemesysco's software. They say it comprises about 500 lines in Microsoft's simple Visual Basic programming language. That code carries out the signal analysis, they say, and then offers the multiple levels of "certainty" to operators trying to decide whether someone is being truthful.Call their bluff"At best, this thing is giving you an indication of how [voice] pitch is changing," Lacerda told the Guardian. "But there's so much contamination by other [noise] factors that it's a rather crude measure." In the paper - which has been withdrawn from the website of its publisher, Equinox Publishing, after complaints from Nemesysco's founder that it contains personal attacks - the scientists say the scientific provability of the Nemesysco code is akin to astrology. The deterrent effect "is no proof of validity, just a demonstration that it is possible to take advantage of a bluff".That chimes with one specialist, who spoke on condition of remaining anonymous. "Nobody seems to have done any sensible research into this," he says. "[The clients have] all talked to salesmen rather than scientists. Study after study shows low validity, and chance level for reliability. But people won't listen. They don't try them in controlled trials; they make a public announcement they're using it, then feel happy they've got a 30% fall in claims. It's called the 'bogus pipeline effect'. People are frightened [of the threat]."Stress at workBut Lior Koskas, the business development manager of DigiLog, says the VRA system cannot be separated from its user, because the system only picks up stress. He does not claim it spots "lies" on its own. "Only when the technology and an operator trained by us spots it, then can we say there's a risk someone is lying." Has there been a scientific "blind test" of the system? "No," Koskas says, "you can't say you're using something if you aren't."He adds that the technology "hasn't been scientifically validated", but he rejects Lacerda and Eriksson's criticisms. "With any technology you will have opinions," he says. "But how many of these scientists have tested it properly? They talk about the technology in isolation, as though you don't need anything from the operator except turning it on or off. But the majority of the training course is about linguistic training analysis, learning to listen. Anybody using this [technology] in the UK doesn't use it in isolation."What would Lacerda advise the government and companies considering spending money on the system to do? "Spend it on educating the people who are going to interview people, because that would be much more valid and ethically sensible."Yossi Pinkas, Nemesysco's vice-president of sales and marketing, insists the system "can't be tested in a lab environment, because you're testing emotion". To him, Lacerda and Eriksson's analysis is flawed because "there's no scientific field of 'voice analysis', only voice recognition".
Gordon Brown has turned to web 2.0 and free public data to revive his government's fortunes in the face of economic crisis and a growing opposition challenge.The Working Together paperpublished on Tuesday includes pledges to publish national online maps of crime and require councils to make available "open-source, real-time data" on how their services are performing. Within a year, authorities will also have to set up websites on which parents can comment on local childcare providers.Working Together marks the arrival in mainstream government policy of the "Power of Information" strategy published in 2007. In his foreword, Brown says the government "has been much too slow to make use of the enormous democratising power of information".He adds: "People take it for granted that they will access other people's reviews and ratings before buying something on eBay or Amazon, and yet we do not yet have systematic access to other people's experiences when choosing a GP practice or nursery. We have clearly got the balance wrong when online businesses have higher standards of transparency than the public services we pay for and support."Freely available public data - a cause for which TechnologyGuardian has campaigned for three years - is crucial, the paper admits. It says the government has accepted the "overall messages" of last week's report by the Power of Information taskforce - including that "government will publish information about public services in ways that are easy to find, easy to use and easy to re-use". One example is a scheme to publish "easily accessible, simple raw data" on the location of all cycling accidents on the new "backstage" section of the Directgov web portal. Developers will use this data to develop tools to help cyclists plan safer journeys.In another move to freeing non-personal data, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs has revealed it plans to implement the European "free data" Inspire directive under UK laws. A consultation document published last week proposes to require all public bodies to make available data about what geospatial information they hold.On the big question of whether bodies such as Ordnance Survey will be able to continue to charge for data, the consultation comes down in principle on the side of freedom. These moves look like good news for the Free our Data campaign - but we shall save our cheering for next month when the outcome of a review into the future of the government's information businesses is announced in the budget. A month is a very long time in politics.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Nobody likes driving along a bumpy road. But to Shakeel Avadhany and Zack Anderson, both students at MIT, the bumps mean one thing - wasted energy. By using new, energy-harvesting shock absorbers, they're hoping to produce a 10% improvement in vehicle fuel efficiency.But how do you harness power from roads? Anderson compares a 60,000lb (27-tonne) truck to bench-pressing in the gym. "Every small perturbation on the road pushes the wheels up, sometimes just a small bit. It's like bench-pressing 60,000lbs 40 times a second, but only raising the weight bar a fraction of an inch."Shock absorbers (or dampers) damp out these impulses and dissipate the energy as heat. By fitting vehicle suspensions with sensors, the students' investigations showed "a significant amount of energy" was being lost.Anderson says making a prototype regenerative shock absorber has involved coming up with an active control system for smooth damping. "Our shock absorbers use a design that reroutes fluid outside of the shock body. We use standard shock bodies with our custom power-generation unit attached."Fluid from the shock absorber is forced through a turbine attached to a generator. For a heavy truck with six shock absorbers, each one could generate "up to an average of 1kW on a standard road". That's enough, they claim, to offset the alternator load - thus saving fuel.Now in their final year, Avadhany and Anderson have filed for a patent, founded a company, and attracted interest from the US military and manufacturers. Their latest testbed? A converted Humvee.Professor Dave Crolla, an automotive engineer, is involved with energy-efficient vehicle research at the University of Sunderland. Crolla confirms that 1kW per damper is "about right" for a heavy truck on a cross-country surface although, for cars on smooth surfaces, it's 100W or less. He believes replacing an alternator would not be practical."However, assuming that the damper-harvesting device itself can be made to work, the biggest challenge is how to reuse the energy in a useful way," says Crolla. "Clearly, it can be stored in a battery or supercapacitor, but the inventors also need to tackle the issue of how it can then be used to reduce fuel consumption."Dr Jiabin Wang at the University of Sheffield studies linear electric motors as an alternative to shock absorbers. "Our finding is that on a typical road the energy that can be recovered in each wheel of a high-performance car is about 70W at 50mph, which is insignificant for the cost of such devices," says Wang. "However, the energy-conversion efficiency from hydraulic and electrical will not be high and, therefore, the actual useful electrical energy may be significantly lower."The road to success may prove bumpier than the students imagine.
Tell most people of a certain age that you're involved with the games industry and you get two responses: a contemptuous, "Must be great to play games all day" snarl, or a starry-eyed, "I've got a great idea for a triple-A game!". Newsflash, folks: as a hack, I'm only one industry evolutionary seam above the slime mould, belonging to the bulging genus Liggerus Maximus, which is presumed to survive by feeding on free beer and launch party swag.But while I can spend countless words refuting the first response (you have to give Mary King's Riding Star the same amount of time as Fallout 3, for example), I can now adeptly deflect the second, parrying the excited gaze of someone who thinks I can get him or her a direct line to Shigeru Miyamoto, by saying: "See the range of tools that enable you to put your money where your mouth is! Now don't come back until you have something to show, dreamer. I'm up to my pits in level 73 of Pizza Syndicate."Indeed, there is an impressive array of user-friendly game development engines out there for budding interactive superstars. Unfortunately, for many non-gamers, the difficulty settings are way too high. Sure, the release of Little Big Planet brought homebrew game development possibilities to the mainstream, but designers-to-be must own a PlayStation 3, the game, substantial time and the controller skills to use the complex building system to create a platform game reality. Ditto for the next design peg down, the Wii-based puzzle generator in Steven Spielberg's Boom Blox.As games become important tools for pursuits other than fun - the games-for-learning industry, for example, is thriving as teachers realise the real benefits that interactive problem-solving have for deep learning over traditional models - bespoke gaming applications that are open enough to be applied to very specific purposes are flourishing.Last week, I discovered four such resources: the template-based DevFacto allows developers to implement design objectives using puzzle-based templates; GameStar Mechanic, a similar template system developed by the same team who wrote the design book Rules of Play; GameSalad, a drag-and-drop developer toolkit; and Scratch, a simple game and animation programming language from MIT. Non-profits, grassroots organisations and teachers are already using these free applications, and they're simple enough for novices with big ideas to create storyboards or proofs of concept.There are far more ideas out there than game development dollars. For people with ideas, the buck no longer stops at the front door of the publishers. Bring on the crazy ideas and release me from the bonds of Mary King's Riding Star.
It's possible, but sounds unlikely. There is a good chance that Apple is producing something, because the Chinese-language Commercial Times has just reported that: "Taiwan-based Wintek will supply touch panels for Apple's new netbook, and shipments will start in the third quarter this year." This was picked up by DigiTimes in Taiwan, but it doesn't tell us much.Clearly there is a gap between Apple's small-screen pocketable products, including the iPhone and iPod Touch, and its big-screen portable MacBooks. But if Apple wants to bridge it, it could start from either end.Apple could produce a mini-notebook running Mac OS X on an Intel Atom processor, which would compete with popular models such as the Asus Eee PC range and Acer Aspire One. Or it could produce a tablet computer running OS X (not the Mac version) on an ARM Cortex processor, which would be like a large iPod Touch.The Wintek deal, if the reports are correct, suggests the latter is more likely. Wintek is pioneering what it calls Capacitive Type Touch Panels, with the initial target market being smart phones and handheld games consoles. The company thinks that, over the long term, they will be used in large-screen machines such as netbooks and TVs, but it's starting small.An ARM-based device may also be considered more likely if it exploits the skills that Apple brought in when it bought a chip firm,PA Semi.On the other hand, touch screens are also the new frontier for the netbook market. Intel's Classmate 2 reference design is a convertible netbook/tablet PC design with a touch-sensitive screen, and advanced touch features are built into Microsoft Windows 7.There are also plans for devices that have two screens and work like electronic books. If you want to do computing, you turn them around and one screen becomes a touch-sensitive keyboard. The OLPC (One Laptop Per Child) project is developing an XO-2 along these lines, and Asus has shown a similar device in prototype. It's a market that Apple could pioneer, making its new machine the Nintendo DS of twin-screen netbooks. But I don't think it will. It's risky.Although netbooks and touch-screen tablets are becoming popular today, both ideas go back to the 1980s, if not earlier, and have been tried many times before. Apple launched the infamous Newton MessagePad, a touch-screen tablet/PDA, in 1993, and did a small portable netbook version, the eMate, for the education market. Steve Jobs killed them off in 1998, when Apple was in a difficult financial position.In these difficult financial times, a big-screen iPod Touch looks a better bet than a small-screen MacBook, and less likely to undermine sales of Apple's very profitable portables.
Computers have altered many professions; now it's dentistry's turn. Yes, frightened patients will still face the drill. But when it comes to designing and manufacturing a crown, implant, bridge or dentures, computers are beginning to replace painstaking manual methods. The basic design of the typical crown - metal bonded with porcelain - dates from the 18th century. This is a sector ripe for reinvention.Most patients probably have no idea how much individual labour goes into restoring even a single tooth: each piece is bespoke. Take a crown. Traditionally, once the tooth has been prepared, the dentist pours gunk into two jaw-shaped trays into which the patient bites down to create impressions. These are sent off to a lab along with the dentist's instructions.The die is castOn arrival, dental stone is poured into the impressions and left to harden. A pin is placed at the tooth being worked on (the "die") and others in the underside of the stone model, and a base is then poured on to it. Once set, the model is cut with a split saw or fine diamond disc so that the die can be removed for working. The pins mean it can be put back in precisely the same place. The technician then uses the die to build up a wax pattern 0.4mm to 1mm thick, in the shape that will ultimately be cast in metal. "The first thing I had to do as an apprentice," says Clive Everingham, the retiring founder of Creative Dental lab in London, "is wax tooth-carving, so I learned the anatomy."The finished pattern, embellished with a prong, or "sprue", is placed into a metal casting ring, which is filled with material called "investment". Once that's hardened, heating the ring to 850C burns off the wax, leaving the pattern's empty shape behind. The ring is mounted in a spinning machine, and centrifugal force pushes molten metal into the empty space, recreating the wax pattern in metal. Knock away the investment, remove the sprue, and there's the basis, or "coping", for your crown.From there, the crown is hand-painted with porcelain, first with an opaque layer to blot out the darkness of the metal, and then with successive layers of shades chosen to match the patient's own teeth. The finished crown is fired at 930C and sent back to the dentist for installation.You hope. Anything destined for a patient's mouth must be precisely made to within 20 microns. Gaps attract saliva, which can wash out the cement holding the crown in place, turning the gap into a haven for bacteria and decay.But even a lab that can afford lengthy finishing times - Everingham estimates his maximum output at 60 crowns a month - can't be perfect; impressions may have tiny bubbles or smears. It is these imperfections that computer technology is beginning to address.About 18 months ago, labs such as Creative and nearby Ken Poland, which supplies cosmetic dentistry to the Channel 4 TV show 10 Years Younger, began buying 3M's Lava system. Poland's Steve Pope makes the traditional stone model, but then scans the model and creates the coping digitally using a virtual "wax knife" and automated software. When Pope, a former aircraft engineer, builds a bridge on screen, it looks as hard as working in wax; this profession is being reskilled, not deskilled.The data file is sent to a milling centre, in this case, Poland's own. There, the Lava software takes the file and assigns it to a barcoded block of zirconia. Cured at 1,500C, it becomes a hard, strong material that can be tinted by soaking and to which porcelain will bond. Pope says it's better than metal: zirconia is bio-compatible and used in hip and knee replacements. The block is placed in the milling machine, and the computer translates the data file into cuts to produce the actual coping. Then the coping is cured for more than 11 hours. From there, the porcelain is applied by hand. Pope is particularly impressed by the software's ability to calculate precisely how much extra to allow to compensate for shrinkage in the curing process - between 23% and 26%.Magic wandThe next stage is eliminating the impressions. At the New York offices of Dr Steven Alper, an oral scanner reads the movements of a wand inside the patient's mouth. The wand captures 3D video of the patient's upper and lower jaw, as well as the outside bite pattern. "I can see if I need to fix something," says Alper. "For example, for a crown prep you have a margin around the tooth, and it's hard to see on the patient. You only have one or two views, and they're all white and small. On the screen you can look really close."Turning the image to various angles on his touchscreen, Alper found a hole. He rescanned that section, filled out an onscreen prescription, and sent the file to the lab electronically. Simultaneously, the data goes to a facility that uses it to generate the physical model in resin. The die is sectioned in manufacturing, eliminating the imprecision of saw cuts.All of this eliminates time waiting for materials to harden, cure or cool. More importantly, everyone agrees the software does a better job of getting as tight a fit as possible. "It won't cure everything," says David Coppen, chairman of the Harley Technician Study Club, which saw the scanner demonstrated in London last week, "but this is the future."• This article was amended on Monday 16 March 2009. The founder of Creative Dental lab in London is Clive Everingham, not Chris Everingham. This has been corrected.
David Prager, chief operating officer of Revision3, found a strange man in his home last night, just before 4am. Did he call the cops? No, he went on to Twitter:ok, maybe I should lock my door - I swear a random dude just walked into my bathroom and I can't believe I haven't freaked outThis isn't, fortunately, an armed robbery. Prager thinks the man is drunk and/or a hobo: "my gut tells me he's harmless," he tweets.Later he decides to stream video toustreamfrom his laptop so everyone can watch. The video shows Prager trying to get the guy out of his bed and out of the door, which he manages to do."This is a little ridiculous, and I should be freaking out," says Prager, "and I'm being way too nice, and I totally understand -- I'm not reading the chat right now -- but this is a little crazy. I think he's a little drunk and messed up."Prager, at least, doesn't seem too disturbed by the incident. "Maybe I take comfort from the fact that I can share it with a few people," he says. "Makes it a little easier."Prager's twitstream rapidly returned to normal, but the story was picked up byLate Night With Jimmy FallonandSilicon Alley Insider.Be interesting to see if anyone can identify the "hobo" from the video. That might give it some depth.
There comes a point after making any irreversible life decision – usually a couple of weeks in – where one of two things hits you. Either a feeling of euphoric disbelief that you didn't made the decision sooner, or a gutting realisation that you've made such a gargantuan error that no number of mitigating factors will ever douse the flames of regret tearing through your brain. You're on a road to either heaven or hell, but either way there's no turning back.My own moment of realisation came this past Sunday, at a little under 90mph, with Rob Dougan's Clubbed To Death cranked up to 11, just after Scott and I had pulled on to the Pacific Coast Highway in our (borrowed) convertible Porsche Boxster. We'd just had brunch at Buck's in Woodside and were heading down the coast for no reason apart from to enjoy the clear skies and the view. Glancing down at the date on my phone, it suddenly occurred to me that a year ago – very nearly to the day – I wason this exact same road, driving an equally convertible 1971 Dodge Challenger from LA to San Diego for ETech. And I couldn't believe it had taken me 12 whole months to decide to move here.Back in January, Iwroteabout my sadness at leaving America – and San Francisco in particular – just as Barack Obama was elected president and America entered its biggest period of uncertainty since Khrushchev asked Castro what the parking was like in downtown San Cristóbal. A few weeks later my agent (a thing it's impossible to have without sounding like a wanker) called to say that the deal formy next bookhad finally been agreed – a development which meant I'd have to stop gallivanting around the world for a while and settle in one place to get some serious writing done. From that point, the decision stopped being a decision at all – and from phone call to interview at Grosvenor Square to visa to arriving at SFO last Monday with my trusty suitcase on wheels, my journey took less than a fortnight.I realise of course the news that I'll be based here for the foreseeable future will come as a huge disappointment to those who were looking forward to an update onIceland's ant population. To those who are actually interested in technology, though, it should hopefully be good news. San Francisco is a technophile's waking wet dream; a 24-hour nocturnal emission of innovation and electronic enthusiasm. And to a transplanted Brit, the sense of wonder is even greater when you realise that the cool services and products you've only read about on Techcrunch or Twitter – the Hulu, the Kindle 2, the Tesla Roadster – are actually available here. It's like suddenly getting a visa to live in Minority Report or Back to the Future II. Except for the hoverboards. There are still no fucking hoverboards.But relocating the column here for a while also poses a risk. A risk that I'll spend the rest of the year playing the "stranger in a strange land / innocent abroad / legal alien" card, totally ignoring new developments in technology and instead centring each column on a trite but mildly jolly UK vs US observation, like some kind of wide-eyed, less jocular techno Bill Bryson. A hideous prospect, I'm sure you'll agree, and one I'm keen to avoid.So, instead, I've decided to get it all out of my system in one go – to list all 41 trite observations, one for each remaining week of the year, in a single column. A column which, having been written, I hope we can all take as read.Ready? Here goes..."One of the things I've noticed since I arrived in America is..."1) At some point in the country's linguistic development they apparently decided that herbs should be pronounced as "erbs" and fillet as "fill-ay", like French people do. To compensate for this, they call a cafetiere a "French press" and a croissant a "crescent roll".2) There is nothing funnier than watching an American order a Cockburn's after dinner.3) Turns out Hulu in this country isn't just an error message, but actually a really cool and easy way to watch TV shows and films for free.4) Unfortunately, like American network TV, Hulu is interrupted by adverts every 10 nano seconds. I miss iPlayer.5) Each hour of American television can be broken down as follows: 10 minutes of commercials for junk food, 10 minutes of commercials for prescription medication (which can be further broken down into one minute of benefits, nine of side-effects), 10 minutes of commercials for lawyers who can help you claw back money to pay for more junk food and medication, 13 minutes of an announcer telling you what you are currently watching, 13 minutes of an announcer telling you what's "up next", two minutes of cop show re-runs, two minutes of a family-based cartoon series.6) The exception to the above is HBO which is 60 full minutes of promotion for their upcoming Will Farrell live special.7) Seeing BBC.co.uk with ads is like seeing your dad giving Satan a reacharound.8) Opening a bank account in this country – even if you're not a citizen – is a joy. Ten minutes, two forms of ID, in and out. And when you walk through the door, a nice lady says hello to you. This is very unsettling.9) They also set up internet banking and your ATM Pinwhile you wait. To a former Barclays customer, this is like witnessing magic.10) If anyone's looking for all the chrome, it's on the fire engines.11) Apparently there is a newspaper in the world called "The London Times".12) And tea can be served with cream.13) Tea served with cream tastes like a baby has been sick in it.14) A few days after I arrived I found myself having dinner with both Michael Arrington and Loic LeMeur. At any given San Francisco event, there's an 90% chance you'll run into someone you felt quite comfortable mocking from the safety of London.15) Fortunately, Americansdohave a sense of humour.16) Except when it comes to sarcasm which must always be followed by the words "I'm kidding".17) Perhaps in response to the fact that I keep giving cab drivers $50 bills instead of $5s, the US treasury has slowly started to add tiny flashes of colour to distinguish between different denominations of bill. At the current rate, money will be full colour by 2096, like the world's longest remake of Pleasantville.18) For some reason, when San Francisco shopkeepers or bartenders hear a British accent, they feel the need to use the word "cheers" instead of "thanks". This sounds as weird as a Brit using "bucks" as slang for dollars or an Australian speaking French.19) Cab drivers in San Francisco have no idea where anything is. If you asked one to drive you to one end of the road and back again, you'd still have to tell him the cross-street.20) But even if you made that journey back and forth 'til the end of time, it would only cost you less than taking a black cab down Oxford Street.21) Even using a British debit card, and with the pound in the toilet, you can still fill up a Porsche Boxster and have change from 30 quid.22) Over here the pound is actually "using the restroom".23) American service is astonishing. You could give a labrador puppy a handjob with a Prozac glove and it still wouldn't be as pleased to see you as the staff of the Leland Tea shop on Bush Street.24) There are more than 80,000 kinds of American toast, 700 ways to cook an American egg but only one way to make American bacon. And it isn't pretty.25) In restaurants, it is impossible to finish a glass of water before it's refilled. The state of California is permanently in the grip of a water shortage. No one seems to have connected these facts.26) Free universal healthcare is tantamount to Communism. Free soft drink refills are a basic human right.27) Newcastle Brown Ale is a delicacy.28) The announcement this week that the Guardian isopening upall of its content back to 1999 to developers, while American newspapers openly discuss circling the pay-per-view wagons, makes me proud that I write for a newspaper owed by a charitable trust in a "socialist" country.29) The ability to receive Twitter updates by text message has finally introduced America to the magic of SMS – a technology the rest of the world took for granted by 1998.30) Adoption of new technology here is highly selective. Minicab drivers have Priuses, hookers accept PayPal but the idea of a three-pin plug is only just beginning to catch on.31) The Onion newspaper's headlines are brilliantly satirical, but the body of its editorial often stretches the joke into unfunniness. The Fox News Channel does the exact opposite. Both are still wonderful.32) You must immediately look up the "ShamWow" commercial on Youtube. You're welcome.33) The Kindle 2 knocks the Sony Reader into a cocked hat. Unfortunately, thanks to the ridiculous anachronism that is territorial publishing rights, the rest of the world will just have to take my word for that.34) Ask someone in Cupertino to name a British rock star and chances are they'll say Jonathan Ive.35) Almost no one here has heard of Father Ted, Jonathan Creek, Yes Minister or Blackadder. And yet they can all hum the Benny Hill theme tune.36) Russell Brand and "bell-end": over here, it turns out neither are synonyms for a bit of a cock.37) Thanks to the movie, when you mention David Frost to an American, they picture Tony Blair doing an impression of Austin Powers.38) If you want to stun an American, forget about using a tazer – just ask "who the fuck is Mr Rogers?"39) Julie Myerson, European football, Palestinians: just three of the things the media here doesn't give a toss about.40) Over here, Wolfram Alpha will be considered a British success story like Bebo, Last.fm and WWII are. Which is to say that the Americans will claim that, without them, it would all be coded in German.41) "Double the tax" sounds simple but only natural born Americans will ever understand the rules of tipping. See also: American football."...I mean what'sthatabout?"There! All done! Now I can get on with the important business of making enemies of Valley entrepreneurs and getting drunk at American tech events, starting next week with South By South West in Austin, unfettered by the need to mention any of the above ever again.Well, except for the 'erbs thing.I mean, seriously.Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com• This article was amended on Friday 13 March 2008. In the article above we said Boxter when we meant Boxster. This has been changed.
"Imagine your music player talking to you, telling you your song titles, artists and playlist names". So says Greg Joswiak, as Apple takes a typically unconventional approach to the problem of having a music player that's too small to have a screen displaying the track name on.The new iPod shuffle, costing $79 (£59 inc VAT in the UK - you can complain now), comes in only one size but two colours, silver or black. And it's smaller than ever. Perhaps soon you'll be able to have them inserted as fillings in your teeth.Interesting that it's taken three generations of the iPod shuffle to arrive at this place: when the idea of a really small Flash-based player was first mooted, people said Apple wouldn't be able to do it with a small enough screen. So they didn't. Do the screen, that is.How then do you know what song's playing? Apple somehow persuaded people that you didn't need to. You filled it up and then had a load of songs which you put on, yes, "shuffle".But technology moves on, and rather as Apple dissed the idea of video players before introducing the video-playing iPod, here's the equivalent of a screen for ya.The new version has 4GB of storage (enough for the fabled "1,000 songs") plus an intriguing feature called "VoiceOver" - which has a computer-generated voice - male on the Mac, female on Windows,"Comic Book Guy" on Linux. It clearly isn't generating the voices onboard (disappointed? We are), but does it in iTunes while it's on your computer.This also creates the possibilities of creating playlists (oh, sure, we're going to do that with 1,000 songs and no screen; we have so many empty hours in the day). Especially as the new system has no controls on the machine itself - they're relocated to the (proprietary, so far) headphone lead. So forget those expensive headphones you just bought yourself. Though possibly some of the iPhone-compatible ones might work.What's interesting about this is twofold: it indicates that Apple is thinking "beyond the screen", to audio feedback (which it had already on the iPod nano, as Rupert Goodwins of ZDNetpoints out); and it shows how far storage prices have fallen. The 4GB (only) shuffle, all Flash-based, costs $79; the 5GBoriginal iPodcost $399, and used a hard drive.Plus there's the fact that speaking interfaces are getting increasingly popular: first the Kindle, now the iPod shuffle. OK, you wouldn't want to have a book read to you in its computer-generated voice (though itcan be good for a laugh)It's perhaps disappointing that the speech generation isn't done onboard - that would be some impressive processing - but perhaps in time...End notes: the Ting Tings get another lot of namechecking in the video for the product (see its page). Whoever the person at their record label is that persuaded Apple that band would be perfect for its next iPod advert is surely more deserving of a bonus than any banker...And meanwhile, it bears out the truism that in technology things happen first as humour, second as highly-priced objects...
Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of the world wide web, today warned MPs and peers that they should not allow third parties, including commercial companies, to snoop on people's internet browsing."We use the internet without a thought that a third party would know what we have just clicked on," Berners-Lee said."Yet the URLs [webpages] people use reveal a huge amount about their lives, loves, hates and fears. This is extremely sensitive information."People use the web in a crisis, when wondering whether they have a sexually transmitted disease, or cancer, when wondering if they are homosexual and whether to talk about it … to discuss political views."He said people "use the internet to inform ourselves as voters in a democracy", adding: "We use the internet to decide what is true and what is not."We use the internet for healthcare and social interaction."He said people would consider using the web in a crisis in a different light if they knew they were being monitored and the data would be shared with a third party such as an advertising company."There will be a huge commercial pressure to release this data," he said. "The principle should be that it is not to be collected in the first place."His remarks at a Westminster roundtable discussion about the commercial use of data on the internet followed trials by BT and a company called Phorm of the monitoring of 30,000 people's internet use in order to deliver targeted advertisements based on users' search interests.The recent development of behaviour-targeted advertising has alarmed privacy campaigners.In its simplest form, a single website, such as the online retailer Amazon, will keep a record of which pages a user has visited and show them relevant advertisements the next time they visit.But privacy concerns arise when records of web activity are shared or sold to other commerical third parties, particularly if they involve a popular search engine such as Google, which stores millions of users' searches.Lady Miller, the Liberal Democrat peer who convened the meeting, said the age of innocence on the internet was over."We must come to terms with the cynical reality that, unless parliament does something about it, business will ride roughshod with internet users' data," she said."Our privacy laws are outmoded and unco-ordinated, completely unsuited to the competitive commercial environment that is developing on the internet."She said the internet was developing so quickly that it was bound to be seen as a goldmine by companies such as Phorm, Google and Microsoft, which she claimed were waiting to get their hands on data to sell it to the highest bidder.Berners-Lee said personal users could turn to encrypted surfing as a way of protecting their privacy, but warned this would make the process more expensive and slow down the user's computer.He said there were considerable risks of abuse of such histories of personal internet use, including the selling of personal profiles, using it to determine job applications and insurance premiums, and the danger of criminal predators choosing, stalking and targeting victims."The power of this information is so great that the commercial incentive for companies or individuals to misuse it will be huge," he said. "It is absolutely essential to have absolute clarity that it is illegal."He was backed by Dame Wendy Hall, a Southampton University professor of computer science, who appealed to politicians to protect the privacy of people's digital lives and take the issue seriously."There are lots of good reasons why companies and government want access to our data but there are huge downsides to that," she said."This debate is about our digital lives. It is about who we are, what we are interested in and what is private to us."
The pay-for-porn company Platte Media, formerly MBS (Micro Bill Systems), has stopped operating in the UK - and did so in February, according to an email from the chief executive officer of Platte International, Stanly Hiwat, and a statement in Parliament.Hiwat said in an email to Michael Pollitt, the reporter who has uncovered story after story about Platte, that  "Our reasons for this decision and our further intentions are simply related to our original marketing and business model." He added: "Obviously, and just like any other business should and would do, I am making sure that stopping our marketing to the UK Market, is done in such a sensible and orderly manner, that will best preserve the interests of our customers and of our own."That's going to be a huge relief for families and people around the country who have been plagued first by pop-up notices originating from MBS, and then Platte, which alleged that they had accessed its content without paying; the only way then to remove the popups (short of an extensive rewind and reformat, or some antivirus tools) was to pay Platte/MBS. In some cases, legal letters threatening bailiffs were sent.The Platte business model was that it ran a "subscription" system to pornography sites, and then film content (often pornographic). If you went onto the site - via a click-through agreement - you had a short period (a couple of days, according to Platte) in which you could decide whether to stop your "subscription". If you didn't act before that time was up, and didn't pay Platte for the access, the software installed with the click-through would start to generate more and more intrusive popups, making it harder and harder to use the machine. (Only Windows machines were affected.)In the vast majority of cases where people complained about the software, it quickly became clear that someone with access to the affected computer had "installed" it. But in a small minority, the question of precisely how the Platte program got onto their machine remained unanswered.The announcement of Platte's withdrawal follows anexchange in the House of Commonson Monday in which Martin Horwood asked  the minister for businesshow many complaints (a) his Department and (b) the Office of Fair Trading have received in respect of the activities of Platte Media and MBS Systems; what steps have been taken in responseto which ?Martin Thomas repliedThe OFT has however previously investigated the business activities of Micro Bill Systems Ltd. ("MBS"). In March 2008 MBS and its directors provided undertakings to the OFT following complaints about the appearance of 'pop-up' notices demanding payment for membership of adult content websites on consumers' computers. MBS also advised the OFT at the time that Platte International Ltd. (UK) ("Platte") would be taking over MBS so the OFT obtained identical undertakings from Platte.Platte has now informed the OFT that it wouldcease trading from 25 February 2009and that Platte International Ltd. (British Virgin Islands)ceased marketing to the UK from 2 February 2009.(emphasis added)The OFT monitors undertakings given to it and will consider whether any additional information it obtains warrants further enforcement action. It also liaises with relevant Trading Standards authorities to ensure that it is dealing with businesses fairly and proportionately while securing effective compliance with the law.The interesting question of course is: why withdraw?Michael has asked Mr Hiwat whether the decision is at all connected to the fact that Plattemight have faced a VAT investigation by HM Revenue and Customs. As he noted in October 2008, people who had asked for a VAT receipt from Platte had been told that it was exempt from VAT because it was based in the British Virgin Islands. But being horrible fact-checking types,We asked HM Revenue and Customs whether a company registered overseas, but providing a service to a customer in the UK, would be exempt from VAT. Not so, said HMRC: non-EU suppliers providing "electronically supplied services to UK consumers" were required to register for VAT if the VAT threshold is exceeded.So has Platte exceeded the VAT threshold, of £67,000 in a year? It seems remarkable if it hasn't. Ashley Bateup, chief executive officer of the UK-registered Platte International Ltd, which operates in Leeds, says the UK managed services company is registered for VAT, but he "cannot comment on any other company". Platte has also said its customer contracts are "with Platte International BVI".Mr Hiwat has not responded yet to the question of VAT.Another question that has raised its head is whether it is legitimate to demand payment from theownerof a computer if you cannot prove that it was they who actually installed the software on the machine. Because Michael (again) has seen a copy of a letter sent to Stephen Byers MP from John Fingleton of the Office of Fair Trading, which said in part:"We would regard any attempt by Platte to seek payment from a computer owner solely on the basis that they are the computer owner, rather than on the basis that they took out the subscription, as a potential breach of undertakings given to the OFT."Platte/MBS had given a number of undertakings to the OFT following numerous complaints. So was it the VAT? Or the OFT? Or did the economic climate just not suit Platte?
Google today took a major step into the controversial targeted advertising space market by introducing a global display advertising system on YouTube and other networks.The programme means advertisers will focus their campaigns on users who have previously visited related sites, or who have expressed an interest in specific categories.From today, users will not see more ads – but will see more personally relevant adverts on sites in Google's ad network including the New York Times, Reuters, Napster, ITN, AutoTrader and Rolling Stone.Google said the scheme would reach 80% of the global online population and 32 million people each month in the UK alone.Google emphasised that the service was targeted only by a temporary ID assigned to user's browser, known as a cookie.It will not record visits to sites listed as sensitive by the European Union, which include finance, politics, religion, health, sexual orientation or pornography, and, because the cookie is related only to one browser, it is not attached to users' Google accounts such as email or documents that contain a user's name, address or personal information.Google emphasised that every user will be able to opt out of the targeted ads by using an "ads preferences manager" by following a link from the search engine homepageThey can also select from 27 special interest categories including travel, news, sport, automotive and computing.Because the preferences manager will be specific to each browser, users will need to update their options on every computer and browser they use.Characterising the new beta service as an extension of its contextual 'AdsWords' programme, Google said the targeted ads would show across its content network.The Google UK director, Mark Howe, said that despite the recession, online advertising was growing in the UK but that it was more important than ever to make it relevant."As a consumer watching TV I'd think that the only category I want to see is car insurance and meerkats - it's incessant and I can't turn it off. Why would you opt out when someone is offering really targeted advertising?" said Howe."What is well known is that advertisers are willing to pay a price to deliver the most relevant ads ... this opportunity gives a wider set of advertising opportunities to reach a wider audience in a better fashion and ultimately drive more revenues for publishers and advertisers."Google would not say which advertisers or agencies would be the first to join the trial service, but said it would expand in the next few months and would include the entire AdSense and AdWords network by the end of the year.Howe added that he was not aware of any plans to incorporate users' search histories into the tracking service, and said it could not predict how the service might affect pricing on the auction-based ad scheme. He emphasised that the opt-out and targeting options had been designed so that they were "easy for the layman to understand"."What [ad targeting firm]Phormdidn't do was bring transparency, and there was no involvement for the user - it's the complete opposite here," said Howe. "The uniqueness of our programme is that it is based on interests and activity and that users have the ability to use the ad preferences manager to edit and control it."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Bafta Games Awards have definitely been reconstituted – after a mini-sabbatical which enabled them to be moved from a slot before Christmas, in which they tended to get a bit lost in the general Christmas mayhem, to March, which makes an awful lot more sense.The last Baftas, to be honest, were a bit of a disgrace: they struggled to transcend a dire venue in Battersea park, and an even more dire parade of dull-eyed Z-list celebs presenting awards while giving the impression they'd never actually dream of doing anything so tawdry as play a videogame.But this year, the Bafta Game Awards occupied the glitzy Park Lane Hilton, and had the sure, intelligent touch of Dara O'Briain at the helm. A man who is clearly a gamer, and has the jokes to prove it. O'Briain may or may not be a genius, but one thing is for sure: his cerebral approach makes him the perfect awards ceremony presenter. Consequently, the crowd was in a suitably receptive state when the aw-ard presentations began.Biggest winner of the night was the much-loved Call Of Duty 4 – it scooped the Gameplay and Story and Character Awards, plus the big one: the GAME Award of 2008, which was voted for by the public. The public spoke, and what they said was reflected by two of the Bafta panels. Which speaks volumes. I've been on those Bafta panels in the past, and I know how rigorous they are. Bafta judging invariably involves heated debate (usually with several secret ballots) continuing deep into the night. Fuelled, admittedly, by copious volumes of alcohol.Perhaps the biggest cheer of the night went to LittleBigPlanet, which won the Artistic Achievement award. There was plenty of cheer for underdogs, too: Valve's Left 4 Dead won the Multiplayer award, EA's Dead Space, which seemed to come from nowhere, won two Baftas, for Original Score and Use of Audio admittedly, but given the sheer, unexpected gaming pleasure it brought me, I would never begrudge it those. Codemasters' Race Driver GRiD left mega-budget efforts like FIFA 09 in its wake to win the Sports Bafta.Super Mario Galaxy won the big one, Best Game, and Fable II was a popular winner of an Action 7 Adventure Bafta – Peter Molyneux isn't sure whether he now owns "Five or six" Baftas. Perhaps tomorrow, he can count them for us.O'Briain hit the nail on the head in his summing-up by pointing out that 2008 must have been an incredible year for games given that the likes of Grand Theft Auto IV, Fallout 3 and Gears of War 2 didn't even win BAFTAs. He was right: it was. Although the makers of those games – and particularly Rockstar North – were entitled to feel somewhat aggrieved. Especially since there were a few eccentric awards, notably the interesting but grievously flawed Boom Blox, which won the Casual Bafta (from a shortlist including the far superior LittleBigPlanet) and CoD 4's Story and Character award. It's a great game, for sure, but story and character aren't its strong points, particularly when compared to games like GTA IV and Fallout 3.All that remained was the big finale, and Nolan Bushnell, the Father of Videogames (as recently interviewed by Tewchnology Guardian) provided it, receiving his Fellowship with grace and wit from a presenters' dream team of Jonathan Ross and Dara O'Briain. Accorded a standing ovation before even reaching the stage, he spoke about the early days (working out that, when he wanted to get games into the arcades, computers were so weedy that he'd have to make the likes of Computer space work in hardware). He looked and sounded pretty well-preserved, given how long ago it was that he was getting the ball rolling. He paid lavish tribute to Steve Russell, vouchsafing that he first played Spacewar! Just a year after Russell had programmed it.Last time out, we didn't feel that the Bafta Games Awards were the force that they had been in the past, but their slide has been well and truly arrested. This time around, there was no mistaking them for anything other than the games industry's equivalent of the Oscars. Roll on next year
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
In this week's Technology section of the paper, I celebrate the flourishing public-access game development engine scene, user-friendly templates, languages and tech that allows anyone to put their game design ideas into practice with a few clicks. I discovered the trend last week when in Chicago, helping judge theMacArthur/HASTAC Digital Media and Learning awards. The primarily US-based educators, VCs and digital entrepreneurs around the table were familiar with this trend, which was, frankly, rather new to me.So, if you've got a brilliant idea and don't have the capital to build it yourself - or the inclination to pimp it to your local Big Name Publisher, create a proof of concept with these recommended game engine kits and let us know when you've got something we can play!DevFactowas one of the MacArthur finalists, a group that works to "increase Global awareness which support the Millennium Development Goals through information and statistics which are collected in local databases." A very simple puzzle-based game engine, this template is useful for serious pursuits, but the format is totally up to you.GameSaladis a drag-and-drop game engine that encourages rapid prototyping and on-the-fly editing.  The games can then be distributed through their channel or embedded on your blog/website or a host of social networks.Gamestar Mechanichas an excellent pedigree of games-for-learning types, including James Paul Gee from University of Wisconsin and Eric Zimmerman, co-author of Rules of Play. The project was supported by the Digital Media and Learning awards last year, and the result is a toolbox that lets you build NES-style design gems. They have an impressive library of builds that you can play and rate on their website.Scratchis a programming language aimed at kids developed by the MIT Media Lab with the support of the National Science Foundation. It's not a games development kit alone, kids (and grown-ups) can create their own interactive stories and animations using the intuitive language too.Finally, Alice atWonderlandcoincidentally pointed me toChallengeYou, a more sophisticated game engine that allows homebrew developers to create online multiplayer games of aparently any persuasion. The graphics aren't as cute and the process isn't nearly as simple, but this is clearly a step up from the single-player mechanic.Which other easy-to-use, web-based game development engines have you tried that you rate?
Other than the usual time lag since release - 2007's Super Mario Galaxy won the Best Game award - the BAFTAs offered no real surprises. Perhaps only Call of Duty 4's winning of the "Story and Character" award - surely it should have been Mass Effect?? - felt misplaced. Codemasters will be especially pleased to pick up the "Sports" award for Race Diver: GRID while Civ Revolution fully deserved the "Strategy" prize for opening up the genre.  Call of Duty 4 was the big winner though, taking home three BAFTAs while Pong creator Nolan Bushnell picked up the BAFTA Fellowship. The awards in full are...ACTION &amp; ADVENTURECall of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)ARTISTIC ACHIEVEMENTLittleBigPlanet (PS3)BEST GAMESuper Mario Galaxy (Wii)CASUALBoom Blox (Wii)GAMEPLAYCall of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)HANDHELDProfessor Layton and the Curious Village (DS)MULTIPLAYERLeft 4 Dead (PC, Xbox 360)ORIGINAL SCOREDead Space (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)SPORTSRace Driver: GRID (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)STORY AND CHARACTERCall of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)STRATEGYSid Meier's Civilization Revolution (DS, PS3, Xbox 360)TECHNICAL ACHIEVEMENTSpore (Mac/PC)USE OF AUDIODead Space (PC, PS3, Xbox 360)THE BAFTA FELLOWSHIPTo Nolan Bushnell, creator of Pong and founder of AtariBAFTA ONES TO WATCH AWARDBoro-ToroSo, what do you think? About right? Or should the likes of GTA IV been recognised?
Definitely - as technology investor Roger McNamee discovered to his cost yesterday.Last week McNamee, a director at beleaguered smartphone maker Palm, decided to give the company a boost by bragging about its prospects in aninterview with Bloomberg.As co-founder of Elevation Partners – the venture company that owns 39% of Palm - he decided to get talking about the forthcomingPre handset. Among his comments:"You know the beautiful thing: June 29, 2009, is the two-year anniversary of the first shipment of the iPhone. Not one of those people will still be using an iPhone a month later.""Think about it – if you bought the first iPhone, you bought it because you wanted the coolest product on the market. Your two-year contract has just expired. Look around. Tell me what they're going to buy."An investor boasting about his company's chances? Usually no surprise. But this time, executives at Palm decided he'd overstepped the mark – and tried to roll his comments back.In anofficial filingto America's financial regulator, the Security and Exchanges Commission, Palm rejected some of McNamee's most effusive statements and clarified others.In particular they slapped down claims over speed, claims about its operating system, and the statements mentioned above:"The statement in the second paragraph of the article that "not one" person who bought an Apple, Inc. iPhone on the first shipment date "will still be using an iPhone a month" after the two-year anniversary of that day is an exaggerated prediction of consumer behavior pattern and is withdrawn."In these dark and gloomy times, you'd think a ray of optimism might bring a smile to the faces oftroubled Palm bosses– but it seems that fear about a potential legal action resulting from McNamee's ebullience has left the company trying to keep the volume turned down for now.
It seems barely a week goes by without some serious security breach online, a case of identity theft or a huge hacking attack. According to one security expert, though, we've barely scratched the surface.In a talk at the O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference in San Jose this afternoon, Alex Stamos – a co-founder of security groupiSEC Partners- said that we should start expecting online criminals to strike at some of the fundamental parts of the internet."Basic infrastructure failure is what we're going to see over the next few years," he said."The most interesting research is either taking things that we thought were unexploitable and exploiting them, and also the breaking of the basic building blocks of the internet from the 1970s and 1980s."These things are already happening, he said, pointing to examples like theDNS cache poisoning attackdemonstrated by researcher Dan Kaminsky, and the flaws in the widely-usedMD5 hashthat were exposed late last year.Stamos, whose company works with clients like Microsoft and Google, said that nobody – including computer security companies – had properly got their heads around the way that  problems need to be dealt with."Security as an industry is failing," he said. "While computers get better, security gets worse."The basic problems, he said were that many security protocols date from before the internet age – while the traditional ways of verifying identity (like knowing your mother's maiden name) were now irrelevant in the post-privacy world of Facebook.And even if those things were fixed, he warned, the police are faced with a widespread inability to catch the criminals responsible and prosecute them across international borders.Although Stamos admitted that law enforcement had improved drastically over the last decade – and that they were highly proficient in the sort of long-term, undercover sting investigations that have netted internet criminals in the past – he also said that international laws made the situation almost impossible."Hackers 10 or 15 years ago didn't know how to monetise what they stole: now we've had the mixing of eastern European crime gangs and western hackers to do things, steal identities and make money from it."His suggestions to fix things?- Change the model of disclosing bugs and then issuing security patches, which doesn't work to protect users.- Work more openly; change the business of security so that people aren't focused on getting publicity and business from discovering and exploiting each other's mistakes for profit- And, perhaps, simply stop letting users do things that might be dangerous - rather than inundate them with information that they aren't qualified to understand."The ugly truth of where we are today is that the vast majority of people cannot use the internet safely," he said. "That's totally unfortunate, but it's also totally true and it's a truth that's going to catch up with us."
Facebook, the world's most successful social networking site, has officially launched in Arabic, tapping into a potentially huge market in the Middle East and beyond, the company has announced.Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California, already has large numbers of users in the Arab world: in Egypt, where the site has 900,000 users, it has become a highly effective tool for political mobilisation, with mass demonstrations against the goverment organised through forums. The ability to use it in Arabic is likely to make it even more popular.In Saudi Arabia the site has more than 250,000 users and in Lebanon more than 300,000.Arabic, spoken by 250 million people – and Hebrew, spoken by 7 million – will now be available from a drop-down menu at the bottom of the homepage."It's the first time Arabic speakers will be able to use Facebook in their own language," said Ghassan Haddad, the Facebook director of localisation. "It's potentially huge."Fifty million of the world's 250 million Arabic speakers already use the internet, but Arabic only makes up 5% of global web content.There are 700,000 active users – people aged over 18 who have returned to the site within the past month – in Israel.Facebook asked users of a trial version to translate the site over the past month - a cost-effective scheme that has proved popular with users who translated the site into other languages.After providing suggestions, users discussed and voted for the best translations. Facebook said 850 Arabic speakers and 870 Hebrew speakers had helped with the project.Arabic and Hebrew, semitic languages that are both written from right to left, posed special challenges. For example, while the verb "write" in English is the same regardless of whether the person doing the writing is a male or female, different translations of "write" are required in both languages.Facebook developers built a mechanism to detect the gender of the user and select the translation that matches it and used Modern Standard Arabic, which is used in the media and other formal and religious circles."The mix of characters between languages written in different directions makes it difficult at times for Web applications to determine the correct direction to display the language in," said the Lebanon-born Haddad."Design is another challenge, since a web page laid out from right to left looks like a mirror image of an equivalent English page. All components on the page must be changed for right-to-left languages including text alignment, ordering of tabs on pages, different fields on forms, labels, buttons and much more."Facebook is now available in 40 languages with more than 60 others in development. The company said that 200,000 people had helped with translations.Although Facebook has been accessible in English across the Middle East since it opened beyond the US college network in September 2006, its Arabic language version puts in in more direct competition with popular regional sites including Jeeran, Maktoob, ArabFriendz and Kalam Arab.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Gmail has had more problems with downtime, and a small number users have been unable to access their accounts since early Tuesday morning -- whenGoogle acknowledged "Temporary Error (502)". In most cases, the problem was fixed within a few hours, but a later Google post said:We expect to resolve the problem for the remainder of the affected users of Google Mail at March 11, 2009 6:30:00 AM UTC-7. Please note that this time frame is an estimate and may change.The problem hit people with paid accounts as well as free users.Server Error (502) seems to come up from time to time. To pick an example, Google made similar posts on2 December, andsearching Gmail Help for Temporary Error (502)gets 47 results.However, it hardly inspires confidence in "cloud computing" if urgent emails can't be accessed -- as happened this time to one Gmail user we know, due to fly to the US today. For companies, the results could be financially damaging.One solution is to Go to Gmail | Settings | Forwarding and have every email copied to another address when it arrives: I use a Yahoo address for this purpose. It means I always have a backup -- though the back-up emails are not labelled or sorted into folders.Another solution is to use your choice of desktop software to collect mail from Gmail, so that you have a back-up on your own hard drive. This is much faster and more efficient than using Google's web-based interface, so it's especially useful for people who get a lot of email. It also means you can work on email when you don't have an internet connection.However, if Gmail is down you still can't send emails, unless you also have a different email account. The ability to handle multiple email accounts makes a separate email client a better option than Google Gears, which providesoffline access to Gmail, and which is still at the experimental stage.
The infected have been and gone - but they have left behind the bloodied remains of their victims. Find the bodies on the morning of Thursday March 12th and win a holiday to Africa.Thus begins Capcom's intriguing marketing ruse for the release of Resident Evil 5 this week. Fans of the series who register at residentevil5@capcomeuro.com will be emailed clues for a treasure hunt with a difference. Tomorrow morning, (fake?) body parts will be hidden around Trafalgar Square - players must find as many as possible and take them to Westminster Bridge by 11am.Here'sa map of where you'll find the body bits. Andhere'swhere they must go.From the press info:Alert us to your presence by standing on the bridge, holding the artificial body parts over your head and shouting 'Kijuju!'. We will be there, watching you, and will approach when you make yourselves known.Points allocated for each body part - 2 points for arms, 2 points for legs, 3 points for torsos , 5 points for a head. The more body parts you find and bring to us, the more points you get. The player(s) with the most points by 11am win the holiday to Africa.I know the chap who's organising this and he's mildly concerned that he could be imprisoned as a result. Hey, at least it's for a good cause.And while we're on the subject,here'smy video interview with Resi 5 co-producer Masachika Kawata.
JoinAleks KrotoskiandJemima Kissin the studio with The Guardian's Director of Digital Media,Emily Bell, and social media consultant Suw Charmin-Anderson as they tackle The Gender Issue: where are all the women in technology? Suw shares the details ofAda Lovelace Day, a 24-hour blogging celebration of the first computer programmer, while Emily tells us what The Guardian diversity team does for the sisters.We also break down the details on The Guardian's newDeveloper Network, the open platform that allows the general public to play with the paper's content. Jemima joinsMatt McAlisterand Simon Willison on a tour of what the API can do for you.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
You may not have heard of Mary Lou Jepsen, but you've almost certainly heard about the pioneering project where she was: One Laptop Per Child.These days Dr Jepsen has a new venture, Pixel Qi, which spun out of OLPC as an attempt to try and commercialise the innovative screen technology sported by the organisation's XO computer. And it's first major product is certainly ambitious: a computer screen that can switch between a traditional display and electronic paper.Speaking at the O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference in San Jose, Dr Jepsen confirmed that the company's new 3T system will be a screen that can switch between three different modes.First, it has a full colour screen equivalent to current computer displays; at the other extreme, it acts as an extremely low-power, higher-definition 'paper' that's readable in sunlight and similar to Amazon's Kindle. As well as these two modes, it also has an in-between state that is low power but able to cope with video."What you have in your laptop or your cellphone is basically a small HDTV – but some people want to read on the screen.""We're designing screens that fix these problems," she said. "The triple mode screen we haven't talked about much… but that's coming. We've got funding."The real motivation behind the scheme is to reduce the amount of power that the screen uses – allowing people to use the smallest amounts of power when they are simply reading on their screen. This vision, she said, drove her work at One Laptop Per Child and could be crucial for lowering the overall energy footprint of computers.As a result of that pioneering work, OLPC helped open up the netbook market – small, low-cost, low power laptop computers which have now become one of the fastest-growing areas of the under-fire computer industry."Last year, before the economic crisis started to happen, the analysts predicted we'd ship about 8 million netbooks.""That didn't happen because of the crisis, but we rounded out the year selling not 8 million, but 17 million units. And netbooks are predicted to shift about 50 million units this year.""Every time I meet with an executive from a big laptop company, they say they studied my design for the XO."She also hinted at another innovative – a low powered television set that can display high definition video but can run without being plugged in."We've had a lot of pull," she said. "People want TV even if they don't have power… an HDTV that's under 10W and can be human-powered. We've figured out a way to do that."
I think more major releases should be accompanied by browser-based mini-game teasers. It's a relatively cheap way of getting some viral exposure, and - well - it generates a fair bit of good will. Here are two examples available this week.The Madworld website offersthree mini-challenges, based on Platinum's hyper violent sci-fi shocker. In Bullseye you throw objects at your human targets, using deft mouse control to aim. Head Ball has you controlling two characters indulging in keepy-uppy - with a decapitated head. Finally, there's Human Hammer, a version of the track and field event, hammer throwing, but with a person - thrown toward a series of deadly obstacles. The visual style is minimalistic with stickmen and monochrome visuals, but it's very funny, and the commentary at the beginning gives a good hint at the style of the full game.While you're at it check out thePatapon 2 mini-game, hosted by SPIL Games (also available at the official sitehere) and developed by 'digital engagement' specialist,Kerb. It's a diddy rhythm action treat in which you follow the correct drumbeat sequences to command your soldiers. The sound effects are great and the visual style matches the PSP title.Enjoy!
Later this week Lord Carter will flesh outhis plans for a "rights agency", bringing together internet and media companies to combat illegal file-sharing, but warned today that if the two sides cannot reach agreement he may either have to introduce comprehensive legislation or abandon the industry to its fate.The communications minister's initial plans to clamp down on online piracy, contained in January's interim Digital Britain report, have been criticised as not going far enough to stem the losses already suffered by the music companies and the growing threat to the film and television industry caused by the availability of superfast broadband access.The music industry estimates it is losing $12.5bn (£9bn) a year and 95% of all music tracks are illegally downloaded. A new report, published today by the industry group Respect for Film, meanwhile, estimates that tackling film piracy would increase UK economic output by £614m, protect existing jobs and create 7,900 new roles in the wider economy.Since last summer, the ISPs have sent out warning letters to persistent illegal file-sharers under a pilot scheme brokered by the government. But Carter has proposed a new regime based around a new industry group - called the Rights Agency - which would make piracy more difficult and easier to trace. It would also set common standards for the legitimate use of copyrighted material, potentially ending spats such as the one betweenYouTube and the Performing Rights Societythat flared up this week.It would be backed by legislation to combat persistent illegal file-sharers in a so-called co-regulatory structure.Speaking after giving evidence on his Digital Britain plans to a group of MPs, Carter told MediaGuardian.co.uk that he will publish his plans for the Rights Agency later this week."Most people said to us that a legislative-only solution is never going to work either because it is too limited, or even if it is more detailed it will be out of date quickly," he said. "That lead us to the view that we could partner it with a co-regulatory structure."Carter's department will publish a working draft, a statement of intent of how the Rights Agency and legislation will work together.He characterised the proposal as a "straw man" - a consultancy term for a proposal intended to provoke debate - and it will cover about a dozen areas, from the powers that the agency should have and whether it would be linked with regulator Ofcom to its ability to create new services using copyrighted material."If people come back and torch it, which some people undoubtedly will, then what that will tell us is that there is not enough commonality in this industry to maker a co-regulatory structure work," he said. "If people do torch it then you have to do one of two things: you either make the legislation tougher or you have got to say let the market sort it out."Such co-regulatory systems already exist in other parts of the media and communications industry. PhonePayPlus carries out the day-to-day regulation of the premium phone service market on Ofcom's behalf and the Advertising Standards Authority polices the advertising industry and is paid for by an industry levy.In his evidence to the business and enterprise committee, Carter said he still wants the personal details of persistent file-sharers to be surrendered by the internet service providers so they can be prosecuted, but denied that the ISPs are being given a licence to "snoop" on users."What we are proposing is that the ISPs would only be required to hand over information on the basis of evidence provided by the rights holders and there would only be a requirement to hand over personal data when it is the subject of a court order. The snooping accusation is colourful but it is not real," he said.Carter said he hopes to publish his final Digital Britain report in mid-May but local and European elections in the first week of June may mean that deadline slips to late June or even early July. He stressed, however, that the report will be published before the summer recess starting on 21 July.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
There are a loads of indie games contests out there, catering for budding developers who need a bit of cash to support a coding habit/help them realise their interactive dreams. Here are a couple that have caught our eye over the past week:Spore API contestWho's contest is it, anyway?EA, Maxis and Will WrightWhat do I need to do?"We're interested in seeing what kind of application or widget you can develop, utilizing our massive database of creations, Sporecasts, and player information."What can I win?an NVIDIA graphics card, a copy of the game or a copy of Galactic AdventuresWho Qualifies?"To be eligible to win, your app needs to display the text, "Download your own copy of the Spore Creature Creator now!" along with a link to http://www.Spore.com."When's the deadline?6 April 20092BeeGamesWho's contest is it, anyway?Zoo GamesWhat do I need to do?make a game and submit it as a Flash or downloadable demoWhat can I win?$10,000 and a publishing deal for a major console, $5000 for the community favourite and $2500 for a runner upWho Qualifies?All indie game developers over 18 years old (see therules)When's the deadline?15 April 2009IndieCade 2009Who's contest is it anyway?IndieCadeWhat do I need to do?IndieCade invites independent game artists and designers from around the world to submit interactive media of all types – from art to commercial, ARG to abstract, mind-bending to mobile, serious to shooter – for consideration. Work-in-progress is encouraged.What can I win?Tickets to theirfestivals and exhibitions, including E3 and SiggraphWho Qualifies?"To be eligible for IndieCade, your game must not have funding from a major publisher. You can have other deals with these publishers; your game just can't. There is no age requirement for submission."When's the deadline?30 April 2009
Channel 4 has launcheda new online game, called Routes. It's very ambitious and very pervasive. Not only was it broadcast on TV every night last week, but I was even able to interview one of the game characters. Matt Blacker, a "freelance journalist", filled me in on the exciting back story – scientist Markus Schoenberg has been murdered, and Matt and Markus'sniece, Rachel, are trying to find out why. But not only that; Matt also answered questions about his background and even asked me if I knew of any freelance gigs going. The game is as deep as you want to push it to be.Which got me thinking about what it is that we want from a game, and how it's different to what we want from a story. Superficially, games have a lot in common with other screen-based media: movies and TV shows. They have the same glossy production values, the same multiple franchises, the same all-action blockbusters. But games aren't movies; the interactivity that makes it possible for me to email a character in Routes and receive an in-game response pulls against traditional storytelling. I write both novels and games, and the crucial difference is this: in a novel I'm telling a storytothe reader, but in a game I'm allowing the player to construct the story with me. There's a constant tension between allowing players to feel they can do what they want, and guiding them through a satisfying-feeling experience.Adrian Hon, co-founder of games company Six to Start,wrote an interesting essay on the function of stories in gamesearlier this year. In it, he points out that even games which are praised for their narrative seem weak when placed alongside traditional narratives. He says: "if the story of Grand Theft Auto IV were a book, it would not be published and if it were a TV show, it would not be filmed. It is not a good story, and the dialogue is average at best."I think this is true. And it's probably one of the reasons that games are criticised as being "lowbrow". But it doesn't make GTA IV a bad game. Valve's game Portal, for example, is a really charming, intelligent game; the story and the writing are top-notch. But I couldn't sell that story as the premise for a novel or a movie. "Computer goes crazy, warrior has to use cunning to take it down." I don't apologise for 'revealing the story' there. The point is that the story's not surprising. It was done well in 2001: A Space Odyssey and pretty mucheverysci-fiTV showsince has taken a pop at it.But for all this, Portal's story is fantastically involving. The reason is this: stories feel several orders of magnitude more intense when you're participating in them. Computer games are like dreams. Because they feel like they're really happening, they don't need to be complex to be involving. I've frequently woken up from a dream thinking "wow, that was the best story, I have to write it down!" only to discover that the story was "someone was trying to kidnap me, so I climbed a wall, found a gun and shot them"; it wouldn't even make a 5-second action sequence segment in a movie. But because I felt that I wasactually there, it was far more powerful than simply watching James Bond shoot some villains.Computer games work in this way too. The interactivity increases the intensity of the experience, increases your sense of empathy with the hero, increases your involvement in what can be a very simple narrative. So while I do believe that computer game narratives can be made even better, the characterisation more subtle, the stories less formulaic, it's not a criticism of them that this hasn't happened yet.
The first next-gen take on this much-loved survival-horror game has copped a surprising amount of pre-launch criticism on the forums – due to supposedly racist portrayals of "spear-chucking Africans", and the fact that you can't move while aiming your gun. But the former is explained in the storyline, while if that latter wasn't the case, it simply wouldn't be Resident Evil.Anyway, it's such good fun to play, and its production values – especially in terms of storyline, level design and art direction – so high that those carpings seem beyond churlish. Once again, you play as Chris ­Redfield, with a new ­sidekick called Sheva ­Alomar, and this time the whole game can be played ­co-operatively, which adds a whole new tactical element. The story and ­increasingly frequent boss-battles ­build-up to a truly epic crescendo, the inventory system and weapons are ­better than ever, many familiar goodies and baddies make welcome returns, and what results is nothing less than sheer gaming bliss. Which leaves the self-appointed web pundits looking rather foolish.
The dispute between YouTube and the Performing Rights Society for Music that prompted the website to remove music videos could spread to MySpace UK and other music sites, industry sources said today.MySpace UK and other sites are struggling to renegotiate their own licences with PRS, which pays royalties to artists.One source close to the negotiations said that the launch of MySpace UK's comprehensive music service later this year could be thrown into jeopardy unless it secured an economically viable licence with PRS."A lot of service providers are negotiating and renewing licences with PRS right now, but the rates are widely known to be uneconomical," said the source. "Nobody could run an online business on those terms."MediaGuardian.co.uk contacted MySpace UK, but the company declined to comment.The streaming service Pandora was forced to cut off its service for UK users on 15 January after it failed to renegotiate its licence with PRS. Imeem, which reportedly received $15m in funding from Warner Music last year, and RealNetworks are also understood to be renegotiating.Meanwhile, YouTube and PRS are due to meet in London this afternoon and both say they are determined to resolve the deadlock.PRS is understood to be basing its royalty claims on the results of the 2007 UK Copyright Tribunal, but the source said the rates PRS were demanding were so high that a free-to-view, ad-based service would not be able to charge advertisers enough to cover royalty payments on each video.YouTube, which began to remove videos last night, repeated its claim that the rates are not sustainable except for sites that charge subscription access."However,&nbsp;we want to share the revenue generated from music videos on YouTube with the music industry," said a spokesman. "But at the rate set by the Copyright Tribunal - which is the rate PRS is seeking - YouTube would be losing money with each stream.&nbsp;"It's simply unsustainable for our business."&nbsp;A PRS spokeswoman said the ultimate aim of the talks were to come to an agreement, while YouTube said withdrawing videos from UK users was "not a breakdown in talks, but something that had to happen for talks to continue".Technology and internet lawyer Kolvin Stone, of Fox Williams, said that YouTube could not afford to subsidise music video because of its own extremely high running costs for bandwidth."YouTube has had trouble with PRS and this is good negotiating practice," said Stone. "They had to come up with something and by publicising this, lots of performers and artists will be contacting PRS to ask why they are no longer profiting from a YouTube deal."He said that while the outcome of the copyright tribunal may suit paid-for services such as the iTunes Store, it won't work for free, advertising-backed services, "because the revenues just aren't the same - they might be a percentage of a penny"."The model has been set up on one basis but ... that model needs to change. Consumers are so used to free content that ad-backed services are here to stay, and more content owners have to change to fit their revenue models around the internet."Stone said that if PRS were forced to compromise its royalty fees, it would not necessarily be bad news for performers and artists."The web 2.0 model is all about scale, and if artists are able to get scale and reach new audiences around the world, they can ultimately make more money from sales and gigs. It's about charging less but for more consumers, and driving revenue from other means."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Dawn of War 2 plays more like an RPG than an RTS, abandoning micromanagement in favour of all-out battle across three main planets. With control of only four armies at a time, each of your hero generals can be upgraded and equipped with a vast number of collectable weapons and armour. Yet although DOW2 tells a great story, it fails to deliver anything like the promised "non-linear" gameplay.Despite some optional missions, your ­enemies never try to retake key battlefield positions, making every level a predictable slog from one objective to the next. It's a shame, because this had all the mythology to make a very special game – as opposed to the distinctly average one it turned into.
Amazingly, it's nearly 20 years since Sonic the Hedgehog burst his way on to our screens. And like many of the retro games on this comprehensive collection, Sonic has aged surprisingly well. Nostalgia helps of course, but the quality of many of these titles is undisputed.The likes of Comix Zone were probably missed by many gamers at the time and deserve a new audience. Fans of role-playing games will be especially happy. Shining Force and other expensive and hard-to-find RPGs are included. Elsewhere the more familiar likes of Streets of Rage and Ecco the Dolphin are included. Of course, with 40 games there are plenty of duds – Altered Beast should really stay in the vault – but most offer at least a short burst of entertainment.Artwork and making-of videos are included, but feel a little undercooked. But it's the games that matter. Many have previously appeared for individual download on Xbox Live or PSN, but this compilation is the cheapest way to get your retro gaming fix.• This article was amended on Friday 13 March 2009. In the article above we got the price wrong for the game in question. It should be £29.99 not £39.99. This has been amended.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Who said PC gaming was dead? Ok, possibly me on occasion, butthis week's UK chartproves there is life in the PC market yet.  And it doesn't just mean a new World of Warcraft or Sims expansion! Yes, Empire: Total War is straight in at number 1. The rather wonderful strategy game knocks Sony's Killzone 2 from the perch.  And that's despitecustomer support issueswith Steam and Nvidia graphics cards.Elsewhere Tom Clancy's  H.A.W.X flies in at number 6. I've been playing this over the last week and have been rather enjoying. And that's despite the fact that I usually prefer my flight combat a little more historical. Give me the whites of a Meschersmitt pilot's eyes over launching a missile at dot on the horizon any day. But HAWX has enough appeal – co-op is especially fun – that I'll be sticking with it for a while. The same can't be said for Halo Wars. As predicted by me last week the console RTS is already beginning to fall – it's down to 5 this week – and will likely drop out of the 10 by next week.So, anyone here got Total War or H.A.W.X? What do you think?
Not really… but they can give it a good try anyway.In case you missed it, Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak is currently serving up a ballroom blitz in Dancing with the Stars – one of the highest-rating TV shows in the US.DWTS, as fans probably call it, is an American version of the BBC's popular show Strictly Come Dancing – famous for getting a gang of different celebrities to learn different dance routines. The American version doesn't deviate from the formula… and even retains its fidelity to the original by bringing in two of Strictly's judges, Len Goodman and Bruno Tonioli.Last night was the first in the new series. Woz said his aim was simple: to prove that nerds can dance. So how did he fare?Well, a few weeks ago headmitted to methat he had some trepidation about going on the show. It's no surprise that the cheerfully rotund engineer feels uncomfortable in his dancing shoes; he's normally used to riding a gyroscopic electric bike for a chukka ofSegway polo.But, like any good geek presented with a complex problem, Woz seemed to throw himself into the task at hand with gusto (although counting the steps was fine, he commented, "dancing is a bit analogue")Kitted out in an all-black ensemble topped off with a pink feather boa (yes, really) Woz seemed to grab his inspiration from a variety of sources: a little bit Saturday Night Fever, a little bit Mama Mia and little bit dancing-baby-on-YouTube.The judges appreciated his effort, but recognised his limitations ("It was like watching a Tellytubby go mad in a Gay Pride parade," screeched Tonioli – although American news websites weirdly seem to be cutting out the Gay Pride bit) and eventually awarded him a slightly dismal 13 points.That's not enough to lift him off the bottom of the pile – but the Other Steve has something else up his sleeve: the public vote.Since who stays and who goes is really decided by a public vote, Woz's web army is kicking in to lift the Apple guru to safety. Fans at websites includingHacker Newshave tried to rally around and vote for their hero.It remains to be seen whether he'll make the cut, but it wouldn't hurt for TV network ABC to keep a close eye on their voting system: this is one for the hackers.
Day zero of the O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference –ETech– has just ended, and so far, so good, so quiet. The preamble to the main event consisted of a full slate of workshops and DIY hackathons, which proved fun for attendees. Among the workshops that went down particularly well: a build-your-own online maps tutorial fromStamen; MIT's stitch-and-bitch onwearable computing, andRob Faludi's session on building wireless, social objects.But there's no denying that the atmosphere so far has been quite low key - one regular attendee told me that he'd "never seen it this quiet before. Perhaps it's the result of the recession, the decision to move things from San Diego to San Jose, or simply because the programme isn't in full swing yet.In any case, it can't particularly please Tim O'Reilly, the techno-publishing maven whose company puts on the event (and calls it theirmost important conference)… but tomorrow is another day.Still, to welcome everyone into the fold, O'Reilly (who, for the uninitiated, he unleashed the phrase "web 2.0" on the world)took the stage for a talk about why he thought ETech matters now.He begins by reiterating his argument that technologists need to start doing things that have genuine benefits – not just creating mindless Facebook apps (or "throwing sheep" as he puts it)."There's a certain way that the technology industry, particularly in its focus on consumer electronics, was missing something," he says. "It was focusing on consumption, on advertising, on selling people things that they don't really need.""When I urged people in the technology world to think deeply about what matters. A lot of people thought I was saying to work on non-profits, or maybe social ventures. But I don't think we should relegate what's important to the world of non-profits. We need to reinvent our world so that we see working on stuff that matters as the heart of opportunity. The world's great challenges are also the world's great opportunities."He goes through to list a few examples of what he means by that: Shai Agassi'sBetter Place, which doesn't just want people to build electric cars – he wants them to be able to use them wherever they go."He may not succeed, but that's OK. He's tackling something that's really great, and going at it really strategically."Along the way he refers to 1366 Technologies – which wants to make solar energy cheaper than coal – and Makani Power, founded by his son-in-law Saul Griffith, which is working on high-altitude wind energy."One of the guys there, Jim McBride, worked on Wall Street as a quant, but came there because he saidthe math was harder," says O'Reilly. "I love those stories of people picking something to do, not because they're going to get rich but because it's hard."He moves onto the story of Brewster Kahle, the curator ofarchive.org– the library of the web – andCarl Malamud, who has been running a campaign for the last decade to get public data online (soundsfamiliar)."What seemed quixotic has now become part of the platform of the man who's become the next president of the United States. That man picks someone as his CIO somebody who's trying to pick out Carl's vision [meaningVivek Kundra]""Don't be afraid to dream big," he says.O'Reilly then points out that he's just spent the past couple of weeks in Washington, and wants to share some of that; to explain why they're running a new conference Government 2.0 in DC in the autumn."We have the idea of the government as this oppressive entity that we want to keep at a distant, but I was amazed by how committed those people in Washington are," he says. "There are also these amazing problems of this antiquated machine.""We need to give all of our support to the people who have the courage to fight the battle and cut that Gordian knots that have built up over hundreds of years in Washington.""I think we have about two years to really make a difference. If we don't make progress in that time, people will start to run against him on those issues because they didn't work."He mentions that we should begin taking the long view; looking at multigenerational problems, and understanding"You set things in motion, and then you go to meet up with them 20 or 30 years later. It helped me set up my company; setting things in motion for a future that I didn't quite understand yet. You don't know the future, but you can rise to meet it – even a very distant goal.""We don't care about time," he adds. "Many of our problems have crept up on us because we're living the present in a way we should not be. We should be taking the long view of where we are and what we're doing."O'Reilly goes on a little trip through the world of scenario planning: wondering whether our current models of the future are enough."What you're trying to develop are robust strategies that will help you through any of these scenarios. What are the things that will be good regardless?""I urge you to think: what are the extremes that can happen to the things I care about – and what are the things I can do? It's really a game of choose your own adventure. Find a place where you can make a difference – and make it count."And here we come with the takeaway points:1. Work on something that matters to you more than money.Be prepared to do something great, flame out and then move on, he says, then uses the analogy of a road trip: you need to keep an eye on the gas tank (your finances), but we're not going on a tour of gas stations.2. Think about how to create more value than you captureThere were people who knew that Ponzi-scheming Wall Street mogul Bernie Madoff was up to something, but they didn't voice their concerns because they wanted to capture the value anyway. This recession is due to the fact that the pressure of greed became systemic – a human pathology that went awry, an illness that we're all suffering from now.3. Build a simple system – let it evolve.The first IBM PC was open, people continued to build on it. The early world wide web – Tim Berners Lee defined a few simple rules, and people came and built on that. We're seeing that today on Twitter, for example.4. Be friendly to those who extend you.My whole career is taking what I've learned and saying look at this! I spend my time doing that in publishing, I spend my time doing that at conferences. Changing the world by spreading the knowledge of innovators.So. If you've made it to the bottom, well done. Tomorrow we're going to be blogging from some of the sessions: including former One Laptop Per Child guru Mary Lou Jepsen, Chumby Industries Bunnie Hwang and researchers from MIT, NYU and elsewhere.
The government has invoked the wrath of the UK games industry with a print advert for itsChange4Lifecampaign. Created by the Department of Health in conjunction with Cancer Research, The British Heart Foundation and Diabetes UK, the ad shows a small boy slumped on a sofa holding what appears to be a PlayStation controller - above him is the headline, "Risk an early death, just do nothing".Not unsurprisingly, this association between gaming and dying early has proved controversial.Last Friday, videogame news publication MCV lodged an official complaint with ASA, and then spent the rest of the day phoning up industry contacts to solicit similarly outraged responses.Codemasters, Konami,SegaandAtariall expressed their own disappointment and incredulity, alongside industry bodies TIGA and ELSPA. Apparently,Sony is threatening to sueas no permission was sought to use a PlayStation pad.I think James Binns, publishing director at Future,makes the most salient and effective point:"There is no arguing that the campaign's underlying message about premature death is incredibly important – but the government would never risk the wrath of showing a child sitting still reading a book to illustrate their point."Indeed, it could easily be argued that books and TV are much more sedentary, especially compared to the likes of Wii Fit or Dance Dance Revolution. But demonising books was never going to go down well with the ad's target audience of concerned (but not yet concernedenough) parents.Okay, so it could be argued that a joypad is a convenient visual symbol for childhood torpor. The Department of Health has been quick to defend its ad to MCV, stating:"We are not saying that children shouldn't play computer games or eat treats, but parents and children need to be aware of the benefits of a balanced diet and an active lifestyle. The activities portrayed are examples of poor diet and lack of physical activity."But to many it feels like, once again, games are the soft target, the acceptable scapegoat for hand-wringing middle-aged policy makers unwilling and unable to engage with game culture in any productive way. It's such a lazy cliche and such a convenient get-out clause for a society that's been happy to slowly erode the freedoms of children, turning the education process into a joyless conveyor belt of examination and testing, while outside the playing fields are sold off to property developers.Childhood obesity is a complex and devastating problem. It needs to be addressed, but it needs to be addressedproperly. Giving parents a bogeyman to point at and blame is not the answer, is it?
"I've been away from the blog for well over a year and what do I do in my first week back? Volunteer for penning this weeks Best Of," wrote CunningStunt, in the email accompanying this week's Chatterbox compilation. He immediately got into the swing of things, though, by sending it to me several days late. Hey, being really tardy with Best Of ismyjob!Anyway, here's the week before last, featuring pancakes, fear and rugby - can those three ever be discussed separately? I think not.So, from here, I'll handover to Mr Stunt.Part one: pancakesAs I'm sure you're all aware, Tuesday was pancake day and everyone was keen to discuss their fillings of choice.  As regulars will know, we're mostly a culinery savvy lot and some were making the effort to lift the humble pancake to near Michelin Star levels.  Here's a taster of what was on offer:alimantado:"I'm making a pile of spinach and cream cheese ones, some chilli ones and some plain for lemon and sugar."Crispycrumb:"Savoury all the way for me, I like to throw together some spinach, ricotta and feta with a bit of nutmeg."SuperSmashIn:Has to be sweet - lemon / sugar or Nutella / banana.Savoury? NO! NO! NO! NO! NO! NO! NO! NO! NO!"Smellavison:"Grilled mushroom, mozzerella and pesto for savory, followed by lemon and sugar for desert! I was the king of the house last night."Unfortunately someone (who will remain nameless) brought up the suggestion of cheese and beans with their pancakes.  The blog was having none of it:alimantado:"Beans and cheese = food of the gods? Thank Christ I'm an atheist!"bigworv:"Beans and cheese in a pancake? Someone has had an absolute shocker there. If that's the starter with fish curry for main, what on earth will dessert be?"Vetboy:"Baked beans? Surely the tomato sauce would soak into and corrupt the flavour of the pancake?There were however a few dissenting voices of support for the leguminous dairy filling:Dizzyisanegg:"I'd be up for that - it's like a savoury crepe or a croissant with ham and cheese."Alfienoakes:"In fact, is there anything that isn't made better by the addition of cheese?"Part two: game scaresThursday brought a larger than normal amount of games-related chatter.  Who knew commenters on a Gamesblog were so interested in the subject?  The hot topics were the freshly released Street Fighter IV, the soon to be released Killzone 2 and the slightly older but still excellent Fallout 3. It was the Fallout discussion that gave rise to the subject of scary games or scary parts of games. So were we scared by Silent Hill? Frozen with F.E.A.R? Reduced to a wreck by Resident Evil? Or daunted by Doom 3?CunningStuntstarted this one off. Man sounds like a genius: "Scary GamesAny games, or parts of games that have really scared you? The dunwich building in Fallout I guess is a bit scary. But I've seen better (or is that worser?) Top of the list is probably the Cradle in Thief 3. Made the worst game in the trilogy worth playing. Runners up would have to be System Shock 2 and AvP 1/2 as the marine. Thoughts?"pepperinowas quick to disagree, apparently he likes his horror with a more eastern flavour: "I actually found Fallout to be depressing rather than scary. Siren Blood Curse - now that's scary. Actually put me off playing scary games, couldn't finish it! I think it was the incomprehensible muttering of the [insert Japanese name for zombies]."[Keef says: "CunningStunt - was that last bit for me to fill in?  If so, I'm not sure what the word is, although according to a Japanese trailer for Typing of the Dead that I once saw, it sounds a bit like Zombie-o or zombio". Anyone else know? This is important.]BeardOfBeeswent to Russia for his brown trouser gaming: "STALKER. The bit when you go into the research lab and something is using telekinesis to pick stuff up and fling it at you. Running about in panic not knowing what you're going to find. Then coming across one of those goddamn invisible things with just the glowing red eyes coming at you in the dark. Sheesh."Half-Life 2 provided not only benchmark FPS gaming, but foralfienoakes, a palpable feeling of dread as well: "Ravens Claw does it for me - Not necessarily for jump-style scares but for the whole atmosphere."More FPS frights fromCBPodge: "There was a bit in F.E.A.R. where you are climbing a ladder and Alma appears out of nowhere. Its early on, and the first time that sort of trick has been used, and I remember it really shitting me up."Haven't come across a ladder in F.E.A.R. 2 yet, but I assume they'll pull the same trick again at some point in that."Alimantadopreferred something a bit more Lovecraftian: "The bit in the bathroom in Eternal Darkness! How soon we forget."Retro gaming could also provide a few scares apparently; the next few all went a fair way into the pastAPic:"Scary moments in games: The ghost levels in Mario. That music..."makar27:"I was quite scared playing the Machine Level in Ecco the Dolphin as a kid."Regimechange:"Scariest game/gaming moment for me has to be Quest For Glory IV: Shadows of Darkness"makar27was not just scared by games, sometimes hardware can be scary: "Realising I had paid £250 for an Amiga CD32 and there were sod all good games for it. That was scary..."And finallyMajorDeCoverley: "Viva Pinata - those little chirpy animals freak me out."Part three: odd-shaped ballsIn his continuing campaign to woo a new lady friend,TonyHayersfound himself invited along to the rugby with her father.  Not a fan of the sport, he appealed to the blog for help in hiding his non-existent knowledge of the game. Always happy to lend a hand, the Chatterbox crew swung (low) into action:Hillo:"You'll need to learn all the words to Delilah, not too mention Bread of Heaven. Phrases like: 'he's killing the pill', or 'great workrate from the loose trio' should see you right. Also harp back to the glory days of Welsh rugby in the seventies. Mention names such as JPR, Barry John and Gareth Edwards with your eyes moistening and lips quivering and you'll get the keys to the kingdom."Alimantado:"Good examples are:'The forwards have to produce the platform for the backs to perform.''The forwards win the game, the backs decide by how much.''I don't understand why he's in the team, he just can't scrummage.''The ref's is too leniant when policing the breakdown / contact area.''You have to break the gain line.''The elves are spoliing the game.'And of course:'Every time referee!'Art1eFufkin:'The only predictable thing about the French is their unpredictability''Good to see the Welsh tight five getting the recognition they deserve.''Let's bring Henson on after an hour to create some space for Jamie Roberts.''Paris has recently been a good hunting ground for us.''I see we're continuing the tactic of not kicking for touch to deny the French a set-piece platform.'Bonus points if you mention:'The twinkling feet of Shane Williams''Adam Jones has really sorted out his fitness.''Alun Wyn-Jones has matured into a genuinely world class lock, surely a shoo-in for the Lions'H1LL015:"I'll school you with some rugby chat for the Welsh:France - Kind of like Arsenal last season. On their day stunning and play the best rugby on the planet. Off game and they blow. Unlike Arsenal of last season, they can flip between these 2 extremes many times in a game.Wales - bit like Chelsea, solid in all positions and grind out wins. Probably have left their best flair players on the bench - James Hook, Gavin (Mr Church) Henson and Dwayne Peel.If you want to be controversial, support the French citing that you are a rugby purest."Quote of the WeekGoes to Limni for a classic application of Godwin's Law during the Broken Blog Crisis of 2009:"Goody - The blog IS broken - how dare you take my message off the Wiki? You're worse than Hitler."Link of the WeekConcerned: The Life and Death of Gordon FrohmanSupplied by Chubster2010Games:Killzone 2, Street Fighter IV, Noby Noby Boy, Persona 3: FES, Persona 4, Wipeout, Pro Evolution Soccer, Resistance 2, World Of Warcraft, Dawn of War II, Empires: Total War, Braid, Chrono Trigger DS, Halo Wars, Eternal Sonata, Disgea 3, Heavenly Sword, God of War 3, Dead Space, Lost Planet 2, Left 4 Dead, Resident Evil 5, Tomb Raider: Underworld, Mirror's Edge, Deus Ex, Half Life 2, Fallout 3, Gears of War 2, Valkyria Chronicles, Bioshock, System Shock 2, Oblivion, Call of Duty 4, Call of Duty: World at War, Fable 2, Metal Gear Solid 4, Unreal IIIFilms:Gran Torino, The Wackness, Against the dark, Notorius, Requiem for a Dream, The Watchmen,TV:The Wire, Masterchef, Heroes, Oz &amp; James Drink to Britain, Battlestar Galactica
Blippris a "micro reviews" site born in the age of Twitter, Flickr, Tumblr, and so on. Whereas Twitter allows "micro posts" of up to 140 characters, Blippr asks you to review a book, game, application, movie or CD in 160 characters. This is a skill we've developed thanks to the limitations of SMS texting, and it may well concentrate the mind. It's also a tacit admission that, online, not many people will read more than 160 characters anyway.More than that, Blippr is also about connecting with social networking services to exploit what has been called "social influence marketing". You may start by browsing random reviews, but ideally, all your friends will be using Blippr as well. That way you can follow your friends' blips, which you should find more interesting.Your friends probably won't want to add yet another site to their workload, and create yet another profile page, but that need not be a show-stopper. They can post their blips from Facebook, FriendFeed or Twitter.Although it's very easy to create a Blippr account (just enter an email address and pick a password), users can sign in with an existing AOL, Facebook, Google, OpenID, or Yahoo account instead.However, whether you want to allow Blippr access to your Facebook "profile information, photos, your friends' info and other content that it requires to work" is another matter. There are benefits to having a single identity across multiple websites, but there are also privacy implications.Once signed on, you can pick a user name, a gender, and show or hide your age and birthday. You can also connect your profile to other services, such as Twitter, FriendFeed, Tumblr and Last.fm, and give Blippr temporary access to your Gmail contacts. This will enable you to build up your list of friends and followers.Writing blips is simple because the site finds the book, movie, game or whatever as you type in the title. After you've saved your review, it can also provide an affiliate link so people can buy it at, say, Amazon.com.However, it didn't find any of the books I've read recently. Picking Music and typing Pictures at an Exhibition found just one version, and it wasn't the Evgeny Kissin, Pogorelich, Stokowski, Tomita, Mekong Delta, ELP, Britannia Building Society Brass Band or other version I actually have.But Blippr has even bigger problems. The fact is, most of the reviews are not very good. I asked Blippr to recommend some movies and Casablanca was top of the list. Someone's review: "There's not much to say about this movie. It's just incredible." Useful?This matters because there are dozens of sites where you can read or find really good reviews, including Rotten Tomatoes, Pitchfork, Rolling Stone and Metacritic. And while user-written reviews have their place, most people can probably find all they need at Amazon.There's a lot to like about Blippr, but I suspect it will stuggle to reach critical mass when there's so much better stuff already out there.
DigiTimes in Taiwansays: "Taiwan-based Wintek will supply touch panels for Apple's new netbook, and shipments will start in the third quarter this year, according to a Chinese-language Commercial Times report."Further: "Quanta Computer will be the maker of Apple's new netbook, the Commerical Times report said."It's not absolutely clear whether we're talking about anApple Newton/Microsoft Origami-style tablet, which might be like a bigger iPod Touch with an ARM Cortex chip, or anApple eMate/Intel Classmate 2-style netbook with a keyboard and an Intel Atom processor, or something completely different. But -- as Acer and Asus have shown -- there is a fast-growing market for devices somewhere between today's iPods and today's MacBooks, and it wouldn't be a huge shock if Apple wanted a chunk of it.
