Call of Duty – it's always the same. That's the familiar lament on games forums whenever a new instalment is revealed, though it may have to be tempered somewhat if news coming from Black Ops 2 developer Treyarch is to be believed. Activision has now officially announced the title as well as its global launch date: 13 November. But its the details emerging from a recent demo to the specialst games press that will prove much more interesting right now.Set mostly in 2025 (with a few flashback missions to the eighties), Black Ops II revolves around a new Cold War between the US and China. The two super powers are fighting it out over access to rare earth minerals – vital components in modern technogical necessities like mobile phones – and tensions are mounting.Meanwhile, a terrorist group led by mysterious antagonist Menendez has managed to hack into America's defense network, taking control of its now vast drone army. Suddenly all those remote control aircraft and formidably armed robot walkers are attacking major US cities – the only hope lies with a hopelessly archaic weapon: human soldiers.The story is speculative and futuristic, but it seems there are direct narrative links with the first title. The launch trailer is narrated by Frank Woods, the SoG sergeant who appeared to sacrifice himself at the close of the original title.According to game news site CVG, however, the lead playable character is David Mason, son of Alex Mason the ambiguous hero of the first Black Ops. The leaps back to the eighties will include a stint in Afghanistan, as shown in the horse riding section of the reveal trailer.The key addition seems to be a new branching story structure. Reports from the games press,including IGN, suggest that at certain points in the single-player campaign, players will have to make tactical and perhaps even moral choices, which will lead to different outcomes. Failing certain tasks will have ramifications for the overall battle, and for the fate of key characters, adding to the replay value. It's also possible that, as events unfold, players may have to decide whether they view Menendez as an out-and-out enemy or even as a sympathetic character.The campaign is also set to feature Strike Force missions, which work like mini-RTS (real-time strategy) levels. Players are thrust into a sandbox battlefield where they're able to swap control between different units – seemingly including mech walkers, tanks and ground troops – as they coordinate the offensive. It looks like players will get to select different Strike Force missions at different times, adding to the slight non-linearity of the mode.The zombie survival mode has been a popular element of Treyarch's CoD games for a few years, and there are no words on the latest incarnation – just that there will be one. Multiplayer is also being kept under wraps until E3. Weapons, meanwhile, will strike a balance between familiar modern day models and sci-fi blasters. It looks like one will be a sniper rifle with a sight that lets the user see through walls and a charged shot that fires straight through them as well.So, this is a Call of Duty game with different story outcomes depending on your actions – not just in terms of choices but in terms of your abilities; it might be that failing certain tasks will have a major outcome on where the plot goes. And even more surprisingly, it's a Call of Duty title with elements of real-time strategy in its campaign mode.Sure, none of this is exactly revolutionary – the strategy stuff and near-future themes are effectively straying into the path of Ubisoft's more cerebral Ghost Recon series. But this could well be an important step toward altering the now extremely familiar recipe of the CoD brand.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMotorola posts Q1 loss, despite rise in smartphones shipments &gt;&gt; ZDNetMotorola's mobile device unit accounted for 71 percent of its total sales, marking a boom in its smartphone and tablet business. The company did not disclose how many tablets it sold during the quarter. Boosted by the Droid Razr and the Droid Razr Maxx, which has a larger battery life, the two smartphones practically carried the company through the first few months of the year, just as it did on the previous quarter.Latest comScore figures show Motorola has just shy of 13% of the mobile OEM market share between December and March, though it dropped by 0.5%.To be precise, Motorola's smartphone shipments grew by 1% year-on-year, while the worldwide smartphone market grew by 42%. And - no figures on tablet shipments? Usually the sign that the numbers were embarrassingly small. Google's embrace can't come too soon. (The takeover is awaiting Chinese approval, which is expected by the end of June.)Google offers big-data analytics &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoogle is selling some of its analytic guts as an online service, in an effort to compete with the likes of Amazon Web Services in the market for enterprise cloud computing.In November, Google offered a limited number of developers access to some of its most powerful data analysis software, part of what Google uses to index the Internet, in a product calledBigQuery. On Tuesday, Google announced that it was selling that software, which can scan terabytes of information in seconds, as a service to corporate customers.Iran admits expanded cyberattacks, claims it's identified hackers &gt;&gt; ComputerworldThe Iranian government acknowledged today that authorities have found evidence of recent cyberattacks against several agencies, according to reports by state-sponsored media outlets.A week ago, the country's oil ministry confirmed that it and other facilities in the energy industry had been targeted by malware attacks.Today, theMehr News Agencysaid that Esmaeil Ahmadi-Moqaddam, Iran's national police chief, had claimed that his office has "found clues about recent cyberattacks on a number of Iranian ministries and companies."RIM's failed Hail Mary &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisYou'd think they would have spent the time to make sure they got it right, and that they would have focused on radically improving the user interface and experience to bring BlackBerry up to par with Android, iOS, and Windows Phone 7. It is almost impossible to comprehend, but they didn't do that.Instead, they released something uninspired, uninteresting, and unfinished. That no one at RIM had the guts and authority to recognize the seriousness of their situation-the company is literally dying!-and say, "Hey, maybe we should wait until BlackBerry 10 is awesome before we release it," is an ultimate demonstration of how RIM's culture will lead to its now inevitable demise. This is what happens when the sales people are in charge.Only one word for that: ouch.Magnificent application of game theory, by a contestant on a game show &gt;&gt; bengoldacreIt's a Prisoner's Dilemma game. But:An interesting twist is permitted on this particular TV show, because the contestants get a chance to discuss strategy. Normally the play here seems simple: you try to persuade the other person that splitting is a good idea, and that you can be trusted. This time, one of the contestants plays a different and very clever approach, signalling a clear warning to his opponent. The fact that he works in charitable sector funding only makes it better.And do watch to the very, very end of the clip. It is worth it.Not so fast: LG not ditching Windows Phone 7 &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintLG is not, as rumoured, ditching Windows Phone 7 in favour of Android it seems with the electronics giant confirming as much to Pocket-lint."None of it is true. Korea Herald is showing its speculative side again," a spokesman for the company in Korea exclusively told Pocket-lint before adding, "We are still on board with Windows Phone, but right now, we're focusing on Android because that's where the demand is."Translation: LG isn't giving up making Windows Phone devices. Then again, it isn't very interested in making them either.Tablet roll out begins for hundreds of health workers at Blackpool trust &gt;&gt; Guardian Government ComputingAfter a small pilot of BlackBerry Torch devices in the third quarter of last, where clinicians reported the devices being too small for dealing with the scheduling information, the trust began to take a second look for tablets with a larger, 7in screen.While a range of devices had entered the market in the intervening time, only one - the Samsung Galaxy Tab - had the necessary level of 256-bit AES encryption.The trust is using Vodafone for the roll out, which will see the mobile operator's Secure Device Manager software deployed on the devices.BYOD won't save you money, says Blackpool ICT chief &gt;&gt; Guardian Government ComputingOn the one hand, costs up because there are more calls to the support desk; on the other, fewer desks and more flexible working."Local authorities hoping to introduce similar [Bring Your Own Device] schemes should view it as a way of supporting employees and helping to bring about job satisfaction, according to [Blackpool head of ICT services Tony] Doyle.Thanks @jforbes for the link; note this is where the article originally appeared - on the Guardian'sGovernment Computing Network.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Facebook shares will float on the US stock market on Friday 18 May, with a "roadshow" for the company's enthusiastically-awaited initial public offering to begin next Monday including its founder Mark Zuckerberg, according to Silicon Valley sources.The eight-year-old social network, with 900 million users worldwide, is expected to have a valuation of around $100bn (£61.6bn) and is the most eagerly awaited flotation since Google's in 2004. It is expected to raise $5bn through its share offering.Analysts had expected that the roadshow would be led by Facebook's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg and chief financial officer David Ebersman, after Zuckerberg didn't show up for a meeting with them in March.The two-tier share structure set up for the company means Zuckerberg will retain control of Facebook by holding more useful voting shares. Similar structures are used at Google – which in April proposed expanding the number of non-voting shares, a move that was unpopular with investors.IPO roadshows, in which company management presents its strategy to prospective investors, typically last one to two weeks. If the roadshow goes particularly well, shares sometimes start trading a few days earlier.They also give investment banks which will buy the majority of shares ahead of the flotation the chance to evaluate the management and its forecasts, and can drive the eventual flotation price up or down.That means Zuckerberg's performance could make a substantial difference to how much Facebook is eventually worth – and how much cash it garners from the share sale.Facebook still commands keen investor interest, although disappointing first-quarter results raised questions about whether it can sustain breakneck growth for the longer term.A source told Reuters last week that a recent acquisition spurt by the company could have added about a week to the IPO timetable as regulators signed off on the deals.This review is close to completion, however, allowing the company to go ahead with the roadshow on 7 May, according to the source who spoke with Reuters on Tuesday."I have not seen as broad-based interest in an IPO since Google. Investor demand is immense," said Scott Sweet of research firm IPO Boutique."I expect a roadshow that will rival all roadshows where investors will be turned away at the door."
Hey, it's Wednesday. Any gaming activities planned for tonight?
The company behind the once mighty BlackBerry has revealed the prototype for its first true internet phone in a last ditch attempt to make a comeback against rivals Apple and Samsung.After a string of profit warnings followed by its first quarterly loss in nearly seven years, Research In Motion has unveiled a touch screen phone and the new operating system, called BlackBerry 10, which it hopes will ensure its survival in the fiercely competitive handset market.Some 2000 of the handsets, which look very similar to a black iPhone, were distributed to app developers at RIM's annual BlackBerry World gathering in Orlando on Tuesday. The BlackBerry keyboard has been ditched, although the company claimed its virtual keys learn their owners' typing habits and help eliminate errors.The prototypes will come loaded with a version of the BlackBerry PlayBook software, so that developers can start building apps before its official release, which the company confirmed would be "in the latter part" of 2012.Telecoms pundit Kevin Tofel praised the BB10 interface as "elegant" but added: "RIM has lost valuable time and sales momentum to Google Android and Apple iOS devices for the past several years. Simply put, a pretty demo does not a comeback make."The old BlackBerry, dubbed the original smartphone, was perfectly adapted for sending and receiving emails, but has struggled to keep up with the web capabilities and apps of the iPhone and devices from Samsung and others using Google Android software. Few developers bothered to create apps for the phones.A number have now committed to supporting BB10, including mobile search-engine maker Poynt Corp, video-game company Gameloft and international calls network Truphone.RIM is releasing a developer tool kit that includes software called Cascades, which will help build graphic-rich applications. It also offers support for the popular open-source programming language HTML5."RIM has got it right with the BlackBerry 10 platform," said Truphone apps head Adam Linford."There is tremendous interest, anticipation and momentum building toward the launch of BlackBerry 10 devices," claimed Christopher Smith, head of handheld application platform and tools at RIM.RIM founder Mike Lazaridis and long serving chief executive Jim Balsillie, the duo behind the international success of a phone once so popular it was dubbed the 'crackberry', lost control of the company at the end of last year.Shareholders demanded a shake-up after repeated profit warnings, months of delay to the launch of the BB10 software, and a botched entry into the tablet market with the poorly selling BlackBerry PlayBook.Lazaridis and Balsillie resigned their shared co-chair and chief executive roles at the end of 2011, with internal candidate Thorsten Heins becoming chief executive, and Balsillie left the board at the end of March.Financial decline has been swift, with RIM reporting a pre-tax loss of $137m in the quarter ended 3 March 2012, compared to a $1.2bn profit just a year before. The company has 77m BlackBerry subscribers around the world, but sales tumbled 25% last quarter, with US revenue plummeting more than 50%.• This article was amended on 3 May 2012. The original said that the new device prototypes will come loaded with an early version of the BlackBerry 10 software. This has been corrected.
Governments across the world – including those in the US and UK – are posing a threat to internet freedom through "hasty" legislation passed due to security fears, the head of an international media watchdog has warned.Dunja Mijatovic, the representative for freedom of the media for the 56 countries that make up the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), said that both democratic and transition governments in her remit were often acting against openness in the media and on the internet."What I see during my work is fear," she said. "Last year we commissioned a study on media freedom in 56 states. The results are not very rosy. Governments are trying to restrict or suppress in the interests of security. Legislation is very hasty."The OSCE is an inter-governmental grouping that includes countries across three continents, taking in the EU, Russia and the transition countries of eastern Europe, and the US and Canada.Mijatovic, the group's media representative,topped a recent Guardian pollof people who have had the most impact in the battle to keep the internet open.In an interview with the Guardian, she explained that most of her work focused on transitional democracies "east of Vienna"."There is a witchhunt in OSCE countries and beyond against bloggers and journalists. Media professionals worry about themselves and their families if they write particular stories or make the wrong social media comments," she said."The obsession to control the internet is showing we are not heading in the right direction, and the countries of the west are not immune to criticism – I have already raisedActa[an international intellectual property treaty that has been likened toSopa, a US anti-piracy bill] with the president of the EU parliament."A large portion of Mijatovic's work, however, focuses on countries where press and internet freedom are far less advanced: she regularly visits imprisoned bloggers and journalists, and lobbies privately and publicly for their release. Her role is that of an advocate – she has no formal powers to mandate any member state."If I see a problem, I raise it," she said. "In some parts of the world, the benefits of free speech are not seen, but censorship anywhere is censorship everywhere."Some good things happen, which we welcome, but the most important thing is to maintain a dialogue and make sure a door is always open. I don't think boycotting or cutting contact helps anyone."Mijatovic said there was a disturbing trend in some countries for spurious charges to be brought against those who tried to speak out against an undemocratic government."Charges are often really dubious: drug dealing, or terrorism [for example]. The internet for so many governments presents a way to change society for the better, and they don't want this change – because they want to stay in power for ever."Mijatovic became the OSCE representative for freedom of the media in 2010, after a career built around setting up regulation for free media in transition countries, including in her native Bosnia after the collapse of communism.She concluded that ultimately it is civil society – the media and activists – who keep the media and internet free, and said this was not yet established in many transition countries. Citing the huge online campaign against the US legislation against intellectual property violations, she says: "These showed an engaged civil society can stop these actions. Elsewhere, there's an apathy."People don't speak up because they're sleeping or because they're afraid. As for me, the most powerful tool I have at my disposal is my voice."
Facebook has access to your info, photos and browsing habits. Now the social media giant wants your organs, too.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, announced today that the social network is making it easier for its one billion users to register to donate and broadcast their organ donor status to their networks.The hope is that the viral effect of do-gooder peer pressure will move thousands of people to become donors to one of the more than 114,000 Americans waiting for livers, hearts, kidneys or other organs.Every day an estimated 18 people die waiting for a transplant, according to theUS department of health and human services."Medical experts believe that a broader awareness about organ donation could go a long way toward solving this crisis," Zuckerbergwrote in a statementwith Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg. "And we believe that by simply telling people that you're an organ donor, the power of sharing and connection can play an important role."During an interview with Good Morning America, Zuckerberg discussed some of the inspirations behind the move, including Facebook's role in organizing after disastrous tornadoes in Missouri and the Fukushima earthquake in Japan."So, we figured: could we do anything to help people solve other types of issues, like all the people who need organ donations?"Zuckerberg also said that he had his friend, former Apple CEO Steve Jobs, in mind when they were designing the tool. Jobs, who died last year, had been the recipient of a liver transplant.Users can now go into their Facebook timeline, click on "Life Event", select "Health and Wellness", and add the option "choose Organ Donor". Users are encouraged to relate a personal story or include a video.
On Friday, Naomi Wolf wrote about the "open internet"– and the threat to it from corporate and state interests. The struggle over Sopa and Pipa revealed the dangerous potential of the commercial lobby's influence on the US legislative process, but it also pointed ways forward for netroots campaigners, with key tech industry allies.But that is not the whole picture either, as long as web censorship continues (in China, for example) and bloggers and social media users face arrest and detention (as in Syria and elsewhere). How can the utopian potential of the internet's informal networks of global community be preserved? What sort of movement will it take?• Join Naomi for a webchat to discuss these issues this Tuesday from 12-1pm (EST; 5-6pm UK time).
Japanese publishers have always inspired a cult following among gamers in the know – and perhaps none more so than Capcom. Known primarily in recent years for three franchises – Resident Evil, Street Fighter and Devil May Cry – it has understandably been characterised as a purveyor of action-adventure and beat-'em-up games.But it's about to enter the competitive but potentially rewarding field of open-world role-playing games with Dragon's Dogma, which conspicuously eschews the typical Japanese RPG blueprint that marries turn-based gameplay with anime-style visuals. Indeed, Dragon's Dogma's real-time action, giant game-world and medieval fantasy setting put one more in mind of the likes of Skyrim, and the ability to climb up bigger adversaries to target your attacks adds a hint of Shadow of the Colossus. We caught up with Dragon's Dogma's producer, Hiroyuki Kobayashi (best known for being a leading light of the Devil May Cry games), on a rare visit to London.So, Mr Kobayashi, where did Dragon's Dogma – an undoubted departure for Capcom – come from? "First of all, I'm glad you think it doesn't sound like a regular Capcom title. We wanted to try something new, and break into this open-world RPG genre, but of course include all the Capcom elements that we have in a lot of our games. The idea first started off with Hideaki Itsuno, the director of the game, and right around the time when Devil May Cry 4 finished, we started talking about what the next big game we wanted to make would be."Itsuno-san really likes the Lord of the Rings series, for example. And when he was in elementary school, he read lots of choose-your-own-adventure books. So that was one inspiration. Another one was going back to the Lord of the Rings, the way that a lot of the fantasy movies are represented – we wanted to create epic battles. There are a lot of games where you fight bosses and hack and slash at their feet, but we wanted to add to that, where you can actually climb onto these enemies and aim for their weak points. So you can climb on a Cyclops and aim for the eye – that kind of stuff. We really wanted to create that realism of being able to take down those giant enemies, just like in the movies."In the story, the main character is called the Arisen, and at the beginning of the game, he or she – you can choose – is in a town which a dragon visits, and takes their heart out, rips it out of your chest. So the Arisen becomes more of a hero in this world, and is on a quest to get his or her heart back. A lot of the questions that people have – like why did the dragon take your heart rather than someone else's, or why is it beckoning you to come on and defeat it – these are mysteries that you will figure out as the story progresses."Not just another RPGCreating a new open-world RPG franchise undoubtedly makes sense for a publisher like Capcom – such games can be fantastically popular. But they also require huge teams and costly resources, so represent a bit of a punt. It's vital, then, that they sport unique features, and Kobayashi-san singles out the "pawn" system, which lets you assemble a party of fellow-adventurers with complementary skills, via rift-stones in the game: "It is, I think, the first of its kind. A lot of open-world games like this are multiplayer, but we specifically chose to make this a one-player open-world game – with network functions. The pawns are a sort of legion of not-quite-human people: they don't act under their own volition, but they follow. As you play the Arisen, you can command them at your will. There are plenty of pawns you can choose from as your support pawns, and your main pawn will be with you throughout the game. The reason for the existence of the pawns – why are there pawns in this world, and why aren't they human? – will also be answered as you play the game."The pawns add a hint of multiplayer, or at least community-style gaming, as you can make your favourites available to other players via the game engine, Facebook or Twitter. Kobayashi elaborates: "You can reach the pawn community from the main menu, so you don't have to go through Facebook. It will open up two options: you can either share your main pawn or do a pawn search, which will show all the main pawns that are up on Facebook and Twitter. And you can narrow down your search – look for a Mage, or search by skills and gender. You might find a message from the owner. And if you note their online ID, you can search for that pawn in the rift."Action-wise, Kobayashi contends that Dragon's Dogma, despite being a first stab at an RPG, preserves the ethos that pervades Capcom's other, more action-focused, franchises: "For example, if you grab onto a gryphon, and the gryphon flies off, as long as you're still holding on, you can continue that battle in the air and bring it down that way. And you can do things like hold an enemy while your pawns attack them. You can grab enemies and throw them off cliffs. That action element, I think, separates Dragon's Dogma from a lot of the other fantasy games."The levelling-up system, too, is unconventional, placing unusual emphasis on the weight of the objects you collect, and letting you expend XP on upgrading them. Kobayashi explains: "Basically, there are two different ways you can level up your character – by accepting quests and completing them, or by fighting random battles. By, for example, exploring the world, you can find different items and, of course, money; with that you can buy weapons, or upgrade them and level up your character. So if you buy a better sword than you had before, it will raise your strength. Also, each weapon and item of armour can be upgraded up to three stars. So you can make weapons stronger, and make them lighter as well – weight is an important concept in the game, and if you make equipment lighter, you can move a lot more freely."No shortage of ambitionOne of the main joys of open-world RPGs is their sheer scope: the best ones feature giant fantasy worlds in which you can lose yourself for months. And as Kobayashi explains, Capcom hasn't stinted in that regard with Dragon's Dogma: "As far as the world is concerned, it's the biggest map we've created in a Capcom game. If you walk around the coastline of the world, it would take you four to five hours. So it's pretty big. As for the main campaign, it would take an average player around 50 hours to complete, just if you do the main quests. If you do all the sub-quests, it would take easily over 300 hours. It has been in development for about three and a half years now. In-house, we have over 100 people working on it, and out of Capcom, we have about 200 – so it's a very big dev-team."Kobayashi affirms that, if Dragon's Dogma hits the spot, Capcom is keen to develop it into a franchise in future, and adds: "We do have DLC planned – we will be releasing information about that in the very near future." A demo version of the game will hit Xbox Live Arcade on 24 April and the Sony Entertainment Network on 25 April, so you'll be able to sample it before its release on 25 May. And from what we've seen, while it may come from a hitherto unlikely source, it should launch Capcom as a major player in the RPG world, in competition with the likes of Bethesda and BioWare.
Bafta has officially launched its 2012 Young Game Designers Competition. The annual event is open to children aged between 11 and 16, and the winning entrants get to see their design prototyped by profesisonal games developers.A launch event was held at the Science Museum on Tuesday morning, with Hollyoaks actress Anna Shaffer and Newsround presenter Ore Oduba onboard as ambassadors for the competition. They were joined by pupils from a selection of local schools to take part in game design workshops. Bafta will be running similar hands-on events throughout the year with a National Media Museum workshop set to be live-streamed at 1pm on 17 May.For the first time this year, the competition will be split into two categories. The Concept Award is for entrants who want to describe their game design idea via documentation, while the Game-making Award, due to be presented by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, will be for children using applications or programming languages to create a functioning game. Entrants are also able to submit their designs alone or in teams of up to three.The top three entrants in both categories will be invited to the British Academy Children's Awards in November. As well as having their concept developed by a team at the University of Abertay Dundee, winners will also get a visit to a leading games studio.Last year's competition saw hundreds of entries from children around the country. It was won by by 15 year-olds Noah Shepherd, Louis Scantlebury and Nathaniel Weisberg whose clever platform puzzler, Rollin' Scotch, was re-named Stick 'Em Up, and is now available for free from the iTunes App Store and Android Market.The deadline for entries is 22 October 2012 and there are more details at theofficial website.
It's never the offence; it's the cover-up. And if there's one thing that the last few years have taught us, it's that the suggestion of a "rogue" worker having acted alone to do something which led to an intrusion is never correct. There has to be a failure of management oversight as well.That's why Google is in such hot water now over the revelations contained in the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) report into what went wrong with its Street View Wi-Fi data collection program.Here's what the FCC said: the engineer who wrote the code to capture the data told his managers about it. He told his colleagues about it. He wrote the code in his "20% time" – the "spare" time that Google allows staff to do projects that interest them – and it was then incorporated into the code used on the Google Street View cars which drove around the public byways of the world, capturing pictures … and also data from open Wi-Fi networks.So it was intentional. And once the 600GB of data had been collected, the engineer (who has beennamed by the New York Times, and turns out to be an expert in the Wi-Fi field who has written "wardriving" software in the past) processed it at least once, to see what "favourite" sites appeared to be. (The Guardian is not naming the engineer as it has not been able to independently verify his identity.)The mistake that wasn'tAnd what did Google say? Initially, that the data collection happened "mistakenly". No, it didn't. Initially, that only "fragmentary" data was collected. No, it wasn't: the first page of the FCC report says that: "On October 22 2010, Google acknowledged for the first time that 'in some instances entire emails and URLs were captured, as well as passwords'." That it was the work of one engineer acting alone, and not in any way part of how Google rolls.Ah, the "rogue engineer". Rather like the "rogue reporter" denial that News International used to dismiss claims about phone hacking, the problem with this defence is that it ignores the reality: in any company that has even the barest management, someone is going to ask what's going on, and take some responsibility, and call a halt to wrongdoing. Not that I'm suggesting that Google is like the News of the World. But everything from this case points to a company that has become so big and so powerful yet has not considered how its responsibilities should grow at the same time.What's worse about the Street View Wi-Fi case is that senior Google management were so quick to assure everyone in May 2010 that there was nothing to worry about, move along, everything's fine. But it turned out that when it was doing that, as the October blogpost later admitted, "no one inside Google had analyzed in detail the data we had mistakenly collected" – note the re-use of "mistakenly", which is still wrong, because the collection was intentional, not a "mistake" – "so we did not know for sure what the disks contained." (That's when it admitted to the collection of entire emails, URLs and passwords.)Well, if you didn't know in May, why didn't you tell your managers to stop giving people misleading advice at the time? Eric Schmidt wasbeing reassuring, as was Larry Page. What matters, they said, was "actual harm".Actually – since we're going to throw the word around - that's not right, Messrs Schmidt and Page. If you're looking for "actual harm" you're setting a ridiculously high barrier. If someone steals my locked-down phone which I then wipe remotely and replace with a new one on insurance, have I suffered "actual harm"? You could quite easily argue not. So if Google decides that the whole world is its plaything, and that data can be slurped up and processed and used stuffed into any product it pleases, even though it might have broken laws in various countries by doing so (becauseintentionallyintercepting communications is against the law in the UK – no matter if they're unencrypted; neither are letters or postcards), it's easy to argue that there's noactual harm. As Boris Becker once said (in a rather different context), nobody died. But it's a nonsense. The harm that comes from treating the world as your convenient wellspring of data that you can use to sell back advertising is a creeping one: it's that Google ceases to respect those outside it any more. And that is the most slippery of slopes.Words v actionsYou can see that happening already. The end of theoriginal blogpostsaid:The engineering team at Google works hard to earn your trust – and we are acutely aware that we failed badly here. We are profoundly sorry for this error and are determined to learn all the lessons we can from our mistake.But there was something of a gap between words and actions: when the FCC demanded the internal emails and documents that would tell it what had gone so wrong with oversight, Google sent it a cursory selection of documents, no emails, and only one version of the software. It didn't offer employee names. It blamed the FCC for delays. Now, dealing with the FCC might be nobody's idea of fun, but if Google is starting to think itself above the intrusions of government-appointed agencies, alarm bells should be ringing inside and outside the company.The problem for Google now is that this affair leads to the uncomfortable question: when your managers and official bloggers gave those bland assurances about the Wi-Fi data collection (intentional, and subsequently analysed), were they lying, or were Google's internal procedures inadequate to find out what was happening at that level? It is, I know, like asking whether Google has stopped beating its wife. The problem is that the "wife" here is definitely sporting a black eye.Personally, I don't think Schmidt or Page is a liar. I do think that the company lacked controls – but the problem is that that grows out of its philosophy. Google tends to view the world as a series ofGordian knotsthat just need someone with a suitably sharp sword.In a couple of cases, they've been absolutely right. On search, the original "Pagerank" idea cut through the mess that was the web search industry of the 1990s; Google was the leading search engine in terms of traffic by mid-2001, and deservedly so, because it had built a better mousetrap. With Android, its mobile phone software, it cut through the carrier-dominated field of mobile phones and created something that will benefit people all over the world who never use Google's services, because Android (sansGoogle services) can be incorporated into cheap mobile devices which will make a vast difference to the lives of billions.But in other cases, it's simply wrong. Its approach to book copyright was nothing short of a landgrab: scanning millions of books, both out of copyright (fine) and in copyright (not fine: every such book has a warning against storing it in any retrieval system – which includes Google's computers) with the view of either selling the content or selling adverts against the content. Splendid ambition (protect books from vanishing) but poor consideration for how the people who owned the copyrights would act. Similarly for the way that it introduced Google Buzz, where it tried to create a viral social network by linking up everyone who emailed you. Splendid idea – if the only people you know are fellow Googlers. Let the virus out of the building, though, and it could link upangry ex-husbands, ex-wives, and new boyfriends, and not in a good way. Google has good intentions. But intentions aren't enough.The idea of collecting the Wi-Fi data might have looked to that engineer like a good one, and the colleagues who must have shrugged the code through (because he did it in that 20% time, and wasn't part of the official Street View team) must have thought: we're Google! Our motto is "don't be evil", so nothing we can do will be bad.But as the novelist Stephen King points out (in his guide for writers), the "bad guy" never thinks of himself as "the bad guy". He has motivations which to him, at least, are justifiable ones.Motto: D for dangerThat's actually the real danger of that motto. First, it gives people a stick to beat Google with whenever it does something wrong, even accidentally. Unfortunately for Google, it can't ever shake that off; it can't un-make that as its motto, because then the outcry would be devastating.Second, and much more dangerous, it can draw people into thinking thatbecausethat's the company motto, theycan'tbe evil. That's the real mistake. Google's staff are just as capable of being evil, through omission or commission, as anyone else. And now that the company is so gigantic, it becomes easier for bad practices to slip through at a low level and because everyone trusts everyone, because nobody thinks that they're the bad one, bad things can in fact happen.And if you're thinking that the Street View Wi-Fi data collection incident (which, let's not forget, went on for four years and was only ended when the German data protection authority asked to see what was actually in the data – give praise for Teutonic paranoia) was an isolated one, ask yourself this:how do you know?If it happened with Wi-Fi data, it could happen with any part of what Google does. Yes, it says that its privacy policy is very careful, that it cares deeply about protecting your privacy, and so on. But what we learn from companies whose size has exceeded their capability to manage them is that incidents are not isolated. We don't know how many other things have gone wrong. All we know is that there was one high-profile example, and that Google didn't investigate it properly and obfuscated when the FCC tried to investigate. The high-profile Oracle-Google trial, over whether Google needed a licence to create Android (a horse long since bolted) points to a somewhat cavalier approach within the company to copyright and licensing; Google cannot point to any high-level meeting where it worked through in detail whether it was entirely in the right to rework Java.Street View, Android – will we discover in the months ahead that Google+ commits some privacy intrusion due to a lack of oversight at the coding level, as happened with Google Buzz? Impossible to say, of course, and while the chances are very much against it, sloppy management is much more difficult to erase than it seems. The FCC's report (and to a lesser extent the Oracle trial) give a picture of a company that just does what it wants, and tries to figure out what's wrong or right a little later.That, though, isn't the way to earn peoples' trust. Google has a problem. But now, so do we all – because we only have its assurances that it's not screwing up. And those have been shown to be false.
Activision is gearing up for the official announcement of the next Call of Duty game. Theofficial websitefor the mega-selling shooter series is currently bristling with clues and teasers, including a countdown to the big reveal.But of course, as you may have noticed last week, the global release date for the title – as well as its name – already appear to have been leaked online.Images of pre-order cards, supposedly produced by US retail chain Target, show the name Call of Duty: Black Ops II and the date 13 November, 2012.It is not a huge shock to discover that this year's CoD instalment will be a sequel to 2010's hugely successful Black Ops title. That game was developed by LA-based studio, Treyarch – the studio that's also producing this year's iteration. And more importantly, Black Ops has so far sold more than 25m units, making it just as big as the Modern Warfare branch of the Call of Duty money machine.There is one slight surprise. It would appear from teaser content on the official site that Black Ops II will have a near future setting. The front page links to a YouTube clip by US bloggerFPSRussia, who posts videos of himself adopting a Russian accent and shooting a variety of large weapons. His latest edition features a prototype craft – the quadrotor RC attack drone – complete with a mounted sub-machine gun, which he says won't be available for 10-15 years:However, the footage would appear to be fake, and the clip closes with a thank you to the Call of Duty brand. The presenter is also wearing a T-shirt bearing the word Tacitus – the name of a Roman historian – which also appears on the CoD website. There is aTacitus website, which could well be a sort of ARG reference to a military group or arms manufacturer in the game.A futuristic setting would be a change of direction for Black Ops. The original title was set during the Cold War and made references to the Bay of Pigs, the Vietnam War and the JFK assassination. It was thought a follow-up would continue the historical, conspiracy-led nature of the narrative, perhaps into early Eighties nuclear paranoia. Furthermore, the Modern Warfare series itself is set in a near-future environment, so Activision will be losing some differentation between its two strands.All will become clear – or at least clearer – tonight, when the website countdown reaches zero. Activision will be running some kind of advert on the US-based TNT channel, during the basketball play-offs, although a broader online reveal is also certain. Rest assured, we're all going to know what this is about.
Jurors began deliberating on Monday the first of two high-profile questions in the Oracle-Google trial: whether Google violated Oracle's copyright on parts of the Java programming language.After two weeks of legal argument and interrogation of high-profile witnesses including the companies' chief executives, Google's Larry Page and Oracle's Larry Ellison, the lawyers for the two sides put their arguments to the jury.Oracle is suing Google in the US federal court, claiming the search engine giant's Android mobile platform violated its patents and copyright to Java, and is seeking roughly $1bn (£616m) in copyright damages.Two years ago, Oracle paid about $7.4bn to buy Sun Microsystems, acquiring Java, the programming which is incorporated in Android smartphone technology, in the takeover.In court on Monday, Oracle lawyer Michael Jacobs said the parts of Java software that Google copied – the application programming interfaces, which define functions – took much creative talent to compose. "It's kind of like creating a symphony," Jacobs said during his closing argument.Oracle also said that Google had copied 37 API packages out of 166 used in Java – "I think you can see already we're talking about a lot." Google's use of Java in Android did not fall under fair use of a small piece for other purposes, said Oracle's lawyer."The basic question is, can somebody use another company's property without permission because it suits them?" He likened it to camping on someone's land without asking – and added that blogposts written by Sun's previous leadership about what could or could not be done with Java are not legal notices and did not therefore amount to licences.But Google attorney Robert Van Nest said Sun's leadership had supported Android, and that Oracle decided against pursuing a smartphone of its own."It isn't until after they failed that they brought this lawsuit here," Van Nest said. He cited testimony from Jonathan Schwartz, formerly at Sun, who had said he didn't see anything wrong in what Google was doing with Android.Google claims that Android – which is in effect an implementation of Java but under a different name – had been designed in a "clean room" by people without direct knowledge of Java's deeper function so that it would not infringe Sun's Java copyrights."Copyright infringement requires you copy something. There was no copying here because Google knew they couldn't use the Sun Java source code," said Van Nest.He said that the correct comparison of the 37 APIs was with the 2.8m lines of code in Java – unlike Jacobs's comparison with 166 APIs."APIs are not a book, not a play, not a song, not a poem," he said – just a functional element that allows developers to access source code.The jury will deliberate on copyright liability before moving on to hear evidence about patent infringement.US District Judge William Alsup must also decide some of the copyright issues. He has instructed the jury to assume that APIs can be copyrighted for the purposes of their deliberation – but will decide at the conclusion of the trial whether that view is supported in law.Only if Alsup determines that APIs attract copyright and that jury decides that Google infringed it will Oracle's charges be upheld.The trial, which began early in April, is expected to last eight weeks.
A selection of 17 new apps for you today:LG CloudLG is the latest consumer electronics firm to launch its own cloud storage and access service, which in this case focuses on computers, smartphones and TVs. The Android app shares photos, videos and music with the other device, with 50GB of free storage for owners of LG devices, and 5GB for everyone else.AndroidJon-E BionicStrictly speaking, this is an e-book (or rather iBook) not an app, but it has many properties of an app. Developer Trailer Park says it's the first "activity comic and colouring book" for Apple's iBooks platform. That means children can colour in characters and scenes, as well as reading the story.iPhone / iPadLego LensUS-only for now, this is a Lego-branded "augmented reality experience" that involves finding Lego Creations made by people near your current location, and viewing them superimposed on wherever you are.iPhoneLara Croft and the Guardian of LightRemember the days when the presence of Lara Croft and Tomb Raider was seen as a key indicator of the health of a gaming platform? Nokia's first N-Gage may have killed that idea off. Even so, RIM has secured a port of the latest Lara title for its BlackBerry PlayBook, with a trademarm mix of adventuring and puzzle-solving.BlackBerry PlayBookTom's MessengerOtherwise known as 'the app where Outfit7 took its talking friends into the messaging space. Starring the still-popular Talking Tom Cat character – along with animal friends Ben, Angela and Gina – this app involves sending messages to friends mouthed by the characters. An iPhone version will follow, once Apple approves it.AndroidJolicloudAnnounced earlier in the year at the London Web Summit, Jolicloud is a new spin on cloud services, gathering your content from Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, Instagram and other services into one place, then making it all searchable.iPhoneVSCO CAMThe race is on to be the next Instagram, even if "the next Instagram" in terms of mega-lucrative exit is unlikely to be a photo app. VSCO Cam is at least good though: simple and elegant to use, with social sharing built in.iPhoneSamsung Smart Washer/DryerControlling a washing machine remotely from your Android smartphone? Inevitably, there is an app for that – as long as you have one of the compatible smartphones and washer/dryers, of course.AndroidAbby In Wonderland/Big Block Party/Color CarnivalGood news for Windows Phone-owning parents eyeing the explosion in iOS kid-apps with jealousy. Sesame Street has launched three apps for children on Microsoft's smartphones, all starring Elmo and described as providing an "interactive read-aloud experience".Windows PhoneVivi in Stile - PeroniAlcohol brand Peroni has a new iPhone app, but it's less about lager and more about getting out and about. Covering food, fashion and design, the app aims to "uncover hidden gems in your city and keep in the know about the most stylish places to be seen". The link above is for iPhone buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhoneMarketShark - Stock FundamentalsMarketShark is one of a growing number of apps aimed at stockmarket investors, although it claims to go deeper than purely monitoring price trends. Expect oodles of metrics, company comparisons and trend visualisation features.iPhone / iPadGarmin PilotThe title brings unfendoffable visions of a cockpit app barking out "At the next cloud, turn right..." However, this is a professional suite of aviation tools for pilots, including flight planning, maps, weather data and navigation features. As yet, no sign of an option to read all this out in Mr T's voice.AndroidSwingball ProWant to play Swingball but don't fancy the inevitable black eye when your opponent gets a little carried away with their ball-swinging? This app takes the whole shebang digital, although it's also aiming to encourage people to buy a real-world swingball set.iPhoneSolid Explorer BetaAndroid owners looking for file management apps are spoiled for choice, but Solid Explorer looks like an, ahem, solid candidate for the space. Not least because of its two-panel user interface for dragging and dropping files.AndroidEast London BuzzstopsThe name may make dedicated hipster-haters cringe, but East London Buzzstops is interesting: an app that aims to crowdsource recommendations for the "wilder, cheekier side of London".Android
Oops, a bit late this morning! And to think, I'm lecturing on journalism at Sunderland University today and my first piece of advice will be 'make the deadline'...Anyway, this isn't about me, it's about you. What are you up to?
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTwitter sets its sights on 2 billion users &gt;&gt; CNET News"Everything we are doing is oriented around getting to 2 billion users."You might think that statement was from Mark Zuckerberg, as Facebook approaches 1 billion active users on its social network and focuses on the next billion. But it was Satya Patel, Twitter's vice president of products, outlining the goal his company has set for itself.With an estimated 140 million users today, producing 340 million tweets a day, 2 billion people using Twitter at least once a month isn't a near-term goal. Based on its current growth rate, which is accelerating as hashtags and @ signs become more embedded in everyday life, Twitter will likely reach 200 million active users in August.More Twitter statistics - particularly daily active and monthly active users - would be useful.Microsoft and Facebook align further with patent deal &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThat patent deal last week was straightforward enough. But:There is also wide speculation that Facebook will start its own Internet search engine to rival Google."Microsoft is simply less concerned about the threat of social to its business than Google is," said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Gartner, a research firm, explaining why Microsoft is not concerned about competition with Facebook."This may be a case of the enemy of my enemy is my friend," he added. Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, declined to comment.Also says that senior Microsoft executives (but not Ballmer) tried to get Facebook interested in buying Bing. It wasn't.My attitude on Oracle v Google &gt;&gt; James GoslingThe "father of Java":In Dan Farber's recentarticle on CNET titled "Oracle v. Google: Ex-Sun execs on opposite sides"he got my position on the case totally backwards and totally misinterpreted my comments. Just because Sun didn't have patent suits in our genetic code doesn't mean we didn't feel wronged. While I have differences with Oracle, in this case they are in the right. Google totally slimed Sun. We were all really disturbed, even Jonathan: he just decided to put on a happy face and tried to turn lemons into lemonade, which annoyed a lot of folks at Sun.Theoretical physicist explains why Moore's Law will collapse &gt;&gt; Geek.comMoore's Law has been around since 1965 when Intel co-founder Gordon E. Moore described it in a paper. Since that day, the law has been in full effect, and the number of transistors placed inexpensively on an integrated circuit has roughly doubled every two years. It's also a commonly held belief that chip performance doubles every 18 months.But Moore's Law won't be true forever, and in this video theoretical physicist Michio Kaku explains how it will collapse. And that collapse isn't going to happen in some distant future, it is going to happen within the next decade.We feel like we've been hearing this for a decade, though. How many times has Moore's Law been declared dead?Snow Leopard users most prone to Flashback infection &gt;&gt; ComputerworldOf the Macs that have been infected by the Flashback malware, nearly two-thirds are running OS X 10.6, better known as Snow Leopard, a Russian antivirus company said Friday.Doctor Web, which earlier this month was the first to report the largest-ever malware attack against Apple Macs, mined data it's intercepted from compromised computers to come up with its findings.Not that surprising: 10.6 was the last version with Java built in.Web 2.0 is over; all hail the age of Mobile &gt;&gt; PandoDailyThe momentum has been shifting for a while, but now the trend is emphatic. People now spendmore time in mobile appsthan they do online. There are more than 500m Android and iOS devices on the market, and giant countries like China and Indonesia are only just getting started in their smartphone and tablet push. Global mobile 3G subscribers are growing atover 35 percent,year on year, and there's a lot more room to move - there are 5.6 billion mobile subscribers on our fair planet. Even indeveloping countries,cheap smartphoneswill soon rush into the market. And who here doesn't think tablet sales are going to go gangbusters pretty mucheverywhere?Mobile is the present, and the future.The same old story &gt;&gt; Joy of TechAfter the Apple tax avoidance story, this is very true.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Google could face a police investigation in the UK and Europe after documents released in the US show that it intended to collect internet data as it compiled photos for its Street View service around the world.The search giant had previously claimed it mistakenly collected the data between May 2007 and 2010, including website details, user names and passwords, but did not intend to use it.However,the text of an investigation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)– which fined Google $25,000 (£15,400) for impeding the inquiry by failing to respond to requests for documents and information – shows the engineer who designed the software specifically intended to collect and analyse the data, with a view to including it in future Google products.He even carried out a test in which he tried to discover people's favourite websites from the data.The change of emphasis from an accidental to intentional collection means Google's actions could fall under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa), which outlaws unauthorised electronic eavesdropping. That could require an investigation by the Home Office or Scotland Yard.Simon Davies, director-general of Privacy International, is calling on Scotland Yard to reopen the investigation into the matter. "It was previously considered by a chief inspector," he said. The high-profile interest in coverage phone hacking in the two years since the initial investigation would mean that evidence of intentional collection of data would be impossible to shrug off, he said.The UK Information Commisioner's Office (ICO), which oversees data protection issues, said on Monday it would examine the FCC findings and decide whether to reopen its investigation. When Google revealed that in May 2010 that it had been retaining the data – something it had previously denied –the ICO told it simply to delete the data, and that there were no grounds to take action.Germany's federal data protection commissioner is also expected to investigate the new information. Germany has far stricter rules on processing personal data than the rest of Europe, partly because of the legacy of the East European regime.The revelations create a problem for senior Google managers such as Eric Schmidt, whotold the Guardian in May 2010that only a small amount of fragmented data was involved which was not used by the firm in any way.The FCC documents show that the engineer did process the 600GB of data at least once; but it could not be sure if he did so more than once because he declined to be interviewed by the FCC, citing legal protection against self-incrimination.Google declined to say whether Schmidt had spoken while knowing what the engineer had done, or whether he had been unaware of the extent of the processing when he gave the public assurances.A spokesman for Google said: "We decided to voluntarily make the entire document available except for the names of individuals. While we disagree with some of the statements made in the document, we agree with the FCC's conclusion that we did not break the law. We hope that we can now put this matter behind us."Nick Pickles, director of the online civil liberties group Big Brother Watch, said: "This explosive revelation highlights Google's cavalier attitude towards privacy and a reckless regard for the law." He said that suggesting it was in the past would not do: "given that one of the key witnesses believed he would incriminate himself by giving evidence, it's clear that those responsible haven't left the company."Jim Killock, head of the Open Rights Group, said: "this is very damaging for Google. So far we haven't seen proper investigation of this and aren't seeing people being properly fined for braeching privacy."The FCC report says that Google was obstructive and cursory in its provision of data for the investigation, and noted how the company's official story about what had happened kept changing.In fact, contrary to Google's claims that the engineer who wrote the data collection software acted alone, he told at least two colleagues – including a senior manager – about the controversialplans before it was released, the regulator found.The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) said in a report that the Google engineer told colleagues in 2007 that his Street View programme could collect private information including emails and text messages.Ina report published by Google on Sunday, the FCC said that Five engineers were involved in implementing the Street View code but did not realise it could collect so-called payload data.The engineer specifically told two colleagues, including a senior manager, that it was designed to collect this information in 2007 and again in 2008.Google has faced criticism from regulators around the world for collecting private information from unsecured wireless networks via its Street View mapping cars between May 2007 and May 2010.The company admitted publicly in May 2010 that it had collected the data, which the FCC said was not a breach of US laws.Google wasfined $25,000 (£15,300) earlier this monthafter the FCC said the company had impeded its investigation into the affair.The FCC said in the report that for months last year Google wilfully and repeatedly obstructed its investigation by withholding certain documents.Google's supervision of the controversial programme was described by the FCC as minimal and it had not been reviewed by internal privacy lawyers despite a recommendation from "Engineer Doe" as early as October 2006.The FCC said that the engineer intended to collect and store the data for possible use in other Google projects. On at least one occasion, the engineer reviewed payload data to identify frequently visited websites, according to the report.One senior manager at Google pre-approved the engineer's plans, the FCC said, while two colleagues were specifically told that Street View could collect sensitive information such as passwords, emails and internet browsing history."For more than two years, Google's Street View cars collected names, addresses, telephone numbers, URLs, passwords, email, text messages, medical records, video and audio files, and other information from internet users in the United States," the report said.Google was found to have collected similar data from users in the UK, Netherlands, France and other countries where its Street View cars operated."The record also shows that Google's supervision of the Wi-Fi data collection project was minimal ... indeed, it appears that no one at the company carefully reviewed the substance of Engineer Doe's software code or the design document."Google has apologised for the collection and last year said it would beef up its internal privacy policies as a response to the failure.• This article was amended on 1 May 2012. The original said Google had been fined for unauthorised data collection. The FCC fined Google for failing to respond to requests for documents and information, but did not find that the data collection was unlawful.
Roland Moreno, who has died aged 66, once boasted that he could stop anyone on the streets of Paris and they would be carrying at least three examples of the smart card he invented – such as bank cards, shopping cards and phone payment cards. Today, the concept has expanded into contactless transport cards, identity cards, driving licences and the subscriber identity module (sim) used in mobile phones. His invention has touched almost everyone on the planet.Although success made Moreno very rich – his company, Innovatron, has collected around €150m (£122m) in royalties – it did not give him the sort of global name recognition enjoyed by other technology entrepreneurs. However, he was one of France's heroes and a recipient of its Légion d'Honneur.In the 1960s, the young, shaggy-haired Moreno, who was born in Cairo, Egypt, but went to school in Paris, worked as a clerk before moving into journalism and taking a variety of short-term jobs. These included working as a reporter for Detective magazine, an errand boy at L'Express and, from 1970 to 1972, news editor at a chemistry publication. He then set up Innovatron to sell ideas or, as today's lawyers would say, IP (intellectual property). His first success was a software system for creating brand names or company names by combining selected dictionary words, which was licensed by Nomen.Moreno's indisputably big idea was to use a microchip as a handy way of carrying data around. The original concept, shown in a patent application in 1974, was for a signet ring, but this would have been impractical. The ring was based on an upside-down chip with protruding legs as contacts. By 1975, Moreno had simplified and converted it into a card format, and in 1976, he demonstrated making an electronic payment. He reportedly lashed together his prototype card-handling mechanism with Meccano.Moreno was a Woody Allen fan (The Purple Rose of Cairo was a favourite) and had codenamed his project TMR after Allen's 1969 comedy, Take the Money and Run. Later he set up Innovatron's research department as RMT, for Roland Moreno Technology, enjoying the reversal.The smart card (la carte à puce) was much more expensive than magnetic stripe cards and therefore relatively slow to take off – it took Moreno about eight years to get things going – but they were a huge success in France. France Télécom used a smart card for its Télécarte cards for pay phones in 1983, and France's banks launched a national debit card system, Carte Bleue, in 1992. France was leading the world.American Express's own Blue cardwas not launched until 1999. Penny-pinching British banks and the London transport system were even slower to wake up.Not everyone liked the idea. There were worries about the security of smart cards and Moreno responded in 2000 by offering a million francs to anyone who could break his security within 90 days. No one collected the money. There were also worries about surveillance, and Moreno acknowledged that they had "the potential to become Big Brother's little helper". Smart cards make it much easier to track people. For example, banks know where you use your credit or debit card, transport systems know where you enter and leave their networks, and phone companies can track your location via the masts used by your mobile phone. However, most users appear to be willing to trade privacy for convenience.Beyond smart cards, Moreno was a humorist, author, bon vivant and family man. In December 1976, he married Stephany Stolin, with whom he had two daughters, Marianne and Julia. Moreno's book of reflections,Théorie du Bordel Ambiant, generally shortened to TBA, was well received and went through several editions. Under the pseudonym Laure Dynateur, he published L'Aide-Mémoire du Nouveau Cordon-bleu, a cookbook promising "2,000 new ways to astonish your guests".In his "nutty professor" guise, Moreno produced somestrange musical devices(Pièce-o'matic,le PianokandCalculette). He also launched Radio Deliro, which is no longer broadcasting; a sort of quiz site, Indécidables; and a poker site. In an interview,he told France Soirthat he would like to be honoured with a waxwork, adding: "It's said that God owes a lot to Johann Sebastian Bach. I would like it said that French people owe a lot to Moreno."Moreno is survived by his wife and daughters.• Roland Moreno, inventor, born 11 June 1945; died 29 April, 2012•Roland Moreno website
Microsoft is challenging Amazon's dominance of the ebook industry with a $300m (£185m) investment in Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook reader and college textbook businesses.News of the deal sent shares in Barnes &amp; Noble up 76% from $13.68 to $24.09 in US morning trading on Monday, boosting the bookseller's value by almost $900m, from $823m on Friday close to $1.7bn by midday. Microsoft's stock rose 2 cents to $32.The pair have teamed up to create a subsidiary, provisionally named Newco, which could eventually be spun off. Microsoft will own 17.6% of the equity.As part of the deal, which ends a number of lawsuits between the two, the software manufacturer will also include a Nook reader application in the next version of Microsoft Windows, to be released in the autumn.Having a favourable position on the default pages of new Windows computers is likely to give Nook a major boost, say analysts. "It gives them a much larger partner with deeper pockets, it gives them increased reach," said Peter Wahlstrom at Morningstar. "In the last two years they've had their backs against the wall."The agreement gives Barnes &amp; Noble ammunition to fend off shareholders who have been urging the bookseller to sell the Nook business – or even the entire company. It will also ease concerns that Barnes &amp; Noble lacks the capital to compete with the ebook industry's market leader, Amazon Kindle. However, the Nook is likely to struggle to seriously challenge Amazon's estimated 60% of the ebook market.For Microsoft, the investment means it will own a stake in a company that sells tablet computers based on Google's Android mobile software – one of the main competitors of Windows Phone, Microsoft's smartphone software. There is a Nook application for Windows PCs, but none for Windows Phone devices.William Lynch, Barnes &amp; Noble's chief executive, said Nook software will continue to be available on devices such as the iPhone, which competes with Windows Phone.Barnes &amp; Noble has had some success with its e-book sales and Nook e-readers, which are estimated to account for 25% of the US ebook market. One key area it dominates is university textbooks, with its Nook Study offering.Microsoft has a long-standing interest in ebooks, having launched the software in 2000. However it was never able to build a substantial library and is discontinuing its product on 30 August.Barnes &amp; Noble has 691 bookstores in 50 states and the subsidiary company will have an ongoing relationship with the bookseller's stores. Michael Norris, an analyst at Simba Information, said: "The whole reason the Nook business is expanding so rapidly is because bookstores are committed to it and know how to market the product in that environment."Speculation has circled recently about a possible separation of Barnes &amp; Noble's digital and college businesses. In March, G Asset Management, a private investment firm and Barnes &amp; Noble shareholder, offered $460m for a 51% stake in the company's college bookstore unit, Barnes &amp; Noble College Booksellers LLC.Under that plan the unit would begin as a private business but become public within a "reasonable" amount of time. G Asset's offer was contingent upon Barnes &amp; Noble keeping current management in place and divesting its Nook e-business. At the time the offer was made, Barnes &amp; Noble declined to comment.
Britain's internet providers have been ordered by the high court to block access to the filesharing website The Pirate Bay.The high court on Monday told five leading internet service providers (ISPs) , including Sky and Virgin Media, to block the site in the UK after ruling that it breaches copyright laws.The block, starting within weeks, will mean millions of Britons will no longer be able to access one of the biggest and longest-running global filesharing sites.The high court order provoked criticism from internet advocacy groups, who likened action against illicit filesharing websites to other forms of online censorship.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, said: "Blocking The Pirate Bay is pointless and dangerous.It will fuel calls for further, wider and even more drastic calls for Internet censorship of many kinds, from pornography to extremism."Internet censorship is growing in scope and becoming easier. Yet it never has the effect desired. It simply turns criminals into heroes."The order to block The Pirate Bay – requested by the major music groups, represented by the British Phonographic Industry – comes as authorities and courts have tightened the net on illicit downloading sites, which film studios and music majors claim are responsible for billions of pounds in lost revenue.Robert Ashcroft, chief executive of the musicians' lobbying group PRS for Music, said: "We're delighted the high court has sent another clear signal to damaging sites like the Pirate Bay that they will be blocked."In the order, the judge Mr Justice Arnold told Sky, Virgin Media, TalkTalk, O2 and Everything Everywhere to begin blocking access to The Pirate Bay.Britain's biggest ISP, BT, also received the court order but has requested further time to consider how to block the site.According to record labels, The Pirate Bay generated up to $3m (£1.8m) from advertising last October by making 4m copies of music and films available to its 30 million users worldwide. The site has 3.7 million users in the UK, according to comScore.Mr Justice Arnold said in a written judgment in February: "In my judgment, the operators of [The Pirate Bay] do authorise its users' infringing acts of copying and communication to the public. They go far beyond merely enabling or assisting."I conclude that both users and the operators of [The Pirate Bay] infringe the copyrights of the claimants … in the UK."The high court action follows ablocking order made against the Newzbin2 websitein October, after a judge found it infringed copyright on a grand scale.The case was seen as a green light for rights holders to force ISPs to block access to a number of high-profile filesharing sites in the UK, using the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
Apple chief executive Tim Cook will meet his opposite number at Samsung, Gee-Sung Choi, to discuss ending their bitter litigation over smartphones and tablets, which has become a globe-spanning war taking in 50 lawsuits in 10 countries.But the summit, on 21 May, is not the result of an olive branch held out by either side. Instead, it is part of court-ordered settlement talks in the US, to see if the two sides can iron out their differences without having to go to trial.The top-level talks are believed to be the first time that Cook has met his opposite number at the South Korean conglomerate specifically to discuss an ending of their disputes in the US – although they are unlikely to stop others carrying on in nine other countries around the world. And they could still fail, which could eventually lead to a trial.For both companies, the ongoing litigation is double-edged. Samsung, which makes everything from semiconductors to TVs, is one of Apple's biggest suppliers for chips and other components – while also being its biggest rival in the smartphone market – and is seeking to compete seriously in the tablet market that the iPad now dominates.Some suspect that Cook, 51, is keen to settle after hesaidduring Apple's quarterly results last week that he always hated litigation, and he continued to hate it. But he also said he would not tolerate copying of Apple's inventions."If we could get to some kind of arrangement where we could be assured that's the case and a fair settlement on the stuff that's occurred, I would highly prefer to settle versus battle," he said. "But the key thing is that it's very important that Apple not become the developer for the world. We need people to invent their own stuff."Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy, suggested that Apple should seek to end the litigation as a distraction from its work. "Litigation isn't a sustainable strategy," he said. "The courts take much longer to decide an issue than markets do."Applefirst sued Samsung in April 2011in the US, with a 373-page lawsuit alleging infringement of patents and copying of "trade dress" – the appearance of products.Cook will meet the Samsung chief in a San Francisco courthouse, following pressure from Judge Lucy Koh who has pressed the two sides to come to an amicable resolution of their dispute.Apple and Samsung have ongoing legal disputes in 10 countries, according to patents consultant Florian Müller: the US, Germany, UK, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, South Korea, Japan and Australia.The court actions have led to restraints  in Australia on the sale of Samsung's Galaxy Tab tablet, and in Europe to an investigation by the European Commission's antitrust group into Samsung after it asserted a number of patents related to 3G phone connectivity against Apple in one of them.Though the lawsuits have so far been inconclusive, settlement talks could short-circuit the arduous process that has enveloped large parts of the smartphone industry in litigation following the explosive success of Google's Android mobile operating system.Apple has sued a number of Android handset makers – including Samsung, HTC and Motorola – while Microsoft, which owns a wide range of patents, has sought and won payments from almost every Android handset maker.Nokia, meanwhile, has successfully sued Apple over a number of mobile phone patents, which now generates a steady income stream every quarter.
Angry Birds Space, the latest mobile game from Finnish developer Rovio, has reached the 50m downloads mark just 35 days after itsrelease on 22 March.The publisher claims on its blog that this makes its tile "the fastest growing mobile game yet", beating all previous records for the Angry Birds series.The announcement may be a deliberate reminder to challengers like Draw Something of the scale of Angry Birds. Draw Something was released on 1 February, notched up 35m downloads in its first seven weeks – yes, a similar time period to that required for Rovio's new milestone – and was promptlyacquired by Zyngafor $180m.Draw Somethingpassed 50m downloadsin early April, while another recently-released game, Temple Run, is alsopast that milestone."While numbers like this certainly say something about the popularity of Angry Birds, for us the main goal is to keep creating fun new experiences that everybody can enjoy,"explains Rovioon its blog.The company released updates to the iOS and Android versions of Angry Birds Space on 25 April with 10 new levels for free, as well as 20 free Space Eagles power-ups. Both may be responses to criticism from some quarters about Rovio's greater use of in-app purchases in the new game."There's only one conclusion to draw: something even bigger is on its way," concludes the blog post. That something is likely to be a 1bn milestone for the entire Angry Birds series.The public figure for overall downloads has remained at 700m for some time now, as the developer stopped providing updates in anticipation of cracking the 1bn mark. That can't be far off now.As a comparison, the original Angry Birds was released on 9 December 2009, andreached the 50m milestoneexactly one year later.
The Google engineer behind the collection of wireless data by Street View cars told at least two colleagues – including a senior manager – about the controversial plans before it was released, a US regulator has found.The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) said in a report that the Google engineer told colleagues in 2007 that his Street View programme could collect private information including emails and text messages.Ina report published by Google on Sunday, the FCC said that five engineers were involved in implementing the Street View code but did not realise it could collect so-called payload data.The engineer specifically told two colleagues, including a senior manager, that it was designed to collect this information in 2007 and again in 2008.Google has faced criticism from regulators around the world for collecting private information from unsecured wireless networks via its Street View mapping cars between May 2007 and May 2010.The company admitted publicly in May 2010 that it had collected the data, which the FCC said was not a breach of US laws.A spokesman for Google said: "We decided to voluntarily make the entire document available except for the names of individuals. While we disagree with some of the statements made in the document, we agree with the FCC's conclusion that we did not break the law. We hope that we can now put this matter behind us."Google wasfined $25,000 (£15,300) earlier this monthafter the FCC said the company had impeded its investigation into the affair.The FCC said in the report that for months last year Google wilfully and repeatedly obstructed its investigation by withholding certain documents.Google's supervision of the controversial programme was described by the FCC as minimal and it had not been reviewed by internal privacy lawyers despite a recommendation from "Engineer Doe" as early as October 2006.The FCC said that the engineer intended to collect and store the data for possible use in other Google projects. On at least one occasion, the engineer reviewed payload data to identify frequently visited websites, according to the report.One senior manager at Google pre-approved the engineer's plans, the FCC said, while two colleagues were specifically told that Street View could collect sensitive information such as passwords, emails and internet browsing history."For more than two years, Google's Street View cars collected names, addresses, telephone numbers, URLs, passwords, email, text messages, medical records, video and audio files, and other information from internet users in the United States," the report said.Google was found to have collected similar data from users in the UK, Netherlands, France and other countries where its Street View cars operated."The record also shows that Google's supervision of the Wi-Fi data collection project was minimal ... indeed, it appears that no one at the company carefully reviewed the substance of Engineer Doe's software code or the design document."Google has apologised for the collection and last year said it would beef up its internal privacy policies as a response to the failure.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 28 April 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Prototype 2(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (32)12 (2)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)73 (3)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (36)Wii (7)PSP (3)314 (5)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (30)PC (6)85 (4)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)46 (1)The Witcher 2: Assassins (18+)Xbox 360 (96)PC (4)27 (6)Tiger Woods PGATour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (40)58 (7)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (31)PC (12)279 (9)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (60)3DS (40)2210 (12)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)PC (2)2311 (14)Batman: Arkham City(15+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (42)PC (3)1712 (13)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (44)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (22)3DS (6)1713 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (29)PC (23)2514 (10)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (43)Wii (4)PC (4)2515 (11)SSX (3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)916 (15)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)917 (–)UFC Undisputed 3(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)518 (17)Just Dance 3 (3+)Wii (61)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (15)2719 (–)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)1220 (–)F1 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (33)VITA (9)3DS (6)12UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 14 new and notable apps for you today:The Word MagazineUK-based music and culture magazine The Word has launched its official iPad app, charging £2.99 an issue through Apple's Newsstand. The content has been neatly redesigned for the tablet screen.iPadLego Star Wars FunzoneThere's a healthy community of people building with Lego Star Wars toys out there, and this new Funzone app helps you browse photos and videos of their best work. The app can also be used to upload your own creations.iPhoneThe Browser for iPadThe Browser is the latest aggregation app that harvests articles from the web for tablet readers. In this case, feature, analysis and comment articles are the focus, with human editors providing the curation.iPadBand-Aid Magic Vision Featuring Disney's The MuppetsThis branded Muppets app is US-only for now. The idea: buy Band-Aid bandages, point your iOS device at them, and watch Kermit, Miss Piggy and Gonzo spring out in augmented reality joy.iPhone / iPadWhatsAppSniffer Donate ★ rootThis is an Android app used to capture conversations, photos, videos and location data sent by Android, iOS and Nokia handsets on the same Wi-Fi network. Wait, what? Apparently the aim is "to demonstrate that the security of WhatsApp's communications is null". Worrying.AndroidBurgerappThe Burgerac website spotlights the finest burger joints in London and other cities, and now it has an official iPhone app offering reviews, tips, news and maps. "As essential to your iPhone as cheese is to a cheeseburger," it promises.iPhoneFriday'sUS restaurant chain T.G.I. Friday's has launched a smartphone app that customers can use to keep track of their bill and pay it at the end of the evening. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneGamesRadar: Video Games Cheats, Guides and Walkthroughs iPad EditionIf there was a way to map one of my PS3 joypad buttons to GameFAQs, I would, so limp are my console gaming skills nowadays. Having games site GamesRadar's database of cheats and guides to hand on a tablet is a good alternative, though.iPadFaceVaultBiometric facial recognition to unlock private photos on your iPhone? It's all very Minority Report, albeit with some hefty caveats: "FaceRecognition is less secure than a Pattern. Someone who looks similar to you could unlock this app. You need to have an active internet connection" and so on.iPhoneParenting's Max Moo and The Pig In The BlanketEndemol USA has been working with Parenting on a series of story apps for children, with Max Moo and The Pig In The Blanket the latest. It's a detective story with attractive illustrations.iPadTooth Fairy Was HereHow to persuade a sceptical child that the tooth fairy is real? You could rely on the persuasive power of your arguments, or you could sneak into their room at night with an iPhone app, take a photo of them sleeping, then superimpose a cartoon fairy on the pic. Your choice.iPhoneGrowNot another 'splash cash on your virtual aquarium' game, thankfully. This involves swimming around eating every other fish in sight, starting in a jam jar and progressing to the open sea.Windows PhoneTap Tap SushiFed up with slicing fruit on your iPhone? Tap Tap Sushi might be more constructive, as you match sushi orders for customers in a virtual restaurant by tapping unwanted ones away.iPhoneSmell RaiserThere aren't enough skunks in mobile games – Pepe Le Pew would be shocked. Smell Raiser nudges the ratio upwards, with an arcade platform game starring a skunk named Spiffy.iPhone
Well, that was rather a wet, windy weekend – I'm hoping you spent it tucked up in bed playing video games, like a sensible person? In which case, tell us what you played and how you got on. I'm still shouting and swearing my way through Trials, but have also ventured back to Dead Space 2 because Prometheus has got me all excited about space monsters again.How about you?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWe created a utilitarian ethics computer to replace government &gt;&gt; Saturday Morning Breakfast CerealWeird is the wrong word. Indicative of what happens with monopolies perhaps better.Apple's tax strategy aims at low-tax states and nations &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThat's the web headline. The paper headline (and above the article online, but not the web page itself) is "How Apple sidesteps billions in taxes". It's lengthy, and details how Apple does indeed sidestep billions in taxes. And so - as the article says - do Google and Microsoft and Dell and HP and others. (Facebook and Twitter will too.)The key problem - if we're honest - is countries (or states) which jockey for business through their tax strategies. Nevada has zero corporate tax. Luxembourg and Ireland offer tax breaks. Close those loopholes, and tax becomes - well, fairer?Tim O'Reilly on Apple's tax avoidance &gt;&gt; Google+O'Reilly comments:I can already imagine the comments of the libertarians and anti-tax advocates in the comments on this post. "Avoiding taxes is just keeping more of the hard-earned wealth you've created by being productive and successful."But I'd like to suggest a thought experiment. Imagine that you and a large group of friends, or an extended family, decide to hold a reunion or big party that requires renting a space and some real expenses. You agree to share the expenses equally. Then one of you says, "I'm getting us a discount on the hotel from my friend, so I shouldn't have to pay my share." Another two or three say, "I'm helping with the catering, so I shouldn't have to pay." Another: "I'm willing to act as designated driver, so I shouldn't have to pay." Each time, you think, "Yeah, that's reasonable."But before long, things get dicey.A good comparison (once you make the "family" large enough). Another point: many technology companies have founders who are libertarian in outlook - that governments hinder rather than help society.Apple's response on Its tax practices &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIn response to the NYT's article on its home and international tax avoidance practices:Apple has conducted all of its business with the highest of ethical standards, complying with applicable laws and accounting rules. We are incredibly proud of all of Apple's contributions.Microsoft forges ahead with new home-automation OS &gt;&gt; CNET NewsIn 2010, Microsoft researchers publisheda white paper about their work on a HomeOS and a HomeStore-- early concepts around a Microsoft Research-developed home-automation system. Those concepts have morphed into prototypes since then, based on a white paper,"An Operating System for the Home,"published this month on the Microsoft Research site.The HomeOS is a "PC-like abstraction" for in-home devices, like lights, TVs, surveillance cameras, gaming consoles, routers, printers, PCs, mobile phones and more. These devices appear to the HomeOS user as peripherals connected to a single PC.The white paper never explicitly says that HomeOS is derived from or based on Windows. (There are other operating system research projects and incubations at Microsoft, includingSingularityand Midori, neither of which is Windows-based, so it's not a given that HomeOS is Windows-derived.) But it was built using C# and the .Net Framework 4.0, the new white paper on the technology explained.Sounds good. Next: execute it well.Google and Oracle 'experts' clash over Android's Java mimic &gt;&gt; Wired.comThe code used to run Java applications on Google's Android operating system is "completely different" from the code that underpins Oracle's Java platform, according to an expert witness called by Google in its ongoing court battle with Oracle over Android and Java."The implementation code in Android is completely different than the implementation code in Java," Duke University computer science professor Owen Astrachan said on Friday, though he added that the two use the same "method signatures," code that defines the inputs and outputs for part of a computer program....Astrachan's testimony contrasted sharply with that of Stanford University processor John Mitchell, who was originally called by Oracle on Monday and returned to the stand on Friday. Mitchell said that at least in some cases, Google must have copied code from Oracle's Java platform. "I don't think there is any way [Google] could have come up with it on their own," he said, when asked if he thought Google copied code for the Java application programming interfaces, or APIs.Google says Dalvik is a "clean room implementation," meaning it was built from scratch. But Mitchell disagreed. "Whoever inserted that code into the codebase had access to it," he said. "This wasn't a clean room implementation."How important is manufacturing? &gt;&gt; The Enlightened EconomistDiane Coyle:I spotted a chart showing the share of world manufacturing output accounted for by the leading industrial economies. The proportions are:China 19.4%, US 18.2%, Japan 10.9%, Germany 6.1%, Italy 3.1%, Brazil 2.7%, S Korea 2.6%, India 2.5%, France 2.4%, UK 2.3%.Surprising how much higher all those countries' manufacturing quotas are."Might upgrade to the paid version someday"? No you won't &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment:Mobile ads pay very poorly. In my case, ads didn't even come close to delivering similar value as the $4.99 paid-app sale -- I was lucky to get even $1 of value out of an Instapaper Free user. What I've heard from other developers and other ad networks suggests that this is pretty close to the industry average.I decided to yield the free market to my competitors and discontinue Instapaper Free over a year ago, and my sales have remained healthy. (In fact, they've increased, but it's difficult to know whether that was the cause.)...This definitely isn't an Android problem: it's a user problem. Maybe a significantly larger percentage of Android users insist on free apps than iOS users (it certainly seems that way). But both platforms have much larger demand for free apps than paid apps.Make background music for when you work &gt;&gt; IncrediboxEnormous fun. (Requires Flash.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
I support Michael Meacher's call for a public inquiry into the Consulting Association blacklisting conspiracy (Letters, 25 April). It was documents disclosed at my employment tribunal against the construction giant Carillion that brought to light the probable collusion by police and/or security services in the first place. I was granted a court order to view the entire unredacted database, and it was immediately apparent that information on some blacklisting files could only have been supplied by officers of the state. In my opinion, the most probable source for some of the surveillance intelligence appears to be undercover police officers who infiltrated leftwing and anti-racist groups (as previously exposed by the Guardian). Until a full public inquiry takes place, it will be impossible to get to the truth of how and why this information about union activists made its way on to an illegal blacklist run by private building firms.Dave SmithBlacklist Support Group• I don't think it is just the government we have to fear over data-sharing (Report, 24 April). A friend who got a supermarket credit card she has never used received a letter from the supermarket including the following paragraph: "We have recently reviewed the information we hold for you and we've noticed that you may be Politically Exposed [PE], or related to, or associated with, someone who is. A [PE] person is someone who is in a position of influence or power, for example [an MP]."To our knowledge she is not PE, but we wonder why they think she is, and how they got their information.Ed RichardsonRingmer, East Sussex
When 21-year-old Mauro Demetrio was arrested and allegedly racially abused in a police van last summer, he turned instinctively to his mobile phone. Demetrio recorded the encounter on video, andan officer was charged. Now campaigners are harnessing the potential of mobile technology in a wider bid to hold police to account.Stop and Search UKis a new mobile app designed to monitor the use ofpolice stop-and-search powers, blamed by many involved in last year's riots for stoking tensions. Recent figures have shown that black people are now30 times more likely to be stoppedunder section 60 of the 1994 Criminal Justice Act.The free app allows those searched to log an electronic record of the incident, including the officer's badge number and the area where it happened, and rate their experience. Each upload is mapped by location and can be viewed by anybody who has the app; the data will eventually be published online. The app also provides a guide to what the police can and cannot do during stops.The idea was piloted for Android mobiles in 2010, but developers Aaron Sonon, Satwant Singh and Gregory Paczkowsk expect the new BlackBerry version, to find a bigger following. "The main mobile phone young people use is BlackBerry because of BlackBerry Messenger," says Singh, referring to the messaging servicethat was used in last summer's riots.
Two black coaches pulled up outside the Apple store in Sydney last week, and dozens of people jumped out onto the rain-soaked pavement. They rushed up to Apple's shop windows and began chanting: "Wake up!" , waving placards bearing the same words. Five minutes later they marched off on a short tour of the city.The PR stunt was organised by Samsung. It is backed by billboards counting down to the launch on Thursday of the Galaxy S3, the latest iteration of the Korean manufacturer's bestselling smartphone.Samsung's self-promotion is becoming increasingly provocative. Its latestTV addepicts Apple customers queuing outside a store for the latest product launch, slavishly following a fad and paying top dollar for an inferior product.But the company's new-found chutzpah is understandable. We learnt on Thursday that Samsung had overtaken all its competitors to become the largest seller of mobile phones worldwide, pushing Nokia off a perch it has commanded since 1998. Samsung has not published quarterly units sold since its patent war with Apple escalated last year. But informed guesswork based on recent results for the first three months of 2012 suggests that, by any measure, Samsung beat Nokia's combined shipment of 82.7m smartphones and more basic handsets known as "feature phones".Researcher Strategy Analytics released an estimate within minutes of Samsung's results, saying it had achieved 93.5m units, an increase of 24.6m over the same quarter last year. Gartner, which does not include the company's Galaxy Note phone/tablet hybrid in its numbers, says Samsung sold between 87m and 89m handsets – still comfortably more.Apple has also been trumped. The mighty iPhone breezed through forecasts by shifting 35.1m units in the year to 21 March, but Strategy Analytics estimates 44.5m smartphones for Samsung in the same period. This is no flash in the pan: Samsung outsold the iPhone for the whole of 2011.Samsung's top-of-the-range Galaxy handsets have driven its success by offering better technology than the iPhone at lower prices, says Francisco Jeronimo at analyst IDC. When the iPhone 4 was offering a five megapixel camera, the Galaxy S2 boasted eight megapixels and a brighter screen."So everyone asks, why buy an iPhone if I can have a better camera and better display at a better price?" says Jeronimo. He says Samsung does not just copy, it innovates: the hybrid Galaxy Note was expected to sell 2m units in its lifetime. It sold 5m in just five months.While the South Koreans may never have Apple's cult following, a long history of producing high quality, dependable TVs and white goods has built a trusted brand in the west. "If you want an alternative to Apple there is no one else at the moment," says Gartner's Carolina Milanesi. "It doesn't mean Samsung is bulletproof. Their rise is also because their competitors are just dying around them."During 2011, Samsung has been the only top-five handset maker to increase market share in the face of the iPhone's transformation from niche luxury item into a near-mass-market gadget in Europe and the US.Nokia has been loss-making for four quarters, and is now looking into a £1.1bn black hole, and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIM) has just gone into the red. Both woke up too late to the fact that touchscreen devices were here to stay. While Nokia now has a new strategy, with chief executive Stephen Elop betting the company on Microsoft's Windows Phone software, RIM has yet to produce a genuine touchscreen handset – five years after the first iPhone.Competition has been so fierce that even Taiwanese manufacturer HTC, which is seen as a nimble competitor, finished 2011 off colour. Two other well-known names, Motorola and Sony Ericsson, have withered and lost their independence, respectively snapped up by Google and folded into Sony.The stakes are particularly high for Nokia. In a study of 13 phone makers who were merged, liquidated or acquired, Horace Dediu, formerly a manager at Nokia and now an independent analyst, found "there are no examples of vendors who recovered from a position of loss-making".Windows Phone is still unknown to most consumers, because so few handset makers use it, and sales of Nokia's first phones to carry the software totalled just 2m. "Until and unless these endangered companies solve the dilemma of having the wrong business model at the wrong time," says Dediu, "the chances are that they will not be forgiven for market failure".Once companies lose scale, they enter a vicious cycle of decline. Shops begin to give them less shelf space, they are last in the queue during shortages of silicon chips and other materials, and prices from suppliers go up – eating into the profits that could be used to promote their products. In the top spot, Samsung is currently enjoying all the advantages of scale.
Earlier this year, American legal scholar Tim Wu published a sobering book:The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. In it, he surveyed the history of the great communications technologies of the 20th century – the telephone, movies, broadcast radio and TV. And in the story of each of these technologies, Wu discerned a pattern – "a typical progression of information technologies: from somebody's hobby to somebody's industry; from jury-rigged contraption to slick production marvel; from a freely accessible channel to one strictly controlled by a single corporation or cartel – from open to closed system. It is a progression so common as to seem inevitable, though it would hardly have seemed so at the dawn of any of the past century's transformative technologies, whether telephony, radio, television or film."Each of these technologies, Wu argued, started out as gloriously creative, anarchic and uncontrolled. But in the end each was "captured" by corporate power, usually aided and abetted by the state. And the process in each case was the same: a charismatic entrepreneur arrived with a better consumer proposition – for example, a unified system and the guarantee of a dial tone in telephony; or a steady flow of good-quality movies created by a vertically integrated studio system in the case of movies – that enabled a corporation or a cartel to attain control of the industry. The big question, Wu asked, is whether this will happen to the net.It's a good question. The internet was another one of those gloriously creative, anarchic technologies that spawned utopian dreams. Its internal architecture – its technical DNA, if you like – enabled an explosion of whatBarbara van Schewickcalled "permissionless innovation": all you needed to prosper was ingenuity, software skills and imagination. So what the network's designers created was, in effect, a global machine for springing surprises.For the last two decades, we've been gratified, bamboozled, astonished and sometimes alarmed by the surprises it has sprung. The first-order ones were innovations such as the world wide web, file-sharing, VoIP (internet telephony) and malicious software. In turn, these first-order surprises generated other, second-order ones. The web, for example, served as the foundation for search engines, Flickr, blogging, YouTube, Wikipedia and, latterly, smartphones and Facebook.We're now at the stage where we should be getting the next wave of disruptive surprises. But – guess what? – they're nowhere to be seen. Instead, we're getting an endless stream of incremental changes and me-tooism. If I see one more proposal for a photo-sharing or location-based web service, anything with "app" in it, or anything that invites me to "rate" something, I'll scream.We're stuck. We're clean out of ideas. And if you want evidence of that, just look at the nauseating epidemic of patent wars that now disfigures the entire world of information technology. The first thing a start-up has to do now is to hire a patent attorney. I had a fascinating conversation recently with someone who's good at getting the pin-ups of the industry – the bosses of Google, Facebook, Amazon et al – into one room. He recounted how at a recent such gathering, he suddenly realised that everyone present was currently suing or being sued for patent infringement by one or more of the others.How have we got ourselves into this mess? How long have you got? But here are a few of the obvious culprits. One is our obsolete intellectual property regime, which, instead of encouraging innovation, is nowadays mainly used to discourage it. Another is our failure to build the kind of networking infrastructure that could form the basis for really disruptive applications of IT. Fixed-line bandwidth in the UK is poor enough, but it's lightspeed compared with the shambles of mobile broadband, as any smartphone user will testify.A third sheet-anchor is provided by the business models currently dominant in the industry, namely the provision of "free" services in return for massive intrusions on privacy and other swindles. As anice chart on the Pinboard blogshows, the bigger free services get, the more money they lose – and that revenue has to come from somewhere. In the end, the only stable, ethical business models will be those based on consumers paying for services. And the likelihood of that happening soon is negligible.But perhaps the biggest curb on innovation is the fact that the technologies that might serve as the springboards for next-generation surprises are increasingly closed and controlled. Facebook, for example, was built on the web, which is an open platform. But Facebook is busily creating a walled garden in which the only innovations that can arise from it are ones allowed by the proprietors. The same applies to the tethered devices that we know as smartphones and tablets.We look like being the first civilisation in history that invented a golden goose – and then strangled it.
The countdown to the impending worry fest ofUefa's Euro 2012in Poland and Ukraine has officially begun. Rather as nesting birds mark the start of spring, the summer tournament season is inevitably heralded by the arrival of the official&nbsp;game tie-in. As always, publisher EA Sports has an extra, mid-year version of its annual Fifa series to celebrate England's puff-cheeked capitulation on the international stage. However, for the first time it doesn't come as a stand-alone purchase but as a downloadable add-on to last year'sFifa 12.Whether this signals the digital tipping point for the games industry, or stands as proof that for the last few years EA has been selling us something we already owned with a few extra pairs of shorts and additional snippets of nonsense from Clive Tyldesley is up for debate. But more concretely, it means stumping up £15.99 (or the equivalent in Xbox's barter currency, MS points) for an addition to yourFifa&nbsp;12options bar that leads to a paddock of purple menu screens and flowery backgrounds featuring 53 national teams and a couple of extra game modes.This is something of a mixed haul. Fifty three countries is a good thing, especially since only a fraction of them appeared in the original game. But more than half are unlicensed (an example: the prominently cheeked "Gavin Belth" now bestrides the left wing for Wales in place of Gareth Bale). And of the two new game modes, the most visible – the tournament itself – is essentially no different to the custom cups that featured inFifa 12.Saving blushes is the also new expedition mode, a Risk-like game of territorial expansion that sees you marching across Europe with a squad of reserve players. Conquering&nbsp;nations unlocks roads to further domination and wins you improved squad members – a smart and more-ish mechanic.But even this success is undermined byEuro 2012's unchanged use ofFifa 12's existing game engine. Refreshed gameplay and a glimpse of what's planned for the next Fifa have long been the biggest draw of these tournament one-off issues. Without them, it is difficult to recommendEuro 2012, which essentially is just more of the same in a new pair of shorts.
Price  £23,410MPG  64.2Top speed  130mphWinnie, my dog, has a good working knowledge of the challenges that aerodynamics pose. She's a chocolate pointer (aren't we all?) and her great pleasure is to sit in the front seat with the window open. She'll start by poking the whiffling tip of her snout into the onrushing wind, then slowly ease the whiskers out and set her brown lips flapping. After toying with the flow for a while, she'll go for a sudden muzzle lunge, directing her face full into  gale. The wind tears at her loose skin and beats her scalp against her skull.  Then, phew, she withdraws into the calm of the cabin, gathers, and repeats.By putting her head above the battlements, Winnie is exposing herself to the greatest obstacle facing automotive engineers: the air. Aerodynamicists have fought long and hard to reduce the assault the wind makes on the simple act of going forward and they've found many ingenious ways to reduce a&nbsp;vehicle's drag by making it more "slippery". Initially they did this to make their cars faster; today they  do it to make cars more efficient.  The logic is simple:  if less energy is needed to push an object through the air, then the same amount of fuel will ultimately drive that vehicle further. How slippery an object is depends on two crucial things: its shape and the material covering that shape. These are known as form drag and skin friction… No sniggering at the back!As Winnie has discovered, a&nbsp;long muzzle covered in fur offers poor air dynamics. A bullet on the other hand, smooth and pointy, has a&nbsp;far lower drag coefficient. However, a bullet is not as aerodynamic as this latest B-Class compact MPV from Mercedes-Benz. What? No way! Yes, it's true. Mouths shut! The most aerodynamic shape in nature is a&nbsp;teardrop. A bullet merely barges&nbsp;the &nbsp;air out of its way, but a&nbsp;teardrop guides the flow past itself. A Lamborghini may look as if it would cut through the wind, but it doesn't. Its wedged form forces it down so as to increase traction. This makes it sticky – the opposite of slippery.As well as the teardrop shape created by its pagoda roof – it bulges upwards in the middle – the B-Class carefully funnels the wind through its grille and along its side-panel creases. In all, it is one of the top five slipperiest cars of all time.So, that's the outside. How streamlined is the interior? There are seven new B-Class models to choose from in various states of trim, starting with the B180 SE at £21,290 and rising to the B200 CDI Sport at £24,710, but only two engines are on offer – a 1.6 petrol and 1.8 diesel. At its best, the diesel will deliver 64.2mpg and a meagre whiff of CO2(just 116g). I drove the B200, which was responsive and eager to please. That high pagoda roof means it feels light and airy and its five passengers could all happily sport beehive hairdos. It's a well-judged family car that is small enough to serve you well in the city and big enough to cope with a fully laden run to the sun.So, all good? Yes, except for two minor irritations: the media screen is propped on the dash like a&nbsp;conscripted iPad and will look very tempting to thieves; and selecting reverse is all but impossible – the B-Class is clearly only happy going forwards.To watch a video of the the car's extraordinary aerodynamics, go toyoutube.com/watch?v=yY_pH_hxQOMMercedes-Benz's retail network also now offers virtual, as well as physical tours of many of their cars. The dealerships have iPads, pre-programmed with the recently released C-Class Coupe and B-Class brochure apps, as well as the all new B-Class Augmented Reality Showroom app which enables you to interact with the B-Class like never before. It's a full-scale 3D experience which layers information directly onto the car itself, by using this cutting edge technology, retailers are able to use the iPad to dramatise features of the car that would otherwise be impossible to show. The C-Class Coupe and B-Class Brochure apps are available to download now frommercedes-benz.co.uk
Spare a thought for the poor souls slaving away at developerDouble Helix– after turning last year's messyGreen Lanternfilm into a vaguely tolerable video game, they've been tapped to make the game of the movie of the game,Battleship.It's a valiant effort but much like the film it's based on,Battleshipstruggles to find a point or purpose. Packaged broadly as a first-person shooter, the debt both movie and game owe to Bungie'sHaloseries is even more apparent – alien designs and technology are uncomfortably similar toMaster Chief's universe. Unlike its onscreen cousin though, the game at least manages to work in some links to the original board game, with strategy elements pitting ship against ship.Overall, it's a cluttered and unfocused experience, shooting and strategy never quite blending. Movie tie-ins are rarely great, but even with that low expectation this is a sinking ship.
Radical's viral horror follow-up to 2009'sPrototypeexpands on the corporate conspiracy that has reduced New York to a glorified concentration camp, its citizens unwilling test subjects for a shadowy bio-weapons programme. Typical sci-fi gubbins then, but you'll be having so much fun leaping around the city and tearing into monsters of science gone wrong that you'll scarcely care.Having lost his wife and daughter in the outbreak, new hero James Heller makes a compelling lead, one driven by loss and rage. Many of the flesh-warping powers of the first game return, such as claws and tendrils, joined by much-needed combat tweaks such as the ability to dodge. With upgradeable mutations, Heller soon feels monstrously powerful.However, missions can prove repetitive – shape-shift into an enemy, infiltrate bases, kill monsters, repeat – and the enemy AI is dull-witted at best, removing much challenge on all but the hardest settings.
Veteran British developer Jeff Minter is known for his slightlysurreal, psychedelic games, and the quick and easy distribution offered by Apple has seen him develop a succession of quality titles, of which the latestFive A Day(App Store, £1.49, Llamasoft) is no exception.At heart, it's a simple shoot 'em up – a bullet storm game, where the player's spaceship fires a stream of projectiles in the direction you're facing. However, this is what Minter terms a "fruit 'em up". Enemy ships trail strings of fruit, which must be collected by blowing foes out of the sky. These fruits then act as a destructive tail to use against the bosses – in the style of aTronlightcycle. Worlds come five levels at a time – and you must end each one alive and with some form of organic treat. Hence: Five A Day. The neon visuals and amusing fruity facts at the end of each level make for an enjoyably fresh experience.Total War Battles: Shogun(App Store, Creative Assembly, £4.99), meanwhile, offers more long-term entertainment, a stripped-down version of the PC real-time strategy behemoth. The complex stats beloved of fans have been removed to make for easier mobile gaming, but the tactical battles remain, with buildings and units needing to be carefully positioned to come out on top. Different combat types are introduced gradually and the tutorial does a fine job of initiating those unfamiliar with the series. While the skirmishes are much shorter, the campaign provides plenty of missions nicely segmented for gaming on the move.
It's day one at theSingularity University: the opening address has just been delivered by a hologram.Craig Venter, who was one of the first scientists to sequence thehuman genomeand created thefirst synthetic life form, is up next. And later, we will see two people, paralysed from the waist down, use robotic exoskeletons to rise up and walk.But first, the co-founder of the Singularity University, Peter Diamandis, gives us our instructions for the day. Your task, he says, is to pick one of the "grand challenges of humanity" – the lack of clean drinking water, say. And then come up with an idea that "can positively impact the lives of a billion people".It's 9.30 in the morning. Some of us haven't even had coffee yet. There's about 50 of us present and the room has been divided up into tables, one for education, another for poverty, another for water, and I'm not sure where I should sit. Diane Murphy, the university's PR executive, hesitates for a moment and then directs me over to the table marked "food". "Tell you what," she says. "Why don't you take Ashton Kutcher's chair over there. He's not coming until later." (When he does arrive, he pulls up a chair at the next table over. What can I say? If Ashton Kutcher fails to solve global hunger, it will be my fault.)The Singularity University is really not much like a regular university. And not just because it's a place that manages to accommodate the likes of both Venter and Kutcher (and where, during a Q&amp;A session, somebody asks a question about taking the Singularity University into the ghetto, and it turns out to be from the musicianwill.i.am).Its courses aren't accredited, and it has no undergraduates. Stanford University might have been the cradle for a hundred Silicon Valley startups and the hothouse for some of its greatest technical innovations, but the Singularity University is an institution that has been made in the valley's own image: highly networked, fuelled by a cocktail of philanthro-capitalism and endowed with an almost mystical sense of its own destiny.It is both Silicon Valley's elite future thinktank and its global outreach arm: Google and Microsoft both came to the founding conference and gave money, Nasa provided the campus space, and emblazoned across the website is a quote from Google's co-founder, Larry Page: "If I was a student," he says, "this is where I'd want to be." Its aim is "to assemble, educate and inspire a new generation of leaders who strive to understand and utilise exponentially advancing technologies to address humanity's grand challenges".So, no pressure then. Although, of course, the easiest thing would simply to be British about all this and scoff. Ashton Kutcher! (I read later that he's been cast to play Steve Jobs in a forthcoming film and slightly suspect that he thinks he might actually be Steve Jobs.) A billion people! It's the kind of thing you can imagine someone in a white coat writing down as evidence just before they decide to commit you. What's more, Diamandis is the kind of can-do entrepreneur that, as a nation, we're inclined to lampoon and shun. (He's good friends with Richard Branson.)The only problem with this as a strategy is that half the people in the room actually have done things which have had a positive impact on a billion people. Or, in some cases, more. Not just Venter, who has flown in on his private jet; there's alsoVint Cerf, who is considered one of the fathers of the internet – he worked onArpanet, the internet's predecessor – and is now "chief internet evangelist" at Google. AndSebastian Thrun, the man behind one of Google's latest and potentially most disruptive technologies yet, the self-driving car. He's also the head of the top-secret Google X lab, part of the firm that most employees didn't even know existed until theNew York Timesran a piece on it last November.And then, there'sElon Musk, the co-founder of PayPal and Tesla Motors, who createdthe world's first electric car, and is working on a replacement for the space shuttle. In the audience isReid Hoffman, co-founder ofLinkedIn. And Troy Carter, Lady Gaga's strategist. Later in the day,Buzz Aldrinshows up. He is, in this company, a genuine celebrity. All the scientists want to have their photo taken with him, and even Kutcher has the good grace to look a bit bashful. "What do you make of the Singularity University?" I ask Aldrin. "I'm a pretty high achiever," he says. "But I come here and think 'Gosh. I've just got to do better.'"Star factorAldrin's lack of achievement notwithstanding – second man to walk on the moon, 66 missions flown in the Korean war, one-time duetter with Snoop Dogg – he has a point. The Singularity University's USP and founding ideology is based on doing better. Its belief in progress is so hard-wired that at times it has a retro-futuristic 1950s flying-cars-and-rocket-packs air about it.Even the name – the Singularity University – sounds like something out of a sci-fi novel. Largely because its nameissomething out of a sci-fi novel. "The Singularity" is a term that its co-founder, the writer and futuristRay Kurzweil, appropriated froman essayby sci-fi writer Vernor Vinge, and although definitions vary, it's usually taken to mean the point at which computer intelligence surpasses human intelligence. Which, according to Kurzweil's predictions, and he does have some form on this, will be in 2029.Kurzweil is a genuine one-off. He's a scientist, an inventor – he developed one of the first speech recognition systems – an author and a transhumanist: he believes that if he can stay alive long enough for the technology to be invented he'll be able to stay alive for ever. But what he's best known for is being a futurist. He predicted the break-up of the Soviet Union, the growth of the internet, the year in which computers would beat the best human chess players, the e-reader, online education, and dozens more. By his own count 89 of 108 predictions he made in 1999 about where the world would be in 2009 were correct, and another 13 were "essentially correct".At the heart of all of Kurzweil's predictions isMoore's law. This is the rule that computing power doubles every two years, first noted by Gordon Moore, who went on to co-found Intel, in 1965, and who predicted the trend would continue "for at least 10 years". In fact, it continued for the next five decades, and there's still no end in sight. Computing power shows exponential growth: one becomes two, and two becomes four, and four becomes eight, and when plotted on a chart, it looks like a rocket taking off.Of course, it's one thing to note this about semiconductors, and another to apply it to all other areas of human life, but if you plotted the career path, business plan, and personal wealth of a significant number of people in the room, there would be an awful lot of rocket-shaped lines. Because Moore's law does seem to describe a lot of what's happened in Silicon Valley. And it's really not that surprising, therefore, that some of its wealthiest and most successful inhabitants have bought into the Singularity University's guiding ethos and spirit.Vint Cerf tells me that it was Larry Page's enthusiasm and support for the project that encouraged him to get involved "and then I came and discovered that there were these stunningly smart people here, both speaking and in the audience. I find coming here like walking through a forest of ideas."The standard programme at the Singularity University is a 10-week graduate course which costs $25,000 (£15,500) and last year had 2,400 people applying for 80 slots. It's the Silicon Valley version of an MBA. And demand is such that it has also started doing mini "executive" courses, of the type that I attend. "Billion-dollar companies are springing up overnight," says Peter Diamandis. "And billion-dollar companies are folding overnight." Or as Mike Federle, the chief operating officer ofForbestells me: "CEOs are desperate to know this stuff. Everyone's trying to figure out what's coming next."What's more, instead of being held in the Singularity University's campus at Nasa's Ames research centre in northern California, we're in the heart of the Hollywood dream machine, atFox Studiosin Los Angeles. Jim Gianopulos, the chairman of Fox Filmed Entertainment, went on a Singularity University course, and has since become evangelical about it. Given the traditional antipathy between Hollywood and Silicon Valley (intellectual copyright versus a great big copying machine), this feels like something of a milestone. These ideas are tipping over in the mainstream: Peter Diamandis's book –Abundance: The Future is Better Than You Think– went straight into theNew York Timesbestseller list at No 2 last month and is still lingering in the top 30."The power of computers per dollar has increased trillionsfold since I was at college," Kurzweil says in his opening address, speaking as a 3D holographic head projected into the room from his home in Boston. "And war, depression, nothing makes an impact. It keeps on increasing exponentially." Health used to make linear progress, but "it has become an exponential technology". And with 3D printing, so will "the world of physical things".Our problem with pondering the future is that our expectation is "linear, not exponential," he says. Things aren't going to change incrementally, they're going to change explosively. And it was this that captured Peter Diamandis's attention – he read Kurzweil's book,The Singularity is Near, while trekking in Chile – and inspired him to set up the university.At the end of the first session of talks, he tells us to "caucus" among ourselves and come up with some solutions for our "grand challenge". And then, oh dear God, "one of you will report back on your findings to the rest of the class".There's seven of us at our table. And the idea is that between us, we're supposed to come up with a solution – or, let's not be unambitious here, solutions – to feeding the world's seven billion people. What would Ashton say, I wonder? Although my assumption is that it'll be a bit like when Mr Gould, my fourth-form maths teacher, used to try a similar technique back in the 80s, and we'd sit around readingSmash Hitsuntil he wrote the answer on the board.But no, the group around my table start unembarrassedly throwing around actual ideas: it's possibly why billionaires are billionaires, and chief executives are chief executives. They actually get on and do stuff. "What about artificial meat?" suggests Mike Federle, which in other company might be blue-sky thinking, but here is more factual observation. "We could make a steak right now," says Robert Hariri, a doctor who founded a biotech company that specialises in pioneering stem cell treatments. "But it'll cost you $20,000." I keep my mouth shut and share a sympathetic "we-can't-all-be-geniuses" smile with a nice Latino man across the table. "Ricardo Salinas", says his name tag. The second-richest man in Mexico (and 37th richest in the world), I discover later.There's a deliberately competitive edge to the proceedings. It plays to the strengths of the chief executives and it's one of Peter Diamandis's guiding principles. He was learning to fly when someone gave him a book about Charles Lindbergh's record-breaking flight across the Atlantic and discovered that it was a journey precipitated by a prize.It was this theory that led him to set up theX prize, which began with a $10m incentive for the first person or company to create a private reusable manned spacecraft (Burt Rutan and Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, won it in 2004 for theirSpaceShipOne). The X prize Foundation has launched many more, the most recent being the $10mQualcomm Tricorder prizeto invent a handheld device – or "tricorder" as it was called inStar Trek– capable of diagnosing 15 diseases.Abundance of ideasThere's a lot to take in. It's not even lunchtime and we've listened to presentations by Craig Venter on his plans to create biofuels made by microalgae: an acre, he believes, will be able to produce 10,000 litres of oil per year, as opposed to corn, which can produce just 18. He's just received $300m of investment from Exxon to make it a reality.Andrew Hessel, the Singularity University faculty member on biotech who is attempting to open-source cancer treatments, talks about how biology is the next exponential technology. The genetic code will become "a programming language". We're on the cusp of massive change. DIY bio-hacking has already begun. "Viruses are coming first," he says. "Viruses are easy to make." And then there's Vint Cerf on the "internet of things". In the near future, devices will talk to each other, he says. "You'll be shopping and you'll get a call. It's the refrigerator saying, 'Don't forget the marinara sauce.'"He ends his talk with his dream of an interplanetary internet. "Darpa [the US defence department's advanced research projects agency] has issued a grant to develop a spacecraft to get to a star in 100 years. At current propulsion rates, that would take 65,000 years, so we'd need a nuclear-powered spacecraft that can travel at two-thirds of the speed of light. But then we have to work out the communication." And he looks slightly regretful. "And we haven't done anything on an intergalactic scale yet."In this context, it doesn't seem quite as preposterous as it should when somebody suggests using 3D printers (machines that build up objects layer by layer from a digital file) to print 3D printers,  which can then print a pair of shoes. Or a house. Or dinner. "Actually, that's already happening," somebody else points out. But then3D printers– and a prototype house made by extruding liquid concrete from a giant "printer" has indeed already been made – are just one of the Next Big Things coming down the line. We learn about dozens of them in the next two days. This is the "abundance": Diamandis's thesis is that we will soon enter a "post-scarcity" world. Forget peak oil. Who needs it when we have "15&nbsp;terawatts of power from the sun hitting the earth every 15 minutes"? The challenge is simply harnessing it. "And we're getting better at that all the time."It's not just that this deters us from changing our own unsustainable behaviour, his critics point out; it's that, as Craig Venter says, this technology is also quite hard. And sometimes doesn't pan out as well as you'd hoped. When he gets up to speak, his microphone doesn't work. "And we're supposed to print out new life forms," he says.At times, Diamandis comes across as, well, the motivational speaker that he is. He has a line in aphorisms that sound like they have come from an auto-lifecoach-o-generator ("The best way to predict the future is to create it yourself." "If you can't win, change the rules." "Bullshit walks, hardware talks"). Though he has a knack, too, of encapsulating an idea. One of his best-known quotes is that a Masai warrior with a cellphone has better telecommunications capabilities than the president of the United States did 25 years ago. "And if he has a smartphone with Google, he has access to more information than the president did just 15 years ago."He may be something of a showman, but he's a showman with form. Whom some of the brightest and most successful people in the world take seriously. Last Tuesday, to take just one example, he launched a company – backed by, among others, Larry Page, Google's co-founder, and Eric Schmidt, its chairman – to use spacecraft to mine asteroids for rare minerals.And he has his friend Richard Branson's knack for marketing. Day two of our three-day course finishes with a party on the set of a New York street in the Fox Studios lot. Two paraplegics rise from their wheelchairs to walk across the stage in powered robotic exoskeletons, and will.i.am gives his thoughts on the day: "It's changed my whole perspective on life. But I'm worried about our inner cities. I've just heard that my niece is going to be dumber than her cellphone. We've had a generation who've wanted to better their bank balances, not their brains. I want to inspire young people to be scientists and engineers."There's a neat circularity to this. Peter Diamandis grew up in Brooklyn, the son of Greek immigrant parents, and was himself inspired to become a scientist by the Apollo mission, doing degrees in medicine and molecular biology and finally a PhD in aerospace engineering at MIT. The Singularity University isn't even the first university he's founded. He set up theInternational Space Universitywhile he was still in his 20s and which has now trained an entire generation of Nasa scientists. It's why Buzz Aldrin has come along, and why another astronaut,Dan Barry, teaches the SU's robotics course (Barry's big prediction: cyberdildonics. Robot sex. "You think it's funny, right? But I'm also a rehabilitation physician, and sex is a basic human drive robots will be able to fulfil for the disabled, the widowed, the elderly. It's going to happen. You might as well accept it and get in on the ground floor.")Frightening visionsThe future isn't all thrilling robo-sex and free solar energy though. Barry's talk also includes video of some of the other robots in development. If you think drones are scary, it's because you haven't yet seen the video on YouTube ofautonomous swarming quadrocoptors. Or the hummingbird-shaped drone that can hover in the air and then fly in through a window, or Big Dog, which looks like something fromBlade Runner, or, just last week, a new one with legs that can go where no Dalek ever could: up stairs.None of these are being developed to help with meals on wheels or palliative care nursing, though. They're war machines, most of which are being developed with funding or support from Darpa. (I meet its head, the formidably impressiveRegina Duganin the ladies: she doesn't seem like a warmonger but then a week later, it's announced that she's leaving to go to Google.)Even Dan Barry, who runs his own robotics company, sounds a warning: "I don't see any end point here. At some point humans aren't going to be fast enough. So what you do is you make them autonomous. And where does that end?Terminator."And it's not just the robots. Or the fact that schoolchildren will be tinkering with DNA. "Nobody wants their kid to be the first one off the block to make the Ebola virus," says Venter. "Which is a really small genome." But nor does there seem to be any practical way, that anyone has thought of so far, of preventing it.It's during the biotech presentation that I hear a British voice pipe up and ask a question about regulation. In the break, I chat to the voice's owner, Simon Levene, a venture capitalist who specialises in technology. He's here, he says, "because there's nowhere else that is this multidisciplinary. This stuff is changing so much and so fast that it's almost impossible to keep abreast of it." He's paid $5,000 for the three days and he reckons it's cheap at the price. "It's a lot less than an MBA, and I've done an MBA at Harvard, and I've probably already learned more here."The technology is astounding, he says. But, he shares my own qualms about Silicon Valley's techno-utopianism. "There's some potentially lethal side-effects, aren't there? Every solution has unintended consequences. And there are very real ethical and regulatory issues to consider, and which are just being glossed over. The thing is that I don't trust the market to do it. But then I don't trust government either. There needs to be international ethical oversight. There's simply enormous power that's about to be unleashed. Darpa isn't here for fun."One of the scariest things I hear, though, isn't ostensibly as scary as autonomous death machines. It's when Sebastian Thrun is talking. He unveiled his driverless car at TED in 2011 – developed in response to a competition held by Darpa – after they'd already driven 200,000 miles across California, a technology that will surely change our lives profoundly.It's been quite a year for Thrun: seeing another presentation at TED by Salman Khan about his online education site, theKhan Academy, Thrun decided to video one of his artificial intelligence classes at Stanford and put it online. An astonishing 160,000 people enrolled, of whom 23,000 graduated. Top of the class was a disabled woman calledMelody Bliss, who works full-time, and has kidney dialysis three times a week.It was enough to persuade Thrun to resign his tenure at Stanford and set upUdacity, a free online university, open to all, that may change the face of education. That's the good news. But he's also founded and is head of Google X, Google's top secret special projects division. It's prototyping "Google glasses", augmented reality spectacles, that will stream the internet direct to your eyeballs. But it's what Thrun says is around the corner that to me seems as if it could be even more life-changing. Massive data. Of everything. "I honestly believe that in the next 10-15 years, computers will be able to capture the experience of a life," he says. Every aspect of your life will exist online forever. And it's not a lonely scientist in a distant computer lab saying this. Thrun, to remind you, works for Google. Memory, the thing that defines who we are, what makes us human, that distinguishes us intellectually, and gives us a narrative sense of our own lives will "be outsourced". That world, says, Thrun, "is not very far away". Enjoy the luxurious privacy of your own memories while you still can.And then Diamandis asks the scientists there for their best predictions for the next five to 20 years. "AI abilities are going to be indistinguishable from those of human abilities," says Thrun. Most jobs will no longer exist. "There will be an explosion," he predicts, "in art and music." Our definition of what it is to be human is going to change, says Dan Barry. Normal will no longer be enough. Robots are being taught to emote. We are going to start relating to them.Christopher deCharms, a neuroscientist who has helped develop a new sort of MRI machine that can do brain imaging in real time, goes even further. "I believe that in 10 to 20 to 30 years, truth detectors will work. And they will be retrospective back today. There is going to be a revolution in privacy. Transparency is going to come all the way back to our thoughts."In his opening address, Ray Kurzweil points out that anIBM computer called Watson, had recently beaten the greatest human champions of the TV quiz gameJeopardy: "And that's not just through statistical analysis. I think it's very significant. It's pattern recognition, which is what people do. It had to understand puns and metaphors and similes and jokes. It can read natural language documents. It read all of Wikipedia. That's 200 million pages of documents. It took three years. But at the end of the three years, there's a natural advantage to machine intelligence."The singularity really is near, he claims. It's less than 20 years away. "I said it would be 30 years from 1999. The consensus then was 50 years. Today the consensus is about 20 years."However, when I email Sebastian Thrun and ask his opinion, he says: "It's not a one-time event; it's a continuum that is well under way. It'll be hard to tell how much of it is already happening. In many ways, computers outsmart people today."He has a point. "Siri [the iPhone voice recognition assistant] reminds me of the woman who's told a dog plays chess and is asked, 'Isn't that amazing?'" says Kurzweil. "And she replies, 'Yes, but its endgame isn't very good.'"The endgame is likely to get better. And the world is changing. In ways we can't even begin to imagine. And whatever else it's doing, the Singularity University is looking at problems differently. Peter Diamandis never refers to overpopulation or limited resources. He talks about "three billion new minds coming online" in the next few years, Silicon Valley-speak for "being born". These minds are an opportunity, he insists, because "the rate of innovation is a function of the number of people actually communicating and this is growing explosively with the internet".At lunchtime, I talk to him as he dandles his twin babies on his knees, and is matter-of-fact, rather than techno-triumphalist, about what he's trying to do. He believes people can do extraordinary things. "Because that's my experience: I've seen people do extraordinary things."And then he asks me a question: "Haven't you? In these last two days?" It's true. I have. There are reasons to be cheerful. Though when it comes to man versus machine, I'd have to say that my money's on the machines.
Trials Evolution, Xbox 360The elegant simplicity of Trials HD sprung from the feel of its miniature biker's three controls: accelerate, break and lean. From these tiny beginnings emerged a game of perfect balance and timing that subtly educated you in its ways before testing you ever more thoroughly. Trials Evolution keeps the flawless control scheme, makes things just a shade easier and plonks the whole lot into locations from an explosive recreation of D-Day to blazing oil refineries and collapsing box girder bridges. It's an unalloyed joy to play from start to finish, even if gold medals eventually demand terrifying levels of precision.Ubisoft, approx £10.20 via XBLABattleship, 3DS, DS, PS3, Wii &amp; Xbox 360BattleshipBattleship, the videogame of the film of the board game, splices together first person shooting action with a flyweight real-time strategy game to tell its story of sailors v aliens. Set in Hawaii, it looks pleasant enough, but there's little variety in its enemies, a perfunctory selection of weaponry, and its strategy elements are no more than a sideshow. Glitches and rough edges abound in a game that clearly blew too much of its budget on the licensing.Activision, £17.99-£34.99Dark Meadow: The Pact, iPadDark Meadow: The PactDark Meadow has a lot in common with bestselling iOS franchise Infinity Blade. That includes its combat, navigation and central mechanic in which your hero is repeatedly reincarnated until he's upgraded his skills enough to dispatch the game's ultimate boss. Sadly, unlike Infinity Blade, the combat feels flimsy, assailants are uniformly dull and after a few play-throughs new content just seems to dry up. This freemium version of last year's release is not a total bust, however, with a script and story that deliver unexpectedly well-written and acted interludes.Phosphor Games, freeGames newsPrototype 2Dota 2, the hugely anticipated fantasy real-time strategy game from Valve, has been announced as a free-to-play game for PC and Mac. Valve's boss Gabe Newell has also suggested that it'll start charging players who disrupt the community …After the runaway success of DiRT and the total lack of it for last year's shooter, Bodycount,Codemasterswill only be making racing games from now on, thus crushing all hopes of a sequel to 1988's Rock Star Ate My Hamster …Two bits of news from Microsoft's Xbox HQ: the 360 has led US console sales for the past 15 months, yet it's still managed to lose $229m over the last quarter …Halo 4, the first instalment not to be developed by creator Bungie, will be out on 6 November …Finally, also out this week isPrototype 2(Xbox &amp; PS3), which shows how widespread human mutation can also be fun.
I do apologise. For everything, but specifically for the cars I'm driving at the moment. We appear to&nbsp;have hit what's known in&nbsp;the industry as a posh patch. There wasthat lovely Porsche&nbsp;last week, next week I'll be&nbsp;travelling mainly by Mercedes, and sandwiched between the two is&nbsp;this&nbsp;rather splendid BMW. Yes, WTF, you may well ask.Well, it's just unfortunate, a&nbsp;glitch in the schedule, that's all. You probably think it's nice for me, swanning around in these beautiful motor cars? Well, let me tell you now, it's not like that at all – more like beavering than swanning, the hard graft of automotive journalism. It makes no difference to me how posh a car is. My job is get to the truth, a&nbsp;job I take very seriously indeed.And after the Merc the balance will be redressed. I may even drive a car it's not totally out of the question you might conceivably consider buying one day, and some kind of normality will return. Well, until the Bentley… Oh come on. A&nbsp;nice man emailed, asking whether I'd be interested in having a go in a convertible Continental, a bit later, when the weather's better. I wasn't going to say no, was I? OK, so there may be swannage… to Swanage, perhaps. Hey, it'll write itself.In the meantime, here's the new 3&nbsp;Series BMW. It's a little bigger than the last one, wider, longer in the wheelbase, there's a bit more room inside. The lights are more interesting looking, the nose falls away more pugnaciously… yeah, I know, I'm struggling. To most people it will look pretty much exactly the same as its predecessor. Evolution, not revolution, that's the way in Munich.It is a very impressive car, though – light, balanced, precise, it steers like a dream. I've obviously got a near-top-of-the range 328i, which is very agile. You'd never know there was only a two-litre, four-cylinder engine under there, it feels like a beast. It is a beast, 245 horses, with an eight-speed flappy paddle automatic gearbox. Eight! That's twice as many gears as cars used to have in the olden days, and makes you feel like Jenson flipping (flapping?) Button. But then, in eco mode (there are buttons for all your moods and personalities, including your inner Jenson), you can get 44mpg out of it. Inner Ebenezer's happy, too.Anyway, I struggled to find anything wrong with it – apart from nasty "Fineline" textured wood trim you'd do well not to pay the extra £250 for. Oh, and obviously the fact that every accountant and estate agent in the country will have one. Yes, cars can be posh and common all at the same time. See, there's nothing elitist about this column. Aspirational, that's how I like to see it. Now bring me the next one.BMW 328i ModernPhotograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPrice£30,060Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62 in 5.9 secondsAverage consumption44.1mpgCO2 emissions149g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating5/10
Samsung appears to have become the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, passing Finland's Nokia, top since 1998, as Samsung Electronics reported record first-quarter results.Though the company did not reveal precise numbers, some analysts reckon that it sold more smartphones – 44.5m – in the first three months of the year than Apple's 35.1m for its iPhone. Overall, they calculated that it shipped 93.5m mobile phones, compared with 82.7m for Nokia.Samsung's estimated total gave it a 30.6% share of the smartphone market. Apple's sales gave it a 24.1% share."Samsung and Apple are out-competing most major rivals, and the smartphone market is at risk of becoming a two-horse race," said Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy Analytics.Net profit nearly doubled from a year earlier to a record 5.05tn won (£2.75bn) for the quarter to 31 March. Operating profit also hit a record high, at 5.85tn won, which was in line with expectations.Sales rose 22% from a year earlier to 45.3tn won. Shares in the company jumped by 3%.  More than 70% of its operating profit came from the mobile business, which saw a surge in sales of its Galaxy smartphones.But Nokia, which has slipped from top place in both mobile phones and smartphones after being passed by both Apple and Samsung, saw its debt marked down a notch by ratings agency Fitch, to BB+ from BBB-. The agency warned that further downgrades could follow.Last week Nokia announced one of its worst quarterly results ever, blaming tough competition for a €929m net loss as sales plunged, especially in the smartphone market. It said it expects no improvement in the second quarter.Analysts could not agree on how many smartphones Samsung shipped because the company only gave relative numbers for revenue and profit compared to the year-ago quarter. Research company IHS Suppli catalogues the Samsung Galaxy Note, with a 5in screen, as a tablet rather than a phone, lowering the total smartphone numbers below Apple's.Samsung's mobile communications division, which makes smartphones and a range of tablets, generated 4.27tn won of operating profit in the quarter after seeing significant sales growth of high-end smartphones in developing markets including China, a key battlefield for mobile phone makers.However Apple's iPhone and iPad business remains more lucrative. The Cupertino, California-based company earned $11.6bn (£7.2bn) in the January-March quarter, more than twice as much as Samsung, even though its revenue was about 10% less.
On 24 April, a group of internet entrepreneurs sought to get the future into a single conference room in Chelsea, and have it talk."Hacking Society" was hosted by Union Square Ventures– the venture capital firm that was an early investor in Zynga, Twitter, Tumblr, Foursquare, Etsy, and Kickstarter. The mission:"[To] discuss how the economics of networks might help solve challenging social and economic problems; examine how incumbents use their influence over the current policy process to stave off competition from networks; define a proactive, network-friendly 'freedom to innovate' policy agenda; and examine how 'net native' policy advocacy works and how it can be harnessed to promote a positive agenda as well as overthrow bad policy and bad regimes."A tall order but desperately needed: in an era when revolutions start on Facebook but are ended by internet surveillance; when activists in China connect by tweets but are stalked and arrested by tweets; and whenwe are seeing copycat legislationin democracies around the world, from Australia to Britain, to Canada and the US, tograb the internet in the hands of the state… many people around the world would want this group to hammer out a successful self-defense agenda.Present were all sectors needed for lift-off: internet freedom champions John Perry Barlow and Cindy Cohn of theElectronic Frontier Foundation; network theory gurus Clay Shirky of NYU andYochai Benklerof Harvard ; commercial success stories such as Craig Newmark of Craigslist and originators of Mozilla, Reddit and Kickstarter; campaign finance reform champion Larry Lessig; even the Hill was represented by Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee, and a trade aide for Representative Ron Wyden of Oregon.The conveners framed the clash at hand rightly: the fight over the internet was "incumbents versus insurgents" – insurgents challenging existing gatekeepers and institutional power, incumbents defending. As philosopher Luigi Zingales said, getting the biggest laugh of the day, "All entrepreneurs want a free market when they enter and don't want one after they win." The same could be said of political leaders.The open web has powerful enemies, as the near-death experience of the recent battle over Sopa and Pipa demonstrated, a crisis that added fire to this discussion. Who are the incumbents threatened by an open internet? The existing global power holders, who are waging such war now against it. I would argue that the Hollywood copyright holders who seemingly led the fight for Sopa/Pipa are just being used as stalking horses by the real enemies of an open internet: the global control corporations, the war interests, banking interests, Big Pharma and big insurance.The real enemy identified by proponents of Sopa/Pipa-type laws is not piracy, or whatever fake message they come up with next, butdissent– which all of these control corporations know will force them to open up their books and be accountable. This is the same threat that led to theviolent legislative and physical crackdown against Occupy.Larry Lessig noted that 196 Americans have donated 80% of the Super Pac funds raised so far this year, and that the movement being formed by the internet's defenders should have reform of the money system in US politics as one of its core values. Cindy Cohn of Electronic Frontier Foundation spoke about the need for a legislative "early warning system", to let users know when a bill has been introduced that will threaten open access – but pointed out that nonprofits such as hers are understaffed and underfunded while fighting a well-funded army of countervailing noisemakers.And we are in a race against time. As with dissent activism, by the time an "open-sourced", open-structured pro-internet movement has coalesced, its conversations will already have been surveilled, laws against it passed and its leaders – its participants – will already be targeted. For defensive purposes, this movement should hire its own K street lawyers and organize its own lobby for a free internet, alongside building its "purer" grassroots component.Venture capitalist Fred Wilson proposed that Facebook and Google be asked to donate ad space to politicians, as a way of sidestepping the influence of money in politics. This makes huge sense: most people don't realize that the money in US politics is not going into anyone's pocket directly but is buying vast amounts of TV ad space. Donate the space in this crazy new medium, and so disrupt the corruption economy.Not everyone shares the same levels of optimism or pessimism about the internet's innate ability to out-innovate repressive institutions. I believe the only reason US power interests have not cracked down fully yet on the internet before now is not that the internet is innately smarter and more flexible than the state and corporations, but rather because it has not been understood well enough as an entity until now to break it. But that's changing: theDepartment of Homeland Security is giving contractors the task of social media surveillance.My sources of relative anxiety about the internet's fragility are those who love the internet but whom, in the absence of political freedom, the internet has unintentionally seduced and betrayed:the Syrian bloggers jailed for their posts; the Palestinian human rights activists intimidated after raising money online; dissidents likeAi WeiWei, who acted as though the internet itself was freedom – tweeting his injuries after he was beaten up by secret police – butwhose tweets went quiet when we was disappeared for over a month. It is important to distinguish between the power of the internet to make the great change it can, and the limits and vulnerabilities of that change without real-time political mobilization deployed globally to protect those who venture out, especially in closed societies, into the heady new vistas it offers.Yet, I left the event feeling hopeful – even inspired. Among these people, I was reassured that we have the analytical power, political clout and technological vision to organize to protect the internet – and, it is probably not an overstatement to say, in some sense, the global community. Once an umbrella advocacy group (or whatever emerges) is in place, it deserves massive citizen support.Although the beauty of the internet as community is its informal collectivity, next steps urgently require some formal organization, leadership and goal-setting. A utopian future for the internet could be secured if the heavy-duty influencers – and the grassroots influencers tweeting along – can create a new global organization peopled with defenders of internet freedom. That would have the early warning mechanism, deep pockets, smart lawyers, great message team, powerful advocates on Capitol Hill – and a billion, or, say, three billion, connected grassroots users – all linked up, mad, smart and empowered.• Disclosure: Naomi Wolf has discussed a project proposal with Union Square Ventures
Microsoft is accused of trying to exert clandestine influence on a UK government consultation which could slash the software giant's £700m income from the UK's public sector.The Cabinet Office has thrown out one "independent" expert who had been helping organise a public discussion on how to introduce free software into government – a move that has been calculated could save £600m annually – because he had not declared that he was also advising Microsoft directly.On Thursday evening the Cabinet Officeannouncedthat Dr Andrew Hopkirk, who acted as a facilitator on some of the round tables, had not declared that he was also advising Microsoft directly on the consultation – a fact which the government department said "could be seen as a clear conflict of interest".As a result, the Cabinet Office has been forced to extend the consultation for a month, to 4 June. It was due to close next Tuesday 1 May.Separately, Microsoft has also flown over Steve Mutkoski, a top lawyer who is its worldwide policy director on standards and licensing, from its Seattle headquarters to attend the meetings.That has brought accusations that the software giant, whose Windows and Office programs are widely used in both central and local government and the NHS, is trying to influence the consultation and prevent any loss of revenues if the public sector were to switch away from products made by the US giant."Microsoft knows that if it loses the fight here, the UK government's lock-in to its products will be weakened, and a major cash cow will be put increasingly at risk," said Glyn Moody, an open standards advocate.Although Microsoft's Windows and Office are de facto standards in business, they are not free to use. Open standards advocates say that government should instead adopt free software products which are not tied to any one manufacturer, which would mean lower-cost alternatives could be used.The outcomes of sessions led by Hopkirk will now be discounted from the consultation and re-run. But it has left a bitter taste among some advocates.Richard Harvey, who works as a project engineer at Channel 4 TV, and is in favour of open standards, said when the consultation opened in February that "the open source community thought 'fantastic, that policy hits the nail on the head, it's a real win'. However no one reported this back, mainly due to a lack of knowledge on how these things work. This left a gaping hole for the corporate companies to exploit".Some of those opposing open standards are understood to have suggested that such products might still require payments to Microsoft and others due to royalties on the standards.Harvey complains that companies such as Microsoft "are filling the consultation meetings with people discrediting open standards saying things such as how it prevents innovation and that it reduces interoperability and compatibility issues. Being large companies, they have the funds and resources to bring lawyers – and I mean a lot of lawyers – to the debate."Microsoft has an estimated annual revenue of about £4bn in the UK, or about 5% of its worldwide revenues. About £700m comes from the public sector, of which payments from central government makes up nearly half. Its Windows and Office divisions are hugely profitable, generating roughly 65% profit from revenues.Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, hopes to cut costs in government, and the idea of using open standards software has been pushed within government for years – but with little success to date. Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister under the previous administration, unveiled a similar plan in February 2009 – but made no progress in trying to replace Windows and Office.The Guardian was unable to contact Hopkirk before publication. In ablogpost for Computer Weeklyabout the event he facilitated, he wrote that the "gut feel" among the majority of the 16 attendees was that open standards would be "detrimental" to innovation and competition.However, critics say the timing of the consultation, during a working day, would preclude those not paid to advocate non-free products. He also commented that "I do have a longstanding relationship with Microsoft purely on the basis of my consistently neutral, pragmatic, end-user oriented and supplier-agnostic perspective … I have not been asked to publicly or privately support any client brief or position in the government consultation."Maude has brought in Liam Maxwell, an outspoken former councillor at the Tory borough of Windsor and Maidenhead, to advise on how effectively the government could shift to open standards.Maxwell has not commented on Hopkirk's dual role, but sources within government told the Guardian that Maude had backed Maxwell in ejecting Hopkirk.A Microsoft spokesman told the Guardian: "Microsoft isn't against open standards", and added: "Using just one standard isn't necessarily the best approach. There's a sense that by mandating on form of standard, that doesn't give government the flexibility to choose the right product for a particular situation."Microsoft's spokesman said that the adoption of open standards "wouldn't adversely affect Microsoft's business. None of the standards being discussed [by the government] would adversely affect Microsoft's business."
Free speech advocates are calling for the Senate to block controversial cybersecurity legislation they claim will give the US authorities unprecedented access to online communications.The House of Representatives on Thursday ignored the threat of a White House veto to pass the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (Cispa). The bill aims to make it easier for companies to share information collected on the internet with the federal government in order to help prevent electronic attacks from cybercriminals, foreign governments and terrorists.Sponsors of the bill have made several amendments to Cispa in the past week, but critics say the bill still threatens to overrule existing privacy protections for citizens, and hands the National Security Agency too much power to access and use people's private information.More on CispaCNET News: How Cispa would affect youProPublica: Is Cispa Sopa 2.0?Forbes: Why would the president veto it?MotherJones: Those for, those againstGawker: Cispa is meant to stop Chinese hackersThe Center for Democracy and Technology said it was "disappointed that Cispa passed the House in such flawed form and under such a flawed process.""We worked very hard in co-operation with the intelligence committee to develop amendments to narrow some of the bill's definitions and to limit its scope. We are very pleased that those amendments were adopted, leaving the bill better for privacy and civil liberties than it was going into the process," the tech group said."However, we are also disappointed that House leadership chose to block amendments on two core issues we had long identified – the flow of information from the private sector directly to NSA and the use of that information for national security purposes unrelated to cybersecurity.""Cispa goes too far for little reason," said Michelle Richardson, ACLU legislative counsel. "Cybersecurity does not have to mean abdication of Americans' online privacy. As we've seen repeatedly, once the government gets expansive national security authorities, there's no going back. We encourage the Senate to let this horrible bill fade into obscurity."Richardson said senior figures including Adam Schiff of the House intelligence committee, Anna Eshoo, on the subcommittee on communications and technology, plus 28 congressional Republicans had voted against the bill."We are disappointed that it got this far but we remain optimistic that this bill can be killed," Richardson said. She said the big danger now was that a compromise would be drawn up which could still endanger civil liberties online.Earlier this week the Obama administration said it would veto the bill unless major amendments were made. Obama's Office of Management and Budget said the administration was "committed to increasing public-private sharing of information about cybersecurity threats" but said the process "must be conducted in a manner that preserves Americans' privacy, data confidentiality, and civil liberties and recognizes the civilian nature of cyberspace.""Citizens have a right to know that corporations will be held legally accountable for failing to safeguard personal information adequately," the OMB said.On Thursday night the bill's author, Republican Mike Rogers, chairman of the House intelligence committee, defended it. "This is the last bastion of things we need to do to protect this country," he said.The bill received broad support from the tech industry – which has been granted immunity from prosecution when it shares its customers information under Cispa.Companies including SAIC, a huge defence contractor, Lockheed Martin, AT&amp;T and Time Warner Cable have lobbied for the bill and contributed funds to the political action committee of Mike Rogers, the bill's sponsor.According to opensecrets.org, Rogers' Pac received $103,000 in this election cycle from 12 companies that have lobbied for Cispa.Cybersecurity experts said that the threat the bill aims to tackle is serious, but that better compliance with existing rules was at least as important as new legislation.Tony Busseri, chief executive officer of Route1, a cybersecurity firm that counts the US navy and department of homeland security among its clients, said the threat of cybersecurity was "massive" especially with the proliferation of tablet computing and mobile devices that meant more and more sensitive information was moving outside the office."It's about managing vulnerabilities," he said. "Candidly we don't apply the rules and regulations that are already there to protect us. The risk here is that we end up politicizing this issue."
On Saturday 28 April, aspiring and experienced game developers will gather at Pinewood Studios forGameHackwith a simple mission: to make the best game possible in just 24 hours. But what kind of game should they try to create?The market for mobile games has changed dramatically over the last year, moving from premium to free-to-play games. So what does a budding new developer have to do to make a freemium game? Where should they look for inspiration? And what important elements and features do they need to include in their game's design?The simple answer is to make something fun, which players can also share. This may seem self-evident. However, the types of casual social games we associate with Facebook often don't appeal to many game designers, because they don't appear to share the same emotional values as hardcore games.Casual social games are designed for a mass audience but that's no excuse for them to be bland - they still have to capture the imagination. Most importantly, they can't afford to alienate potential players with obscure themes or punishing learning curves before they can start to enjoy the play.What does casual gaming mean? It's about creating joy from simple patterns of accessible play with immediate and compelling rewards. They don't make demands of the player to own or set up complex technology, nor should they expect you to set aside many hours to each playing session (although many players will). Casual games all create reasons for the player to come back time and again to gather even more rewards.Sharing the experience with other people is another challenge. Social games with their asynchronous (ie not real-time) newsfeeds have been accused of being not very sociable, at least compared to live, real-time games. After all, are you really sharing if you don't actually play together, at the same time, or if you trade your friends as resources for your gameplay?I challenge this idea. When I visit my friends' farms or cities and then meaningfully interact with those spaces I am sending a packet of emotional data to my friend. This is a message wrapped up in the context of both our relationship as friends, and the nature of the game as well. It's non-threatening and there is no direct expectation of reciprocation. But if we do, it can be very rewarding.When it comes to creating your own game, you should consider the following five questions:• Who will be playing your game and why will it be entertaining?• How easy is it for the players to learn the mechanics and get to the fun fast?• How can players share their experience? – especially if they are not online at the same time• Why would they come back and play time and again?• What virtual goods would make this game even more entertaining to play?If you can answer all these questions convincingly, you might be the next big success story in games!GameHack is hackathon for game developers on Saturday 28 and Sunday 29 April 2012 at the world-famous Pinewood Studios. The event is organised for small teams to create a new game over 24 hours - big, small, native, web, single or multiplayer. For more information and last-minute registrations visitgamehack.co.uk
At the end of 2011, Zynga had 12m monthly active users (MAUs) on mobile for its social games. Three months later, it had added 9m, taking it to 21m mobile MAUs. And before you ask, no, that wasn't just by buying Draw Something.The social games publisher revealed its mobile growth as part of itsquarterly financial results, which revealed overall revenues of $321m for the first quarter of 2012, and a net loss of $85m – although the latter included $133.9m of "stock-based expense".Chief executive Mark Pincus told analysts that the mobile MAU growth was organic, since the company's $180m acquisition of Draw Something's developer OMGPOP happened late in March.New mobile games Scramble With Friends, Dream PetHouse and Dream Heights contributed to the mobile growth, along with older titles like Zynga Poker and Words With Friends."We have been able to dramatically increase the size of our mobile network," said Pincus,according to VentureBeat. "It's very early days on mobile. We are focused on getting the product experience right, building out network, distribution, and bringing hits to market in a repeatable way."Mobile is important to Zynga's overall business, even if in terms of actual players, it's still a fraction of the company's 236m MAUs across all platforms.Zynga's bookings – a metric it uses internally covering revenues and also players' commitments to spend – grew 15% year-on-year to $329.2m in Q1 2012. As the company's announcement notes: "Zynga experienced growth in both mobile and web bookings year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter, with the majority of bookings growth coming from mobile."The strategic importance of mobile for Zynga is the key reason why it moved so fast to snap up OMGPOP, and while Pincus was keen to reassure analysts that organic rather than acquisitive growth remains the company's priority, his comments are instructive:"It was a rare instance for us. We believed it was not just accretive financially, but we were excited about its growth and what this game meant for mobile-social gaming," he said,according to TechCrunch."It was a new experience that had a level of sharing that's never seen before in gaming. It was setting new boundaries in social media and viral growth that hadn't been seen before. We saw a whole new phenomenon that is not only more exciting for mobile-social gaming, but we saw a property that very quickly becoming mainstream."It was also a property that may have very quickly been bought by one of Zynga's rivals, like Electronic Arts, DeNA or GREE. Zynga may be the 900lb gorilla of the Facebook games world, but in mobile it faces even more competition from all angles – not just from those big, global companies, but from independent developers too.Pretty much every other significant Facebook games firm is putting more emphasis on smartphones and tablets in 2012, partly as a result of Facebook's work making its open graph available on those platforms, and partly because they see an opportunity to compete in a space where Zynga's marketing dollars can't muscle them out.Some are ditching Facebook's website (as opposed to the open graph) to go mobile-only. This week, social games publisher CrowdStarsaid it was stopping building Facebook gamesin order to focus on mobile. The company has less than 8m MAUs on Facebook, but has notched up 20m downloads of its games on iOS and Android.In March 2012, Finnish social games developer Supercellpivoted to a "tablet-first" strategy. Meanwhile, companies doing well on Facebook like Wooga, King.com and Kabam aren't getting out of web social gaming, but they are investing more in mobile.With freemium social games taking an increasing share of iOS and Android's app store top grossing charts, the battle promises to be intense. Zynga's growth in the first quarter of 2012 is impressive, but the company will need to keep its mobile momentum going to make the most of the opportunities.
In an investor meeting following thenews of Nintendo's £330m annual loss, president Satoru Iwata has outlined his views on the state of the industry and some plans for the future.The big announcement is that the company is radically changing its approach to releasing games on the 3DS console. Starting with the launch of New Super Mario Bros 2 this summer, the manufacturer's in-house titles will be simultenously available via retail stores and digital download.Customers will be able to buy digital versions via the company's online eShop, or via pre-paid cards available in high street stores.According to GI.biz, Nintendo will not set the prices of download codes, allowing retailers to select their own.Iwata also said that this combined retail and digital approach will be used with the launch of the new Wii U console, due out this Christmas. "For our digital business to grow drastically, it is imperative for us to expand the exposure of the digital download products to potential consumers," he said.It is a sensible move for Nintendo, which has lagged behind its rivals Sony and Microsoft in providing a strong digital service for games devices.Although the company already offers downloadable titles on the Wii, DS and 3DS, most are retro games, available via the Virtual Console service, or smaller titles designed specifically for faster downloading.Developers have also criticised Nintendo for not sufficiently publicising its digital services, and for keepingfile size limits too small, ruling out more complex titles. The user-experience of the 3DS store has also beenvigorously criticised.Currently, the games industry is moving ever closer to a digital-only model in which all games are sold via online download. In the PC gaming market, digital downloads have accounted for more sales than retail since 2010, thanks to dedicated services such as Steam, which boasts more than 40m active user accounts.Earlier this year, Sony started to make certain PS3 titles simultaneously available via download or retail in the US, and the plan is for every Vita game to launch in the same way. Microsoft iscurrently resistingthe simultaneous approach, but its Xbox Live service offers full game downloads several weeks after retail launch, and offers a lrge range of download-only titles.One issue Iwata has not re-addressed in the wake of Nintendo's financial results is the smartphone market. Although the company could no doubt make millions translating big brands like Super Mario, Zelda and Mario Kart to Android and iOS devices, it has steadfastly refused to investigate the sector.Last March, Iwatacriticised smartphone app storesclaiming that, "quality does not matter to them". He laterreiterated his position, arguing that although bringing Nintendo  brands to smartphone would be good for revenue in the short-term, the longer term business could be adversely affected.Importantly though, a company that has lagged behind on digital services for the past five years is now making a giant stride toward what many pundits consider is the future of gaming.With 3DS sales growing, and with the Wii U likely to generate considerable interest at E3 this year, Nintendo may already be ensuring that its annus mirabilis was a mere blip rather than a catastrophic blight on the company's present and future.
Miyamoto's career at Nintendo has been defined by his tenacity. His creative commitment to perfection delayed the launch of the Nintendo 64 by three months to afford his team time to finish the game of his vision."A delayed game is eventually good, but a rushed game is forever bad," he quipped at the time.More recently, he has contended with a troubled launch for the Nintendo 3DS. "Especially for the first six months following the system's release, sales were weaker than the DS. This was mainly due to the fact we didn't have any big first party titles, I believe. Also the price point was too high."In fairness to us, we realised that, reduced the price and worked very hard to have a strong lineup for the Christmas season, which we offered with Super Mario 3D Land, Mario Kart 7 and Kid Icarus."Looking at the situation in Japan today, the console is selling very well. We have now sold 5m consoles there, which is respectable for a console in its first year. The challenge now is to continue to put effort into making the 3DS more widely known. The Louvre guide is another way of doing that."There's humility to Miyamoto's analysis of the 3DS's fortunes to date, even if, when I ask him what he might have done differently, his solution is to fall back on old ideas and past successes."If I could rewind the clock I would change the lineup for the 3DS launch so it had more Mario titles. Not only that, but we also have some excellent features that appeal to non-gamers: 3D photography, the augmented reality features and other preinstalled apps. We tried hard to communicate these, but we failed. If I could go back I would have communicated these things differently, and spent more time working out that message."When I ask whether some of the hardware's failure to inspire sales might be down to the core selling point – stereoscopic 3D – being gimmicky, Miyamoto is indignant. "Actually, 3D is really the most normal thing because it's how those of us with two eyes usually see the world. TVs are the unusual things in 2D! We don't look at stereoscopic as a gimmick. It's rather the most normal way to display things."The battle for hearts and mindsThe obsession with targeting "non-gamers", as Miyamoto puts it, has defined Nintendo's recent output, a direction the company took following the mainstream success of the Wii console and game-lite software such as Dr Kawashima's Brain Training and Wii Fit."There are big lines between those who play video games and those who do not. For those who don't, video games are irrelevant. They think all video games must be too difficult. We want to remove that barrier," he said at the time of the Wii's launch. That work continues today.Indeed, one of the most successful features of the 3DS has been StreetPass, software that detects when another 3DS is in the vicinity and adds the owner's avatar to your own system, in a kind of human zoo ("I just heard today that people in France meet to Street Pass one another. That kind of phenomenon is happening!").But in recent times the new focus has been sharpened by Apple's land grab for the hearts and minds of casual players. Indeed, Nintendo's immediate plan for the 3DS is an overhaul of the eShop, the Japanese company's competitor to Apple's App Store. I ask him if the plan is to create a more open platform for gamemakers to be able to upload their own games, in much the same way as Apple has lowered the cost of entry for would-be gamemakers hoping to publish their titles to iDevices."Obviously that would mean making development tools more easily available," he says. "Maybe we should look into it but any tools we offer would need to be supported. From my perspective, we want to reach out to smaller studios and work on smaller projects while supporting them as an easier and faster way to get smaller studios involved. That would be the best way to go."Apple's entry to the handheld market has caused Nintendo some problems in envisioning its next move in handheld system innovation. "Obviously a lot of the potential of handheld game systems can now be covered by smartphones," he says. "When we think about new hardware we need to think about what things we can add that you can't currently do with a smartphone. For us, we would need to have a good reason to launch a new hardware – something necessary."The ideas factoryIt's this sense that Nintendo is not quite sure what it can offer that's novel – that has defined the company's approach to software in recent years as well. While Miyamoto is quick to point out that Wii Sports and Wii Fit are both new game series, he is forced to retreat to the Gamecube release Pikmin in response to the accusation that Nintendo EAD has become conservative in recent years with regard to new game launches."We need to continue releasing new games in existing franchises otherwise those franchises might die," he says. "That's not to say that we aren't interested in new games. It's just a case of picking a new game idea. When we have the opportunity we want to create new things in the future, certainly."With this in mind I wonder if Miyamoto has a yearning to create any particular game that he hasn't yet been able to? "I don't have a big list of ideas I want to realise," he replies. "I usually come up with new ideas while I am working on other games. That said, there's a strong possibility we will introduce some new characters to the scene soon."While it's easy to accuse the company of over-reliance on its established characters, arguably Mario has become a cipher for controlled innovation. For example, Super Mario 3D Land may share an interactive vocabulary with Super Mario Galaxy, but the ideas and execution in each are diverse. This sense of restrained invention reflects Miyamoto's own primary interest in the medium today.When I ask him what excites him about games, he says: "The key thing is surprising people. Video game development is actually a very easy tool to use to surprise people and to offer new, unexpected things to players. It can actually be done quite easily. It doesn't take a lot to do this. There are exceptions but games can be created quite easily. I love that."Now 33 years into his career, I wonder if Miyamoto believes it's growing hard to surprise people, whether the ideas are running dry?"Yes, it's become more difficult," he says. "In the past it was just, you touch a button and something happens on screen and this was surprising enough to people! Like magic. Nowadays we have experienced players and players with no experience and we must accommodate the needs of both groups. It's becoming increasingly difficult. "'I realised I could actually make a living from this'Miyamoto prefers to talk about Nintendo than himself. "You can ask pretty much anything," the PR woman told me before our interview, "but he's specifically asked that you don't talk to him about his hobbies."Rather than an indication that Miyamoto has taken up some unspeakable pastimes in recent years, his request indicates a shyness, a natural tendency away from the limelight. When I ask him of which of his games he is most proud, he squirms and looks uncomfortable."It's difficult for me to answer," he says, eventually. "Looking back, Donkey Kong is close to me because it was the first game I made where I realised I could actually make a living from this. Then the title that made games known worldwide was Super Mario Bros. so that's incredibly important to me."But this is a very generic answer and maybe doesn't help you too much. Actually, a big innovation was Wii Sports. With this game we kicked off an adventure into something new. I want to be able to do this bold step many times in my life."It's telling that Miyamoto's choices centre around innovation and breakthrough. What about his games that iterate and perfect on what has gone before? "It's an excellent point because my desire is always to attempt to perfect my games. I think the Zelda series… I am not so deeply involved any more compared to the past, but Skyward Sword is a very complete and exceptionally well-polished title."Game over?It's at this point he says that if he weren't making games today, there's a very good chance he would not be playing them.Why not? "I think it's the lack of time in general," he says. "And maybe I don't see so many titles that I find fascinating enough that I want to spend time playing. Time is precious and a game has to be worthwhile, right?"Another problem is that there are so many games on the market today that it's difficult to find the right one. In many ways I think I am in a similar place to the average game player. This is one of the greatest challenges for the industry right now."It's a fair point. With tens of thousands of games hitting the App Store each month, the pool of potential avenues for play has broadened and deepened, and the sheer number of options can be overwhelming. I wonder if Miyamoto is concerned for the future of game."I am not that concerned, actually. Nintendo and I have always hoped that games would someday become a more accepted part of our daily life. Every month this becomes closer to the reality we live in."Games have grown and developed from this limited in-the-box experience to something that's everywhere now. Interactive content is all around us, networked, ready. This is something I've been hoping for throughout my career."With this success comes a new challenge of course: how do we make our titles relevant in this world of games. How do we keep going when everything has changed? It's a huge challenge. But it's a good one. It's what we always wanted."Miyamoto is tired. But he remains undefeated. As he enters the twilight years of his career, the industry is as exciting, diverse, tumultuous and unpredictable as it ever was. Just as it appears as though the medium is creatively stagnating, everything changes again in the wake of some technological advance, or systemic invention.Miyamoto might not play games if he weren't making them today. But he believes in them and celebrates their ubiquity. And why wouldn't he? That very ubiquity is his legacy.
The US Federal Trade Commission has hired a prominent trial lawyer and former federal prosecutor to oversee its broad investigation into Google's business practices, signalling the agency is troubled by what it has discovered in a year.Former justice department prosecutor Beth Wilkinson – who has won 40 cases and lost none in which she has litigated – will take the reins as the FTC digs deeper into allegations Google abused its dominance of internet search to stifle competition and drive up online advertising prices.The FTC announced the move on Thursday.Meanwhile the European commission has given no indication of whether it will take a similar move against Google, as a result of its investigations into similar antitrust claims against the search giant, which has a larger share of the market in Europe than in the US – at more than 90% compared with about 70%. But its antitrust team led by Joaquín Almunia has been deliberating for months, raising expectations it will either initiate an investigation or possibly work with the FTC on a settlement.Wilkinson is best known for helping to convict Oklahoma City bomberTimothy McVeighin 1997. Now a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison in Washington DC, Wilkinson also has experience in antitrust law and white-collar criminal cases.The FTC stressed that Wilkinson's hiring should not be interpreted as a sign it definitely intends to sue Google."We are delighted to have someone of her calibre helping us on such an important matter," said Richard Feinstein, director of the FTC's Bureau of Competition. Wilkinson's involvement in the case is, however, a clear sign the FTC's staff has uncovered problems that may require taking Google to court to resolve, said Dave Wales, who preceded Feinstein as the FTC's director of competition."This may not be a declaration of all-out war, but it's like things have been ratcheted up to Defcon 4," said Wales, now a partner at the law firm of Jones Day. "You don't do something like this unless you think there is a good chance there will be litigation."Wilkinson's involvement in the investigation also may give FTC more leverage to negotiate a settlement, Wales said. He predicted it could be a year or more before there's a settlement or lawsuit.Google declined to comment on the appointment of Wilkinson. The company, based in Mountain View, California, has consistently denied any wrongdoing.The FTC's investigation was triggered by complaints Google has been highlighting its peripheral services in its influential search results and relegating offerings from its rivals to the back pages. The agency also has been examining whether Google has rigged its results in a way that has impelled websites to pay more to promote their services through Google's advertising network.
Worried you were being too productive today? Have no fear, the coders at Google have the perfect remedy.In the popular real-time strategy genre of video games, the term "rush" is applied to any tactic in which you aim several of your battle units at your enemy at once, immediately overpowering them through sheer weight of numbers.In the hugely successful real-time strategy game Star Craft, it's a common tactic used by the alien race known as the Zergs.Google has crafted a rather amusing little Easter egg - just run a search for "Zerg rush" and see what happens.As you'll immediately notice, little Os are now running around the screen attacking and destroying every search result – you even see the life bars depleting in true RTS style.But you can also fight back. Clicking on each Zerg several times will defeat them, so take out as many as you can. When the animation finishes, you can post your score to Google+.The good thing is when your bosses catches you playing, you can just claim your PC has been infected by a virus and spend the rest of the afternoon reading the newspaper while tech support investigates.
