Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland A’s baseball team, has consistently innovated by using analytics to get the A’s into the play-offs despite one of the lowest budgets in baseball. Here, he outlines five lessons that can apply to most businesses.1) Don’t be afraid to employ smarter people than youThe one thing I pat myself on the back at is that I’m probably the dumbest guy in my own room. At least that’s what I jokingly tell my team. One of my right-hand guys, Farhan Zaidi, has a PhD in behavioural economics from the University of California, Berkeley. He never played much baseball. He followed American sports when his dad was working for the Asian Development Bank. And so in some respect he has no experience-bias when he comes to my office. So he is able to question the obvious. A guy like myself who has been in baseball his entire life may not be able to spot when the emperor is not wearing any clothes.The best thing about the Moneyball book was that it blasted the door open for people who were really bright and didn’t necessarily play the game or come up in the business. They now had an opportunity to work. And because of that baseball became a lot smarter.Next year is my 18th year as a general manager and I am more and more impressed with the people we are hiring and the people we are bringing in. And just because they didn’t play it doesn’t mean they can’t be an asset to our business. I always kid myself – in 10 years I won’t be able to apply for my own job here because I won’t be smart enough.2) If you want to create good team chemistry focus on successI have always viewed culture and chemistry as a by-product of success. If you put the performances on the field the culture will follow. I have seen very few really good teams who don’t have a good culture, and very few poor teams that have a good culture.When we are bringing in staff, the character and type of person they are is certainly important. We use ‘soft’ scouting to evaluate a player’s personality as well as ‘hard’ scouting, through our proprietry analytics, to assess their quality. But we always remember this: there’s plenty of good baseball players who weren’t necessarily great team-mates but they were great players on great teams and ultimately that is what you are trying to achieve.As a guy who runs a small business, I have to make sure I have return on my investment. I don’t have the ability to quantify chemistry or culture. And because I can’t, I’m not going to invest in that alone. I’m going to invest in facts. If you win you will create a good culture - so concentrate on the most important things to winning. If I have a small amount of capital to invest I will invest in trying to win and hopefully the chemistry and culture will follow.3) Trust in the numbers over intuitionIn sports and life we believe in serendipity way too often and celebrate random events. But we never hold gut-feeling intuitive decision-making to the same standard that we hold numbers too. When somebody says they’re making quantatively-based decisions and it fails - as it sometimes does – everyone who doesn’t like doing maths says ‘I told you that numbers shit doesn’t work’.But numbers are only facts. There’s no opinion. They are just facts. So when anybody says: ‘”Well, I’m not a numbers guy”, I say “well, I happen to be a fan of facts. That’s where we differ”’.Our aim at the A’s is to properly allocate credit and blame to a player. In baseball you can do something poorly and still get credit. A pitcher could throw a bad ball, the batter hit a screaming line drive, and an outfielder make a fantastic diving catch. Yet when you look at historical databases, 80% of the time when a ball is struck with that trajectory and velocity it is a hit. So because a superior defender caught it on that play, you should probably credit the hitter in some way and take away from the pitcher. Traditional stats don’t do that. They only credit outcome. They don’t credit process.4) Use technology to your advantageI wrote recently that technology is creating an equally drastic shift in front offices. Aspirants to the front office already are just one click away from decision-makers, thanks to social media, and it is not uncommon for a blogger’s analysis post to show up in a general manager’s Twitter feed. But even in the embryonic stages of the internet, in 1997, my assistant Paul DePodesta and I would take ideas and information from this little underground website called Baseball Prospectus.It makes sense. Because if you think about it, the web has created an open source situation for the entire world. Which means there is a lot of really smart people who may not be working for your business that have some really good ideas. There’s some bad ones out there, but when the whole world is open source there may be a nugget too.5) Keeping ahead of the competitionWhen I read Moneyball now it feels like I am watching an episode of the Flintstones. In the past decade technology has enabled us to collect so much more detailed data, and what’s really evolved now is that teams are creating their own propriety metrics to value events. We are more hardcore and analytical than we ever were. We try to quantify everything.When I first came into baseball people didn’t want to hear that running a team was a business. But it is. And the better the business is run, the healthier the team on the field is going to be. That is why I admire Arsenal. If I’m buying stock in a football team that’s the one I buy. They’ve got revenues. They’re successful. They pay down their debt. And ultimately in today’s world that’s the best way for long-term success.So what are we doing at the A’s to keep ahead? Creating our proprietary information, and keeping our arms tightly around it. Michael Lewis and I are pretty good friends and he has kind of hinted about writing Moneyball 2.0. But I have told him, one was enough. In fairness to him, a lot of stuff we were using before was public information. Not now though.Billy Beane is general manager of theOakland A’s baseball team.TheDriving innovation hubis funded by HP. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled advertisement feature. Find out morehere.
Facebook has released a new iPhone app, Rooms, that allows users to create near-anonymous chat rooms like those from the mid-1990sinternet relay chat(IRC) systems.Rooms does not require a Facebook account to use – only an email address to re-login if switching between devices. The app connects users in a pseudo-anonymous fashion to chat about almost anything, away from the main Facebook experience, and is almost a recreation of IRC - but with Facebook’s terms and conditions applied.Developed in 1988, IRC allowed users to connect anonymously across the internet and exchange simple text-based messages. Unlike message boards, IRC did not rely on a website and browser; instead users installed an app on their computers, such as MS Chat, and connected directly to a server. Later files could be transferred, creating a direct connection between users which marked the beginnings of peer-to-peer filesharing.To join a Room, users scan a 2D barcode, which can be shared publicly or privately to invite only a small selection of people to chat. Moderators of each room can filter content requiring approval to post and ban anyone, blocking their device from re-joining. Unlike the original message boards, it’s not “anything goes”; Facebook’s community standard guidelines will apply, banning abusive behaviour and the sharing of certain types of material like child abuse images.Rooms can also have an age rating, although bypassing the age gate is as simple as taping the “Yes, I’m over 18” button. Age is not verified, however. Rooms does not require a Facebook account to use, only an email address to log in again if switching between devices.The app, which is presently iPhone-only, is the latest from Facebook’s Creative Labs, responsible for Facebook’s Paper and Slingshot apps among others, and marks another Facebook app divorced from the core Facebook social network.Josh Miller, former chief executive of the discussion site Branch and now Facebook product manager, acknowledge the debt to older text-based chat systems, saying Rooms was “inspired by both the ethos of these early web communities and the capabilities of modern smartphones.”Ina blog post, Miller said: “One of the magical things about the early days of the web was connecting to people who you would never encounter otherwise in your daily life … Forums, message boards and chatrooms were meeting places for people who didn’t necessarily share geographies or social connections, but had something in common.”‘Be whoever we want to be’Rooms attempts to replicate that scenario, where users can chat about anything using a distinct username for each room. The purpose isn’t to be anonymous, but users are not limited to their real name – they can call themselves whatever they would like.“One of the things our team loves most about the internet is its potential to let us be whoever we want to be,” said Miller, whose stance over real names in Rooms seems very different from that of chief executive Mark Zuckerberg on Facebook. “It doesn’t matter where you live, what you look like or how old you are – all of us are the same size and shape online.“That’s why in Rooms you can be “Wonder Woman” – or whatever name makes you feel most comfortable and proud,” Miller said.Each Room can contain text, images and videos, with the topic determined by the room creator. The service brings 1990s chat rooms into the 21st century with the ability to add cover photos, change the colour scheme and look of buttons in the room, create pinned messages and set whether content shared in the room can be linked to from the outside world.Start up and make thingsThe app was developed by the London branch of Facebook’s Creative Labs, which was set up to enable a section of Facebook to operate like a technology startup, taking risks and trying things that the social network could not.Its primary focus has been smaller, single-purpose apps, fitting in with Facebook’s push to unbundle its apps and services from the main “big blue” Facebook app, and increasing the pace of development and iteration within these separate apps.The free app is iPhone-only – currently ranked as two-stars out of five on the App Store – although an Android Rooms app is planned for early 2015.•Mark Zuckerberg addresses Chinese university in Mandarin
Amazon is writing off $170m on unsold inventory of its Fire Phone, the smartphone it launched in July but which has seen disappointing sales.The announcement comes afterGuardian estimates that the phones had sold only around 35,000 unitsmore than a month after its launch in the US. Successful handsets typically sell more than a million units in their first month.The Fire Phone incorporates a number of new technologies such as eye-tracking cameras but has seen poor reviews both fromprofessionalsand buyers: it has anaverage rating of 2.1 out of 5 stars from 3,100 reviewson the site, with buyers complaining they cannot get apps they had on previous Android phones and that they can’t use Google Maps, YouTube or Google Music because it runs a “forked” version of Google’s Android.Amazonunveiled the Fire Phone in June, but observers noted that its off-contract price of around $600 was about the same as a top-end iPhone or Samsung device, but with fewer reasons to buy it. Like the priciest iPhone, it initially cost $200 with a contract from AT&amp;T - the only US network that sold it - but the upfront cost was slashed at the start of September to just 99 cents.The writedown is not mentioned in Amazon’sformal third-quarter earnings statementreleased on Thursday evening, in which it recorded a $544m operating loss on revenues of $20.6bn.Instead, it was only mentioned on thesubsequent earnings call with analysts, when chief financial officer Tom Szkutak noted that the “consolidated segment operating loss includes charges of approximately $170m, primarily related to the Fire phone inventory evaluation and supplier commitment cost.” Szkutak said that at the end of September “we had approximately $83m worth of [Fire Phone] inventory on hand”. He also said that $25m of the writedown was outside the US.Skzutak didn’t say what value Amazon now attaches to each phone, though a $200 cut from its $600 upfront cost - as happened at AT&amp;T - would imply an expected $400 revenue from each.That suggests Amazon has about a minimum of 207,000 unsold phones, now worth a total of $83m, in its warehouses. If Amazon’s expected revenue from each phone is lower - such as $240, which would be a typical wholesale price for a $600 device - then it could have up to 346,000 unsold phones.At a $200-per-phone writedown, the “international” writedown of $25m suggests 125,000 as-yet unsold phones held by carriers and Amazon outside the US.The remaining $62m of the writedown would probably have gone to AT&amp;T to fund the $200 price cut, suggesting that the carrier had 310,000 unsold Fire Phones.Supplier, no buyerThe “supplier commitment cost” is money that Amazon had promised to pay the maker of the handset - which has not been publicly stated, although some believe that it could be Taiwan’s HTC, which was previously a contract handset manufacturer for Windows Mobile devices before branching into Android phones.Update:the manufacturer is not HTC, according to Amir Efrati, who haswritten on the topicfor The Information.But with so many Fire Phone handsets apparently unsold, it is unlikely that there will be further orders before Amazon clears its inventory. With the Christmas buying season approaching, that may be possible - but it will also be competing against better-known phones from a variety of manufacturers.Inventory writedowns can be calamitous for both the vendor and the manufacturer, unless they can afford the lost revenues as prices are slashed and orders cut back. BlackBerrytook a $485m inventory charge on unsold PlayBook tablets in December 2011, and afurther $934m charge on unsold Z10 handsets in September 2013- with the former propelling it downwards into losses, and the latter sealing the fate of its then chief executive Thorsten Heins.Review: Amazon Fire: not setting anything alight
Tim Berners-Lee has expressed sadness that the web has mirrored the dark side of humanity, as well as enabling its “wonderful side” to flourish.The developer, who created the web in 1990 while working for the particle collider project Cern in Switzerland, said that the web is a reflection of human nature elsewhere, but that he had hoped “that the web would provide tools and fora and new ways of communicating that would break down national barriers and allow us to just get to a better global understanding.“Well, maybe it’ll happen in the future … Maybe we will be able to build web-based tools that help us keep people on the path of collaborating rather than fighting.”Speaking to BBC News, Berners-Lee said that it was “staggering” that people “who clearly must have been brought up like anybody else will suddenly become very polarised in their opinions, will suddenly become very hateful rather than very loving.”This week, the computer on which Berners-Lee ran the first ever website enters the Science Museum in London, as part of the organisation’s new exhibition on the “Information Age”. The small black cube, built by Apple founder Steve Jobs’ NeXT Inc, still has a label placed on it by Berners-Lee warning that “This machine is a server – DO NOT POWER IT DOWN!”.As part of W3C, the consortium entrusted by Berners-Lee to oversee the development of the internet, the original web developer is now pushing for adoption of the “semantic web”, an evolution of the world wide web which focuses on easy collaboration when working with data, and a more rigorous understanding of who actually has the right to control their own information.“I don’t want big companies who amass [my data] to be able to abuse it,” he said in the interview. “In a way, I’m very happy if they use it to help me find, you know, the perfect present for somebody that they also know a lot about, in a way that’s us working together. But I’d like to be able to use my own data better.“So I’m worried that my hospital data is in the hospital and it’s not in my computer. I’ve got my fitness data in the cloud somewhere, it’s not on my computer. I want to be able to pull all my data and use it for my own purposes, because I think – maybe this is crazy – but I think the value of my data to me is actually greater than the value to anybody else out there.”Sir Tim Berners-Lee speaks out on data ownership
A personal taxi service for children? That’d be parents, surely. But US startupShuddleis hoping there’s a business in taking some of that ferrying load off parental shoulders.Launching initially in San Francisco, the company charges parents a monthly subscription of $9 plus fares for individual rides, which are able to be booked up to a week in advance.The company says that for each ride, parents will be sent the driver’s full name, photo, a short biography and a description of their car. They’ll also be able to track the journey as it happens using Shuddle’s smartphone app.According to Recode, Shuddle’s drivers will be required to have experience of childcare and pass a “thorough” background check before starting work, with the 100 drivers hired so far all women.“We screen for friendly and reliable caregivers who have experience working with kids like nannies, teachers, babysitters, counsellors and parents,” explains Shuddle on its website. The company is backed by $2.6m of venture capital funding.“The human element is important. Yes, we make an app, but this is your most precious cargo and we take that very seriously,” founder Nick Allen told Recode.If the idea of entrusting children to strangers driving their own cars sounds crazy, here’s a more startling fact: some parents are doing it already through services like Uber and Sidecar – Allen co-founded the latter – which don’t have the same level of child-safety-specific security checks, let alone insurance to carry children.“Mom’s Van is called Uber”was the headline of one New York Times story exploring the trend of parents booking rides for their children, in September 2013.“For More Parents, It’s Uber to the Rescue”followed up Time that November.Shuddle is making safety its selling point, but the company will face a number of challenges. Its security checks will undoubtedly be tested by at least a few people who’d be inappropriate for a job involving driving children, for example.Drivers may also be faced with duty-of-care dilemmas if children confide a secret in them en-route, or if they overhear a mobile phone conversation.Shuddle’s task is to not only adapt its policies to issues as they arise, but to communicate them clearly to parents in order to win their trust. Its blend of private taxi hire and childcare is likely to face regulatory scrutiny on two fronts, if and when it expands globally.The fact that some parents are already happy to book an Uber ride for their children suggests there is a demand to be tapped in to for a service like Shuddle, in certain demographic circles at least.•UK orders ‘sharing economy’ review - but workers need not apply
Ethical social network Ello has registered itself as a public benefit corporation in order to ensure that it can never display ads. Having raised $5.5m from venture capitalists in its Series A funding round, the new legal status commits the company to abide by its ethical principals.Ello was founded in March 2014, but exploded in September this year when Facebook’s decision to crack down on users with fake names sparked an exodus from the site.Formed as a private network for a small group artists, Ello distinguished itself from the competition with a manifesto for users which declared that “you are not a product”, and promised to safeguard personal data and refuse advertising.Having achieved viral success in September, the site grew by tens of thousands of users a day, butwithin weeks, the search traffic had dropped back off, leaving some to declare it a fad. Benefit corps are also required to have a positive impact on society and the environment, according to theBenefit Corporation information centre. The status has been employed by a range of ethically minded companies, including food and clothing manufacturers, as well as charities.Despite its new status, Ello hasraised almost $6mfrom Colorado-based venture capitalists Foundry Group, according to Betabeat. But in an effort to ensure that its users don’t accuse it of selling out, Ello has turned to a little-known but increasingly popular legal framework to bind itself.Registered as a “public benefit corporation” in Delaware, the status lets firms draw up a legally binding charter of incorporation to limit their activities in the future. In Ello’s case, it is now legally barred from ever running adverts or selling user data, and nor can it sell to another firm which will.“Ello’s explosive growth over the past few months proves that there is a hunger to connect with friends and see beautiful things – without being manipulated by ad salesmen, boosted posts, and computer algorithms that don’t always have our best interests at heart,” the company states in its manifesto. “On an ad-driven social network, the advertiser is the customer and you’re the product that’s bought and sold.”Ello founder Paul Budnitz told Betabeat’s Jack Smith IV: “We really cannot be forced by our investors to break the basic principles.”Whether the cash injection will be enough to tempt back users remains to be seen. In early October,Facebook apologised for its real-name policy, winning back many of the users who had ditched the site for Ello.“I’m beyond thrilled that Facebook has offered a genuine apology and agreed that our real names are the ones we make for ourselves,” said the drag queen Lil Miss Hot Mess, one of the affected users, at the time.Goodbye, Ello? Searches for new social network collapse
A burst of 9 links - and a note - for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGirls won't make a pass at a man in Google Glass, HP exec warns &gt;&gt; Techworld.comA Hewlett-Packard (HP) executive today warned people not to wear Google Glass on a first date - at least, not if they want to ensure they get a second.Silicon Valley-based Ray Edwards used Wearable World's Glazed conference in East London to make his feelings on the £1,000 augmented reality headset's appearance known, before going on to outline which bit of the wearables market HP wants to focus on.The managing director for HP's New Ventures division, which offers venture capital financing for the most promising technology companies worldwide, took aim at wearable devices like Google Glass and Apple Watch after flying across the Atlantic to make his presentation.Bonus point for the headline.Scuttlebutt: Microsoft was once very close to buying LinkedIn for a couple billion dollars &gt;&gt; Business InsiderNicholas Carlson:Here's some fun scuttlebutt we heard this week.In the years before LinkedIn's 2011 IPO, Microsoft entered into talks to buy LinkedIn several times.At one point the deal was close to happening for around $500m.Microsoft's last offer, in the months before LinkedIn's IPO, was somewhere close to $2bn.We're told Microsoft's (now departed) deal whiz Hank Vigil thought that was a price too dear, and refused to pull the trigger.Microsoft declined to comment; LinkedIn said "oh, that." What would Microsoft have done with LinkedIn, though?Analyst: Why Apple Pay won't work &gt;&gt; America's MarketsApple Pay contains a variety of major shortcomings that will likely limit its ability to be the dominant form of payment in the future, according to a UBS note released to clients this week by analyst Steven Milunovich, quoting payments expert Richard Crone at Crone Consulting. The problems with Apple Pay stem from technical shortcomings of the system relative to other alternatives and the large fees Apple plans to charge, which banks will be eager to escape, the report says.…many banks jumped initially on the Apple Pay bandwagon at launch. But banks are likely to build their own apps using more modern technology with clearer benefits for merchants and security for consumers over the next year to three years, the report says.Published 7 October. That's, what, two weeks ago. Let's see how those apps go over the next few years.Google self-driving car: It may never actually happen &gt;&gt; SlateLee Gomes (who has written repeatedly about the self-driving cars:Another problem with maps is that once you make them, you have to keep them up to date, a challenge Google says it hasn't yet started working on. Considering all the traffic signals, stop signs, lane markings, and crosswalks that get added or removed every day throughout the country, keeping a gigantic database of maps current is vastly difficult. Safety is at stake here; Chris Urmson, director of the Google car team, told me that if the car came across a traffic signal not on its map, it could potentially run a red light, simply because it wouldn't know to look for the signal. Urmson added, however, that an unmapped traffic signal would be "very unlikely," because during the "time and construction" needed to build a traffic signal, there would be adequate opportunity to add it to the map.But not always. Scott Heydt, director of marketing at Horizon Signal Technologies, says his company routinely sets up its portable traffic signals at road construction sites. Frequently, they are simply towed to a site and turned on. "We just set one up like that in New Jersey," said Heydt. "You can be driving to work and everything is normal, but on your way home, discover a new traffic light." (Of this possibility, a Google spokesperson said, "We will have to be ready for that.")Samsung, TSMC Solid State Lighting reportedly to quit LED lighting business, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesSamsung Electronics will reportedly withdraw from the global LED lighting market due to low-price pressure from China-based makers, while Taiwan-based TSMC Solid State Lighting will reportedly cease operations, according to industry sources.As Samsung is at a disadvantage in terms of technology and patents compared to Japan-based Nichia, and has relied on low quotes to compete, the sources said. However, China-based makers, by virtue of government subsidies for production equipment, have offered even lower quotes to compete with South Korea-based makers including Samsung, the sources indicated.Software is eating the world, but Shenzhen is eating the world of hardware.Google plans to make a component store for its modular phone &gt;&gt; EngadgetWhile speaking at a Purdue University event, Google's Paul Eremenko, director of Project Ara, recently revealed that the company will be taking a cue from the Play store to create a similar shopping experience for its modular smartphone. What this means, essentially, is you'd be able to buy or sell different components from a single hub, just as is the case now with apps, music, books and more on Google Play - and it would also include reviews and recommendations.At a guess, Ara isn't going to end up as a phone project at all, but something more like Arduino or Rasberry Pi - a playground for hacking things together. The talk ishere.Android in pieces &gt;&gt; Jana MobileLooking at Android use in developing countries, particularly Asia (excluding China):Worldwide, over 70% of traffic to the mCent app comes from just 20 manufacturers. Of the approximately 1,300 device models that make up the user base of the mCent app, 41% are Samsung devices, 7% Motorola, and 7% Sony. Far from being enormously fractured, the Android ecosystem – even in emerging markets where homegrown, low-cost devices are popular- is fairly uniform.Over half the devices used to access the mCent app for Android are accounted for by the 50 most popular smartphones. Although this may look like a fragmentation problem, these 50 devices come from just 12 manufacturers: 52% are Samsung, 12% are Sony, and 12% Micromax (demonstrating mCent's popularity in India).The screen resolutions are quite a surprise.London Output Area Classification &gt;&gt; DataShineIf you live in London, find out which of eight different "tribes" (city vibe, urban elites, etc) you belong to, based on data from the 2011 Census. A fabulous use of the London Data Store's data, and a great use of free data.Driverless cars in Singapore's Chinese and Japanese Gardens &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaStroll down the Chinese and Japanese Gardens, and you'd be able to see driverless buggies cruising down the paths at a leisurely 10km/h. These vehicles, which ferry passengers around free-of-charge, is part of a trial by researchers and engineers from the Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology (SMART) and the National University of Singapore (NUS).The experiment will last from October 23 to November 1 from 8am to 2pm. It will resume again after an evaluation. Visitors to the gardens can book a ride through thiswebsite.This is the first time two driverless vehicles have been unleashed for public use. Having two robot buggies in the vicinity also makes things interesting: vehicle-to-vehicle communication. Indeed, the two buggies can talk to one another and figure out ways to move passengers more efficiently.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardThis is the last Boot Up I'll be doing, so I thought I'd look back on where it came from.The very first "Newsbucket" (here's the series link)appeared on 25 September 2007, by Jemima Kiss, entitled "PDA's Newsbucket". It was a collection of eight links, with very brief commentary. The links came via Del.icio.us. It was part of the Guardian's "Media" section, rather than Technology.The idea of the "Newsbucket" was to collect links from all over the web that might be interesting, but didn't merit a separate story in their own right, or where they offered background information. It's a place for all the things that you might want to store.Around March 2010, we decided to introduce the "Technology newsbucket" - aiming to be the same thing as the PDA version, but housed in "Technology". Thefirst appeared on 29 March 2010, and had 11 links - including one about "Why the iPad will change everything", by arch Apple-sceptic Dan Lyons.• To collect the links, we first used Delicious, and then (after Delicious morphed from a bookmark service into something indescribable, with a flaky API) Pinboard• a PHP script I wrote queried Delicious/Pinboard and formatted the links, and output them on a web page;• the output of the script was put into our content management system.This worked well, and is still how it's done. I also now use an app calledFaketo fill out fields in the CMS, speeding the process further.There was only one problem with calling it "Technology newsbucket": it didn't leave much room for the rest of the headline. People like to know what they're going to read about, even if only approximately.It took us a year to realise this, but once we did, action was swift. After nearly five minutes of discussion, the decision was made to shorten its name to "Boot up", because it was meant to start the day, when you'd boot up your.. anyhow.The first post with that prefix appeared on18 March 2011, when it attracted a grand total of three comments. The Boot Up blogpost has run more or less continuously every weekday since then, garnering a consistent number of page views most days. It's rarely the most-read, but it's been a resource you could rely on.It's been a fun ride, and I'd like to thank readers, and especially the many commenters for the insightful and helpful additions to the day - the links, shared experiences, discussions, and calming voices brought to exchanges before they got out of hand. Thanks for all the contributions.
It's Friday.
At the time of writing, the Joan Didion documentary We Tell Ourselves Stories in Order to Live, is fully funded, with $15,000 extra.* Even though the campaign is only in its second day, with tweets like this it’s no wonder it’s received such backing :We clearly didn’t realize how badly we wanted a documentary about Didion, or how we really needed a chance at getting her sunglasses for a cool $2,500 (at the time of writing, two pairs are still available).Crowdfunding websites like Kickstarter have allowed fans a chance to get involved with projects of creatives that they love. The trend arguably began in March 2013 with thecampaign to make the Veronica Mars movie. The fan response was tremendous and went $500,000 over its $2m goal in the first day. This was quickly followed by Zach Braff’s pet projectWish I Was Here, and Spike Lee’suntitled film project, “about humans who are addicted to blood.” For each campaign, fans contributed to work of a filmmaker they loved and with their pledge could claim some level of ‘involvement’ in the project, even if they just had an exclusive T-shirt to show for it.In the case of the campaign for We Tell Ourselves Stories in Order to Live, it reveals the desire of the public (or at least, Joan Didion’s very devoted fan base) to connect with Didion, the intensely private person behind the books and essays, through the documentary and pledge rewards.Tell us:We want to hear from our readers:Who (or what) is next?Who should be the subject of the next great crowd-funded documentary?What rewards or perks would entice you to empty out your savings?Share with us in the comments below and we’ll feature our favorite responses.*Full disclosure: I pledged a contribution for the Joan Didion documentary
The chair of the Senate commerce committee has said revelations about how the “anonymous” social media app Whisper is tracking its users raise “serious questions” over privacy and demanded an explanation from the company.Senator Jay Rockefellerwrote to the chief executive of Whisperto ask for a detailed, in-person briefing for his committee staff. He emphasised his concern over the location tracking of supposedly anonymous users of the app and demanded documents from Whisper.Rockefeller’s intervention comes a week afterthe Guardian revealed how Whisper is tracking the location of its users, including some who have specifically asked not to be followed by opting out of geolocation services. Privacy experts have already called for the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to examine the app’s business practices.In his letter to Whisper CEO Michael Heyward, Rockefeller notes that as chairman of the committee on commerce, science and transportation, he has “jurisdiction over the Federal Trade Commission and consumer protection issues including online privacy”.Whisper initially denied the Guardian’s reports, denouncing them as“100% false” and “a pack of vicious lies”. However, over the weekend, Heyward, who previously claimed his app was “the safest place on the internet”,released a statementthat did not dispute the accuracy of the Guardian’s reporting and added: “We realise that we’re not infallible”.Heyward later indicated he has launchedsome kind of investigationinto the disclosures made about practices at his company, WhisperText.The Guardian, which was previously exploring the possibility of a journalistic collaboration with Whisper, witnessed the company’s location-tracking practices duringa three-day visit to its Los Angeles headquarters last month.Buzzfeed, the Huffington Post and Fusion have suspended their pre-existing partnerships with Whisper in the wake of the Guardian’s revelations.Rockefeller wrote in his letter: “It is questionable, at best, whether users seeking to post anonymously on the ‘safest place on the internet’ would expect that WhisperText has information sharing relationships with third parties such as media organisations.”The senator noted in his letter the Guardian’s report that Whisper tracked the approximate location of some of its users who opted out of geolocation services – despite a provision in its privacy policy that stated access to location-based information was “purely voluntary”.Citing Heyward’s statement, which wasposted on a blog late on Saturday, Rockefeller told the CEO: “You state that WhisperText does not “actively” track users, but acknowledge that the company does collect data that can be used to approximate a user’s location.”The letter,first obtained by Politico, also raises concerns about Whisper’s processing of data by setting up an offshore site in the Philippines which, the Guardian revealed, was occurring while the company told its users all their information is stored and processed in the US.He also questioned an amendment to Whisper’s terms and conditions that came four days after the company learned the Guardian planned to publish details about its business practices. Heyward said the changes to the terms of service were finalised in July, and were not related to the Guardian’s reporting. Rockefeller asked Heyward supply his committee with current and old versions of its terms of service and privacy policy documents.Private briefings to Senate committee staff are considered a first course of action on Capitol Hill. They can sometimes lead to more expansive public hearings or inquiries.Responding to Rockefeller’s letter on Thursday, Heyward said: “We share the senator’s interest in protecting consumer privacy and will respond shortly. Though we disagree with the Guardian’s reporting, we welcome the discussion and opportunity to correct the record.”A Democrat from West Virginia, Rockefeller has shown a keen interest in privacy issues. The senator has investigated allegations that staff at News Corp may have broken US law during the phone-hacking scandal. He was alsoin communication with Lord Justice Leveson, who led the British judicial inquiry into media ethics following the Guardian’s revelations about widespread hacking at the media group.Rockefeller has also started an investigation into the practices of “data brokers” – companies that collect and sell personal information gathered online. More recently he has requested committee staff briefings from the chairman andchief executive of Home Depot, Francis Blake, over a series breach of credit card security, and thechief executive of Apple, Tim Cook, after the pictures of celebrities were hacked from iCloud accounts and leaked on the internet.Rockefeller’s letter to Heyward concluded: “While Whisper may provide its users an unique social experience, the allegations in recent media accounts are serious, and users are entitled to privacy policies that are transparent, disclosed, and followed by the company.”
Mobile games will generate more revenue than console titles in 2015, according to research specialist Newzoo. In its quarterly global games market update, the company estimates that revenues from smartphone and tablet titles will reach $25bn in 2014, up 42% on 2013, and $30.3bn in 2015.The company sees steady growth in the mature US and European regions, but much more explosive expansion in the emerging south-east Asian markets and China up by 86%. Newzoo also predicts strong growth in Japanese iOS and Android game revenues, offsetting the decline of the region’s previously dominant feature phones.Newzoo’s graph of mobile gaming revenues to 2017 Source: NewzooPhotograph: NewzooFrom the report:Our research shows that the high mobile growth rate is driven by both “organic growth”, lifting the overall market, and “cannibalistic growth”, at the expense of other segments. In addition to the initial casualties of mobile growth (handheld console and online casual and social gaming), Newzoo notes signs of slower growth in (online) PC games and MMOs as spending is diverted to mobile devices.Newzoo’s estimates are more generous toward the mobile sector than those of other market analysts. In itsOctober 2013 report, Gartner had mobile revenues at $22bn in 2015, against over $50bn for console games. SuperData Researchputs mobile revenuesfor 2015 at $25.3bn.Indeed, most industry figures put the console business way over the $25bn mark. Statistics portal, Statista,has console games at$55bn in 2015.The Newzoo report also predicts that Apple’s earnings from games this year will double those of Nintendo:We estimate that Apple and Google will earn close to $4 billion and $3bn respectively in games revenues in calendar year 2014, explaining the fast growth in Google’s “other revenues” in its recent quarterly results. To put this into perspective, Nintendo’s game revenues amounted to $2.4bn last year and will likely be slightly lower this year.Newzoo’s report suggests that, in mature western markets, the battle between Apple and Android will be most intense in the growing tablet gaming sector. In arecent report by Juniper Research, global sales of tablet titles were expected to reach $13bn by 2019.Candy Crush Soda Saga: will it pop King’s app store bubble?Angry Birds maker Rovio lays off 130 staff and tries to ‘reignite growth’
My 2006 XP Toshiba laptop finally died while I was at the beginning of my first novel. At the moment, I am booking time on my husband’s PC when he is not using it, but a generous friend who believes in my book wants to buy me a cheap laptop that she has seen that may be suitable for word processing. It is an Asus T-100 at £249 and already has Student Microsoft Office 2013 loaded.Reading reviews, I see that it only has one USB port, and has a poor, cramped keyboard. I have an ergonomic keyboard that I can plug in, but I also like to have a mouse and a memory stick plugged in, and a great old laser printer for when I need hard copies. I am not sure I want a touch screen.I am happy to have a heavy laptop, and battery life is not an issue, but RAM, speed for saving, reliability, size of screen (larger preferred) and USB ports are issues. I could save about £100 from my pension, making a budget of around £350. But I would also need Microsoft Office. Any suggestions as to how I can meet my requirements, please Jack?RosieI like the Asus Transformer Book T100TA: it’s small, light, cheap, and its quad-core Intel Atom Z3740 is faster than you might expect. It also does double-duty as a tablet. However, it’s not the best choice for your purposes. What you need and can afford is a mainstream laptop with a 15.6in screen and a reasonably good processor. You might also consider adding acheap 4-port USB hubto handle extra devices.There are dozens of laptops in your price range: John Lewis has 16 that cost less than £350, while PC World has 26. The cheapest is theAsus X200MA, at £199.99. This would be better for your purposes than the Transformer Book T100TA, because it has a larger 11.6in screen (no touch) and three USB ports. But I think you can do better.Mainstream 15.6in laptopsAs always, mainstream laptops are built down to a price. The problem today is that manufacturers are trying to maintain old price levels while adding the expensive touch screen that makes Windows 8 easier to use. That means making cuts in other areas, sometimes including the quality of construction. There are models with 32-bit versions of Windows and only 2GB of memory, and even more models with slow AMD A4, AMD E1, and comparable Intel processors. The Intel Celeron N2820 -- ranked 550th-- is lower than I’d like to go for serious rather than casual use.If possible, go for an Intel Pentium N3510 (or preferably an N3520 or N3530), or a third- or fourth-generation Intel Core i3 or i5 chip (ie -3xxx or -4xxx etc). Also, get a laptop with a 64-bit version of Windows, so you can use 4GB or more memory.Today, theToshiba Satellite L50-B-1NW(£329.99),HP Pavilion 15-p087sa(£349.99), andHP Pavilion 15-r033na(£349.95) are worth a look. Both the HP models have speedy Intel Core i3 processors. The PC World version is faster, but I’d go to John Lewis for the superior service.Another option is theAsus X551CA-SX222H, which KL Computers Ltd -- a London-based company unknown to me -- is selling with a Core i3-3217U processor for £286.80.The Windows problemIt’s a pity you haven’t upgraded before now. It’s a big jump from 2001-vintage Windows XP to today’s Windows 8.1, and you would probably have had fewer problems adapting to Microsoft Windows 7. This is still the business standard -- in fact, Windows 7 Pro is still a current Microsoft product -- so I imagined there would be Windows 7 laptops floating around at discount prices. Apparently not. There are plenty of new models from business suppliers such as Dell and HP, but they are not cheaper than consumer-oriented Windows 8 laptops (though I’d expect them to be better made).You could buy a refurbished Windows 7 laptop from an established supplier such asMorgan Computersortier1online.com(recommended in a comment by a reader), or possibly on eBay. Refurbished/Grade A1 laptops usually come with a 6-month guarantee. It would be best to stick to top-tier brands, such as Lenovo/IBM ThinkPad, Toshiba Portégé and HP EliteBook and ProBook laptops. These will do the job, and you will get a much better keyboard. But again, you won’t save much money, and you need to know a lot about laptops to spot the best deals. There’s a lot of old rubbish around as well.Under the circumstances, you will probably decide on a new Windows 8 laptop. If so, try to get Windows 8.1 pre-installed, as the latest version has been updated to make life easier for users who don’t have touch screens. In addition, install Stardock’s cheapStart8utility.Adding OfficeIf you have the original discs or at least the Product Key, you can run your old copy of Microsoft Office 2003 under Windows 8. The drawback is that it’s no longer supported and therefore a security risk. Alternatively, your husband may be using a copy of Office that allows two installations: one on a desktop and one on a laptop. In this case, the drawback is that it’s intended to make Office more useful to one user, not two: you shouldn’t use both at the same time.Any more recent version of Office Home and Student would be OK, which gives you a choice of 2007, 2010, and 2013. Microsoft supports products for at least 10 years, so 2013 should be good until 2023. Unfortunately, this is not available on DVD, but at least Microsoft lets you move the Keycard version to a new PC. For more info, see my answer from last year:Microsoft Office: which version should I buy?In theory, you could use the free online version of Microsoft Word in OneDrive, but it would struggle to handle a novel. You’d be much better off with a word processor running on your PC. If you can’t afford Microsoft Office 2013 Home and Student Edition (£89.99) now, you may be able to use a free alternative until you can. The obvious ones areAbiWordandLibreOffice Writer. Both still have user interfaces derived from antique versions of Microsoft Word, so you should find them more familiar than Office 2013.Try one to see how it handles copies of your novel files: how much does the layout change? Have you lost any features you need, such as track changes or draft/outline? Can you easily zoom in to make text easier to read? These programs may not be worth the effort if you really need Office’s functions and compatibility with complex Word documents (multiple columns, custom headlines, embedded images and videos, footnotes etc), but they should be fine for ordinary texts. If you save files inRTF (Rich Text Format)rather than .doc/.docx then you shouldn’t have any major problems. (AbiWord’s .doc files are actually RTF files, not binary .doc files.)The publishing industry has standardised on Microsoft Word, but it’s very easy to load an .rtf document into Word and save it as .docx if your novel is accepted.Microsoft is moving from boxed software to a new business model of downloaded and streamed software, paid for on subscription and continuously updated via the cloud, ieOffice 365. I don’t expect boxed copies -- or free copies of Office on PCs -- to be around for much longer, except for old stock.
A small handful of American companies define much of what we recognise as the web of today. Google, Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Twitter and Yahoo suck up hours of our time and report huge revenues, but the complex inter-dependencies of Silicon Valley mean that some of these companies are “frenemies”, alliances and strategies shifting.Amazon and Google are a prime example. Amazon is one of Google’s biggest advertising clients, but is also a ferocious rival across a number of products and services. Kantar Media estimates that Amazon spent $157.7m on Google US search ads in 2013, almost twice that of the second largest advertiser, Priceline Group. Internationally, Amazon also spends heavily with Google, so its total investment is much higher.In 1998, Larry Page and Sergey Brin were running Google from the famous Menlo Park garage owned by (now YouTube CEO) Susan Wojcicki when Amazon founder Jeff Bezos invested $250,000 of his own money in the fledgling search engine.When Google went public in 2004, that $250,000 investment translated into 3.3m shares of Google stock, which at Google’s IPO represented a stock share position worth over $280m. Bezos has not disclosed how many of those shares he still holds, but at the current price of Google stock they would represent an investment position of over $1.5bn. That means that the Amazon founder is both a successful early investor in Google and one of its biggest advertising clients.The venn diagram of Amazon’s and Google’s businesses has become increasingly competitive as the two battle in increasingly diverse sectors.Google has similarly expanded away from its core search advertising business into mobile software Android, mobile hardware with the Nexus mobile device range and entertainment through the movies, apps and games on the Google Play store - not mention the wearable technology Google Glass and self-driving cars.Once famed for cheap books and CDs, Amazon now has a vast portfolio of businesses from its Kindle-branded tablets and ereaders to Amazon Web Services (AWS), its cloud storage arm.The original Kindle e-reader was launched in 2007 and has extended to include Kindle Fire HD tablets, which rival Apple’s iPad or tablets running Google’s Android software. In fact, Amazon cleverly avoided the need to develop their own operating system, adapting Android to suit their own devices including integration with the Amazon appstore for games, music and videos. Amazon cut out the space usually reserved for Google’s own Play service, which can be found on most other Android devices.Google launched its own signature mobile devices under the Nexus brand and now compete for hearts and minds with Amazon, Apple and their own Android partners such as Samsung, HTC and LG.Cloud storage is an area of vast opportunity that Amazon has quietly come to dominate, and again competes with Google’s own enterprise cloud services. AWS started back in 2006 and opens up Amazon’s vast array of servers to other companies, offering a cheap way of accessing processing power for their own web services.Amazon makes a thin margin on mass reach, where Google profits more on services to larger companies with their revenue model.Amazon has even taken a stab at taking Google’s Android app business, opening up a competitor app store. Both companies want their customers to buy into their ecosystems, so their digital lives are occupied completely by their chosen platform.Jeff Bezos wants you to stream movies from Amazon Prime with your Kindle Fire or on Kindle TV, download the latest Beyonce album and keep it in Amazon Cloud Player. Larry Page would prefer you download an app on your Nexus phone, stream your favourite TV series, bought on Play, via a Chromecast and again store all your tracks in the cloud on Google Music.Both companies have recently experimented with trials of same-day fresh food deliveries and are fighting a PR war on drone deliveries to show the world who is at the cutting edge of ecommerce. They were both in the running to acquire video game streaming service, Twitch - a skirmish which Amazon eventually won last month, so creating a potential rival to Google’s all-conquering YouTube video platform.With Google moving into Amazon’s territory for ecommerce, Amazon are, in true aggressive fashion, striking back by the launch of their Ad Platform to directly compete with Google’s omnipotent AdWords - the small text ads alongside all of their search results which have driven the majority of Google’s revenues.Even on the streets of east London, Amazon are trying to edge out their Californian counterparts. Google and has set up Campus on Silicon Roundabout to help foster start-ups in the UK, and as well as several offices in the capital it has announced it is building a vast new office in King’s Cross. Amazon, not to be outdone, is now building an office for 5,000 staff close to Google’s Campus building, where all of their currentlySlough-basedemployees will eventually work. Both seek out talented British engineers and other staff to help build their successful empires.Will one company win out, or is there still plenty of room for both in these vast and exponentially growing markets? It’s very hard to predict, but maybe one day you’ll flick through the news on a Kindle phone or Nexus mobile only to see a smiling Jeff Bezos and Larry Page shaking hands having done a megadeal - and the legendary, fearsomeGooglezonwill have been born.•Cut benefits? Yes, let’s start with our $85bn corporate welfare handout
Ownership of “wearable” devices in the UK is going up - but is still a long way from becoming mass market, according to the retail tracking company GfK.A total of 420,000 units have been sold or given away this year with a total value of £51m - and about 40% of them are activity trackers, it says.Price is the biggest hurdle, the company’s research says, with 28% of consumers saying that it’s the cost that is the most important consideration for them when buying an activity tracker.About half of buyers prefer to get such products from technology companies rather than the fashion, jewellery or sports categories, GfK found - a preference that is reflected globally, with 42% in America, 51% in Germany, 54% in China and a remarkable 69% in South Korea reflecting the same view.The most popular? Wearables in bracelets and shoesBut where to wear a wearable? That isn’t a problem, the company found. People wear them on belts, t-shirts, shoes and even underwear - though integration into bracelets or shoes are the most popular, at 33% and 26% respectively. Men prefer the idea of connected clothes such as shirts, shoes or belts, while women prefer necklaces, bracelets and rings.However wearables companies still face a key problem with “abandonment” - where consumers give up using their products because they don’t see any longer-term benefit in them. A study in the US earlier this year found thatone-third of wearables owners had abandoned their devices within six months of getting them.In some cases, the abandonment may come because the wearables are thrown in with the purchase of other devices such as smartphones: Samsung has included some models of its Galaxy Gear smartwatches and its Gear Fit activity tracker for free with sales of its flagship Galaxy S phones.GfK includes those giveaways in its “ownership” statistics, which were established by polling 1,000 smartphone owners online in each of the country markets. A sample of that size should be reliable, statistically, to give a picture of the wider market.The biggest danger is loss of interestFor wearables makers, the danger of owners losing interest is a constant problem. Eric Micigovsky, chief executive of the smartwatch company Pebble, which began as a Kickstarter project and raised over $10m, told the Guardian: “At the beginning [of getting a Pebble] people tend to use it just for notifications and the changeable watchfaces.But then they explore our app store and add other features, like controlling lights and thermostats - there’s even a Guardian app.”He says that “Pebble is usually at the top of the survivors in terms of people keeping using them. We think that we are doing very well in those terms.”Pebble may find acceptance for such controls in future: GfK found that 38% of respondents expect to be able to control their TV, and 34% a sound system, from a wrist-worn device - and among those who consider themselves “tech-friendly” the figures are even higher.Still early for smartwatchesEven so, smartwatches make up the smallest segment of the wearables space, comprising only 11% of owners in GfK’s survey. Health and fitness trackers were the most popular, at 39%; “wrist sport computers”, which record activity such as running, make up 26%; and “action cameras” such as the GoPro series another 24%.Smartwatches, GfK found, are still considered “gadgets for geeks” - because they tend not to be aesthetically designed, and don’t have any clear function.That hasn’t stopped technology companies pouring into the space. The music star Will.i.am isworking on a “smartcuff”, while Microsoft isexpected to release a fitness-focussed smartwatchwithin weeks.Micigovsky says that Pebble has sold more than 400,000 units, but adds that “it’s day zero for wearables. If you compare it with smartphones, it’s like 2007 [when the first iPhone launched] - it’s extremely early even for the big players in this space.”Samsung’s blizzard of devices had not hurt Pebble, he said: “Market research shows that we held our own.”And the impending arrival next year of the Apple Watch, announced in September, had boosted sales, he said. “It used to be we were fighting the good fight all on our own. Now we have big spenders which have joined in and are helping to boost the idea.”Nike and Apple working on ‘stylish’ new wearable technology
Google has expanded its artificial intelligence research team, acquiring two Oxford University spin-off companies specialising in machine learning and computer vision.Dark Blue Labs and Vision Factory and their seven key researchers will be added to Google’s DeepMind artificial intelligence research company – another British artificial intelligence startup which the search giant acquired in January.“We are thrilled to welcome these extremely talented machine learning researchers to the Google DeepMind team and are excited about the potential impact of the advances their research will bring,”wroteDemis Hassabis, co-founder of DeepMind.Brain-like computersGoogle’s DeepMind is working on artificial intelligence similar to those portrayed in movies – a computer system that works like a human brain, using information from its environment to make decisions free of human interaction.Dark Blue Labs specialised in deep learning for understanding natural language, something Google’s search products have been pioneering on a large scale with both typed and spoken natural language queries. Google’s voice search is built into every Android smartphone and tablet, while desktop users can also search using voice through a web browser.Prof Nando de Freitas, Prof Phil Blunsom, Dr Edward Grefenstette and Dr Karl Moritz Hermann from Dark Blue Labs will focus on research to enable machines, be they computers or robots, to better understand what users say and are asking of them.Vision Factory specialised in visual recognition systems and deep learning, applying artificial intelligence techniques to enhance the accuracy and speed of object recognition and other vision-based computer systems.Dr Karen Simonyan, Max Jaderberg and Prof Andrew Zisserman, founders of Vision Factory, will help Google improve its vision systems, which include object recognition in search, its camera-based search apps and undoubtedly the data-processing systems needed for its self-driving cars.‘Machine Learning is a technology whose time has come’De Freitas, Blunsom and Zisserman will remain at Oxford University as part-time lecturers, while Google is making a “substantial” donation to the computer science and engineering departments, establishing a new research partnership.“Machine Learning is a technology whose time has come,” said Prof Mike Wooldridge, head of the department of computer science at Oxford University. “We have invested heavily in this area and we are truly excited at the prospect of what we can achieve together with Google.”“It is a really exciting time for Artificial Intelligence research these days, and progress is being made on many fronts including image recognition and natural language understanding,” said Hassabis.Google’s artificial intelligence efforts hit the headlines at the beginning of the year when the company acquired DeepMind technologies, a London-based artificial intelligence firm specialising in machine learning, advanced algorithms and systems neuroscience for £400m – Google’s largest European purchase and now employing around 100 researchers in London.•Demis Hassabis: 15 facts about the DeepMind Technologies founder•Google buys UK artificial intelligence startup Deepmind for £400m•Elon Musk says he invested in DeepMind over ‘Terminator’ fears
Unity, the company behind a hugely successful video-game development engine, has appointed the ex-Electronic Arts chief John Riccitiello as its new CEO. Co-founder David Helgason has stepped down from the role, becoming executive vice president in charge of strategy and communications.Set up in Copenhagen in 2004, Unity provides an affordable, cross-platform game engine, which it licenses to developers all over the world to implement into their own titles. The technology quickly became popular with smaller independent studios, which often lack the resources to build game development toolsets of their own, but are also unable to afford the larger commercial third-part engines like Unreal3D.John Riccitiello previously served as CEO of games publisher Electronic Arts. Between 2007 and his departure in 2013 he oversaw the company’s transition away from relying on boxed game sales and toward digital distribution, via smartphones, tablets and EA’s own “Origin” PC games platform. However, despite rising revenues from digital and downloadable content, expensive investments and falling boxed copy retail sales made for a difficult financial climate. EA posted losses of $381m in October 2012.Riccitiello is not new to Unity – he has served on the board of directors since November 2013. He has also invested in other tech newcomers such as VR specialist Oculus and ecommerce start-up, SilkCloud.“I’m so proud of everything Unity accomplished in the past decade but now it’s time to look forward to an excellent future,” said Helgason. “Our mission is an important one, so I’m incredibly happy that John has agreed to lend his formidable experience to the role of CEO at Unity. We’ve had the chance to work together over the last year-and-a-bit and come to recognise how similar our views are on the importance of the democratisation of development to a thriving developer ecosystem and healthy games industry.”The move will be seen in some quarters as the start of a new era for Unity, which for many years has been seen as an indie upstart within the highly corporate middleware and development tool industry. The last month has seen rumours that Unity is gearing up to offer itself for acquisition – and although, the companyhas denied it is up for sale, many will see the appointment of a corporate veteran as a step toward instigating that process.“I would imagine Riccitiello’s appointment is about long-term growth with the possibility of an IPO in the future, rather than a buy-out in the short term,” said Matt Martin, editor of industry news site VG247. “Unity would be a great asset to many, including a company like Microsoft, but if it wanted to sell it could have done by now.“Riccitiello may seem like a traditional ‘suit’ and he knows how to deal with investors, but he’s always very honest and down to earth, and at EA he really understood developers and their games. Riccitiello can be ruthless, but he’s not purely interested in the bottom line. It’s also worth remembering that Unity isn’t small beans – it has over 300 staff – so maybe it just needs a fresh take on leadership after so many years.”Certainly, the scale of Unity’s operations has grown enormously, now allowing developers to create games that are scalable and portable to every major platform including smartphones, PC and even the current PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles. The development kit is now used by over 600,000 studios around the world and is almost ubiquitous in indie-scale development.“The strength of Unity is in its platform and company agnostic positioning, so appointing an ex-CEO of what is an acquisitive games publisher is bound to raise some questions,” sais Piers Hard-Rolls, head of games at IHS Technology. “That said, I believe this appointment is primarily about steering Unity as it transitions from a small company to a larger corporate entity, and Riccitiello is very well placed to guide the ship.“Founder and current CEO David Helgason is clearly more interested in the strategy and product development side of the business, so installing an experienced games-related CEO that can implement the processes needed to grow the company and perhaps lead it towards an IPO makes great sense”
Gamer and actor Felicia Day has had her personal details posted online just minutes aftermaking her first public statement about Gamergate– in which she expressed fear about saying anything at all, in case she was targeted as a result.The publicising of her details was fiercely criticised by a former American football star Chris Kluwe who alsocriticised the groupin the strongest possible terms this week, who pointed out the gender imbalance among those targeted.The publication of Day’s details is being seen as further strengthening the criticism that Gamergate’s partcipants are pursuing an anti-woman agenda, which has seen female game developers and journalists harassed and threatened, while male critics have been almost untouched.Day, who appeared in the TV series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Supernatural, and rose to fame as the writer and lead ofonline gaming sitcom The Guild, had previously said little about the grassroots campaign against feminism in gaming, “aside from a few replies on Twitter that journalists have decided to use in their articles, siding me against the hashtag”.But, says Day,who has 2.3 million followers on Twitter, “I realised my silence on the issue was not motivated by some grand strategy, but out of fear that the issue has created about speaking out.”She explained that her major fear was being “doxxed” – having her personal information disseminated over the internet. “I have tried to retweet a few of the articles I’ve seen dissecting the issue in support, but personally I am terrified to be doxxed for even typing the words ‘gamer gate’. I have had stalkers and restraining orders issued in the past, I have had people show up on my doorstep when my personal information was hard to get.”But just minutes after her post was made, a commenter with the username “gaimerg8” posted what they claimed was her address and personal email in the comment section below the post. The comment, and the entire comment section, have since been removed.Many have pointed to the immediate doxxing received by Day to underscore the differing treatment experienced by men and women who speak out against gamergate. The former NFL star Chris Kluwe,whose own post against Gamergatewent viral after he called members of the group “slackjawed pickletits”, “slopebrowed weaseldicks” and a “basement-dwelling, cheetos-huffing, poopsock-sniffing douchepistol”, made the point himself.“None of you fucking #gamergate tools tried to dox me, even after I tore you a new one. I’m not even a tough target,”hetweeted. “Instead, you go after a woman who wrote why your movement concerns her.”Advertiser boycottsSoftware firm Adobe also waded into the gamergate controversy on Wednesday,distancing itselffrom US blog network Gawker over mocking tweets sent by a writer for the site.The writer, Sam Biddle, had sparked the ire of the movement with a series of tongue-in-cheek tweets whichhis editor later describedas “the tactical mistake of publicly treating gamergate with the contempt and flippancy that it deserves”.Ultimately#GamerGateis reaffirming what we’ve known to be true for decades: nerds should be constantly shamed and degraded into submission&mdash; Sam Biddle (@samfbiddle)October 16, 2014Bring Back Bullying&mdash; Sam Biddle (@samfbiddle)October 16, 2014A subsequent letter-writing campaign against current and former Gawker advertisers succeeded in encouraging Mercedes Benz to briefly pull ads on a network that sells to Gawker, and Adobe to ask for its name to be pulled from a list of former partners. A few hours after Adobe spoke out against Gawker, it clarified its position, seemingly to avoid being identified as pro-gamergate.We are vehemently opposed to bullying of any kind and would never support any group that bullies.&mdash; Adobe (@Adobe)October 22, 2014Intel found itself in a similar position in early October, after it pulled adverts from industry website Gamasutra after a letter-writing campaign aimed at the site’s editor-at-large (and Guardian contributor) Leigh Alexander. The company later clarified,in a statement released late on a Friday evening, that their action “inadvertently created a perception that we are somehow taking sides in an increasingly bitter debate in the gaming community. That was not our intent, and that is not the case.”Max Read, Biddle’s editor, slammed both Intel and Adobe for what he saw as the “cynicism” of their results. “Releasing into the world a statement as vacuous as Adobe’s tweet, or as inane as Intel’s “apology,” demonstrates not that those brands stand against something (how else can anyone possibly feel about bullying?) but that they stand for nothing,”he said.Lazy coverage of Gamergate is only feeding this abusive campaign
Almost $1.5m of bitcoins formerly held by cryptocurrency exchange Moolah have gone missing, after the exchange declared bankruptcy. The cash is believed to be in the personal wallet of the company’s founder and chief executive, Alex Green, who has not been heard from since Moolah went bust.In the last public communication from Green on 19 October,he revealedthat he was previously known as Ryan Kennedy until a name change by deed poll “in an attempt to start my life over and have some peace”.As Kennedy, he had gained notoriety among communities including British fans of anime Japanese cartoons, as well as bitcoin investors, for a series of failed business ventures includingFlirble, a web hosting service that ran for two months and Lemon,a bitcoin mining firmthat shut down in 2013.Othershad linked him to the names Ryan Albright, Ryan Fletcher and Ryan Gentle before he disappeared and re-emerged at the beginning of this year to start bitcoin exchange Moolah as Alex Green.The final saga started in July 2014, when a rival to Moolah, called Mintpal, was the target of a hack which lost it $2m of bitcoin. Green and three othersboughtMintpal a few weeks later, andintegrated 70,000 accounts at the exchange into Moolah.But on Sunday, Alex Green went public in a blogpost with his former name, and admitted that Moopay – the parent company of Moolah – “is now insolvent”. He blamed the insolvency on a bug in the software which “seems to have manifested as people being able to arbitrarily double their balances on a whim”, but said that former users of MintPal “had not been subject to the same exploit”.He ended the post saying that “I know sorry isn’t good enough. I know I have fucked up on a catastrophic level. There should have been better procedures in place.” Green has not been heard from since.But the MintPal users, who were assured that their money was safe, are getting concerned. Their accounts are still locked, and due to the open nature of the bitcoin system, it’s possible to see exactly where the money has ended up: $1.43m of it has flowed into and then out ofone specific account, whichone of the other three investorsin MintPal says is under the control of Green himself.We do not know Ryan&#39;s current location, and he is unfortunately the only one with access to customer funds.&mdash; MintPal (@MintPalExchange)October 19, 2014Already, users are banding together in an attempt to trace where the bitcoins end up. But currently the case is reminiscent ofthe digital wild goose chasethat ensued after online black market Sheep shut down. Then, the founder ran off with over 5,000 bitcoins, andusers dutifully traced the money through the network– until they realised that what looked like dastardly attempts to evade them were actually just the inner workings of a bitcoin exchange; the crook in question had sold the bitcoins days before.Even before Green came clean, questions had been raised about his identity. Moolah was a small player in the bitcoin market, but almost dominated the smaller meme-based cryptocurrency Dogecoin. That community had watched as the company ploughed money and marketing into Dogecoin, even becoming the main backer ofa successful attempt to sponsor a Nascar racer, and had wondered why Green had zero online footprint – a rarity for the digitally savvy.In July, a week before Mintpal would be hacked,the Daily Dotaccused Green of a litany of questionable business practices.“That no one outside of Moolah had ever seen [Green’s] face became such an established theme,” wrote Kevin Collier, “that the company’s COO, Landon Merrill, jokingly tweeted a ‘picture’ of Green: a person wearing a cardboard box on his head. Moolah’s location repeatedly changed, too. The company was registered with a Swiss address, then Moolah announced plans to create a physical office in Ireland, then in England.”The Guardian has attempted to contact Green using his last known details, but has received no reply.
Apple and Nike are working on new item of wearable technology that will have greater integration into existing gadgets, and is less obvious and more “stealth”, according to the Nike chief executive, Mark Parker.Nike has long been making wearable technology, originally partnering with Apple for its Nike+ running sensor range in 2006, which connected wirelessly to the iPod.Nike discontinued itsFuelBand fitness-tracking braceletin April, shutting down the team that made it, which saw two of its key engineers move to Apple to work on the Apple Watch. But Parker is still bullish on wearable technology as a key part of Nike’s future.‘The form it takes is critical’“I think it’s going to be a big part of the future, absolutely,” said Parkerin an interview with Bloomberg TV. “I think the form it takes is critical. You can go from the very geeky kind of wearables today – we’ve all seen some of those – to what I think you’ll see in the future, things that are more stealth, more integrated, more stylish and more functional, yes.”Parker reiterated that Nike had worked at length with Apple in the past, with Parker personally working with Apple founder Steve Jobs, and that having Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, on the board of Nike was a big advantage.“Technologically we can do things together that we couldn’t do independently,” Parker said. “So yeah, that’s part of our plan, to expand the whole digital frontier in terms of wearables, and go from what we say is tens of millions of users – right now there’s 25 million Nike+ users – to hundreds of millions.”Nike’s decision tocut its dedicated 70-person FuelBand teamdid not come as a complete surprise, but it happened only months after the release of its second-generation fitness band. The company said it was to refocus on its existing fitness gadgets in shoes and apparel, while pushing its Nike+ software and services.What form of new wearable technology from the Nike and Apple partnership will take is unknown. Nike is likely to have a Nike+ app for the Apple Watch and one that integrates with Apple’s new Health application, but Parker’s comments indicate something beyond a simple smartwatch app.•Nike+ FuelBand SE review - the active person’s fitness tracker•Microsoft expected to unveil a fitness-focused smartwatch within weeks•The Apple Watch: light, clever, but how long does the battery last?
Twitter made a bold move beyond 140 characters on Wednesday when the microblogging company launched a new service aimed at developers it hopes will get its technology embedded in a new generation of apps and services.More than 1,000 developers packed the Bill Graham Civic Auditorium in San Francisco for Flight, Twitter’s first developers conference since it became a public company.The chief executive, Dick Costolo, said the new service, called Fabric, was designed to help mobile app developers at every stage of their development. The free service will help with analysing crashes, mobile ads and embedding the company’s real-time information in new services.“We power it, and then we get out of the way,” he said. “All of us are so excited to be here today to unveil what we believe is the future of mobile software development.”The move brings Twitter into direct competition with Amazon, Facebook and Google, which provide the back-end support and tools that developers need to build mobile apps. The company announced a list of companies, including AOL, Kickstarter, McDonalds and Spotify, which are already using Fabric’s services.It comes after a series of disappointing results from Twitter, whose user growth rate is slowing even as it proves it can be a profitable business. Twitter reports its quarterly earnings next week. Last quarter the company received a strong boost from the World Cup and revenues soared. However, Twitter also reported a continued decline in how much time people were spending on the service.But the company is betting its mobile expertise, gained from working in 216 countries and 28 languages, will prove so attractive help the company grow use of its service.Fabric will have three components:• MoPub, an ad service for mobile developers Twitter bought for $350m in 2013, will help developers monetise their apps.• Crashlytics, which Twitter bought for $100m in 2013, will help developers debug and test new apps.• TwitterKit, launched at the conference, which will allow apps to seamlessly integrate Twitter’s real-time information. Popular transport app Citymapper, for example, unveiled it will now have live updates from San Francisco’s Bart train system, the London Underground and others.The company also announced a new service it hopes will replace email and password sign-in on mobile. The service, called Digits, will enable people to sign up for new apps in two steps – sending a request and confirming their mobile number. Jeff Seibert, Crashlytics’ co-founder, said he hoped the service would prove more secure than passwords and more popular than “social log-ins” – where people use Facebook or other social media companies to confirm their identity.The event was Twitter’s first developers conference in four years. The company’s early hits including the use of the @ symbol and # tags were driven by developers. But as Twitter grew it sought to gain greater control of its platform and relations with developers soured.Kevin Rogers, developer with mobile tech company Live2, said the pendulum had swung and Twitter was now courting innovators from outside the company again.“We are always looking for new stuff to do and so is Twitter. We’re small and they are really big, so it will be interesting to see what we can do with them,” he said.Filip Mares at Talko, a mobile communications platform, said he was excited by what Twitter had to offer and that the company could stand out from the competition. “Apple has a great interface, Google’s great in search and analytics, Twitter has this unique social aspect. They each have something and I think in this market it’s important to build for all these platforms if you want the biggest audience.”
Microsoft has warned about anew, unpatched software vulnerabilityaffecting almost all Windows machines, which is remarkably similar to a flaw used in recent cyberattacks on the Ukrainian government.The vulnerability is seemingly now being used in attacks on Taiwanese targets, exploited by hackers creating malicious PowerPoint documents that launched exploit code on target PCs when opened, although they could have used any Office file.Cyber intelligence firm iSight Partners warned last week thata separate but similar bug was being used in so-called ‘Sandworm’ attacks against the Ukrainian government,the European Union, Nato, French telecom firms and Polish energy suppliers. Russian hackers were suspected of carrying out the attacks.Michael Sutton, vice president of research at security firm Zscaler, said the two vulnerabilities were linked and have been exploited in the same way. “While investigating the patch for that initial vulnerability, researchers determined that the fix was not adequate and that the vulnerability could still be exploited,” he said.There is no clear evidence the latest flaw is being used by the same Sandworm hacker crew. But Jaime Blasco, director of AlienVault Labs, told the Guardian his organisation’s sensors had picked up on activity indicating the zero-day vulnerability was being used to attack people in Taiwan.“Apparently the patch that Microsoft released for the Sandworm vulnerability didn’t properly patch it and this new vulnerability exploits that,” he said.“We have seen several samples, one of them probably targeting Taiwan and delivering the Taidoor malware that has been attributed to Chinese cyber espionage on the past.”Three Google and two McAfee researchers have been credited with disclosing the latest vulnerability to Microsoft.The flaw is resident in all supported versions of Windows except Windows Server 2003. The problem lies in a technology called an Object Linking and Embedding (OLE) object, which is used to share data between various applications. In Office it’s used when parts of a file appear within another file, such as when an Excel chart is included in a PowerPoint presentation.If a target launched a malicious document, likely sent to them via email, they risked handing over control of their computer to the hackers. Using this sole vulnerability wouldn’t directly allow an attacker administrator-level access, which would let them do anything to the PC, but would grant them the same permissions as the victim.In this case, savvier users will also notice the ‘User Access Control’ popup that will arrive and require consent when a malicious document is clicked on. Microsoft has not stated when it will issue a patch for the bug, but it has included a fix-it solution in itsadvisory.“We continue to work on a security update to address this cyberattack. We’re monitoring the threat landscape very closely and will continue to take appropriate action to help protect our global customers,”saidTracey Pretorius, director for response communications at Microsoft.Users have been advised to be careful about opening Office documents sent via email, social media or instant messagers if they have come from unknown parties. They should also be wary of links from untrusted sources, as these may be used to launch a malicious Office file from a criminal hacker’s website.Microsoft said using its Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET), which adds additional layers of protection on certain applications, would help defend against this attack.But the Guardian has learned of a bypass of EMET. This could be used in conjunction with the OLE-based attack to ensure a successful hack.René Freingruber, a researcher from Austria-based security firm SEC Consult, managed to bypass the protection features of EMET in a real-world bypass on all Windows versions tested from XP to 8.1, including server variants.In a video showed to the Guardian, Freinburger showed how EMET initially deflected an attack using a known Firefox exploit from 2011 (he used an old, patched flaw so attackers couldn’t abuse code snippets shown at conferences over the last few weeks). But using his tweaked attack code, EMET was made redundant.“It depends on the actual exploit the attacker wants to execute. In our case, for the sample exploit of Firefox, it would be enough to trick the user into visiting a malicious webpage or adding the exploit code to ad servers for targeted attacks,” Johannes Greil, a fellow researcher at SEC Consult, told the Guardian.Microsoft had not responded to a request for comment on those bypasses. Freinburger showed off his exploit at the Ruxcon Security Conference in Australia earlier this month, but the firm plans to offer more details on the potentially dangerous flaws in the coming weeks.•Persian paranoia: America’s fear of Iranian cyber power
Google has joined the ranks of companies trying to tackle the problem of email overload, but its newInboxmobile app will sit alongside its Gmail service rather than replace it.Unveiled this week, Inbox is an appfor Androidandfor iPhone, with an invite-only launch that mirrors the debut of Gmail in 2004.Its features include the ability to organise similar emails in “bundles”, from bank statements and online shopping purchases to travel reservations, to reduce inbox clutter.The app will also show “highlights” of key information from individual messages, including live flight times and thumbnails of photo attachments. Inbox can also “snooze” away emails until a later point – a feature pioneered by another email app, Mailbox.“Years in the making, Inbox is by the same people who brought you Gmail, but it’s not Gmail: it’s a completely different type of inbox, designed to focus on what really matters,” wrote Sundar Pichai, Google’s senior vice president of Android, Chrome and apps,in a blog post.“For many of us, dealing with email has become a daily chore that distracts from what we really need to do – rather than helping us get those things done.”He added that Inbox is purposefully different from Gmail, which has its own mobile app thatrecently passed 1bn installson Android alone. “Gmail’s still there for you, but Inbox is something new. It’s a better way to get back to what matters, and we can’t wait to share it with you.”That’s not strictly accurate: Google is making people wait to have Inbox shared with them: the first invitations have been sent out already, with Pichai promising that early adopters will be able to invite their friends.Mailbox is the obvious competitor to Inbox. That app launched in February 2013 and wasbought the next month by Dropboxfor a rumoured $100m. Other apps trying to de-clutter inboxes include Boxer, Gusto, Acompli and Evomail.•Email overload? 19 tips for taking control of your inbox•Mailbox talks Dropbox, Gmail and a ‘smarter’ future for email
Yahoo says that visitors to Tumblr have grown by 40% since it acquired the blogging service in May 2013, and expects that growth to fuel more than $100m in advertising revenues in 2015.Yahoo’s chief executiveMarissa Mayer made the prediction in an earnings callwith analysts, following the announcement of the company’s latest quarterly financial results.“We acquired Tumblr a little more than 15 months ago. Over the past 15 months they have seen strong growth. Their audience grew 40% from 300 million to more than 420 million users,” said Mayer.“The number of registered blogs nearly doubled from 105 million to 206 million, mobile monthly users of their mobile app grew by 50% and perhaps most impressively Tumblr time spend grew from 22 minutes to 28 minutes.”There’s a caveat to this growth: Yahoo counts “users” as anyone who logs in to Tumblr to write a blog, but also anyone who visits one of those blogs. If you click on a link to an amusing single-issue Tumblr from another social network, for example, you’re being counted as a user.In Yahoo’s eyes, this is Tumblr’s audience, and it hopes that will hold true for brands who might advertise on Tumblr too. Marissa told analysts that “more than 260 of the world’s top brands” are now on Tumblr, before talking up the impact of the company’s new sponsored posts advertising business.“Tumblr’s revenue is growing nicely and we anticipate them achieving more than $100 million in revenue as well as positive EBITDA in 2015,” said Mayer.This is still relatively small in the overall scheme of things for Yahoo: the company’s overall revenues for the last quarter were just under $1.1bn, as a comparison. But Tumblr’s importance to Yahoo is its potential to attract the younger internet users that brands are particularly keen to target.Later in the call, Mayer was asked about adult content on Tumblr, and whether “NSFW” blogs will put advertisers off the platform. “I looked at a lot of different Internet services over the years. Almost all of them have some component that is not safe for work driven,” she said.“I would say that Tumblr is not certainly not the highest I’ve seen... it’s how some people choose to express themselves and so its something that we support on the platform, but that is not as large a percentage as I’ve seen other competing services.”Mayer also told analysts that Yahoo’s mobile audience is growing: up to 550m monthly active users across Yahoo and Tumblr. “We believe mobile monthly active users are approximately 17% from a year ago showing strong growth on an already large user base,” she said.Yahoo is still in the market for buying other companies, although Mayer said that new “building block” acquisitions must fit with one of Yahoo’s four “pillars” of the company’s business: search, communications, digital magazines and video.The latter is increasingly important for Yahoo, with rumours swirling that it wants to provide YouTube with some stiffer competition in the online video market – includingpoaching some of its stars.Earlier this month, Business Insider claimed thatTumblr may be a key plank in this strategy, suggesting that Yahoo’s management thinks it “should become the company’s answer to YouTube” by signing up popular YouTubers to run their own channels on Tumblr.Mayer gave no details on that during Yahoo’s earnings call, although she said video is an important part of the company’s plans, including selling video advertising.“We need to make sure that we have enough streams from end-users, so we have enough people coming to watch video on Yahoo and our related properties on our network that we have places to place those video ads,” she said, before addressing the wider video market.“This has been an area of a lot of consolidation this year and it’s a space that we are watching carefully, but it’s an area that we’re very bullish on.”•How a media company’s ambitions show whether it’s doomed
If you’ve got an email in your inbox from the World Health Organization offering “information and prevention” tips about Ebola, don’t click on its attachment – you’re likely to end up with a nasty digital infection.Cybercriminals are using the current Ebola outbreak as a topical hook for spam emails that can install malware giving them remote access to computers, including logging key presses, capturing video from webcams and stealing passwords.Online Security firm Trustwave’s SpiderLabs team of ethical hackers published details of the scam yesterday, noting that emails pretend to be from the World Health Organization.“The information and prevention listed in the attached file will help you and those around you stay safe,” claims one emailpublished on SpiderLabs’ blog.“There is an outbreak of Ebola and other diseases around that you know nothing about. Download the World Health Organization file for more information on how to stay safe from Ebola and other preventable diseases. We care.”Well, the creators of the email care about installing something called the “DarkComet Remote Access Trojan” which can run on computers “undetected by antivirus software” according to SpiderLabs.Here comes the caveat: there’s no evidence yet that this particular spam campaign is a serious threat. “We’ve only seen one sample from this campaign so far. At this time we don’t have reason to believe it is a widespread campaign,” notes SpiderLabs’ blog post.“The address it was sent to was an old honeypot address, so it’s not exactly targeted either. These facts taken together suggest a low volume campaign (sent to whatever address list the spammer is using) in an attempt to infect random users in the hope of gaining some data that can be used or sold.”The more important point, though, is that any topical news event is fuel for cybercriminals, so any unexpected email in your inbox about Ebola should be treated with caution.SpiderLabs points to another campaign is pretending to offer advice from the Mexican government about Ebola prevention, for example.It also notesa recent warning from the US Department of Homeland Security’s Computer Emergency Readiness Team(US-CERT) about Ebola-related phishing and malware campaigns.•Cheryl Cole is ‘most dangerous’ UK celebrity for viruses
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFake news sites are using Facebook to spread Ebola panic &gt;&gt; The Vergehere's a scary story bouncing around Facebook, accruing hundreds of thousands of likes: the small town of Purdon, Texas, has been quarantined after a family of five was diagnosed with Ebola. The story is a total hoax, put out by a deeply cynical site called the National Report. But to the 340,000 people who saw it pop up in their news feed, it looked real enough to share."We've seen stories on satire sites — fake news sites — getting tremendous traction because they feed on people's fears," says Craig Silverman, the founder ofEmergent.Info. "It's really becoming an epidemic now."There's satire, and then there's plain crap. Emergent, though, is neither - it's truly useful.Bank of America refunds duplicate Apple Pay charges &gt;&gt; Cult of Mac[Samuel] Burke [at CNN] reports that he eventually got the charges refunded once Bank of America noticed they were obviously duplicate charges of the same amount. Other customers haven't had as easy time getting a refund, but Bank of America says they're aware of the issue and working on a fix.Bank of America representative Tara Burke told Cult of Mac, "We apologize for this inconvenience. We're correcting this issue immediately." She also reassured us that "all duplicates will be refunded" to Apple Pay customers.Apple Pay launched on Monday with the release of iOS 8.1, allowing iPhone 6 and 6 Plus users to pay for items at brick and mortar stores by tapping their device to an NFC terminal. The launch wasn't without its glitches, as some of the Apple Pay supporting apps had problems processing payments.Problem apparently limited to Bank of America - but it's the sort of problem that can kill a system if it isn't figured out quickly.Trim Enabler and Yosemite &gt;&gt; CindoriTrim Enabler was a useful app to enable third-party SSDs on Macs using older versions of Mac OS X. But:In OS X 10.10 (Yosemite), Apple has introduced a new security requirement called kext signing. (A kext is a kernel extension, or a driver, in Mac OS X)Kext signing basically works by checking if all the drivers in the system are unaltered by a third party, or approved by Apple. If they have been modified, Yosemite will no longer load the driver. This is a means of enforcing security, but also a way for Apple to control what hardware that third party developers can release OS X support for.Since Trim Enabler works by unlocking the Trim driver for 3rd party SSD's, this security setting prevents Trim Enabler to enable Trim on Yosemite.Not good news if you've got a third-party SSD drive - which has for years been one of the best ways to "refresh" an older machine. Beware.Sony looking to cut smartphone sales target again &gt;&gt; WSJTakashi Mochizuki:Sony is considering slashing its smartphone sales target again, people familiar with the matter said Wednesday, as the business struggles to perform as expected in the face of fierce competition especially in emerging markets.The Japanese electronics giant is likely to trim its smartphone sales target by several millions of units from the current goal of 43m for the 12 months to the end of March 2015. A lowering of the sales target would be the second downward revision of the forecast in the current business year started in April. The original goal was 50m, which many analysts said was too optimistic…The planned move stems from Sony's plan to reduce its presence in some markets, especially emerging nations such as China, by pulling its entry-level handsets.The problem then becomes whether it can maintain sufficient scale at a high enough selling price to make the business worth continuing with. Thewritedown in Septemberwas of the mobile unit's estimated profit over its lifetime. Cutting sales forecasts is a lot more urgent.We're moving your data! &gt;&gt; Hugo Barra of XiaomiHugo Barra (ex-Google, now Xiaomi) posting on Facebook:User experience is hugely important to us. As a global Internet company, we really care about speed and we're also fully committed to storing our users' data securely at all times.In early 2014, we kicked off a massive internal effort to expand our server infrastructure globally in order to better serve Mi fans everywhere.Our primary goal in moving to a multi-site server architecture was to improve the performance of our services for Mi fans around the world, cut down latency and reduce failure rates. At the same time, it also better equips us to maintain high privacy standards and comply with local data protection regulations. This is a very high priority for Xiaomi as we expand into new markets over the next few years.Going to Amazon and Akamai outside Beijing for "all international users". Doesn't Xiaomi trust servers in China for non-Chinese users?Apple launches "Maps Connect," self-service local listings portal &gt;&gt; Search Engline LandGreg Sterlin:This afternoon Apple notified us of a new self-service portal to add or edit local business listings:Apple Maps Connect. It's intended for small business owners or their authorized representatives (though not agencies) to be able to quickly and easily add content directly into Apple Maps.Isn't this the sort of system that has been widely abused in Google Maps by locksmith companies and others?This new battery charges to 70% in two minutes, and lasts for 20 years &gt;&gt; Science Alert AustraliaSick of waiting an hour for your phone to charge before you leave the house? Researchers at Nanyang Technological University in Singapore have come up with the best solution yet - a lithium ion battery that charges to 70% in just two minutes.Even better, it also lasts for 20 years, and will reportedly be available to the public within two years.Start queuing now?Why #Gamergaters piss me the f*** off &gt;&gt; MediumEx-NFL player and longtime videogame player Chris Kluwe:So many people are playing games now that they are popular culture. They are not going away. All sorts of cool things, that I like, are now things that a whole bunch of other people like! There's enough space now for people to make games that are strange and disturbing and maybe highlight a different perspective of the world, because gaming is no longer a niche activity, it's something that everybody does. There is room for art in video games. That's awesome!That's about the longest passage without the sort of swearing that would have Malcolm Tucker raising his eyebrows in appreciation. (If you imagine it spoken in Peter Capaldi's angry voice it's even better.) Make the time to read it.The new iPad. Is it better? &gt;&gt; AsymcoThird party media (music and videos) storage and playback used to be the main job that storage was hired to do but as cameras got better, user-generated content suddenly bellied up to the bar.That is now the story for phones, which are gobbling up all the storage and bandwidth we can throw at them. But what about the larger form factors? Are iPads (and laptops) growing in their demands? Paradoxically, it would seem that the smaller devices are hungrier than their larger cousins.The answer lies with the jobs to be done. If highly portable devices are more usable, they will be used more. Large devices are left behind, literally, because their jobs are not as pervasive in place and time. For a large screen like the iPad to increase its attractiveness, it has to be the stage for a set of jobs that only it can perform.Apple Pay: seamless in stores, but quirky online &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAfter I used Apple Pay for a day of shopping in stores, a few things became clear: The new payment system is convenient, problem-free and even fun.The same can't be said for using Apple Pay to shop via apps on my phone or tablet. That system has lots of room for improvement. It's limited, still buggy and seemed to result in multiple charges for some purchases — at least on day 1.Uber and Instacart were both buggy online, though they say they'll figure it out. Neither Amazon nor eBay is in for the service online; how long will they be able to hold out?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Since their launch in 2010 73m Windows Phones have been sold. A small drop in the ocean of 2.88bn smartphones sold globally, but Microsoft’s software has a bright future in at least one market segment: the low end.So says Dan Dery, vice president of Alcatel, the Chinese mobile device manufacturer formed from a buyout of a joint venture with France’s Alcatel-Lucent, and which specialises in smartphones costing under $200. That’s well below the worldwide average selling price (ASP) for smartphones, whichIDC reckons will be $314 this year, down from $335 in 2013.“Carriers from across the world have consistently told us that entry-level Windows Phones work, but not at the high end,” Dery explained to the Guardian.Apart from Microsoft’s mobile arm (which used to be Nokia’s), there have been Windows Phones models released this year by HTC, Samsung, Huawei and Alcatel, with more on the way.But it’s not the high-end flagships such as the Nokia Lumia 930 or the 41-megapixel Lumia 1020 that make up the big sales. Instead, it’s the entry-level Nokia Lumia 520 and similar models which have been the biggest hit with customers: Ad Duplex’s September 2014 figures show that the 520 and 521 make up 35% of the installed base.Windows Phone’s biggest strength is that it performs the same on low-power smartphones as it does on high-end devices. It makes entry-level smartphones costing less than $200 a solid, polished experience, but diminishes the attraction of more expensive Windows Phones.By contrast most low-end Android devices struggle to perform well, requiring much more powerful hardware to run smoothly, which can frustrate users with cheaper devices.‘A very good consumer experience at the entry level’Low-end Windows Phones have sold well, undercutting the competition on price but with solid feature sets that get the basics right – a similar tactic to Motorola’s popularMoto EandMoto GAndroid smartphones costing under £120.“We don’t know whether that’s because Windows Phone is very good for entry level smartphones, or because people have been looking to get a Nokia device at an affordable price,” said Dery.Nokia was not the first Windows Phone licencees when the software arrived in October 2010, but quickly became the biggest when Stephen Elop, then chief executive, adopted it wholesale to replace the ageing Symbian software. Microsoft bought Nokia’s mobile phone division inSeptember 2013 for €5.4bn, acquiring the Lumia smartphone brand but not the Nokia name. The Nokia brand remained with the Finnish parent, which continues to make network devices and mapping products.The purchase was seen from the outside as a move that could put off other Windows Phone device manufacturers, which will from now on be directly competing with Microsoft while licensing its operating system for their own phones.However, that’s not the case as far as Alcatel is concerned.“Now we’ve seen Microsoft buy Nokia but put the [Nokia] brand aside, which means either Microsoft did its own maths and saw Windows Phone working at the entry level not tied to the Nokia brand – which is our belief – or it misread the numbers and it’s gotten rid of Nokia meaning someone else will have to come in and fill the gap,” said Dery.“We’re not interested in high-end devices – so Windows Phone producing a very, very good consumer experience at the entry level, which is not the case for other software, is a very interesting prospect,” he said. “It seems a lot more natural for first-time smartphone users – it’s surprising and I don’t know why, but that seems to be the case reported from carriers.”‘The most converged OS’With Microsoft’s vision of Windows 10, unveiled at the end of September, Windows Phone suddenly looks more appealing, Dery says..“Windows is the most converged OS between smartphone, tablet and laptop to date,” explained Dery. “We are very happy to have a partner interested in conversion, because our users do not want complicated systems – they want something familiar from their work environment in the office, but on a smartphone.”Not only is Windows 10 a fuller realisation of a “one Windows” for all devices, but PC manufactures may soon see even more competition, this time from a different breed of device manufacturers.‘Not good news for companies from the PC industry’“Windows 10’s cross-device integration – from smartphone through to PCs – will help us make an entry into mobile computing, but with a different mindset taken from the mobile business not the computer business,” explained Dery. “It’s very good news for people with our background, but not good news for companies from the PC industry, because it will likely increase the pressure as more players from our side of the industry enter the computer market.”The PC market has been shrinking for years, as tablets and other mobile devices have been bought in preference of desktop and laptop computers. Figures from both IDC and Gartner show shipments shrinking approximately 1% year-on-year, creating a squeeze on smaller players outside the largest six - Lenovo, HP, Dell, Asus, Acer and Apple – who have seen their share over the overall market increase.Toshiba, Sony and Samsung have recently withdrawn wholly or in part from the PC market.Alcatel has Windows Phones available, and has done since Windows Phone 7 was first released, but it is actively looking with things in the pipeline based around Windows 10 moving towards the traditional PC industry.“The whole electronics industry has been trying for users to deliver the PC experience onto smaller devices,” said Dery. “But now we’re seeing something interesting as mobile devices are capable of going the other way from mobile to computers.”“The simple fact that Microsoft brings Office to multiple platforms is very good news for us, for example,” he said.It is unlikely Windows 10 will be enough to re-energise the PC market, although the re-introduction of the Start button and classic Start menu will please business customers who were put off by the radical changes made in Windows 8.But Windows 10 could see new devices entering the PC market from the mobile industry. Convertible laptops, which can be used as either a laptop or a tablet, have seen solid uptake by both consumers and business according to data from Gartner.Alcatel and other mobile manufacturers out of China and the far east could soon be putting the squeeze onto PC manufacturers coming at the business from a different angle, and they should be worried according to analysts.•PC market still shrinking, with smaller firms squeezed out
It's Thursday.
Google has announced a physicalUSB Security Keythat should ensure users keep their accounts safe from hackers, although it is not without its limitations.Anyone who buys a compatible USB from a third-party supplier and adds the Security Key functionality will be able to use it when logging in to Google’s sites, which include Gmail and Google Drive, as it will hold the code required when two-factor authentication has been switched on.Two-factor authentication is a security protection that asks for a password and an additional piece of information that verifies the identity of the person logging in.Previously, Google has only allowed users to receive the second chunk of authentication data as a code sent via text message or the Authenticator app, but the USB can now be used without any input needed on the keyboard.Unless hackers manage to steal the plastic key, accounts with Security Key enabled will almost certainly be secure from compromise. This should be more secure than using a smartphone too, as cyber criminals have infected mobile devices in the past to siphon off security codes.The USB will also check that the site in question is owned by Google and not a fake website set up by a cyber criminal. Security Key won’t transmit its cryptographic signature when a phishing site is attempting to impersonate a Google login page in Chrome.“Rather than typing a code, just insert Security Key into your computer’s USB port and tap it when prompted in Chrome. When you sign into your Google Account using Chrome and Security Key, you can be sure that the cryptographic signature cannot be phished,”saidNishit Shah, product manager for Google’s security division.There is one significant limitation: the key only works via the Chrome browser. This will likely prevent many from using it. Then there’s the need for added hardware, which might put some off.“The downside is that it is one more thing to carry around and keep track off, it requires the Chrome browser to work, and that it requires a USB port to work which makes it useless for a lot of mobile devices,” security researcher Andreas Lindh told the Guardian over email.“I’m not 100% sure who their target audience is, but perhaps non-technical people who aren’t that comfortable using smartphones and apps will find this appealing. Either way, if it can make more people using two-factor authentication, it is a good thing.”As part of its announcement, Google is joining and championing a movement known as the FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) Alliance. The group is trying to spread the open Universal 2nd Factor (U2F) protocol, which the Security Key uses, across sites so users only require one USB key for secure access to various web services.“With large scale deployments of FIDO UAF [Universal Authentication Framework] in payments applications from PayPal, Samsung, AliPay, Nok Nok Labs, and Synaptics, and today’s announcement of FIDO U2F authentication by Google, there is no doubt that a new era has arrived,” said Michael Barrett, president of the FIDO Alliance. “We are starting to move users and providers alike beyond single-factor passwords to more secure, private, easy-to-use FIDO authentication.”For anyone who wants to get set up with a Security Key, a FIDO-accredited stick can be foundhere.
A British private equity firm is following Facebook into the Swedish sub-Arctic, building a data centre aiming to tap the growing demand for energy-hungry computing capacity in the cloud.Hydro66, a data centre provider financed by Black Green Capital, is launching a new facility 70 miles from the Arctic circle in Boden, with the aim of housing high-powered computing equipment for corporate IT customers in Europe.With 800 million people “within 50 milliseconds” of the site, its investors claim they will attract corporations seeking to house their data at low cost and with a small carbon footprint, thanks to Scandinavia’s sub-zero temperatures, cheap hydroelectric power and fast fibre-optic network.The new facility will be a tenth the size of Facebook’s, but that has tens of thousands of servers packed together in long aisles, where natural cooling can save a significant amount of power.The latest project depends on persuading companies to locate their servers more than 2,000km from London or Paris, at a time when energy prices are falling and the market for data centres is fast-moving and competitive.Facebook revealed three years ago it would build itsfirst data centreoutside the US in Luleå, 80km south of the Arctic circle, for its own exclusive use; the company said in March it was constructing a second large centre on the site. Bitcoin company KnCMiner this year opened a data centre in nearby Boden where clients can “mine” the digital currency remotely, requiring prodigious amounts of energy and computing power.“We are looking at a step change in terms of efficiency and green credentials,” said Paul Morrison, business development director at Hydro66.The company plans to invest £50m over five years, starting with an 8,000 sq metre (86,000 sq ft) data centre with 40MW of capacity. It received planning permission from Swedish authorities on Wednesday and is due to open in April or May next year.The company announced a small “proof of concept” project in May on a brownfield site, whose success is the basis for going ahead with the main investment, it said. The new centre’s computing capacity is equivalent to almost twice the total new dedicated data centre demand in London in 2014, according to analysts CBRE.Black Green Capital said its team has an established background of data centre operators in Europe. It is led by tech entrepreneur David Rowe, whosold broadband provider Easynet to BSkyBin 2005 for £211m. Its investment in Hydro66 is pure private equity with no debt.Data centres have been described as the technology world’s dark energy-guzzling secret. Areportby Bank of America Merrill Lynch last month said energy efficiency could become a significant driver of growth for the $220bn (£137bn) cloud computing market, with information and communication technologies already consuming 10% of the world’s electricity. Smartphones, corporate “big data” and the internet of things would further expand the digital universe by a factor of 10 by 2020, the report said.Scandinavia is attractive to data centre providers – Google opened a dedicated centre in Hamina, Finland, in 2011. Green Mountain Data offers data management outsourcing inside a Norwegian mountain cooled by a fjord, while Verne Global runs a similar facility in Iceland.But finding customers outside the region has sometimes been difficult. Knut Molaug, chief executive of Green Mountain Data, which runs a colocation data centre deep inside a mountain at a former Nato ammunition store near Stavanger, Norway, said the company has targeted the British market for more than two years, but had yet to secure a customer, though negotiations were “starting to have considerable traction”.Some analysts are sceptical about the business model behind outsourcing data management to Scandinavia. The price advantage of locating a data centre in Sweden is small and likely to shrink as technological advances expanded the capacity of cloud computing centres much closer to European business hubs, according to Kjetil Ertnæs, a data centre consultant in Oslo.“You might have cheaper electricity for five to 10 years, but you need to think very long term, and the risk will probably be too high for most players because it is difficult in the wholesale colocation market to predict the future,” Ertnæs said.Tim Anker, director of Colocation Exchange, a UK broker of space in data centres, said the new centre would be “very tricky to sell. There are a lot advantages to the Nordic region, but the markets in Amsterdam and London are highly competitive. For large wholesale users it makes sense, but the distances involved in any latency sensitive application, such as banking, makes it inappropriate.”But Tiny Haynes, data centre analyst at Gartner, said the sector was set to go the same way as the aluminium industry, where smelters have moved close to hydroelectric dams. His calculations suggest a company in Docklands, London could save 42% on its data centre costs by relocating to Norway.“People are dipping their feet in the water, but no one has gone for it in a big way,” Haynes said. “The scepticism is justified, it is no trivial thing to migrate [IT applications abroad].”Jeff Monroe, chief executive of Verne Global – whose colocation data centre in Keflavik, Iceland, counts German carmaker BMW and Silicon Valley’s Risk Management Solutions among its customers – said there was what he called a “data gravity” trend for companies to split their IT applications and move the low-latency operations – those that can operate with a tiny time delay – towards the north.But the sector needed more participants, he said. “It’s like building a restaurant on top of a hill. Once you open you want more restaurants nearby to help draw in the public.”Gary Cook, senior information technology analyst for Greenpeace International in Washington DC, said Facebook’s commitment in 2011 to become long-term carbon neutral had informed its move into Sweden and helped “change the conversation” among companies with heavy data needs.“A lot of organisations are considering switching to the cloud, and you are seeing more and more players in the market place saying ‘this is good, but what is our carbon footprint going to look like?’” Cook said.
YouTube games channels have become one of the most popular categories on Google’s online video site, with the 100 biggest notching up nearly 4.4bn video views in September alone.That’s up from3.5bn views in May, according toa chart published by industry site Tubefilterbased on data from analytics firm OpenSlate.The chart, which ranks YouTube gaming channels based on their monthly views, reveals that seven had more than 100m views in September, led by YouTube’s biggest starPewDiePiewith 392.1m views that month.He was followed by child-friendly Minecraft channelStampy(189.6m views), Spanish channelVegetta777(164m) and another Minecraft channel,The Diamond Minecart(161.8m).All four channels belong to multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios, which was acquired by Disney earlier this year in a deal that could eventually be worth up to $950m.The company has become one of the new powerhouses of games media, with 22 of the top 100 YouTube games channels under its umbrella. Its closest rival is Machinima, which accounted for 17 of the top 100 in September.42 of the top 100 YouTube games channels that month are based in the US, while 14 hail from the UK – 15 if you include PewDiePie – aka Felix Kjellberg – whose channel is classified under his Swedish nationality, although he lives in Brighton.British YouTuber Olajide Olatunji – known asKSIon the service – owned the fastest-growing games channel in September. His second channelKSIOajidebtHDsaw its views rise 185% month-on-month to 35.1m in September, catching up with his main channel’s 51.2m views.Gaming is huge on YouTube, perhaps second only to music on the service, thanks to a mixture of “Let’s Play” walkthroughs, reviews and comedy skits.Some games publishers make it into the top 100 too: Angry Birds developerRovioowned the 44th most popular games channel in September with 30.1m views, ahead of League of Legends makerRiot Games(28.9m) and the official channel for console gameDestiny(22.8m).The chart makes clear the extent to which YouTubers and MCNs are reaching large audiences on YouTube ahead of existing games media companies. That said,IGNs channelwas 11th in the rankings with 82.8m views in September, whileGamespot’s channelwas 51st with 26.4m views.The rise of YouTube games channels is provoking growing debate within the games industry about commercial issues, from the amounts demanded by some YouTubers to feature a game in their videos, to how such payments should be disclosed to their audiences.There may be a shakeup to come in the world of MCNs and gaming, too. Earlier in October,PewDiePie hinted at plans to strike out alonewhen his contract with Maker Studios runs out, when asked about the idea of setting up his own MCN inan interview for Swedish magazine Icon.“Yes, but I’d rather not talk too much about it. I’m in touch with a couple of people who I think would be so right for this. I’m eager to get it all up and running. So far, all the networks have been managed in such an incredibly poor way, it’s embarrassing really. I’d like to help other YouTubers,” said Kjellberg.He later rowed back from the comments after they were reported in the Wall Street Journal. “I feel like I was misquoted in the WSJ and I’m really happy with the work that Maker has been doing for me,”tweeted Kjellberg.Even so, what the Tubefilter/OpenSlate chart shows is that a PewDiePie-led collective of YouTube gamers could instantly have a huge reach, and considerable clout within the games industry.•YouTube MCNs stake claim to the future of TV•Disney’s YouTube deal is a real game changer•PewDiePie was watched 449m times in August 2014
Grump’s Internet Law dictates that whenever a large social network like Facebook or Twitter changes its design or adds a major new feature, people kick up a stink online claiming it’s going to ruin the service.Sometimes, they’re right, and the company executes a quick u-turn. Sometimes, the new feature flops and is retired at a later point. But quite often, the new feature beds in nicely, and becomes an important part of the social network.Later today, Twitter will be making its latest announcements at its Flight conference,reportedly including a new app development platform called Fabric. The implications for Twitter users are sure to spark debate among its always-vocal community.It’s a good point to look back at some of Twitter’s past changes and the impact they had on the social network and the people that use it.Here are 20 of the changes that helped make Twitter what it is today, usually for the better, although occasionally – if only in the short term – for the worse.Twitter verified accounts.Verified accounts (June 2009)Many celebrities caught on to Twitter early in its life, but it was 2009 before their status was recognised with the now-familiar blue ‘Verified’ tick. It was a good move for those well-known individuals (plus companies and public agencies) to protect against impersonation.That said, Twitter has occasionally been caught out by imposters who manage to get verified – most recentlya Morrissey accountthat fooled Twitter and media outlets alike.Hyperlinked hashtags (July 2009)Hashtags weren’t actually Twitter’s invention, but the company caught on to the way people were using them to group tweets around specific events and topics. In July 2009, it made hashtags automatically hyperlinked, so that people could click on a hashtag to see other tweets using it.Over time, that small feature has become increasingly important to Twitter: for example in its dealings with the television industry, as it tries to persuade broadcasters thatit can be their “synchronised social soundtrack”.Twitter lists.Twitter lists (October 2009)When Twitter revealed its Lists feature, it pitched them as a way to “curate” lists of interesting Twitter accounts either privately or publicly: “You could create a list of the funniest Twitter accounts of all time, athletes, local businesses, friends, or any compilation that makes sense,”explained the company at the time.For power users, Twitter Lists have been a useful feature, especially if you follow hundreds of accounts and are prepared to take the time to divide them into separate lists. However, it’s not quite caught on yet for mainstream users, even though recommending good Lists to newcomers might be a way to make Twitter less intimidating when they first sign up.Retweet buttons (November 2009)In 2014, some people think it’s rude to manually re-post someone’s tweet with an RT at the start, rather than just tapping the retweet button. So it might be strange to think that once, all retweets were done in this way.But in 2009,Twitter started rolling out its retweet button, initially to a “very small percentage of accounts”, suggesting that it “makes forwarding a particularly interesting tweet to all your followers very easy”. Since then, it’s become a familiar part of the service.Promoted tweets (April 2010)In the first half of 2014, Twitter made $503m from advertising. Back in 2010, though, the company was only just starting along the road to making money.Promoted Tweets was its long-anticipated advertising platform, with brands paying to have their tweets shown at the top of search results pages.It wasn’t until the following year that Twitter started putting promoted tweets into people’s main streams, and it has since launched other kinds of ad too: Promoted Accounts and Promoted Trends for example. Thus far, Twitter appears to have walked the line well between making money and not annoying users.@EarlyBird (July 2010)This is one of the Twitter experiments that many people have forgotten.@EarlyBird was a new form of Twitter ad, but also an account that people could follow, tweeting out exclusive offers from advertising partners.The first was a buy-one-get-one-free offer for tickets to Disney’s The Sorcerer’s Apprentice film, while the second wasa deal to get a cheap TV setfrom US retailer Target. A few months later, @EarlyBird was shut down with then-COO Dick Costolo saying Twitter had “tremendous early success with it, but it needs to be reworked or rethought”. Or, indeed, shelved for good.Twitter’s first official mobile app.Official mobile apps (2010)A fun piece of mobile trivia for you:BlackBerry was actually first to get an official Twitter appin April 2010, thanks to a partnership between Research In Motion and Twitter. But the same month, the company signified its intentions bybuying popular iPhone app Tweetie,rebranding it as Twitterin May – by which point there was alsoan official Android app.Twitter’s move into mobile apps was controversial at the time and since, due to restrictions placed on other developers making their own Twitter apps. Yet predictions that Twitter would squeeze them out of the market proved wrong: some fell by the wayside, but TweetBot, Echofon and others are still around in 2014.#NewTwitter (2011-12)Twitter has gone through several redesigns in its history, with #NewTwitter being one of the most protracted:unveiled in September 2010, it rolled out to users over the next year, initially as a voluntary upgrade, before ultimately being a forced change for the last few refuseniks.The key change here – again, one that feels to many Twitter users in 2014 like it’s always been there – was a two-pane design, with videos and photos now viewable within Twitter. It also introduced features like related content and mini-profiles.It laid more foundations for the Twitter that we know in 2014. The rollout wascompleted in August 2011.The Quick Bar – or “DickBar” (left) – wasn’t #winning.Photograph: PR#DickBar (March 2011)Hands up if you remember the #DickBar? Or, as it was officially known,the Quick Bar– Costolo was the inspiration for the nickname,coined by influential tech blogger John Gruberas “Dick-Bar”.It was a storm in a teacup in March 2011, with users protesting loudly at the addition of a floating bar at the top of the tweet stream in Twitter’s iPhone app, showing trending topics – including promoted ones. It was annoying and intrusive, not least because it couldn’t be turned off.Well, it could be... by Twitter. At the end of March,Twitter removed the feature. “After testing a feature and evaluating its merits, if we learn it doesn’t improve the user experience or serve our mission, we’ll remove that feature,” explained the company.Downloadable archives (December 2012)There were ways to dig back into your Twitter archives before this change, but Twitter’s launch ofthe ability to download all your past tweetsmade it a lot easier. It started rolling out to users at the end of 2012, providing tools to rewind the clock and view tweets by month, and search the archives.This was the sort of new feature that power users loved – not least because it helped them boast about how long they’d been using Twitter – but it didn’t have a noticeable impact on newer users of the service.Vine (January 2013)Twitter’s move into shortform-video sharing started in October 2012, when it bought a fledgling mobile startup called Vine, which hadn’t launched its app yet. A few months later,it went live: a way to shoot and share six-second looping videos, leaked a day in advance when Costolo – now CEO – posted a Vine of someone cooking a steak tartare (above).Vine has since gone from strength to strength, with versions for Android and Windows Phone, more video-editing features, and the addition of “loop counts” to show how popular individual clips are. By August 2014,more than 100m people a month were watching Vine videos, looping clips more than 1bn times a day.Vine has also spawned its own subculture of “Viners” in areas including music, comedy and art, with some of its stars going on to find success in the mainstream media: from musicians like Shawn Mendes signing major-label deals and having chart hits to comedians like Dapper Laughs going on tour and bagging TV shows.Twitter #Music (April 2013)If Vine has been a big hit, Twitter #Music was a high-profile flop. It was the result of another acquisition – music startup We Are Hunted – and waspitched by Twitteras “a way to surface songs people are tweeting about” and thus help people discover new artists and music.It launched as a website and iOS app, but by October that yearrumours were already flying of its imminent demise, as it didn’t catch on. By April 2014,it was toast. But Twitter #Music did lay the groundwork for Twitter to do more around music since then – for example, itsrecent partnerships with SoundCloud and iTunesto play songs within people’s timelines.Conversation chronology (August 2013)Twitter’s “thin blue line” feature was controversial when introduced, due to the way itmessed with the traditional reverse-chronological timeline of tweets. Now, in an effort to make conversations more “easy to follow”, up to three tweets would be shown in sequence, linked by a blue line.As is often the way of these things, over time, the feature settled in to Twitter’s interface, and the complaints died down.Emergency alerts (September 2013)People have been turning to social networks in times of emergency – from natural disasters to terrorist attacks – for years. Twitter (andFacebook for that matter) have been figuring out what they can do beyond ensuring their services stay online at such times.Twitter Alertswas Twitter’s strategy: “a new feature that brings us one step closer to helping users get important and accurate information from credible organizations during emergencies, natural disasters or moments when other communications services aren’t accessible”.It involved signing up for alerts from specific accounts, initially in the US, Japan and Korea although it has since expanded elsewhere. An example of a new feature that draws praise rather than complaints – even if its effectiveness can’t be tested until an emergency happens.In-stream mobile media (October 2013)Photos and videos have been a prominent part of Twitter ever since the #NewTwitter redesign, butan update to Twitter’s iOS and Android appsin October 2013 did spark more debate, due to the way it showed “previews” of photos and Vine videos within the stream itself.Would this result in people spamming Twitter with endless photos and videos, making it more of a chore to scroll down the timeline? As it happened, no. Although as and when Twitter introduces mobile video ads – especially if they play automatically like those on Facebook – this issue may raise its head again.Blocking policy changes (December 2013)In the last year, there has been growing discussion of Twitter’s responsibilities to protect users facing abuse and harassment on its service. Its decision in December 2013 to change the way its “blocking” system worked was a notable own goal, in that respect.The change meant that blocking someone else on Twitter would not prevent them from following you and seeing your tweets. After an uproar accusing Twitter of making life easier for trolls, the company changed its mind.“We never want to introduce features at the cost of users feeling less safe,”wrote Twitter’s Michael Sippeyin a blog post. “Moving forward, we will continue to explore features designed to protect users from abuse and prevent retaliation.”Twitter’s new profile design.Photograph: PRNew profile design (April 2014)Twitter’s latest design changerevolved around your profile page, with a larger photo, customisable header and the ability to pin a tweet to the top of the page. A resemblance to Facebook sparked plenty of comment online, but since it rolled out to all users, unrest has been muted.Mute button for mobile apps (May 2014)The ability to “mute” people and/or hashtags has been very popular in third-party Twitter apps like Tweetbot, but it took Twitter until May 2014 to get in on the silencing action, with a mute feature for its iPhone and Android apps.“Muting a user on Twitter means their Tweets and Retweets will no longer be visible in your home timeline, and you will no longer receive push or SMS notifications from that user,”explained the company.The key point: they wouldn’t know they had been muted. A way to quietly unfollow boring, negative and/or over-spammy accounts without having to actually unfollow them. A boon, and not just for socially-awkward, conflict-averse British people. Although especially for us.Starting today, you can share and view animated GIFs onhttp://t.co/wJD8Fp317i, Android and iPhone.http://t.co/XBrAbOm4Ya&mdash; Twitter Support (@Support)June 18, 2014Animated GIFs (June 2014)A sign of the times, this:the ability to share and view animated GIFson Twitter’s website, Android and iPhone apps. Rather than spark complaints, it generated more conversations along the lines of “What, you can’talreadyshare animated GIFs on Twitter?”Cats, Taylor Swift, Superwholock and Beyoncé were the real beneficiaries, of course.Inserting tweets in your timeline (October 2014)Twitter’s most recent change before today has also been one of its most controversial: inserting tweets into your timeline from accounts that you don’t follow.“There are times when you might miss out on tweets we think you’d enjoy,”explained Twitter earlier this month. “To help you keep up with what’s happening, we’ve been testing ways to include these tweets in your timeline — ones we think you’ll find interesting or entertaining.”There has been a vocal backlash from experienced Twitter users, who fear it’s the first step towards more Facebook-style curation of their timelines: not just adding tweets in, but taking others away without their knowledge. For now, that’s not officially on the cards though.•Stephen Fry on Twitter: ‘People expect online services to be free’
Nearly three-quarters of American internet users say they have witnessed online harassment, while 40% have experienced it themselves, according to a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center.Its report claims that young adults are most likely to have witnessed and experienced online harassment, with women aged 18-24 experiencing it disproportionately compared with other demographic groups.Pew interviewed 2,849 Americans for the study, which divides harassment into two categories: “less severe”, including name-calling and attempts to embarrass people; and “more severe”, such as incidents including physical threats, stalking and sexual harassment.The report claims that 73% of US internet users have witnessed online harassment, while 40% have been its target. For 18-29 year-olds, those percentages rise to 92% and 65% respectively.Of people who’ve experienced online harassment, 55% said it had exclusively been the less severe kind – that’s 22% of all internet users – while 45% had also experienced more severe forms.Pew notes that women aged 18-24 are particular targets: 26% say they have been stalked online, while 25% have been the target of sexual harassment.Source: Pew Research CenterMen aged between 18 and 24 are slightly more likely to have been physically threatened online: 26% compared with 23% of women in this age group. Overall, men are more likely to experience at least one kind of online harassment: 44% compared with 37% of women.However, the report suggests that women are more likely to suffer after the event: 38% of harassed women said they found their most recent incident extremely or very upsetting, compared with 17% of harassed men.“It was striking to see how different varieties of harassment impacted different groups on different platforms, and the range of reactions online harassment elicited,” said the report’s author Maeve Duggan.66% of internet users who’ve been harassed online said the most recent incident happened on a social networking site or app, while 22% said it happened in the comments section of a website; 16% while playing an online game; 16% in a personal email account; and 10% on a discussion site.When asked how welcoming various online environments were towards men and women, online gaming stood out: 51% of respondents thought online games sites are equally welcoming to both sexes, but 44% thought they were more welcoming towards men.Source: Pew Research CenterThe survey was conducted between 30 May and 30 June, before the explosion of the “Gamergate” controversy, which has included a heated debate about harassment of women in and around the games industry.Pew’s survey also asked respondents who had experienced harassment how they had responded to it. Sixty per cent said they had ignored it. Of the others, 47% chose to confront the person online, 44% unfriended or blocked them, and 22% reported them to the relevant website or service.On a positive note, the study also found that while 92% of respondents think the internet allows people to be more critical of others, 68% agreed that it allows people to be more supportive of others.One gap in the study: it only covered American adults, so Pew’s report sheds no light on issues such as cyberbullying for children up to the age of 18.•Hate Crimes in Cyberspace by Danielle Keats Citron review•How to attack a woman who works in video gaming•Online abuse against women: ‘free speech’ is no justification
Chromebooks are showing strong growth, but they’re still a long way from setting the world of computing on fire, or even making it smoulder.New data from ABI Research shows that total worldwide shipments of Chromebooks, which use Google’s ChromeOS operating system rather than Microsoft’s Windows or Apple’s Mac OSX, reached just 0.95m in the second quarter of 2014 - and total shipments this year are forecast to be just 4.1m, against a backdrop where conventional PC shipments are forecast to be over 300m.Chromebook shipments (red) compared to all other PC shipments (blue) in Q2 2014. Source: ABI Research and IDC.Photograph: GuardianThat 4.1m figure would however almost be a doubling compared with 2013, when 2.1m Chromebooks shipped, ABI Research said. That compares with 316m PCs shipped that year according to IDC, another research group. Google does not release figures for Chromebook shipments or use.ABI’s figure is one of a broad range of estimates for the number of Chromebooks that will ship this year. The highest, made in August, comes from DisplaySearch, whichreckoned the figure would hit 8m, while Gartner, another research company,estimated– also in August – that the figure will be 5.6m.Samsung and the slowdownBut both estimates were made before September when Samsung, one of the three largest Chromebook suppliers,announced its withdrawalfrom the European PC and Chromebook market amid a crunch on margins in the PC market andfalling profits in its electronics division.Launched in June 2011, Chromebooks had looked like a low-cost alternative to Windows PCs that could eat into sales of low-end Windows PCs. But sales have been slow - pegged by ABI Research at 2.1m in 2013, against total PC shipments of 316m according to IDC, another research company. Gartner, meanwhile, put Chromebook shipments for 2013 at 2.9m.Chromebooks rely on cloud connectivity, less powerful processors and limited local storage to offer a low-cost product, rather than the Windows or Mac OSX approach of large amounts of local storage, fast processors and optional connectivity, which typically means a higher cost.Microsoft was spooked enough by Chromebooks to launch abrief TV advertising campaign in the USdisparaging their capabilities - a move that puzzled some observers, who thought it would act to give publicity to a device most PC buyers wouldn’t know about.Indeed, the data from ABI Research suggests that Google’s products are not reaching a wide audience. ABI Research analyst Stephanie van Vactor said: “The growth of the Chromebook market demonstrates a niche that is gaining traction among consumers.”Education and tabletsBut it is a small niche. Acer was the leader in the second quarter of the year, shipping 0.3m Chromebooks, ahead of Samsung and HP, which each shipped 0.2m by ABI’s numbers. Other manufacturers, including Dell, made up the remaining 0.25m. That means that Acer, Samsung and HP control 75% of the Chromebook market, and ABI Research expects that pattern to continue.The relatively small shipment figure also suggests that Chromebooks are not eating substantially into sales of tablets, despite the latter’s slowing growth. Apple’s iPad, which has seen three quarters of declining sales, shipped 41.9m units during the first nine months of 2014, compared to 48.1m in the same period in 2013.But Chromebooks are reckoned to be competing with iPads for some educational contracts in the US, where teachers at different levels of the education system are hotly debating the relative merits of the two platforms. The iPad is seen as offering strong educational apps and an intuitive interface, while Chromebooks offer a keyboard-based experience that is viewed as more useful for longer written work.The shipment figures mean that Chromebooks are relatively unimportant even to Acer, which shipped 6.1m PCs in all in the second quarter, according to IDC, and trivial to HP and Dell, the second- and third-largest PC vendors in the world during that time with 13.6m and 10.4m shipments respectively.That means Chromebooks are significant only for Samsung, which shipped about 1.7m PCs, including Chromebooks during the second quarter - making the Google-based products about 12% of its sales share.ABI Research’s Van Vactor says that the US remains the most important part of the Chromebook market, comprising 78% of sales - or 3.2m units - while in Asia, where many of the remaining 0.9m units are being bought, businesses make up about 75% of Chromebook buers.“Chromebooks may be a temporary fad similar to the netbook, but the form-factor design and low-cost price tag draws considerable interest that may be a longer term trend,” adds Van Vactor. “Chromebooks may have more of a place in the market than originally anticipated, especially as more vendors jump on board and sales continue to grow.”Review: five best laptops to suit any budget
Beats was nearly a brand worn on the feet rather than the head. According to the company co-founder and now Apple employee Jimmy Iovine, the genesis of the Beats headphone brand with rap star Dr. Dre originally started with the idea of making trainers.Accepting an award at the Revolt music conference in Miami, Florida, the 61-year-old Iovine on Tuesday used the spotlight to talk about Steve Jobs, Beats headphones and to say that the distribution of music must be improved otherwise music is likely to lose its inherent value in society.“I met Steve Jobs and the team at Apple, and I thought: this is where cool lives right now. The party is at Steve’s house,”explained Iovine. “This was a man who understood the lyrics, who understood the music, who understood The Beatles and Bob Dylan, but who also in a visionary way, truly understood lifestyle and technology.“In other words, this was a great and dangerous man who I quickly decided to make my friend.”Iovine was a key player in the negotiations over the setup of Apple’s iTunes Music Store in 2003, when he was at Interscope, a label inside Universal Music. After discussions with Jobs, he backed the idea of licensing per-song downloads, and pressed Doug Morris, Universal’s head, to sign with Apple.‘Let’s not do sneakers – let’s do speakers’Years later Dre was approached by his own lawyer Peter Paterno, who suggested setting up a trainer brand to expand Dre’s personal business with merchandise. Dre told Iovine, who decided sneakers weren’t where the future lay for music brand expansion.“The shining example of Steve Jobs and his company stuck in my head,” Iovine explained. “I said, ‘Dre, let’s not do sneakers – let’s dospeakers.’”Beats originally saw Iovine and Dre team up with Monster, then primarily a cable manufacturer. Beats later split from Monster, and wasbought by Apple in May for $3bn, the iPhone maker’s largest-ever acquisition.Beats had also developed a streaming music service, Beats Music, before the Apple purchase, promising on-demand music curated by music professionals and critics. That was an attempt to change the way music was distributed, but Iovine believes more is needed.Don’t stop the music“The great artists of music have always innovated and boldly changed the game, but the industry itself has not,” he explained. “Too often, the music business allowed third-party companies to innovate for us – and that simply does not work any more.”Apple was one of those companies; from its opening in April 2003, the iTunes Music Store became the largest music vendor online or offline in the US by 2008.“We must face the fact that our delivery and distribution systems are too sterile and not compelling enough for a new generation of young people who love music in their own way,” warned Iovine. “If we don’t fix the distribution of music, we run the risk of music being sent out into the world in such an uninspired way that music loses its value – and not just its financial value, but even worse, its emotional value too – and therefore its position as arguably the most dominant art form going forward.“Ladies and gentleman, the time has come for the music business itself to innovate.”Despite once being part of the music industry, Iovine now has different allegiances as an Apple employee. Apple hasn’t said yet what it will do with Beats: “We closed the Beats transition in July and we’re off to a great start with some wonderful plans we’ll share with you in the future,” was all that chief executive Tim Cook would say in therecent quarterly earnings call.Apple is however expected to apply downward pressure on music subscription prices by loweringBeats Music contracts to $5 a month, pushing music labels for moreextensive price cutsto achieve that price.The most valuable iTunes users spend an average of $60 buying music downloads in a year, which equates to $5 a month. But many people buy far less, and so can’t be tempted with subscription packages that cost more. With the shift to streaming, though, Apple risks losing those download buyers to rival companies such as Spotify.Apple’s argument is that pricing subscription services at $5 a month will mean labels earn the same amount of money as they would from music purchasers.•Apple will not shut down Dr Dre’s Beats Music but could fold it into iTunes
The annualInteractive Fiction Competitionis an institution that has endured for almost 20 years, with the goal of discovering each year’s best and brightest works in the world of text-based gaming. The genre is surprisingly broad and complex – and this year’s entries show how much text games have to offer modern audiences, even those who don’t ordinarily play computer games.The age of free and intuitive creation tools, combined with the explosion of mobile platforms, e-reader devices and an audience that’s comfortable reading screens, means a brand-new opportunity for fresh narrative experiences that stand to attract new types of players.Veteran gamers may remember the text-based adventures of history – titles like Adventureland, Zork and Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy. Arriving in the late 1970s and early 80s, they were taut, forbidding puzzles of logic and language; proceeding the age of graphics on home computers, they made the most of constraints, using brief, carefully chosen prose and a limited list of terse commands to create the experience.A room or situation would be described to the player, perhaps with objects or obstacles therein, and the player could type directions to navigate, or, say, “tie rope” or “light lamp” to interact. One of the earliest of these vintage text adventures, Colossal Cave, had a filesize not much bigger than a modern Word document, and was considered sprawling for its time.A lot has changed since those days, of course; the early 1980s saw the rise of graphical adventures like Heavy on the Magick and King’s Quest, and “point-and-click” quests from developers like LucasArts and Revolution Software. The arcane art of wrangling with a text parser fell out of popular favour.However, a dedicated community has kept the format alive, with hundreds of talented writers and players supporting the medium. It takes a certain degree of familiarity to master the general rules of textual space, or to learn what terms and constructions text parsers commonly do and don’t understand – players who prize practice and skill in other types of games don’t often seem as willing to see command language as a similarly worthy challenge.There’s something appealing about those limitations, though, about being able to “speak the language” of a design form that has endured for decades. The best interactive fiction designers know that a wellplaced word in a room description should act as a clue to the player, and experienced fans of IF can often weigh their risks and possibilities from just a single paragraph of text.Spreading the wordBut the annual Interactive Fiction Competition, or IFComp, has existed since 1995 in the hopes of democratising the creation of independent text-based experiences, and to explore best practices for keeping the form and its community broad, vibrant and alive.The judging is open to anyone who wants to play along, and every year, the competition brings great communal writing and reviewing of each entry. Outstanding among these is always the criticism work of Emily Short, veteran creator of numerous successful interactive fiction works, who examines authorial intent, the sophistication of designs, and why she feels the games do or do not execute successfully.Although the IF community first formed around Inform, a tool for creating parser-based games of the popular sort released by Infocom (Zork, the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy game, and A Mind Forever Voyaging), tools today are numerous, and many of them bypass the compelling but fricative parser language entirely.For example, in recent years, a free text tool calledTwinehas exploded onto the creative scene, offering entry-level designers the chance to create their first text and hyperlink-based games with no coding required. Some of these games are as accessible as choose-your-own-adventure books, and others can be more sophisticated, implementing mappable space, objects that can change states, or graphics, sound and visual effects.And Twine’s just one popular new tool – there are many other ways to build readable, touchable experiences for the wide, wide world. Most modern text games, whether parser-based or hyperlink-driven, can now be played in a browser tab, which means these competition entries can welcome any sort of player.This degree of accessibility means that in many ways, text-based games lead among other kinds of computer games in terms of creative democracy, sophisticated subject matter, and even political themes – while plenty of the competition games are traditional or humorous, modern text games bring new perspectives to bear from creators who might have been restricted from access to the traditional, privileged computer-education background, whose tone still dominates mainstream gaming.Some 2015 competition entries you shouldn’t missAlethiCorp(Simon Christiansen)This simulation of a corporate training and remote working website is so real it hurts, from the obtuse, jargon-jangling training exercises to the awkward inter-office social event invitations. The twist is you work as a snitch, surveilling and rumbling (probably) harmless citizens for supposed revolutionary behavior. Can you do the right thing, or will you just nod, smile, and volunteer to bring a spatula to the office potluck?With Those We Love Alive(Porpentine and Brenda Neotomie)Prolific Twine creator Porpentine’s distinctive word palette often creates vivid yet alien spaces, with imagery alternately vulgar and beautiful in turns, but this particular game asks of the player a particularly-intimate task: to draw symbols on your own skin while playing. It’s inventive and off-putting all at once.Creatures Such As We(Lynnea Glasser)You’re a dutiful tour guide on the moon – and a fan of computer dating games. This is a computer dating game, which provides landscape for brilliant meta-commentary on popular games and the challenges of delivering emotional narratives in the commercial video game industry. While niche gaming fans are sure to appreciate the in-jokes and the nuanced look at the work of narrative game development, this is also an incredibly engrossing tale of labour, life and loneliness in the future.Hunger Daemon(Sean M. Shore)This is a great example of how a parser-driven text game can be made relatively accessible – the game is smart enough to know what you want to do and to tell you a bit about how to do it, and solving the puzzles feels rewarding. Its sense of humor is excellent – your quest for a little lunch leads you to try to solve a mystery on behalf of your Uncle Stu’s utterly-normalised black-magic cult. The finale is staged in a synagogue on Yom Kippur, but you won’t get there until you return your ex’s Breaking Bad DVDs.Krypteia(Kateri)Although this game is hypertext-based, it has all the familiar signposts of a more traditional game: A map, an inventory and graphics, a surreal sort of glitchville that combines luridly colored forbidden woods with oilslick rainbows and sparkles – and even the occasional stiletto heel. It’s about escape from oppression, but it’s charming and funny about it.Is interactive fiction the future of books?How interactive technology is transforming storytellingGaming and fiction: telling the story to a whole new audience
Six months after Dave Anthony left his job as a writer and producer on the video game series Call of Duty, he received an unexpected phone-call from Washington DC.That week, the caller, Steve Grundman, a former Pentagon official who served in a succession of appointments at the US Department of Defense during the 1990s, had been watching his son play Call of Duty: Black Ops 2. “Grundman told me that he’d been struck by the realism and authenticity in the game and in particular the story,” says Anthony. “So struck by it, in fact, that he’d been compelled to track me down.”The game, which has been played by more than 20 million people since its release in 2012, is split between two settings: the final years of the Cold War in the late 1980s and an imagined second Cold War conflict in 2025. In the latter scenario, the conflict is defined not by mutually assured destruction via nuclear missiles, but rather by system-crashing cyber-attacks, capable of toppling the Stock Exchange or turning a fleet of drones against their own country. Grundman believed that the game’s imagined conflict was unusually credible for a work of military fiction. He invited the writer to visit the capital and join a panel of experts who were due to discuss the future of real-world modern warfare.War gamesVideo games have always enjoyed a close association with the military. During the 1980s, the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa) approached many developers with the idea of writing video games that could be used to train soldiers. Chuck Benton, the creator of racing classic BC’s Quest For Tires, was one coder who took up the challenge, eventually abandoning the games industry to concentrate on military simulations. Later, the US Marine Corp famously used a modified version of Doom II to teach new recruits, with Lieutenant Colonel Rick Eisiminger, then team leader of the Modeling and Simulation Office,telling Wired, “We were tasked with looking at commercial off-the-shelf computer games that might teach an appreciation for the art and science of war.”Full Spectrum Warrior, an Xbox game released in 2004, was co-developed by a team at USC Institute for Creative Technologies which, in 1999, was established as an official US Army University Affiliated Research Center. Set in a fictional middle eastern country, the simulation was a comparatively inexpensive means of teaching marine tactics in military training, but was also launched as a consumer product. America’s Army is a freely available PC game, launched in 2002 but still available, that doubles as a military recruitment tool. Even the peripherals are shared between games and the military: the US and British armies both use Xbox controllers as aninterface to control attack dronesin live combat.The early Call of Duty titles were set in the World War II era but, in 2007 the setting changed to contemporary conflict with the release of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare. The change was in part to freshen the fiction, but it was also intended to allow for contemporary modes of combat. In one of Modern Warfare’s most memorable missions, “Death From Above”, you control the gun turrets of an AC-130 gunship as it attacks enemy targets in Western Russia. Through the greenish wash of a night vision camera lens you watch the luminous shapes of men on the ground running at full pelt for cover. It’s a scene as grimly and dispassionately realistic as any late night news report.While there’s currently no public evidence that the US military helps to fund mainstream video games that double as propaganda,as routinely happens in Hollywood, the makers of military-themed games often pay a license fee to gun manufacturers to use representations of their weapons, drawing consumers unwittingly into the Military-Entertainment complex.Now, with Anthony’s appointment, the association is made clearer still.After his appearance on the panel in Washington, the ex-game developer was offered an unpaid fellowship by Grundmen on the Atlantic Council, a nonpartisan Washington-based think tank that advises on the future of unknown conflict. “My job is to advise outside-the-box thinking on the nature of future threats, and propose proactive solutions to mitigate against them,” he says. In late September, Anthony delivered one such suggestion during an Atlantic Council forum. His controversial proposition was the introduction of school marshals, “U.S. soldiers who are in plainclothes, whose job is to protect schools.”It’s a familiar argument – guarding schools from terror threats and, of course, shooting massacres, through the provision of weaponsised staff. What made Anthony’s suggestion unique was his follow-up idea of how to deal with the inevitable public outcry that would greet such a policy: video game-style marketing. “When we have a new product that has elements that we’re not sure how people will respond to, what do we do as a corporation?” he asked. “We market it as much as we can — we do all the things we can to essentially brainwash people into liking it before it actually comes out. I’d like to see the government doing this too.”The future of war – playable nowTo some, a writer of video game fictions may seem an unlikely candidate for a role that exists to “help to provide ideas to protect the United States from future attack.” Anthony, who has been writing and programming games for twenty years, deals in the realm of jingoistic military fiction, which, in the case of the Call of Duty series, features a protagonist who single-handedly conquers unending waves of anonymous terrorist enemies. In this way it has as much in common with the rhythm and spectacle of a Rambo movie as it does with the docudrama verisimilitude of a Zero Dark Thirty.But push aside Call of Duty’s bluster and the appointment isn’t so incongruous. Modern combat games compete on authenticity; their creators must gather props and detail from the realm of fact and arrange them into believable fiction.In this year’s entry to the Call of Duty series, which is set 45 years into the future, soldiers wear exoskeletons that grant them superhuman strength, while kilometre-wide digital canopies mask chemical warehouses from Google satellites’ prying lenses. It sounds like science fiction but it isn’t. According to developer Sledgehammer, all of this is drawn from real-life military research, gathered throughclose ties with Pentagon advisors. The work of a Call of Duty scriptwriter is similar to that of the futurologists whose job it is to prophesise the ways in which technology might be used to wage war decades from now. Figures like Anthony can become a useful cog in the military system.He certainly has familiarity with troops from his time at Treyarch, the studio behind Black Ops II. There, Anthony worked closely with military advisers to ensure that, even if the game had more in common with Hollywood than the real world conflict, the surrounding props and details were based in truth. “My greatest honour was to consult with Lieut. Col. Oliver North on the story of Black Ops 2,” says Anthony. “I will never forget the stories he told me about the times he met former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega. There are so many small details we could never have known about if it wasn’t for his involvement.”Anthony also worked with a Seal Team Six member and even a Russian Spetsnaz soldier who wore a motion capture suit in order to have his movements translated accurately into the game. “Many lines of dialogue were touched by these men,” he says. “Their wisdom and experience added a great deal of authenticity to the games.”Video games and military cautionDuring his recent talk Anthony showed videos depicting a US drone that had been hacked by Iran to attack Americans, an idea that first featured in Black Ops 2’s storyline. “In Washington, there is a tangible fear of suggesting controversial ideas, rocking the boat or moving outside of the established system,” he says. The fear is perhaps understandable for the career-minded Washington-ite. In the business of military prophecy, one doesn’t want to be marked out as an eccentric.But Anthony believes that his entertainment background frees him from the incentive to limit his imagination. “As a director and writer, my job is to break expectations and established thinking without fear of failure in order to create new and fresh ideas,” he says. “It’s timely as the threats we face today don’t play by established rules. Our enemies are starting to use our own technologies and systems faster and more efficiently than we are.”There are similarities to the stultifying rhetoric of the Cold War era: the race to master technology before the other guy, the fear of the unheralded catastrophe, a disaster from an unknown source, foes under our noses. But one thing is different this time: in video games the military is able to try out its theories, to simulate its strategies, to set a devastating domino run in motion and see where the pieces land, without consequence. Anthony believes that, for all their historical ties, perhaps games and war aren’t close enough after all. “I would like to see more collaboration with the military and game developers,” he says.War games – developers find new ways to explore military conflictMinistry of Defence forced to update its war games for Xbox generation
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe 'Chinese Google' is making big bucks using AI to target ads &gt;&gt; WIREDCade Metz:Deep learning can do many things. Tapping the power of hundreds or even thousands of computers, this new breed of artificial intelligence can help Facebook recognize people, words, and objects that appear in digital photos. It can help Google understand what you're saying when you bark commands into an Android phone. And it can help Baidu boost the bottom line.The Chinese web giant now uses deep learning to target ads on its online services, and according to Andrew Ng—who helped launch the deep learning operation at Google and now oversees research and development at Baidu—the company has seen a notable increase in revenue as a result.Great?Evolving Exchange Online Protection (EOP) to protect against tomorrow's threats &gt;&gt; Microsoft Office BlogsBecause spamming techniques are constantly changing, the spam you see in your mailbox today is different from the spam you received yesterday. Your spam messages may look similar, but they're not the same; they're slightly (or greatly) different, with a different signature and are designed to evade filters. Spam campaigns vary in duration from a few minutes to many hours. We've tracked campaigns that send thousands, hundreds of thousands, or even millions of spam messages in a few minutes.EOP's defenses are adjusted as soon as the system detects unusual patterns and/or users start to submit samples of undetected spam.Microsoft blocks about 10m spam emailsper minute. Looks like Bill Gatesdidn't quite have it rightin 2004.Apple on 'hamburger menus' &gt;&gt; ManboloFrom a transcript of a talk at this year's Apple developer conference about usability, looking at those menus consisting of some horizontal lines at the side of the screen:Remember, the three key things about an intuitive navigation system is that they tell you where you are, and they show you where else you can go. Hamburger menus are terrible at both of those things, because the menu is not on the screen. It's not visible. Only the button to display the menu is.And in practice, talking to developers, they found this out themselves. That people who use their app don't switch to different sections very frequently when they use this menu. And the reason for that is because the people who use their app don't know where else they can go. Right? They don't know because they can't see the options, or maybe they saw it at one point in time, but they have since forgotten.And if you use this control, you have to recognise that the people who use your app may not realise the full potential of your app… It takes at least twice as many taps to change sections. Something that should be very easy and fluid is made more difficult.Nor do 'hamburger menus' play nicely with back buttons.Google combats open-source Android smartphones &gt;&gt; The InformationAmir Efrati on the rise of AOSP phones, which while they were just inside China weren't a problem to Google's Android ad revenues, because Google is mostly banned in China. But once AOSP becomes popular outside China, Google has a problem:Until recently, many analysts said virtually all of the open-source Android devices were sold in China. But there is new data showing that the phenomenon has spread well beyond China. The data comes from sources including Jana, which makes an app called mCent that helps Android smartphone users in emerging markets get free data to use apps.Nathan Eagle, chief executive of Jana, says the app, which launched in the second quarter of this year, already has more than 500,000 monthly active users in seven key emerging markets where data charges remain high for consumers. About a quarter of those users owned open-source Android devices rather than Google Android devices in September, the first month Jana began to track the data.Globally, open-source Android phone shipments grew to about 65 million in the second quarter of this year, up from nearly 54m in the first quarter, according to research firm ABI Research. That meant open-source Android (which is often referred to as Android Open Source Project, or AOSP) captured 20% of all phone operating systems (which includes Apple and feature phones) in the second quarter, up from 13% in the first quarter, the firm said.Google's solution: make it easier for AOSP phone makers to get Google certification.Does Yosemite have a privacy problem? Not exactly &gt;&gt; The VergeMore importantly, all that information is grouped under an ephemeral session ID which automatically resets every 15 minutes, making it extremely difficult to trace a string of searches back to a specific user. That also makes the data significantly less useful to marketers, since it can't track behavior over any meaningful length of time. And most importantly, the data is transmitted over an HTTPS connection, so it can't be intercepted in transit.The biggest concern is that a user might accidentally search their own computer for a sensitive file — inPost reporter Barton Gellman's example, "secret plans Obama leaked me" — and unwittingly reveal that search term to Apple more broadly. But under the new scheme, there wouldn't be anything to tie the search to Gellman himself other than the ephemeral ID. More importantly, users who are concerned about such a scenario can easily disable Spotlight's Suggestions feature, effectively disabling the attack.Apple has further detailed how Spotlight Suggestions work behind the scenes. In a statement to The Verge, the company says it's taken steps to "blur" location on devices, use temporary session identifiers, and let people opt out of the feature completely:Gellman's concern is rational, but until someone develops a magic golden key to unlock encrypted files, not a worry. (At worst? Disconnect from the internet.)Google's $120m Divide acquisition &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAlyson Shontell:wildly successful exits like Divide's sometimes fly under the radar. New York startup TXVia, for example, was sold to Google for more than $100 million in 2012, but that amount has never been reported either.Google declined to let Business Insider speak with Toy about Divide or the acquisition. Instead, we spoke with other Divide insiders, as well as friends and family members of Toy.They helped us piece together the story of how first-time founders built a massive enterprise startup that became one of the largest, and quietest, New York City tech exits of the year.Fantastic reporting, and this looks like a company that will be really useful for Google's ambitions for Android in the enterprise.Magic Leap secures $542m led by Google for "lightweight wearable" tech that merges physical and digital worlds &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"If you think about what mobile computing is right now, it's portable, it's great, and I call it 'making your hand happy,' in that you can hold it and it's great," [CEO Rony] Abovitz said. "Your hand is happy, but your eye is not. What I mean by your eye is not happy, if you step outside your office and look at San Francisco Bay, it's just this visual feast, and there's no movie theater, there's no television display, there's nothing that will ever match the grandeur of what our own brains can create in terms of visual experience."Magic Leap, then, is combining that inherent visual ability with mobile computing – giving you visual output equivalent to when you step outside into the world, but powered by the mobile tech you carry around. Nor will this be something that involves a huge head-mounted display, Oculus Rift-style, Abovitz is keen to note – he characterized it as a "lightweight wearable" hardware solution, though he wouldn't go into further detail about what exactly that meant. Based on his comments, it sounds like artificial, but extremely realistic images like the one shown in the image above might be projected directly onto a user's retina to achieve this effect, but we may have to wait until an official reveal to learn more about the nature of the device(s) in use here.VMware gives up on dual-persona smartphone concept &gt;&gt; The RegisterVirtzilla had the idea of dual-persona phones back in about2011, when it floated the notion of a Mobile Virtual Platform (MVP) hypervisor. The plan was for handset-makers to install the hypervisor and for carriers to use VMware's back-endery to allow BYOPD phones to have a conventional Android environment for all but mission-critical tasks that required more security. When workers flicked the switch into the second, buttoned-down, persona, they'd be allowed through the firewall and offered access to a range of apps provisioned by IT.VMware had a couple of wins with what came to be known as Horizon Mobile, with Telefonicahaving a goand Verizonsigning upto play with handsets from LG and Motorola. ButThe Reg's virtualisation desk hasn't heard much about the concept of late and Marshall today told us that the concept has been "shut down" at the Airwatch Connect event in Sydney."You can't out-Google Google," Marshall said enigmatically, possibly referring to the fact that Android 5 – aka Lollipop – now offers multiple user accounts and therefore makes dual-persona phones a bit less attractive. Marshall added that he personally argued very strongly against continuing with the dual persona plan, but that the decision to stop pursuing it was a "group decision" made by VMware and Airwatch.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Apple’s iPad has reigned supreme at the top of the tablet computer heap for four years, but tablet sales are falling. Is the iPad Air 2 enough to re-energise Apple’s tablet line and sell like hotcakes again?TheiPad Air, unveiled in October 2013, was the biggest change to the iPad since its launch. It was thinner, lighter and with a new shape – losing the old rounded back and using slimmer bezels and a smaller frame inherited fromthe 2012 iPad mini.Thinner, lighter, same-ierSpot the difference: iPad Air 2 on the left in silver, iPad Air on the right in space grey.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianYou would be hard-pressed to spot the difference between last year’s Air and the new iPad Air 2unveiled last week in Cupertino, California.It is 1.4mm thinner – the thinnest tablet ever made at 6.1mm thick – and weighs 437g, 32g lighter than the iPad Air. For comparisonSamsung’s 10.5in Tab Sweighs 465g and is 6.6mm thick, whileSony’s Xperia Z2 Tabletweighs 426g and is 6.4mm thick.The iPad Air 2 on the left is 1.4mm thinner than the iPad Air on the right.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Air 2 is slightly less rigid than the previous version with a little flex in the body, but the aluminium back feels svelte in the hand and will likely take a knock or two without issue, as long as the screen does not crack.The 9.7in screen is thinner, but is of the same quality and sharpness as the Air. Apple’s new anti-reflective coat does an admirable job of reducing glare from the Sun and overhead lights.The screen’s 4:3 ratio means that videos have big black bars top and bottom, while comics and graphic novels have black bars down the sides – both are irritating and reduce the size of the media on-screen. Most competing tablets from Microsoft, Samsung, Google, Sony and even Tesco, have screens closer to the 16:9 ratio of televisions, which makes consuming video and movies more satisfying.A TV show playing on the iPad Air 2 on the left and the Samsung Galaxy Tab S 10.5in on the right - the black bars are worse for movies in letter box format.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianFor web browsing, using apps and reading books the screen ratio isn’t an issue. Whether the screen will irritate comes down to how much the tablet is used for watching movies and TV shows.SpecificationsScreen:9.7in 2048x1536 retina display (264 pixels per inch)Processor:Apple 64-bit A8X with M8 coprocessorRAM:2GBStorage:16/64/128 GBOperating system:iOS 8.1Camera:8MP rear camera, 1.2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi (4G optional), Bluetooth 4.0, GPSDimensions:240 x 169.5 x 6.1mm for both Wi-Fi and 4G versionsWeight:437g (4G version: 444g)Extra power, longer chargeThe back of the iPad Air 2 on the left, the iPad Air on the right.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Air 2 is a spec-bump model – the iPhone 5S to the iPhone 5. It is 40% faster than the Air, with the A8X, a version of the A8 processor first seen in the iPhone 6 in September but with a more powerful quad-core graphics processor. It also has 2GB of RAM – a first for Apple’s iOS devices.The extra power is only noticeable when loading data-heavy apps. Comics in Comixology show up slightly faster, for instance, but mostly it enables more powerful apps such as real-time video processing.Graphics editing apps such as theforthcoming Pixelmator iPad appand theReplay video appare good examples, but more will undoubtedly be released later in the year. Developers have been restricted by the amount of RAM for years, so that extra gigabyte of program memory – a doubling – should help.The iPad Air 2 is thin, light and feels great in the hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBattery life is great, with a solid 10 hours of use which will see out a day without issue. When the tablet is asleep with the screen off it consumes very little power. Android and Windows tablets consume far more, especially when connected to the internet; some Android manufacturers have developed battery-saving modes to help stop that. Google’s recently released Android 5 Lollipop promises to dramatically improve battery life too.The iPad Air 2 starts with 16GB of storage, but 64GB and 128GB versions are available – given that the size of apps can be upwards of 1GB plus movies, music and photos 16GB is quite small.iOS 8.1 extendedThe iPad Air 2 runsApple’s new iOS 8.1, which looks exactly the same as iOS 7. Most of the changes are under the hood, adding greater flexibility with extensions that allow apps to interact with each other.Custom keyboards are available for the first time, while photo editors that apply filters to snaps can also be used inside other apps before emailing or tweeting a photo, for instance.Sharing files, links, text and other data between apps has been improved in a very similar manner to Android’s share function. Not all apps support it yet, but as they are updated for iOS 8 more will show up in the share menus.•iOS 8 review: the iPhone and iPad get customised, extended and deepenedAn iOS 8 underpinning called Continuity will keep data in sync between a computer running OS X Yosemite, an iPhone and iPad. Handoff allows users start a document on one machine and pick up right where the user left off on another. If you have an iPhone on the same Wi-Fi network, the iPad can relay through it to send text messages (including SMS, not just Apple’s iMessage) and make and take calls.The sheer number of iPad apps is much greater than Android tablet apps, but the disparity of good apps is shrinking. Most of the major apps have Android versions, leaving only a few iPad-only. Those apps tend to be for producing music, movies or specific games, as well as Apple’s excellent suite of iWork and iLife apps, which are free for every iPad user. Google’s free Drive and Docs suite is also available.Tablet camerasThe eight-megapixel camera is one of the best fitted to a tablet, but it is still not as good as cameras on top-end smartphones like the iPhone 6, Sony Xperia Z3 or Samsung Galaxy S5.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe iPad Air 2 has a new, improved eight-megapixel camera. Images have decent detail and exposure, while the high resolution panorama mode is impressive. Burst and slow motion modes bring the iPad up to speed with smartphone camera features, but taking pictures with an iPad is still not ideal with the large, heavy viewfinder. The iPhone and many other top-end smartphones still have better cameras.Touch IDTouch ID enables fingerprint login and authentication for purchases as well as third-party apps like Evernote and Dropbox.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTouch ID has been added from last year’s iPhone. It allows unlocking of the tablet with a fingerprint, as well as authenticating purchases through the App Store and iTunes. It will also allow people to purchase goods and services online using Apple Pay, although only in the US for the time being.Third-party apps like Dropbox, Evernote and Lastpass also use Touch ID to login, which works well. Samsung and China’s Huawei have devices with fingerprint scanners similar to Touch ID, but Apple’s third-party app support is likely to be greater as it has opened up the APIs to developers to build authentication into their apps. (The apps don’t see the fingerprint; they just ask iOS for verification, and get a “verified/not verified” response from iOS.)A secure fingerprint reader adds appeal for businesses too. Enterprise can secure devices without forcing users to enter long, hard-to-remember passwords, which ensures users actually stick to secure methods and don’t attempt to circumvent what can be tedious login processes.The 6.1mm thickness means the headphones port only just fits.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe iPad Air 2 Wi-Fi-only version costs £399, £479 and £559 for 16GB, 64GB and 128GB storage respectively. The version with 4G costs £100 more per storage version at £499, £579 and £659 respectively.VerdictThe iPad Air 2 is undoubtedly Apple’s best tablet to date. Its Touch ID fingerprint scanner works well, it’s thin, light and powerful and lasts a long time on a single charge. But it no longer stands head and shoulders above the competition.TheSamsung Galaxy Tab Sset a new bar for screen quality which the iPad doesn’t quite reach.Sony’s Xperia Z2 Tabletis lighter and waterproof, but is thicker and doesn’t last as long.Original iPad Air users might want to skip this generation, while those looking for something a bit fresher have equally good options from Samsung and Sony.Pros:thin, light, long battery, powerful processor, fingerprint sensor, decent cameraCons:expensive, small upgrade over last year, square screen, no expandable storageOther reviews•Apple iPad mini 3 review: a touch more of the same•Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a serious iPad Air competitor•Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: a new benchmark for screen quality•Tesco Hudl 2 review: a lot of tablet for the money•Nokia Lumia 2520 tablet review roundup: powerful, but meh•Surface 2 review: Microsoft makes progress but can’t escape Windows RT•Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet
Apple released a new iPad mini alongsideits iPad Air 2, but rather than a better processor and thinner body, it only gained a Touch ID fingerprint sensor and new gold colour. Is it worth £319?The iPad mini has been the tablet of choice for many people looking for the iPad experience but smaller and cheaper. It was firstintroduced in 2012, essentially 2011’s iPad 2 squeezed into a new thinner iPad design with slim bezels around the screen and a flat back, which theiPad Air eventually adopted in 2013.Last year the iPad mini was upgraded, getting a much faster processor and a “retina” screen. This year the upgrades have been minimal. You would be hard-pressed to see the difference between last year’s iPad mini 2 and the new mini 3.Familiar designThe iPad mini 3 comes in gold, silver and space grey.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWhat’s new? A small metal ring around the home button, which now hides the Touch ID fingerprint sensor and a lick of gold paint are the only differences. The rest of the outside of the device is exactly the same as last year’s mini, which isn’t exactly a bad thing.The screen is super crisp, colour accurate and bright – not overly saturated like some small tablets can be. Like theiPad Air 2, the screen has a 4:3 ratio, making it squarer than most video content designed for our wider 16:9 ratio widescreen televisions.Inevitably that means large black bars top and bottom of video and the picture itself being much smaller than the 7.9in screen would suggest. They are annoying, as are the black bars left and right of comics and graphic novels.The square screen means video has black bars at top and bottom.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianHow much the square screen will annoy will rest on how much video is consumed on the tablet, usually a key job for a tablet these days.The size, weight and build of the mini 3 are excellent – there’s no give or flex in the body at all. Holding it one-handed is relatively easy, although how much of a novel could be read in one sitting without resting will depend on the size of biceps – eventually the weight does wear.SpecificationsScreen:7.9in 2048x1536 retina display (326 pixels per inch)Processor:Apple 64-bit A7 with M7 coprocessorRAM:1GBStorage:16/64/128 GBOperating system:iOS 8.1Camera:5MP rear camera, 1.2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi (4G optional), Bluetooth 4.0, GPSDimensions:240 x 169.5 x 6.1mm for both Wi-Fi and 4G versionsWeight:331g (4G version: 341g)Day-long batteryThe changes to the outside of the mini 3 are mirrored on the inside: it has the exact same processor, RAM, graphics and motion coprocessor as last years mini and the iPhone 5S. The mini 3 has the A7 processor that is no slow coach, but is not as powerful as the A8 line that drives the iPad Air 2 and iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. It shows that Apple’s smaller, cheaper tablet is a second class citizen compared to the rest of Apple’s new 2014 models.The small tablet is easy to hold one-handed.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIn day-to-day usage the tablet performs fine, with minimal lag or stutter only visible when loading large, data-heavy applications such as Comixology.It runs exactly the same as the iPad mini 2, maintaining its solid all-day battery life, which like the iPad Air 2 also consumes very little battery in standby even when connected to the internet.iOS 8.1The iPad mini 3 ships running iOS 8.1, Apple’s latest software. Owners of earlier iPads (back to the iPad 2) can download and install it for free.On the surface iOS 8 looks the same as iOS 7, but most of the changes have been made under the hood.Support for third-party keyboards in iOS 8.1 allows such marvels as the Gif keyboard.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAs with the iPad Air 2, the new software enhances the connections between apps, allowing third-party keyboards among other functions such as applying photo filters from other apps without leaving the primary app.Sharing between apps and services has also been upgraded to be more in line with Android, and Apple’s payment service Apple Pay will allow users in the US to buy and pay for goods and services online using the Touch ID sensor.•iOS 8 review: the iPhone and iPad get customised, extended and deepenedTouch IDTouch ID is used to log into the tablet as well as authenticate purchases.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe fingerprint sensor under the home button works well for unlocking the tablet and authorising purchases from the App Store and iTunes, but it can also be used in third-party apps.Evernote and Dropbox, for instance, can be secured with Touch ID keeping prying eyes out unless they have your fingerprint or the four-digit passcode those apps allow.CameraThe iPad mini 3’s camera is decent for a tablet, but not a patch on most high-end smartphone cameras.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe five-megapixel camera on the back is solid for a tablet, but is not a patch on most good smartphone cameras – it will do for the occasional snap but will not replace a point-and-shoot camera.The 1.2-megapixel camera on the front works well for video calling and selfies, but won’t produce a picture worth printing – if anyone actually still prints photos.PriceThe Wi-Fi-only iPad mini 3 costs £319, £399 and £479 for 16, 64 and 128GB storage respectively. The 4G version costs £100 more per storage variant, at £419, £499 and £579 respectively.VerdictThe iPad mini 3 is a solid smaller tablet. It is well-built, feels great in the hand and the Touch ID sensor is useful. But it is seriously undermined by last year’s iPad mini 2 – which now starts at £239, though available only in 16GB and 32GB versions; the mini 3 comes in 16, 64 and 128GB versions. The Touch ID sensor is useful, but a hard sell for £80 more when everything else is the same.Samsung’s widescreen8.4in Galaxy Tab S, which set a new bar for screen quality that the iPad mini 3 doesn’t quite reach, is also worth considering. But the iPad mini 3 is the smaller iPad to buy if 64GB or greater storage is required. Otherwise the mini 2 is just as good – or, if price is the key consideration,2012’s iPad miniis still on sale, for £199 for a 16GB version only.Pros:compact, good screen, fingerprint sensor, good battery life, solid buildCons:barely any change from last year, expensive, no expandable storage, square screenOther reviews•Apple iPad Air 2 review: Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough?•Apple iPad mini review: the iPad experience shrunk into a smaller, lighter body•Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a serious iPad Air competitor•Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: a new benchmark for screen quality•Tesco Hudl 2 review: a lot of tablet for the money•Nokia Lumia 2520 tablet review roundup: powerful, but meh•Surface 2 review: Microsoft makes progress but can’t escape Windows RT•Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet
Want a hoverboard before Marty McFly (who looks just like Michael J Fox) arrives in October 2015 tofly one around his town square? Arx Pax, a small company from Los Gatos, California, is now offering the real thing - although don’t expect to do much travelling on it.Ever since Michael J Fox took to the air in the 1989 classic, Back to the Future II, people have dreamed of hoverboards. Many have attempted to recreate that magic; Mattel even released a plastic replica. Sadly, it didn’t levitate.Arx Pax’s product really does hover. There’s one small catch, though – it will only hover on special surfaces, because it uses magnets, just like a maglev (magnetic levitation) train.The Hendo floats above the floor using magnetic levitation.‘A better way to build, move people and move materials’The current prototype of the Hendo – the company’s 18th – will hover about 3cm off the ground carrying up to 140kg (about two people) for around 15 minutes. It uses a strong magnetic field to repulse a ground-based material and float in the same way maglev trains operate. That means that Hendo will only float over floors made of non-ferrous metals such as copper or aluminium; this is no skateboard for flying down to the local supermarket, or around the town square hoiked to the back of a pickup truck.“About two years ago, we began investigating magnetic field architecture (MFA) and hover technology as a better way to build, move people and move materials,” said Arx Pax founder Greg Henderson. “During our research, we discovered a way to transmit electromagnetic technology that is far more efficient than anything else. This means that our patent-pending Hendo Hover Engine technology can enable platforms to hover over non-ferrous materials with payloads of virtually any size and weight.”That means that it could be used to move heavy loads around inside warehouses without friction - a use that has often been posited for maglev technology.The board runs for around 15 minutes on battery power.Photograph: Arx PaxThe Hendo has no form of forceful propulsion at the moment, and so drifts across surfaces. But it is possible to generate a gentle bias towards one direction or another using the magnetic fields generated beneath the board using touch-sensitive plates under foot. They allow rotating the board, but moving forward still needs a push off something a bit more solid.Early days, future pastArx Pax is also offering the magnetic field technology in a small developer box controlled by a smartphone app, which is aimed at hackers looking to use the technology for something else including industrial uses for transporting heavy loads.The company islooking for $250,000 in fundingto refine the working technology from the prototype and start production. Pledges start at $5 with $299 buying a developer kit but those looking for a working Hendo board will have to shell out $10,000.“While the possibilities are both exciting and nearly limitless, we decided to build a hoverboard prototype and hover engine developer kits right out of the gate,” said Henderson. “It is still early days, but we are absolutely thrilled because we have proven conclusively that what was widely considered impossible is, in fact, possible.”•Car that parks itself rolls off Tesla production line in California•Tesla Model S launch: an electric car to answer even Clarkson’s objections•Finally, the flying car may have landed
Aaron Levie bounds into the room in his suit and – this morning they are blue – trainers. “Sorry,” he says, “I got myself into a Twitter battle with Marc Andreessen.”It’s as good a reason as any to be late into a room; Levie, 29, can deploy it more than most. As chief executive and founder of Box, he has used the social network to offer his often ironic view of the world of technology: tweeting as@levie(where his page shows a young Bill Gates), he mixes ironic jokes:Jeff Bezos is opening a retail store and owns a newspaper. Turns out everything we thought about the Internet is wrong.&mdash; Aaron Levie (@levie)October 9, 2014with industry observations:The first 20 years of the web were won by those that built the best infrastructure. Now it&#39;s won by those that build the best experiences.&mdash; Aaron Levie (@levie)October 9, 2014Levie’s gentle humour also comes from someone with wider social concerns. During our interview, he remarks that there are people in Sillicon Valley whose libertarian ideas he disagrees with, even as they’re creating some part of the future.“There’s sort of a libertarian bent in the Valley that occasionally goes too far,” says Levie. “But I would say Mark [Andreessen] is incredibly visionary from that respect. I’m fortunate to get and watch what guys like [Mark] Zuckerberg [at Facebook] are doing or Reed Hastings [chief executive at Netflix] are doing.”Sympathy for the developerSo is he sympathetic, or not sympathetic, to the libertarian view? “I wouldn’t characterise it as either of those words,” he says carefully. “I’m a neutral observer. Some ideas I pick up on. I grew up very socialist and very hippy.” He laughs.“What I have learned is that there’s a really strong argument for letting the market develop better solutions to problems, whether that’s healthcare or education, I think we need a strong interplay between these things. I don’t know if there’s a perfect classification, I haven’t decided formally to participate in anything, but I would characterise myself as very pro-free market, with a very strong social backdrop, or safety net.“That’s because I deeply believe that there’s a lot of inequity that people can’t control. So you don’t want purely a free market, because we don’t have such a thing, but at the same time you don’t want the taxi companies to be able to have a government-created monopoly on transportation. You want to have the market able to solve interesting problems. At the same time when there’s these economic dislocations or inequities you need somebody to step in and be able to protect and act as a safety net for that.”The idea of a safety net for economic upheaval certainly sets him apart from many of his Silicon Valley alumni, where it’s come first or give up - and certainly don’t think about the losers.But quite apart from his upbringing, Levie admits that it all looks different from what he and his team expected 10 years ago, when in October 2004 “we decided to look into this space and build a business around it”. (The company’s official launch was February 2005, and it was incorporated in April 2005.) Then, he was just 19. Almost inevitably, the business started in a garage.From the archives: Box&#39;s first office 8 years ago, where we slept, worked, fought, pivoted, built.pic.twitter.com/VD1F9VPO2z&mdash; Aaron Levie (@levie)March 15, 2014Box could (lazily) be called an enterprise version of the cloud-storage company Dropbox; the two companies are unrelated, though Levie’s did in 2007 shift its focus away from the consumer market to the business side.But Box tries to go much deeper than Dropbox by offering collaboration tools and APIs so that businesses aren’t simply using it as a file repository. In order to be essential, Levie’s thinking goes, Box’s service has to become embedded in the workflows of the company: more like a programmatic service, not just a dumb repository like a hard drive which could be commoditised away.To that end, Box has 45,000 third-party developers working on APIs, and runs big developer conferences on different continents.Sooner, laterThat’s because commoditisation always looks imminent - even if it isn’t. “There’s a famous quote - that we dramatically overestimate change in the short term, underestimate it in the long term.“That couldn’t be more true of my own experience with Box. In 2005 we connected with the creator of Writely - who is now running engineering at Box, to create a ‘send to Writely’ connection.” (Writely is the startup which was bought by Google and become Google Docs.) Levie was sure that online collaboration for documents was going to be big.“The timeframe we thought that this would happen was three years - that everyone would do document editing in the cloud in three years. Ten years on - that’s still completely untrue. It’s still early in terms of the cycle.“But we had no idea was there would be 2.5bn phones - we never imagined there would be construction workers who would have the equivalent of a video camera connected to the internet in real time. We thought they’d take a video and go back to a laptop and upload it. Those are things where you get caught off-g-” He catches himself. “Hopefully not caught off guard, but totally surprised.”The expectation from 2004, he remarks, was “we thought people would be accessing their files from their BlackBerrys. We didn’t think about Google Glass and what that could mean for medical, or drones and what that can mean for agriculture, or the iPhone and what that can mean for people to have that power in their hand.“We do know a version of what we want to do at the conceptual level. We want to be underlying platform that helps you to manage sharing, collaboration and share that data. It’s a purposefully abstract challenge, because what we do know is that I can’t predict exact workflows. I don’t know if Glass is going to succeed, or Oculus is going to succeed, or which drone company will survive. But we can create architecture that will continue to add value.”Mining the cloudHe’s untroubled by the way that Amazon, Microsoft and Google compete to cut cloud prices - seeming to take it in turns to slash storage or virtual machines prices - because Box sits at a layer above them.If you look at where Amazon/Google/Microsoft are competing, they’re competing at the lowest level, the most fundamental raw materials of the cloud: computing, storage, bandwidth. These are the core minerals of cloud services; at that level it’s very hard to compete on price or value, because they’re all buying from the same supplier and going on the same network.”But rather like a smelting company finding the ore from minerals, Box benefits from cheaper minerals. It uses Amazon for fault tolerance: “The nice thing about the raw material level is that modularity and commodification is great for innovation and development,” says Levie.In March, Boxfiled its S-1with the US Securities and Exchange Commission - usually the prelude to a flotation, though actually a legal requirement once the number of stockholders rises above a certain number. Levie responded to expectations that his tweets would become lawyer-stifled encomiums bytweetingaphoto of a law firm in Missouriwith the phrase “Shout out to my new followers”. He didn’t restrain it.Shout out to my new Twitter followers.pic.twitter.com/GOScAznJxL&mdash; Aaron Levie (@levie)March 24, 2014The S-1 revealed revenues for the previous three years of $28m, $58.8m and $124.2m respectively - and net losses of $50.3m, $112.6m and $168.6m.Part of those losses derived from its huge investments in servers - $71m in the past two years alone, along with $16m in leasing for those and its offices. Box didn’t go public, instead raising money privately, though it will have to keep updating its S-1.After last week’s tech stock selloff, did he feel he had dodged a bullet? “I have limited schadenfreude,” he says, and laughs. Though there are a couple of grey hairs visible - running Box isn’t stress-free. “I spend 30-40% of my time on the road,” he says. “If it weren’t for airplanes and timezones, that would be great.”Obviously, Box could head towards profitability by cutting back on that investment - but that wouldn’t be smart just yet. Levie sees a phase of rapid change which his customers are having to adapt to. He references talking to a customer who works as a chief information officer in a logging firm, redesigning the company’s use of technology. “These industries that haven’t changed for 100 years suddenly their work processes are changing dramatically.”Dramatic upheavalHe points to media as a space where business upheaval is dramatic - and yet the business opportunity is much, much bigger.“All of a sudden, every person on the internet is a potential consumer of an album, a song, a TV show - rather than 10 years ago when it was just the people who going to stores, theatres or had your TV station as a subscription. Now there’s 3 billion people who can go to content. How does that change things?“Media is a business that’s being reinvented from the ground up. Look for a great example at what the Weinstein company is doing - releasing the followup to Crouching Tiger on Netflix and theatres on the same day. That’s the sort of change being afforded by business change and business models.He thinks the biggest change will come in healthcare. “You’re really going from an industry which hasn’t structurally changed for decades, to one where there’s going to be a couple of compounding tools - data, computing, personalisation.” To that end Box recently bought MedXT, which offers medical image viewing directly in a browser: Levie sees this as a key future use.But in the end, he says it’s his customers, not him, who makes the future happen in ways he can’t predict. “We design horizontal components, APIs, metadata, but we can’t predict how a manufacturing company will use it to speed up its supply chain. Or how a media company will use that to distribute a new album to the world on demand. Or doctors and radiologists sharing an image in different places. Those are the kinds of things that happen on our platforms, and then our customers and developers are using as the basic components to drive their innovation.”The interview ends. “Gotta go,” Levie announces, “and find out if Marc Andreessen has blocked me on Twitter.” And he bounds out again.Get your head round the cloud: 24 tricks for Dropbox, iCloud and more
As a child, I loved Transformers: the toys, the shows, the branded pyjamas, etc. Watching those cartoons back as an adult was a bit dispiriting though.With grown-up eyes, it was hard not to see them as just a marketing vehicle for toys, branded pyjamas, etc. I suspect if I watched He-Man again, it’d be a similar story.Why have I been watching old Transformers cartoons in 2014? Well, my five year-old son discovered them in ToonsTV, the cartoon network that now sits within every Angry Birds mobile game, streaming a blend of new shorts and old shows like Transformers and Fraggle Rock.That’s been a canny seeding campaign for Rovio’s new game, Angry Birds Transformers.Released for iOS(with Android to come), it follows previous branded tie-ins Angry Birds Rio and the two Angry Birds Star Wars games.The good news: Angry Birds Transformers captures the thrills robots in disguise held for the young me, while also introducing a bold new gameplay mechanic to Angry Birds. The not-so-good news: its enthusiastic adoption of freemium (or free-to-play) features makes it a bit more problematic as entertainment for the old me’s young son.Bots that trotLike the Angry Birds Star Wars games, Angry Birds Transformers maps Rovio’s modern-day birds onto classic characters. In this case, that means Autobirds and Deceptihogs or, in equally tongue-in-cheek fashion: “Birds disguised as Robots in Disguise”.Red is Optimus Prime, Chuck is Bumblebee, Stella is Arcee and so on. The characters are still robots capable of transforming into vehicles, but instead of human heads, they have robotic-looking bird heads, not to mention arms and legs. The plot is equally far-fetched, not least because it involves the two sides teaming up.The gameplay is the big change, though. In the past, regular Angry Birds games have stuck to a physics-based fling-birds-at-pigs template, albeit refining it over time through new attacks and level designs. Meanwhile, spin-offs like Bad Piggies, Angry Birds Go! and Angry Birds Epic have tested out new forms of gameplay.Angry Birds Transformers sits with the latter group: no bird-flinging here. Instead, the game plays like a cross between an endless runner, Operation Wolf and Burnout – the latter more in terms of the set-pieces where the game slips into slo-mo as scenery explodes, rather than specific gameplay.It’s not a racing game, then. Instead, each level sees your current Transformer running along in the foreground, while you tap on scenery and enemies in the background to make them topple and/or explode. Each character has their own attack, from bullets to laser blasts.If you’ve ever looked down your nose at the traditional Angry Birds gameplay as luck rather than skill, you might like Angry Birds Transformers: it’s much more of a twitch game demanding quick responses, a cool head and on-the-hoof strategy. It’s also very good fun: a breath of fresh air for Angry Birds.Calling a friend into the action in Angry Birds Transformers.Flutter with friendsWrapped around this are plenty of other features. Social, for example: you can sign in via Facebook and then take a friend’s character along for each level, tapping a button to call them in for support. This is when the action slows down and everything in the background explodes, before they clomp along with you for a short time shooting away.Another on-screen button turns you into a vehicle to scoot along, used when you’re passing massive statues that topple forwards as you approach: time it right, and you get another Matrix-ish slo-mo effect to reward your skill.Angry Birds Transformers has a now-familiar map structure to navigate through its levels, unlocking new areas and also new Transformers as you go, who can then be used to play. They can all level up, too, unlocking new attacks and abilities every few ranks.There’s an interlocking system of virtual currencies. Popped pigs are used to free characters, who then become available to use. Coins are earned through playing, and are spent on unlocking new areas of the map, as well as on upgrading Transformers and recharging their armour when they’re not on full energy.Meanwhile, gems are the game’s “hard” currency: bought in quantities of between £2.99 and £69.99, and then used to speed up the game’s timers, or to make up for missing coins when trying to buy an upgrade you can’t afford.Oh, timers. Yep. Upgrading Transformers takes time: a few minutes in the game’s early stages, but up to five hours by the time a character is going to level seven. You can spend gems to make the upgrade happen instantly. Likewise for recharging, as well as to “intercept” levels that aren’t playable for a period of time.Angry Birds Transformers isn’t the most aggressive freemium game out there, and it also hands out gems fairly generously for a variety of in-game achievements, as well as for rewards when a friend calls your character into their game.Angry Birds Transformers’ timers may take some explaining to kids.Kids and big kidsFor adults, Angry Birds Transformers is great fun, if you like one or both of the brands obviously. It’s a new genre for Angry Birds that works really well, not least because replaying levels feels a lot less grindy than getting stuck on hard levels in the traditional Angry Birds games.There are lots of impressive little touches too, from the pally cut-scenes after a friend has helped you beat a level, through to the varied weapons, the use of slo-mo at key moments, and the way some missiles turn you into a washing machine.As in the Angry Birds Star Wars games, Rovio has clearly thought hard about what people love about the original brand, and how that can fit neatly with its own characters. For me, it’s a much warmer, crafted homage than the recent Transformers films.What about children though? For my sons, aged five and seven and huge Angry Birds fans, the new game is a bit problematic. My in-app purchase (IAP) restrictions are locked down, so there’s no danger of them buying £69.99 worth of gems without my permission.The timers were an issue, though. At one point, the three available levels (at that point) each had a timer preventing us playing for, respectively, just over three and a half hours, nearly 35 minutes and just over 10 minutes. Try explaining that to a five year-old who gets a carefully-managed 20 minutes of tablet time a day.I’m happy to spend money on games that my children enjoy, including buying gems every so often; it’s possible to earn gems to combat this kind of hold-up; and the more characters you unlock, the more levels there are to play at any one point, reducing the chances of this kind of impasse.Even so, I think my sons are still a bit young for the intricacies of freemium gaming – interlocking currencies, energy bars and timers in this case – yet they really wanted to play Angry Birds Transformers.The characters blend classic Transformers with Angry Birds.Telepod toysIt’s worth saying that Angry Birds Transformers does have its own range of physical “Telepods” toys, like the two Star Wars games, Angry Birds Go! and Angry Birds Stella before it.Scanning them in using your device’s camera temporarily unlocks new transformers, boosts their power and recharges their armour – the latter in particular will get around some of the waiting time, shifting spending from in-app purchases to physical toys that can also be played with in the real world.Even so, I wonder if there’ll ever be scope for Rovio to launch separate “For Kids” versions of new Angry Birds games, without the freemium mechanics, and paid for upfront by parents, or perhaps even with a small monthly subscription including a set amount of virtual currency to spend.It would be risky – extra time and cost to develop, and there is no existing proof that parents would stump up. But it might help Rovio with the challenge of making money responsibly while having two distinct audiences: children and adults.For now, I’m taking a cautious approach with my kids, playing the game with them, and explaining how it works and why we can’t buy endless gems. But it’s a good enough game that I’ve found myself playing it a lot in the evenings and while commuting, without a child in sight.Freemium quibbles aside, as a game Angry Birds Transformers does a great job of appealing to Transformers fans old and new, while also providing yet more proof that Red, Chuck and crew are characters flexible enough to fit neatly into new stories and game genres.•Is Angry Birds Stella sexist? ‘We want to challenge stereotypes’•Angry Birds Epic: can Rovio’s franchise work as an RPG?•Angry Birds has lost 63m players (but still has 200m left)
The fifth and sixth public meetings of Google’sadvisory councilmet inBerlin and Londonrecently, inviting experts and the public to discuss the outcome of the recent “right to be forgotten ruling” made by the European court of Justice. Adviser Luciano Floridi explains the consultations.One of the crucial questions of our age is who may legitimately exercise what power over which kind of information.This is also one of the thorny issues raised by the ruling of the European court of justice (ECJ) againstGoogleon the so-called “right to be forgotten”. And this is why the advisory council spent quite some time addressing it during two public consultations in Berlin and London.The question is complicated because one may interpret “who”, “what power” and “which information” in many ways and end up talking at cross-purposes.During the consultations it became clear that there aresevenentities that may be legitimately involved: the person to whom the information refers (eg Mario Costeja González); the publisher of the information (eg the Spanish newspaper La Vanguardia); a search engine (eg Google Spain); search engine users (the public); a national Data Protection Agency (DPA, eg the Agencia Española de Protección de Datos); a national court of justice (eg the Audiencia Nacional); and finally, the ECJ.In terms of power, the last three are legal entities that do not generate the personal information or its links (the two relevant types of information under discussion) but can determine how the other entities manage both.The public is the only entity in the list that has no direct power in generating or controlling the personal information in question or the links provided by a search engine.However, the public exercises a decisive “passive power”, insofar as the debate must refer to the “public interest”, or rather a lack thereof, in order to determine whether the personal information in question and its links should remain available.In order words, the public is the reason why we are having a debate at all.The mess concerns the first three entities. Sometimes a person has both creative and controlling power with regard to the personal information that he or she wishes to see de-linked. One may have generated the information and made it public.For example, according to Google’sTransparency Report, the highest number of URLs removed from search results (3431) concernFacebook. In this case, it seems reasonable to expect the person to seek the removal of the personal information itself first, before asking to see it de-linked.The search engine has no creative power with respect to the personal information it indexes, but it has both creative and controlling power over its links. Such power could be exercised more imaginatively, but the ruling dictates that the links have to be removed, not, for example, push to a lower ranking, ranked historically, or annotated.This is a pity because more could be done, in terms of sedimentation of information, if the search engines were free to find alternative solutions to mere de-linking of legally available information, for example an oldASBOnow irrelevant.A publisher, such as the Guardian or the BBC, is the most powerful of all seven entities involved, because it has both creative and controlling power over the personal information in question.A publisher can regulate or block access to personal information quite easily. Its intervention makes anygerrymanderedde-linking no longer a problem. And it can operate discretely, without creating anyStreisand effect.However, at the moment, publishers are disempowered. They are merely notified about links removed, and even this is under discussion. They have no clear right of appeal, although they can informally negotiate a re-linking with a search engine, as it has happen with the Guardian and the BBC.All this is unsatisfactory and in need of rectification.At the end of the London meeting, I became convinced that a sensible procedure would be for an individual to request first the publisher to remove the personal information in question.Failing that, one could ask the search engine to de-link it.If that does not work, an appeal to the national DPA or the relevant court in one’s country would be the next step.And if that does not work, one could appeal to the ECJ. At each stage, the fact that the previous request was rejected should be documented and make a difference.In short, publishers should be the first to be consulted, not search engines, and their evaluation should matter.• Luciano Floridi is director of research, and professor of philosophy and ethics of information, at theOxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford. He is a member of Google Advisory Council on theRight to be Forgotten. His last book isThe Fourth Revolution: How the Infosphere is Reshaping Human Reality (Oxford University Press, 2014).
On Thursday, Rudy Giuliani, the ex-mayor of New York city, went to the Californian supreme court to defend the hit video game Call of Duty: Black Ops II against the imprisoned Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega. Many readers may need a few moments to take all that in.At the hearing, Guiliani insisted that a lawsuit brought by Noriega, seeking damages from the game’s publisher, Activision, should be dismissed as meritless. Even for an entertainment industry used to such legal wranglings, this is a bizarre state of affairs. But it is one Giuliani is taking very seriously.“This is a very important case because of its possible precedential value,” he says in a phone call to the Guardian, just hours before he his appearance at court. “Noriega is a historical figure of some prominence, and he’s been included in a small way in this video game. Games are, for legal purposes, considered the same as movies and books, so if he can censor this, if he can recover, then every person with historical significance who’s included in a book or a video game would then be able to censor their involvement and that could seriously interfere with the creative rights of authors.”It was back in July when lawyers representing Noriega, who is serving 20 years in a Panamanian jail for human rights violations and political killings, filed a lawsuit against Activision. The contention is that the Cold War-based game Call of Duty: Black Ops II features a depiction of Noriega, specifically in scenes where CIA operatives attempt to work with the dictator, who later betrays them. Noriega claims that Activison did not ask to depict him in the game, and as his appearance heightens its realism – a marketable facet of the title – he is entitled to damages.At the hearing, William T Gibbs, the Chicago-based attorney representing Noriega, cited a similar case, brought by the pop group No Doubt,who sued Activisionafter their inclusion in the music game, Band Hero. The band had given over image rights for the product but said they hadn’t agreed for their avatars to be depicted performing the songs of other artists. The case was settled out of court.Celebrity and historyGiuliani’s response is that the Noriega case is different because the depiction of historical figures in fictional works is protected by the first amendment. “Noriega was the most notorious criminal of the 1980s,” he says. “It would be impossible to write about narcotics trafficking, drug dealing or Latin American crime in that period without writing about Noriega.“He created a place for himself in history, and when you do that, you don’t own that history. President Bush, President Obama … they do not own their place in history, people are entitled to write about them critically, people are entitled to write about them in novels. If all these people had a right of publicity and were able to recover, you would prevent this entire genre of historical fiction from existing.”If the case does go to court – and Superior Court Judge William Fahey is still to decide after last week’s hearing – it is likely Guiliani will call on a much earlier legal precedent for support. In the 1979 case, Guglielmi v. Spelling-Goldberg Productions, the nephew of silent film star Rudolph Valentino attempted to sue the TV production company, after the airing of a TV movie based on the actor’s life. The suit was dismissed however, andthe court summarynotes:Valentino was a Hollywood star. His life and career are part of the cultural history of an era. As the title of respondents’ film suggests, Valentino became a “legend,” a symbol of the romantic screen idol and lover. His lingering persona is an apt topic for poetry or song, biography or fiction. Whether respondents’ work constitutes a serious appraisal of Valentino’s stature or mere fantasy is a judgment left to the reader or viewer, not the courts.For very different reasons, Noriega is similarly a part of the cultural history of the era – the contention then is that a precedent has been set.Transformation, fiction and lawGiuliani is, however, presenting with a secondary argument, that of “transformative use”. Freedom of speech under the First Amendment of the United States allows for the depiction of real-world figures if the author makes enough obvious fictional modifications. Giuliani is certain Call of Duty is covered.“Noriega is shown in entirely fictional circumstances,” he says. “He has a very small role, less than six minutes, and he is performing things that he never did. At one point he leads a Panamanian army to find a drug dealer named Menendze - that never happened.“The way the supreme court of California defined the test was, if you take a public figure and you synthesise their character into other roles, then you’ve have transformative use. It’s also about whether you’re stealing someone’s reputation [for monetary gain]. However, there is no CoD marketing based on Noriega - he is not mentioned in the adverts, or on the cover – there were 1500 reviews of this game and Noriega wasn’t mentioned in a single one. If you’re not used in the marketing then you haven’t met your burden of proof and the case should be dismissed.”So why is this sort of image rights action becoming so common in the games industry? Last year, two college athletes brought a successful case against Electronic Arts for their depiction in an American football game; and now Hollywood actor Lindsay Lohan is attempting to sue games publisher Rockstar claiming that the character of Lacey jonas in Grand Theft Auto V is based on her.“I think because video games are a newer genre, you’re going to have a lot more testing of [the law],” says Giuliani. “But this is a different kind of case to the Lohan one. This is not a creative artist, who, like Lohan, has created a certain image, reputation and career for themselves, and is suggesting that someone is trying to acquire that from them. This is someone who has thrust himself into history as a murderer, a torturer and a dictator - there has been no artistic creation.”History in the makingGiuliani, of course, knows what it’s like to be a historical figure under scrutiny. As an attorney in the eighties he took on the Five Families of the New York mafia in a series of prosecutions – earning a price on his head in the process. During his tenure as the mayor of New York, from 1994 to 2001, he was a controversial and divisive presence, but is remembered for steadfastly guiding the city in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attack.“There have been three or four books written about me, some of which I seriously object to, some of which I agree with,” he says. “I was the mayor of New York and during that time I created a history, and people have the right to write about that accurately, inaccurately and in a fictional way - I have no financial right to recover for that.”Activision, and any other video game companies thinking of setting their games in modern history, must now wait on Judge William Fahey. The lawsuit could be dismissed outright, or a date could be set for an expensive and potentially defining case. There will no doubt be a lot of interested parties watching – the games industry is, after all, worth $60bn a year, Call of Duty alone makes a billion dollars a year in revenue. Whatever happens, in the realm of personal image rights versus freedom of expression, the story will not end here for the games industry.Are Lindsay Lohan and Manuel Noriega right to sue over video game likenesses?
You enter a building, you kill everyone inside, you leave, you get pizza. Ultraviolent and subversive as hell, Hotline Miami was one of the most notorious and acclaimed indie releases of 2012, a blood-soaked, retro-tinged collision of Grand Theft Auto and Nicolas Winding Refn’s Drive.Created by the Swedish duo Jonatan Söderström and Dennis Wedin, the game follows an unnamed hitman (later known by fans as “Jacket”) carrying out a series of viscera-smeared murder missions for a panel of masked lunatics. As the action progresses, reality caves in, the levels and story sequences becoming ever more disturbed. Remaining constant, however, is the super-slick top-down action: most gunfights are over in milliseconds, and on trickier levels, with multiple enemies, players often have to restart dozens of times to get through every bullet-riddled confrontation.For the past two years, Söderström and Wedin (aka Dennaton Games) have been working on a sequel, subtitled “Wrong Number”. It’s set in the bloody aftermath of the original title, but in a postmodern twist, it seems the characters are aware of Hotline Miami as a product. “This time around we’re focusing on telling the whole story,” says Wedin. “In the first game, the character was kind of blank, which worked at the time - but for this one, we have a lot of playable characters so we want to give them more personality; we’re trying to tell the story in a different way. It’s still going to be very vague though. We give you the whole picture, but you have to put it together.”Pigs and playersThis time round, there’s Pig Butcher, the star of a disturbing 1990’s horror movie based on the incidents depicted in the first game. Then there are The Fans, a group of devout Hotline Miami fanatics who work themselves into a copycat frenzy of violence. Once again, the Dennaton team seems interested in toying with both the conventions and criticisms of violent games; analysing notions of player autonomy and culpability in the maelstrom of pixelated gore. “The meta-game is different this time, though,” corrects Wedin. “In the first we were sort of saying, ‘oh you’re a horrible person for liking violence’, for this one we’re going to do things … differently.”There has already been controversy. In a playable demo of the game shown this year, players guided Pig Butcher through a typical Hotline Miami level, blasting enemies and collecting more powerful weapons. However, the character then arrives in a room where he discovers a woman begging for her life, and appears to be about to sexually assault her. An onscreen director shouts “cut” and we realise this is a movie scene.Although ostensibly an attempt to critique the marginalisation and objectification of female game characters, many writers found the scene distressing and manipulative, and it was removed from the demo.Wedin, it seems, still believes the scene has a narrative role, later telling The Escapist: “There is a meaning to these two characters. There’s a lot more to them than just this scene. You get a bigger picture when you play the whole game.” When I asked about the status of the sequence and whether it would figure in the final game, he would only say: “We are still working on how to present that in the best possible way.”Meaning in MiamiBut then, Denaton has always avoided direct interpretation of its game, allowing players to perceive the original as just a mindless blaster if they wanted. “The whole idea was, if you just want a cool arcade game and don’t want to be lectured or forced to read a story, you can skip all that and have a cool time,” says Wedin. “It was important that the game was fun, with flashing point indicators, cool combos – when you finish a level and realise what you’ve done, it works so much better that way, rather than making the horror more explicit. When you play the level, it’s more of an obstacle course, you’re killing for points and combos – there’s nothing else that you’re after.”Indeed, in terms of mechanics, Hotline Miami has more in common with classic scrolling shooters like R-Type, then GTA. The focus is on twitch-based controls, combos and one-shot-one-kill encounters. It is killing as puzzle solving.It’s the stuff wrapped around the game that lends an air of post-modern commentary. The weird set-up for each mission, the pizza parlours and video stores visited by Jacket after completing levels, the visual hints that this is all some kind of brutal hallucination. Hotline Miami messes around with notions of narrative meaning and causality as the world crumbles around you.“We made a game we wanted to buy, but couldn’t,” says Wedin. “The way we portrayed the story was different from how most games do. They have cut-scenes and characters talking in your face for ten minutes, so you really get what the plan is – we just wanted to hide the story. We didn’t know if people were going to get it and it took a while; in the beginning people were saying, ‘oh this game has no story at all’, but then others started to say, ‘wait, have you seen this? It may mean that’. And it was like, boom.”Fans started to theorise over every detail: the identity of the gangsters who hand out the jobs; the over-friendly man who greets Jacket whenever he enters a store or fast-food joint; the meaning of the masks that Jacket wears to give him different perks; the contents of his apartment.“I loved that!” exclaims Wedin. “All this stuff, like things moving around in Jacket’s apartment – it was nice to see people taking the effort to figure out those details. It’s something we’re working hard on for the sequel – telling the story within the environment. We’re going all in, trying to give every level some story elements. We’re not telling you everything, but we want to make it interesting for the player to look around and try to figure stuff out.”Branching outWrong Number is, according to Wedin, a much bigger game than the original, with not only multiple playable characters (including women), but also multiple time lines. Everyone gets their own specialist fighting skills – some weapons-based, some melee – and players will be able to switch between them. They also have their own soundtracks and their own routes into missions: not every level starts with a phone call and a barked order. And not all of them wear masks.“We’re doing some really cool stuff with how the levels connects,” says Wedin. “We’re keeping the intros and outros to each stage, but some are the same when you switch characters. You can play a level as one character then maybe later you’re come back and play it again as someone else.”The team is also working on a level editor, which will allow players to create their own missions, complete with all the objects, guns, characters and masks from the main game. Wedin says they’re also planning a narrative constructor so fans can essentially build their own sequels, and a sharing function to help distribute them; but some of the more advanced features may have to wait until updates.For a pretty obtuse, retro-stylised shooter, Hotline Miami has built a huge audience, spanning both indie connoisseurs and blast-’em-up purists. Wedin, says it’s not just down to the game’s compulsive rhythm of violence and reward; it’s about crediting the player with agency and intelligence.“Most games hold the player’s handall the time,” he groans. “When you’re almost dead, there’s always a health pack around the corner; when you’re out of ammo, you get a new gun. Most triple A games are trying to make a movie – when you die, you have to go through ten cinematic sequences just to get back in. But it’s not bad to die!“Back in the old days, games were like, ‘you’re dead, let’s go again’. That’s what we want. We want players to be reckless”.Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number will be launched on PC, PS3, PS4, and Vita. Release date is TBCHotline Miami - is there more to it than cartoon violence?
The new hotshot on the college campus social media scene is Yik Yak. Much likeFacebook, which was established back in 2004 byMark Zuckerbergas a Harvard student, Yik Yak has rolled up in a frat house hoodie with a lever-arch file tucked under its arm, leaning casually against a locker.So what exactly is the app, how does it work, and why is it so popular?Where did it come from?The app launched in November 2013 by two 23-year-old graduates: Tyler Droll and Brooks Buffington. In April the app raised $1.5m in investment, and in June, a further $10m. Its clean, simple user interface is the colour of Tic Tacs.How does it work?Yik Yak’s main feature is allowing people, mostly students, to make posts – known as “yaks” – anonymously. These posts are then upvoted or downvoted (similar toReddit), and are commented upon. Users earn reputation points, known as “yakarma”, the more upvotes they receive.“We identified a need to create conversations and build communities without prerequisites such as prior relationships or connections,” Droll and Buffington wrote in an email to the Guardian.“Yik Yak is the only way to create a localised social forum without prior relationships or friendships for the purpose of delivering relevant, timely content to hyper-local areas of people.”Some of the local yaks in my area in North London.Photograph: Yik YakWhat is it similar to?The element of anonymity makes Yik Yak comparable toSecretor Whisper, two apps that also allow users to post anonymously (though Whispernot so much, as it turns out).However, where both Whisper and Secret are geared towards users posting confessions or confidential information, posts on Yik Yak tend to be more humorous and light-hearted in nature: pop culture updates, one-liner jokes.What also sets Yik Yak apart, is that the app utilises geolocation tools whichlimituser interactions to others within a 1.5 mile radius.This means the app can also be used to discover events or meetings in a local area – and is why it targets localised communities, such as college campuses. To this end, to keep updates relatively recent, yaks have a lifespan of 100 days before expiring.A new feature, “Peek”, has recently been added which allows users to view yaks from any college in the US, but doesn’t allow users to reply or vote unless they are within the 1.5 mile radius.The “Peek” feature will soon expand. The team say we can expect news very soon about the feature allowing us to eavesdrop on more locations than American colleges.How many people use it?Droll and Buffington write that Yik Yak is growing on a daily basis but is currently active at more than 1,000 colleges and universities worldwide.Is anything wrong with it?The problem with any app or social media service which lets users and commenters post anonymously is the potential for cyberbullying.Yik Yak has come in for a lot of criticism for being a breeding ground for rumour and bullying – and more serious content. Myriad threats of violence, sex crimes and hate crimes have been reported, includinga mass shooting threatand thecirculation of a sex tape. It wouldn’t be unfair to say it has gained a reputation for being a scourge among parents.A news report on Yik Yak in America.What is Yik Yak doing about this?Yik Yak seems to have recognised the problem, and now has more safety measures in place than many other services.For instance, in a bid to combat high-school taunts, Yik Yak has now geofenced all high schools in the US – making the app unusable on their campuses. The company teamed up with data providerMaponicsto identify all schools, and has made the app inaccessible in those locations.Many people have reported that once a post receives five downvotes, it is instantly deleted from the site. This isn’t quite true, but negatively rated posts are removed.“We do not release the specific numbers but yes, we do remove posts that reach a certain negative rating, which has been an effective method of community self-policing that helps prevent misuse”.There is also an option to flag or report a post, and Yik Yak says it removes the majority of reported posts almost immediately to combat racist, homophobic or generally abusive content.“We recognise that with any social app or network, there is the likelihood for misuse from a small group of users, so the company has put specific algorithms in place to prevent this from happening.Additionally, the app monitors conversations and posts, and any negative or harmful behavior will result in the respective user being blocked, or altogether banned from future use.“As more users sign up and start using the app, each community begins to self-regulate itself in a positive way”, say Droll and Buffington.The app also carries a 17+ age rating in the Android and iOS app stores.Yik Yak’s rules.Photograph: Yik YakDuring my time on the app, I saw only two incidents of ugly racism from hundreds of yaks, so it did suggest that problematic content must have been removed.Is it worth being on?Yik Yak is certainly fun, for a short while at least. But it’s not entirely clear whether it isn’t pointless. Its main use is a platform for quick bursts of amusement. But this is one ofTwitter’s USPs, and it has pretty much cornered the social network market for one-liners.Yik Yak has funny stuff – but a lot of it is banal and the jokes are mostly not original. It’s perfect for college students, but I can’t see it moving beyond that demographic.Droll and Buffington have gone on record as saying they hope to go into breaking news in the future, but again, Twitter has this locked down. It doesn’t seem likely to me that Yik Yak could succeed in this when it mostly deals in jokes about pizza, test scores and sex among millennials.The other issue is that despite the app’s massive popularity in the US, it is relatively obscure elsewhere.What’s the future of Yik Yak?“We are always looking to expand our app as more users start interacting and realising the value of the hyper-local forum we provide. We expect to have a strong presence in a list of other regions and countries in 2015.”It remains to be seen whether Yik Yak will end the year as homecoming king, or wind up a college dropout …•Do the new anonymous social media apps encourage us to overshare?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLockheed Martin's claims on fusion energy meet with skepticism &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewDavid Talbot:many scientists are unconvinced. Ian Hutchinson, a professor of nuclear science and engineering at MIT and one of the principal investigators at the MIT fusion research reactor, says the type of confinement described by Lockheed had long been studied without much success.Hutchinson says he was only able to comment on what Lockheed has released—some pictures, diagrams, and commentary, which can be found here. "Based on that, as far as I can tell, they aren't paying attention to the basic physics of magnetic-confinement fusion energy. And so I'm highly skeptical that they have anything interesting to offer," he says. "It seems purely speculative, as if someone has drawn a cartoon and said they are going to fly to Mars with it."Hutchinson adds: "Of course we'd be delighted if a real breakthrough were possible, but when someone who shows no evidence of understanding the issues makes a bald claim that they will just make a small device and therefore it will be quicker [to develop], we say, 'Why do they think they can do that?' And when they have no answers, we are highly skeptical."Lockheed joins a number of other companies working on smaller and cheaper types of fusion reactors.In Lollipop, WebView is unbundled from Android and free to auto-update from Google Play &gt;&gt; Android PoliceCody Toombs:Not all of the changes to Android 5.0 Lollipop are meant to be seen by regular users, but that doesn't make them any less important. One of the core components of the operating system is about to break free from the shackles of firmware updates and join the Play Store and Google Play services in receiving automatic updates directly from Google. As of Android 5.0, the WebView component will be a distinct apk, allowing it to be upgraded separately from the OS. Not only will this ensure important security updates find their way to our devices, but it will also make new features and APIs available to developers of applications that rely on WebView.Good move for security. Now just needs Lollipop to reach all the devices running old versions of WebView.A look behind the Snapchat photo leak claims &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comMike Isaac spoke to three people who claim to have been behind Snapsaved.com:They said they built the site in October 2013 after they were hired by someone they met on BlackHatWorld.com, an online message board where users trade tips and swindles to make money off search engines using practices that are typically rejected by companies like Google.This person, whom the men would not identify but said was based in Hong Kong, owned the Snapsaved.com domain listing or Internet address. The men tried to contact this man after the hack, but he did not respond to them.Snapsaved acted as a sort of online middleman between Snapchat and individual users. After a person entered a Snapchat handle and password, any photos or images sent to friends were saved to Snapsaved's server. Over the past year, the men said they had collected about 13 gigabytes of photos and data from more than 260,000 users.…The men said they decided to talk because they wanted to make it clear that it was their site that was hacked — not Snapchat. And they also wanted to make clear that they did not intend to collect child pornography.But six months ago, that is what happened. The men said they found images of child pornography uploaded to the Snapsaved.com server. They said they were able to trace the Internet addresses of the users sharing those photos to Sweden and Norway and sent that material to child protective services in those countries.Phone hackers dial and redial to steal billions &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comBob Foreman's architecture firm ran up a $166,000 phone bill in a single weekend last March. But neither Mr. Foreman nor anyone else at his seven-person company was in the office at the time."I thought: 'This is crazy. It must be a mistake,' " Mr. Foreman said.It wasn't. Hackers had broken into the phone network of the company, Foreman Seeley Fountain Architecture, and routed $166,000 worth of calls from the firm to premium-rate telephone numbers in Gambia, Somalia and the Maldives.Yes, dial-through fraud is still around. Oh,here's a story from almost exactly 19 years ago- to the day - about the exact same problem.On the design of toasterfridges &gt;&gt; getwired.comWes Miller:The younger people that follow me on Twitter or read this blog may not get all of these examples, but hopefully will get several. Consider all of the following devices (that actually existed).• TV/VCR combination• TV/DVD combination• Stand mixers with pasta-making attachments• Smart televisions• Swiss Army KnifeEach of these devices has something in common. Absent a better name to apply to it, I will call that property toasterfridgality. Sure. "Toasterfridge" was a slam that Tim Cook came up with to describe Microsoft's Surface devices. But regardless of the semi-derogatory term, the point is, I believe, valid.Each of the devices above compromises the integrity with which it performs one or more roles in order to try and perform two or more roles. The same is true of Microsoft's Surface and Surface Pro line.His point is much broader than the Surface, though, taking in USB ports on mobile devices, the Padfone ,and more.BlackBerry shares up after unconfirmed report on possible Lenovo bid &gt;&gt; ReutersBlackBerry shares rose more than 3% [to $10] on Monday after a news website said Chinese computer maker Lenovo Group might offer to buy the Canadian technology company.Benzinga.com, citing an unnamed source familiar with the matter, said an offer worth $15 a share could come as early as this week.Lenovo and BlackBerry said their companies did not comment on rumors and speculation.Rumors of a Lenovo bid for BlackBerry have swirled many times over the last two years. Senior Lenovo executives at different times have indicated an interest in BlackBerry as a means to strengthen their own handset business.Lenovo got approval to buy IBM's PC and server businesses, but BlackBerry's would be a different matter altogether in regulatory terms. It could be fun to watch it smooshing together American mobile icon Motorola and Canadian mobile icon BlackBerry, though.How bad UX killed Jenny &gt;&gt; MediumJonathan Shariat:Jenny, as we will call her because the patient's name was never shared, was a little girl who had previously been in the hospital ward for cancer for four years and was discharged. Then a while later she relapsed and had to be given a very strong chemo treatment medicine. This medicine is so strong and so toxic that it requires pre-hydration and post-hydration for three days with I.V. fluid. However, after the medicine was administered, three nurses were attending to the charting software to enter in everything required of them and make the appropriate orders, missed a very critical piece of information. Jenny was supposed to be given 3 days of I.V. hydration. But the three nurses, with over 10 years experience, were too distracted trying to figure out the software they were using, they completely missed it.When the morning nurse came in the next day, she had died of toxicity and dehydration. For two shifts, she had missed her hydration and all because the three, very good nurses, were stuck trying to figure this out…The screenshot he posts is indeed a nightmare of user-hostility. Worth remembering: poor interface design can be literally lethal.Piccolo, the tiny CNC-bot &gt;&gt; PiccoloPiccolo is a pocket sized open source CNC-bot. Using laser-cutting, off-the-shelf hardware and Arduino, you can make your own simple 3 axis robot. Attach a brush or pen to make a quick drawing robot, or extend Piccolo with sensors, custom toolheads, or by using multiple Piccolos together. Experiment with 2D or 3D digital fabrication at a small scale!Taboola reaches more US desktop users than Facebook &gt;&gt; Inc.comMost people know Taboola as the content recommendation engine behind sites such as The Huffington Post and Time magazine. But now Taboola is making some news of its own, reaching more US desktop users in September than Facebook, Outbrain, and Google Sites like YouTube, according to comScore.ComScore only indexed reach in terms of impressions--how many people saw links powered by Taboola, not how many clicked through. Still Taboola's 86.2% reach is impressive for the seven-year-old company, which got its start recommending videos online. "I think what it says is there may be a new advertising category called personalization," says chief executive and founder Adam Singolda. "People have been talking about it, and now that comScore is putting this report out there, it's real."Taboola - as you might not know - is the company responsible for those "10 Tricks Gmail Users Don't Know" panels that appear below many stories on news sites.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
It’s looking bad for the iPad. Apple’s results for the three months to the end of September show that its phone business keeps growing, up 16% to 39.2m, boosted by just two weeks of sales of the new iPhone 6 range. Even the venerable Mac computer business had a great time, up 21% to 5.5m to nudge bigger, less profitable rivals.It is also the end of the line for the iPod, the device that, in 2001, sparked Apple’s revival. In future, its sales will be recorded as “other”, along with headphones or accessories. But with just under 400m sold in total, it has done its job – making Apple both fashionable and profitable.The iPad, though, has seen falling year-on-year sales for all nine months of this year, quite clearly because people who bought one already do not see a need yet to replace them; even 2011’s iPad 2 will run the latest iOS 8 software, if creakily.Tablets took off after Apple’s reboot of the category in 2010 and have already reached 40% of households. They are replacing TVs for many children. But unlike smartphones they do not break or need urgent replacement – and the average price has slumped as people buy the smaller “mini” versions, down from more than $600 (£370) in 2011 to $431 last quarter.But Apple will not be worried. Operating profits were up by 11% and revenues rose by 12%. It has the next quarter to look forward to, with iPhone 6 sales in China, where they are expected to be hugely popular, and people buying iPads as gifts.More importantly, the 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus is expected to be popular in Asia and, if people buy those, they generate more revenue and profit for Apple than an iPad.“We’re not scared to cannibalise ourselves,” one Apple executive said after the iPhone launch. “And we think those iPhone buyers might end up buying an iPad, too.”The iPad might be limping, but Apple doesn’t have any problems to compare with its arch-rival, South Korea’s Samsung. Earlier this month, it guided that itssmartphone sales and prices have collapsedin the face of Chinese manufacturers at the low end, and Apple, LG and Sony at the high end.Samsung’s electronics division forecast operating profits of about 4.1trn won (£2.4bn) on revenues of 47trn won (£27.2bn); Apple announced operating profits of $11.12bn (£6.9bn) on revenues of $42.1bn.In other words, Apple, despite shipping fewer smartphones (39m against 79m), made very much more profit from them.Apple beat the Wall Street estimates handily, even though it has stopped lowballing its forecasts as it did in the Steve Jobs days. Clearly, it was the iPhone which helped.Chief executive Tim Cook said at the results announcement: “We are heading into the holidays with Apple’s strongest product lineup ever. We are also incredibly excited about the Apple Watch and other great products and services in the pipeline for 2015.”In fact, it is already ramping up another new facet. On Monday, there were crowds of people in California and the rest of the US turning up in stores and using their new iPhones to pay for goods. They were using Apple’s latest addition to its services: Apple Pay, which uses the fingerprint reader on the phone to enable contactless payments via a software update issued the same day. Thousands of dollars were spent in a few hours.That might not sound like much except that, despite Google’s Android offering the same facility for years, hardly anyone has used it. Many storekeepers were seeing such transactions for the first time.So while the iPad might not be setting the world on fire, Cook will not be worried. The new iPads can do Apple Pay online. IBM has a tieup to sell iPhones and iPads to businesses. China only just began buying iPhones. Other businesses come and go, but Apple just seems to keep getting bigger.
