Nokia will hold a joint media event with Microsoft in New York on 5 September, boosting expectations that it will show off its long-awaited Windows smartphone upgrade before rival Apple rolls out its next iPhone – expected to be announced exactly a week later.The Finnish mobile phone maker gave no details about the September event, but chief executive Stephen Elop said earlier on Wednesday the company would "soon" unveil a new smartphone using Microsoft's latest smartphone software known as Windows Phone 8.The Guardian understands that there will be a parallel event in Helsinki, Nokia's headquarters, involving carriers and analysts.Nokia has been fighting for survival after ceding vast ground to rivals Apple and Samsung in recent years. In 2011 it forged a software alliance with Elop's former employer, Microsoft, which has also fallen behind in smartphone software to both Apple's iPhone and Google's Android mobile operating system. Its mobile phone business has made deepening losses for the past two quarters, while its smartphone business has shrunk even as the worldwide market has grown by about 50% annually.For both Nokia and Microsoft, the upcoming version 8 of Windows Phone will be a key weapon in trying to regain leverage in the smartphone business. The next version of Windows Phone will use the same code kernel as Microsoft's forthcoming Windows 8 – which has just been "released for manufacture" to computer makers – meaning that for programmers it should be simpler to write apps that will run across both platforms, while the appearance of the Windows Phone interface, using large tiles rather than the small icons of Apple's iOS and Google's Android, will become more familiar to millions of users around the world who buy Windows 8 PCs.Windows 8 will go on sale near the end of October, Microsoft has said.Nokia has not commented on specific plans for its Nokia World trade show event, which occurs on  5 and 6 of September in Helsinki. Speaking to reporters in Oslo, Norway, on Wednesday, Elop said only that Windows Phone 8 smartphones would be released in the "relatively near term."Nokia shares, which have been trading near all-time lows, rose sharply in Helsinki after Elop's comments and gained 3.4% to close at €2.07 ($2.55) in Helsinki on Wednesday. Its US shares closed up 6% at $2.64 on the New York Stock Exchange.But the boost from expectations over handsets was marred after the ratings agency Standard &amp; Poor's downgraded Nokia's credit rating below "junk", to BB- with a "negative" outlook. S&amp;P cut Nokia's rating in April to BB+ – junk status – meaning conservative investors such as pension funds will consider it too risky to hold.Elop, who was brought in from Microsoft two years ago to lead Nokia's fight against Apple and Samsung, said he was sticking to his strategy of using Microsoft software despite the limited success of Windows phones so far. Figures from the analysts IDC and Gartner suggest that Windows Phone saw a few million shipments in the second quarter of 2012, compared with tens of millions for the iPhone and Android phones.Nokia lost €1.53bn in the second quarter while selling just 4m Windows phones, well short of Apple's 26m iPhones and Samsung's estimated 50m smartphones.Nokia decided in early 2011 to ditch its homegrown Symbian software in favour of Microsoft's, and has also begun a radical restructuring in which it is closing factories and getting rid of tens of thousands of jobs to slim down its workforce. Even so, Symbian phones still outsell its Windows Phone products."I don't think about rewinding the clock and thinking about competing elsewhere," Elop told reporters in Oslo. "In today's war ... (between) Android, Apple and Windows, we are very clear, we are fighting that with the Windows phone," said Elop, who was in Oslo for a meeting with Jon Fredrik Baksaas, the chief executive of the Norwegian carrier Telenor ASA.Nokia shrugged off S&amp;P's downgrade, saying it had sufficient liquidity and was saving money.
A US judge presiding over a high-stakes patent trial between Apple and Samsung suggested that "it's time for peace" before the jury begins deliberating next week on their verdict.The case also heard from a Samsung designer who was challenged on whether the company was briefed by Google in February 2010 that its early tablet designs looked "too much like" then-newly announced Apple iPad. The designer, Jin Soo Kim, said he was unaware of the briefing.US District Judge Lucy Koh is in charge of the case, where the two companies are suing each other over a variety of design and wireless patents.With time running out for both sides to present and cross-examine witnesses, Koh suggested that the chief executives of Apple and Samsung should speak to each other at least once on the phone before the jury decision. A pre-trial meeting between the two was fruitless, however, and the bitter testimony given at the trial offers little indication that the two sides will come together.Apple accuses Samsung of copying the design and some features of its iPad and iPhone, and is asking for a sales ban in addition to billions of dollars in damages. South Korea's Samsung, which is trying to expand in the US, says Apple infringed several patents, including some for its key wireless technologies.The US trial is now in its third week. Before the jury was brought into the courtroom on Wednesday, Koh told attorneys for the companies that they had succeeded in raising awareness about the importance of their intellectual property rights.Top executives from both companies had participated in mediation with a US magistrate judge several times. They remained far apart shortly before trial on how they viewed the value of each other's patents.Koh asked them to explore a settlement once again, noting that "I see risks here for both sides." Lawyers for both companies told her they would pass along the message.Samsung continued presenting witnesses on Wednesday, including an industrial designer from South Korea who described developing the Galaxy line of tablets.Speaking through a Korean interpreter, Kim said he began working on a tablet in October 2009, months before Apple launched the iPad in January 2010. Kim recounted the rationale behind different design choices for the Galaxy Tab 10.1. The screen, for instance, was set at 10.1 inches both to maximise its size and contain manufacturing costs."I really enjoy what I do as a designer," Kim said. "I am proud of what I do."Asked by Samsung attorney John Quinn whether he copied the designs of any other company, Kim said: "I have not."Apple attorney Harold McElhinny showed Kim internal Samsung emails, referring to a meeting between the company and Google executives.At the meeting, Google told Samsung executives they should redesign its early tablet because it too closely resembled Apple's iPad, according to the February 2010 emails. Google created the Android operating system, which runs on the Samsung phones and tablets at issue in the lawsuit.Kim said he did not attend the Google meeting and was not briefed about it by his colleagues.Another Samsung witness on Wednesday testified that a number of patents that Apple is asserting in the case are invalid because of "prior art" – pre-existing examples of methods to carry out the same function. In particular, said Stephen Gray, a patent analyst, two products called DiamondTouch and LaunchTile predated Apple's demonstration of "pinch and zoom" and "tap to zoom" on the touch-sensitive iPhone screen, invalidating those ones asserted by Apple against Samsung.In cross-examination, Apple's lawyer asked Gray whether Apple's patent would stand if the jury felt the magnification used in LaunchTile differed from that in the iPhone. Apple has previously suggested that LaunchTile uses a different zooming method which replaces one view with another, rather than the iPhone's smooth magnification system. Gray said it would be for the jury to decide.Samsung faces one key challenge unrelated to the strength of its case. The two sides are strictly rationed in time that can be used examining and cross-examining witnesses. Each has been allocated 29 hours, but by the end of Wednesday Apple – which made its case first, and so would be expected to use more time – had used 18 hours and one minute, leaving it about 7 hours, while Samsung had used 22 hours 25 minutes, giving it 2 hours and 25 minutes remaining. That means Samsung, which only began presenting its case this week, will probably have to rest its case on Thursday.The time limit excludes closing arguments. Koh has said there will be no extensions.
It's Thursday – my last day at Gamescom. How are you doing? I played Dishonored last night – very, very interesting stuff.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFlash for Android dies today, long live the 'full web experience' &gt;&gt; The VergeIn November of last year, Adobe made a surprising about-face on its popular Flash plugin, announcing that it would stop development of Flash for mobile devices. Today, Adobe will disable new installs of Flash on Android, effectively cutting it off from the future of the mobile web -- despite the company's historical assertion that Flash would enable the "full web experience" on mobile devices. Instead, Adobe surrendered the major mobile battlegrounds and pledged allegiance to HTML5.Remember when having Flash was the selling point for Android?Solving for 7: How Apple could implement the iPad mini interface &gt;&gt; iMore.comIf Apple does unveil a smaller iPad, it will have been analysed to death before the first one is unwrapped. Yet it's also an interesting exercise in crowdsourcing.Windows 8 vs. Windows 7: Benchmarked &gt;&gt; ZDNetSpoiler: it's faster.Qwerty keyboard wins the battle of the input methods &gt;&gt; Nokia Conversations : the official Nokia blogYes, that's the headline which has been bouncing around the net and written up as "OMG PEOPLE REALLY LOVE KEYBOARDS WTF TOUCHSCREENS". Now let's dig back to the source of the data:Last week we ran a poll asking you to choose your favourite input method on a mobile phone. The choices were...So it's an online poll, on the website of a company whose remaining customers haven't embraced touchscreens to any large extent. The number in the sample isn't given, so we can't estimate its reliability. But it's another lesson in distrusting self-selecting samples.Nearly 3,000 Chinese 'group buy' sites have closed so far in 2012 &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaA couple weeks ago we looked at some data from Tuan 800 that suggested things were pretty bad for China's group buy industry, with more than 2,000 sites closing in the past nine months. But this morning, the Chinese E-Commerce Research Center has released a report with numbers that are even more grim: 2,859 sites have closed in just the past six months. That leaves just over 3,200 still in operation; apparently, the numbers haven't been that low since 2010.The report also says that the group buy industry did 14.6 billion RMB ($2.3 billion) in business over the first half of this year; that's up 126 percent over the first half last year. But most of that money is going to the top players; other sites are dying off.Acer's JT Wang is part of the problem &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:I find it hysterical that Acer chairman JT Wang is the most vocal critic of Microsoft getting into the hardware business with the Surface.  You see, I still haven't experienced Windows 8 in Portrait mode and it is his company's fault.Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 Review: This Tablet's Mightier with a Pen &gt;&gt; TIME.comIf the Note 10.1 sells well, it won't be on the strength of the bang it delivers for your buck. It'll be because it's one of the relatively few Android tablets with a snappy answer to the bottom-line question "Why should somebody buy this instead of an iPad?"The iPad doesn't come with a pen and may never do so, given Steve Jobs' famous declaration that "if you see a stylus, they blew it." Scads of companies have stepped in to fill the gap -- my favorite iPad stylus is Adonit's Jot Flip -- but all of their designs suffer from the fact that they're designed to work with a tablet that was engineered for fingertips.Samsung, however, built the Galaxy Note 10.1 from the ground up for pen use. And when it decided to add pens to some of its devices, it made the eminently sensible decision to work with Wacom, the company which dominates the market for graphics tablets used by artists.Inside Facebook's Push to Woo Big Advertisers &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAs the ad types peppered the young chief executive officer with questions, a theme emerged. If they committed to spending big bucks with Facebook, how could they be assured a return on their investment? Mr. Zuckerberg's response, according to one of the attendees: "That's a great question and we should probably have an answer to that, shouldn't we?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Microsoft has now made the release build of Windows 8 available to developers and IT administrators with subscriptions. The empire strikes back, or the beginning of the end for Windows?It could be either. Windows 8 has had a mixed reception from those who have tried it in preview, with complaints mainly focused on the awkwardness of combining what often feels like two different operating systems into one. Microsoft has consciously made it hard to stay in the familiar Windows desktop environment and ignore the new-style "Modern" user interface, formerly known as Metro, which is optimised for touch control.There is only one Start menu, and it uses the Modern UI, while common files types such as images and PDF documents open by default in Modern apps. It makes for a jarring experience, especially if you have a laptop or desktop PC rather than a tablet.The release version of Windows 8 is not radically different from the previews, but there are some new things. The translucent window effects of the Aero theme in Windows 7 have gone, replaced by a blander, squarer look more in keeping with the Modern UI.The Windows 8 Store is coming to life, and a few paid-for apps have appeared, though the number should increase sharply by the time of general retail availability on 6 October. Currently it is still sparsely populated, though there are a few stand-out apps such as Weather and Finance.Note that while the Store only includes Modern UI apps for install and update, it also has links to external sites for selected desktop apps.A new startOne cosmetic but welcome change is in the way shortcuts for desktop applications appear in the Start screen. In the preview, each one was a tiny icon surrounded by a big block of wasted space. There is still plenty of wasted space, but the icons are now bigger and centralised, improving their appearance (see screenshot at top).Microsoft has also been busy fixing bugs and fine-tuning performance. Windows 8 has demonstrated solid improvements over Windows 7 from the first preview, and the release build feels solid and brisk.Microsoft mentions several specifics: faster disk access yielding 10-20% speed-up in operations such as installing large applications; up to 35% faster resume from hibernation; much faster graphics and text rendering thanks to hardware acceleration, ranging from around 40% faster decoding of JPEG images to 438% faster drawing of rectangles, and much quicker Wi-Fi reconnection.What this means for desktop users is that if you can learn to live with occasional Modern UI inconveniences, it is hard to go back to Windows 7 – which feels distinctly slower on the same hardware.In transition?Windows 8 now has a tutorial for new usersAnother key question is whether Microsoft has done enough to get users past their initial disorientation. The main difference compared to the previews is the appearance of new animations at the end of the Windows 8 setup."After your PC is ready move the mouse into any corner," says the animation aimed at keyboard and mouse users, while there is a similar effort to encourage users to swipe in from the sides if using a tablet. This is minimal though, and many will need a more detailed survival guide. Some issues, notably the existence of two versions of Internet Explorer, are long-term annoyances.There are signs that Windows 8 is a transitional operating system. Even if you like the Modern UI and want to work in it as much as possible, the desktop is unavoidable for some tasks, and operations – say, safely removing an external USB drive – are awkward when there is no mouse available.Go to personalise your desktop, and you will find that while the colour selection dialog is touch-friendly, the Sounds control applet is little changed from Windows 7 and awkward without a mouse. Windows has always had its share of design inconsistency, but this is the most extreme in that respect.Things to likeAlong with the niggles, there is plenty to like. Installing and updating apps from the Store is delightfully easy, and safer than running third-party installers for desktop apps. The process of purchasing music or renting a video is similar to what we have already seen from Apple, Amazon and Google, but having this fully integrated with the operating system and with the same Microsoft account you use to sign into Windows does make it more seamless to use.Windows 8 lets you buy or rent videos as easily as in iTunes or on Android, for multiple devices including PC, Xbox and Windows PhoneBehind the Modern UI distractions there is a big and impressive vision. For the consumer, it involves bringing together cloud, PC, tablet, Xbox and Windows Phone so that your content is available across all devices (within reason – no Office documents on Xbox), and getting settings like social media accounts and internet favourites (aka bookmarks) roam with you.The pitch to businesses is about migrating to a world of personal, touch-controlled mobile devices without losing the security and manageability Microsoft has developed for Windows PCs. Note that the forthcoming Windows Phone 8 is built on the same kernel as Windows 8, and with a similar developer platform.Microsoft's Office suite also has a key role, differentiating Windows 8 tablets from those running Apple iOS or Google Android, and enabling tablet users to do almost all their work without unpacking a laptop.ConclusionReport after report shows that the Windows ecosystem is hurting, and not only because of global recession. Macs at the high end, and Apple's iPad and iPhone, and Google Android in mobile, are eroding sales of PCs and laptops.Windows 8 is Microsoft's answer, and it is good work. The Modern UI environment is not only enjoyable for touch users, but also fixes many long-standing Windows problems around security, performance, and ease of use. Combine it with cloud services including the Windows Store, Office 2013 and Office 365, SkyDrive and Skype, and you can see that all the pieces are there.On the other hand, Microsoft is late to the tablet game – very late. App developers busy creating apps for iOS and Android will not rush to port to Windows 8 Modern UI until they see a strong market, and in that context the last thing Microsoft needs is Windows diehards devising ways to stay permanently in the desktop world, or vowing to stick with Windows 7, and there will be plenty of both.All this makes the fate of Windows 8 and its ecosystem a tough one to call. What is certain though is that if Microsoft had merely offered a refined, improved and faster Windows 7, the continuing decline of Windows would have been assured.Windows 8 is bold and different, and underpinned by solid technical improvements. Yes, it is confusing and inconsistent, needs more apps, and is tricky for existing Windows users getting started; but it is also the most capable tablet operating system out there and a useful upgrade for desktop users. Don't dismiss it.AvailabilityWindows 8 is available from 15 August for paying members of MSDN and TechNet, Microsoft's developer and IT administrator subscriptions, and from 16 August for enterprises with Software Assurance. It will be available to purchase as part of business volume agreements from 1 September, and from 26 October for consumers and pre-installed.System requirements are 1Ghz processor, 1GB RAM (2GB for 64-bit), and a graphics card that supports DirectX 9.• This article was amended on 21 August to correct the consumer release date for Windows 8GalleryThe Windows 8 lock screenWindows 8 is now available in its release build to Microsoft subscribersNo Aero transparency on Windows 8The Windows 8 desktop no longer supports "Aero" translucencyThe Windows 8 store is filling up graduallyThe Windows Store is still sparsely populated... some apps are appearing in the Windows 8 storeA few paid-for apps have appeared in the StoreThe Windows 8 legacy Start screenDesktop apps have better Start tiles than in the preview, but still waste space
Its Nephilim protagonist, Death, may have the air of inscrutability about him, but this is a game that wears its influences clearly on his tattered sleeve. Prince of Persia's wall-runs see you hop and skip from pillar to post as you seek to solve the Tomb Raider-esque puzzles scrawled into the stone of each of its temples. Devil by name, Devil May Cry by nature in battle, as you switch between light and heavy weapons before hammering the trigger to maintain the combo as your prey tumbles up and up into the air, juggled till they explode in a shower of crimson particles.Loot litters the world, endless iterations of gauntlets and greaves to provide leapfrogging statistical upgrades, a breadcrumb trail of improvements that's as irresistible as anything in the Diablo tradition. Later in the game you discover weapons you may feed with items to improve their properties, and as your character gulps down experience points you can add to his ability list, carving out his pre-destined potential as in so many RPGs.Then, of course, there's Zelda. Shigeru Miyamoto's adventure classic provides much of the detail – dungeon maps hidden in treasure chests, master keys to unlock important doors and even the odd inspiration for locations, as Ocarina of Time's Waster Temple becomes Drenched Fort. But it also offers a broad canvas template that Vigil Games reverently apes not to mention that sense of giddying freedom when you saddle up your horse (this time, a ghoulish apparition that Death can conjure from his pocket whenever there's enough room) and gallop across acres of wide open field en route to your next dungeon and its accompanying treasure.There may be little of Zelda's land of Hyrule's more immediate charm to be found in these muted pixels where only the odd splash of green or purple interrupts the dreary ambiance. But in its systems and clockwork construction, Darksiders 2 elicits more than an echo of that game's wonder, a feeling seasoned with others derived from the deeper, more expressive battle system and focused questing.While Darksiders' ingredient list is clear and identifiable, the resulting flavour is entirely one of its own, the diverse ideas combining into a cohesive whole far more effectively than you may expect. In the main this is down to the competence and craft of each individual piece of design. Battles flow with sense and precision, demanding expert-timed rolls to evade danger and protect your health bar, inspiring tactical, thoughtful play rather than a blind hammering of the buttons.Likewise, the dungeons themselves – while mostly built from the same palette of pulleys, platforms and anchor points – unfurl and grow in ingenious complexity and, while there are rooms whose puzzles stump later in the story, a pause for thought usually leads to a delicious eureka moment of resolution. Finally, the sense of statistical progression as the numbers that represent your character's abilities increase, proves irresistible (even if there's disappointingly little visual distinction between each set of armour) – every treasure chest potentially home to a strengthening piece of kit or, at very least, the currency with which to buy some.It's also a game with much of the usual friction removed. You may fast travel to any key locations you've already visited over the course of your adventure, ducking out of a dungeon to stock up on health potions, for example, before returning to the exact spot you teleported from a few minutes later. As you begin to juggle quests – short, medium and long term demands on your attention – the colour-coded quest log keeps things ordered, with objective points dotted onto the map to minimise aimless wandering.In fact, there's a case to say Darksiders 2 is too ordered. You dart from objective to objective, your next task always clear and obvious and, at times the game world can lack a sense of true place because of it – the curtain of fantasy and detail slipping to reveal the raw systems beneath the drama, the truth that the game (as with most of this type) is little more than a sequence of walled conundrums, barriers en route to its conclusion.The story goes some way to dress the machinery, helped no end by Michael Wincott's gravelly turn as the voice of Death, and some inspired character design in the game's supporting roles: 500lb dwarven giants and stone guardians that carry you, Ent-like across the world. For THQ, a publisher laid low by recession, Darksiders 2 is a triumphant statement of intent that, much like Death gulping down a potion while on a sliver of health, it's not over yet. For everyone else, here is a game of assured construction, stimulating myth, and welcome challenge, a warm celebration to the games of our childhood that, in its brightest moments, matches them.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
The arrival of superfast broadband connections from BT and Virgin Media has boosted the average residential download speed by nearly 20% during the last six months, to nine megabits per second.Speeds have more than doubled in three years, up from 4.1Mbps in May 2009, and are comfortably ahead of last November's average of 7.6Mbps,according to twice-yearly research by the telecoms watchdog, Ofcom.The news will cheer ministers,who were last month criticised by the House of Lordsfor the lack of a strategy to replace the UK's ageing copper network with high-speed fibre. The culture, media and sport secretary, Jeremy Hunt, is expected to give his response to the Lords report in a speech next week.Ofcom said network upgrades were behind the increase. BT has improved its old copper network and has been rolling out fibre to street cabinets in a programme which has now reached a third of the UK's 30m homes and small businesses.Virgin Media began doubling speeds for its customers in February 2012, and increased its top-tier package's maximum speed to 120Mbps."The move to faster broadband services is gathering momentum," said the Ofcom chief executive, Ed Richards. "Consumers are benefiting from network upgrades and the launch of new superfast packages, giving them faster speeds and greater choice."Researchers recorded 559m test results in 1,800 homes in May, looking at 12 packages provided by the eight largest internet service providers.Virgin's cable network delivered the biggest speed improvements, with the average connection increasing 26% to nearly 18Mbps in the six months to May.Over the same period, copper speeds increased by 10% to an average of just under 6Mbps. Surprisingly, average speeds over BT's brand-new fibre-to-the-cabinet network actually fell by 12%, from 36Mbps to just under 32Mbps.The drop may be due to the fact that wireless hubs in test homes were unable to cope with higher speeds, and these are now being upgraded. The number of superfast customers has also risen sharply, up 150,000 in the last quarter to 700,000.Ofcom believes the reversal could also have been caused by BT rolling out fibre to cabinets in less densely populated areas. The company began its rollout in busy urban areas and is gradually moving to smaller towns and suburbs.BT is running fibre to the cabinet and relying on copper wires to carry the signal the rest of the way to the doorstep, which can slow down the service if the copper has to travel long distances.Ofcom's report stated: "Although fibre to the street cabinet delivers much faster broadband services … the greater the distance between the home and the street cabinet, the lower the speed."The report showed that actual speeds remain considerably slower than advertised speeds. BT Infinity promises up to 76Mbps but customers get 58.5Mbps on average over 24 hours, while Virgin's up to 60Mbps get 55.9Mbps. The fastest average speed for a retail broadband package in the UK is on Virgin's 100Mbps service, with customers receiving 88.3Mbps.The Advertising Standards Authority recently looked into speed advertising but decided to set a low threshold. Providers need only achieve a speed across 10% of the relevant customer base to be able to use it in their advertising.Dominic Baliszewski of the price comparison site Broadbandchoices said: "Whilst any overall increase is good news, this research highlights once again the disparity between advertised speeds and the service actually received by customers."Although the ASA's recent ruling has led to fewer providers making unrealistic claims in their advertising, speeds are clearly still a long way off from where they should be."The Lords communications committee has criticised the government's programme for improving the UK's broadband infrastructure, urging it to set more ambitious targets. The nation is working towards 90% of homes on more than 24Mbps by 2015, with the final 10% making do with 2Mbps.In their report the Lords said: "It is far from clear that the government's policy will deliver the broadband infrastructure we need – for profound social and economic reasons – for the decades to come."
Legendary games designer Warren Spector, creator of Deus Ex and Disney's Epic Mickey title, is in London next week – do you fancy meeting him?Well here's your chance, because the Guardian and Disney Interactive are running an exclusive Epic Mickey 2 event next Tuesday, 21 August, at the Disney headquarters in London.Spector will demo the game for a select group of Gamesblog readers, then he and I will discuss the game, his influences and his approach to design. We'll then invite audience questions before providing hands-on time with the game.Epic Mickey 2 is the sequel to Spector's inventive platform adventure, which throws our favourite cartoon mouse into a wasteland of abandoned Disney animations and theme park attractions. In the sequel, he returns to the troubled 'toon world once again, this time with a co-op partner, Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, the first Disney star.This will be a unique opportunity to meet one of the great games designers, and to try out his latest game.The event kicks off at 5.30pm at the Disney offices in Hammersmith, and it's free to attend – but we only have room for 85 people in the screening room, so get in quick.If you want to come along, emailRebecca Wharmbyat Disney – and we hope to see you there.
They inspired a boom in self-publishing with Blogger, then turned the world to 140 characters with Twitter. Now Ev Williams and Biz Stone have launched two new websites –MediumandBranch– in what they hope will prompt an "evolutionary leap" in online sharing.Williams and Stone are still directors of Twitter, but are involved in the new ventures through their San Francisco-based incubator fund,The Obvious Corporation.Like Twitter, both Medium and Branch are publishing platforms where users can share pictures, articles and text. And both are more or less splinter services to Twitter.But what are Medium and Branch?MediumMedium is built around collections. For now Medium is invite-only, but soon anyone will be able to start a collection and publish their own photographs or writing.Collections appear in a very visual grid format, with the highest-ranked post always at the top.You sign in to Medium using your Twitter account – see the umbilical ties there? – but the idea is that people can read, view and vote on content without worrying about developing their own audience.For example,this collection of nostalgic photographswas created by Williams. But anyone with a Twitter account can contribute. How prominently your contributions appear in Medium collections is entirely based on how many people have voted on it. Collections can also be private – for sharing with a select group of family or friends – or public, for the world and his wife to enjoy.For example, here are a few of the best collections so far:Been There. Loved That;Look What I Made;The Obvious Collection.And this is how Williams described the new site: "Medium is designed to allow people to choose the level of contribution they prefer. We know that most people, most of the time, will simply read and view content, which is fine. If they choose, they can click to indicate whether they think something is good, giving feedback to the creator and increasing the likelihood others will see it."BranchBranchdescribes itselfas an attempt to combine the intimacy of a dinner table conversation with the power of the internet. So watch what you say.Users sign into Branch using their Twitter account, but that does not mean updates from all of your followers will appear here.Branch is the place for Twitter users to have more in-depth conversations with each other. You can start your own "branch" and invite other Twitter users to join you. There is no need to set up a separate Branch account.For example, the technology blogger MG Siegler startedthis branch on Apple hardware leaksand then invited 10 other high-profile gadget bloggers to discuss the topic. Anyone can subscribe to their conversation and be notified with updates.Think of Branch asMenschn, but with lessknee-jerk political reactionand more innovation.Josh Miller, the head of product at Branch, described his topic-based social network as follows: "Between articles, blog posts, and tweets, the internet is dominated by monologues. So we want to build a home for dialogues online, by combining the intimacy of a dinner table conversation with the power of the internet."Early thoughtsBoth Medium and Branch look purpose built to cater to certain needs that have evolved with our daily information overload.Neither product takes aim at Twitter, for obvious reasons. But they do not need to.Branch brings the simplicity of Twitter and a more expansive, specialist conversation that can be found onQuora. Its success is more likely to be judged on the quality of conversations and return rate of its users, rather than the number of sign-ups.Similarly, Medium is not meant to be a repository for the badly-lit photos of a bazillion users."Our philosophy is that quality begets quality, so we will grow Medium smartly, ensuring that our platform is valuable to everyone in this increasingly mobile, connected, and noisy world," said Williams.What will be interesting is how both Medium and Branch affectTumblr, the lightweight blogging platform whose biggest threat is being overwhelmed by low-quality content posted without a second thought.No doubt David Karp, the founder of Tumblr andrenowned creative zealot, will love Medium. It remains to be seen whether he will respond.
It's Wednesday - any mid-week gaming tonight, then?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPhones or politics? This Samsung vs. Apple map looks familiar &gt;&gt; GeekWireAn exhibit that surfaced yesterday in the Apple vs. Samsung patent trial showed where the Apple brand is strongest, and how the launch of the Samsung Galaxy Android phone affected that standing, based on an internal Samsung marketing study. AllThingsD posted the map Monday evening, and we couldn't help but wonder how it compared to a different map that we'll be seeing a lot of this fall -- the Electoral College breakdown in the U.S. Presidential race.There is, indeed, a peculiar similarity.How to diagnose and fix a buffer overflow &gt;&gt; DilbertJust in case this question comes up today.Clutch.io Joins the Flock at Twitter! &gt;&gt; ClutchWe know that there are many of you who love the Clutch Framework and Clutch A/B Testing, and you may be wondering: what happens to my apps?  We're happy to announce that over the coming weeks we will make available everything you need to run Clutch.io on your own servers, so that even after our hosted service is no longer running, you can continue to operate it on your own.Multimedia Troubleshooting &gt;&gt; HTML5 DoctorUseful. Nifty. "Doctor, I can't get Ogg Vorbis to play in Safari!" "Ah, well..."From the archives: Apple's chief in the risky land of the handhelds &gt;&gt; New York TimesObviously, this comes from the time when Steve Jobs was alive. But see if you can guess which year this story appeared before you click the link.And now come signs that Mr. Jobs means to take Apple back to the land of the handhelds, but this time with a device that would combine elements of a cellphone and a Palm-like personal digital assistant.Mr. Jobs and Apple decline to confirm those plans. But industry analysts see evidence that Apple is contemplating what inside the company is being called an ''iPhone.''10 Years of Daring Fireball, visualised &gt;&gt; Distant ShapeVery neat visualisation showing how articles shifted from being predominantly about desktop topics to mobile topics.How one teacher built a computer lab for free &gt;&gt; iFixitRobert teaches at ASCEND, a small arts K-8 school in the Alameda County School District. He's a fan of technology and believes that it's an important part of K-12 education. Yet ASCEND had no computer lab and no computers in classrooms. So in 2007, Robert acquired 18 donated computers. But these computers were less help than he'd anticipated. The operating systems were slow. Some computers had viruses or malware. Students became frustrated.Most of the computers' problems could be fixed by wiping the disks and reinstalling the operating system--but buying new software for every donated computer would be prohibitively expensive.You've probably guessed what happened next.Strong Apple shipments drive tobust tablet market growth in second quarter &gt;&gt; IDC"Apple built upon its strong March iPad launch and ended the quarter with its best-ever shipment total for the iPad, outrunning even the impressive shipment record it set in the fourth quarter of last year," said Tom Mainelli, research director, Mobile Connected Devices. "The vast majority of consumers continue to favor the iPad over competitors, and Apple is seeing increasingly strong interest in the device from vertical markets--especially education. While iPad shipment totals are beginning to slow a bit in mature markets where the device saw early traction, growth in other regions is clearly more than making up the difference."Apple had a 68% share, up from 61.5% in the second quarter of 2011, as the market grew by 66%, according to IDC.How much longer can Google escape the UK tax system? | News | PC ProFascinating examination of Google's tax-avoiding ways:While MPs might not like the tax implications, [lawyer Heather Self of Pinsent Masons] noted that it's a "fundamental part of the EU" that any firm is "absolutely entitled" to set up operations whereever it chooses, provided it genuinely operates from the country. "If Google Ireland is where senior people are, and UK is only people taking phone calls, then arguably, most of the profit is being made in Ireland and not the UK."Are we certain that the senior people of Google Europe live and work in Ireland?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Four years is longer than the average jail term for assault or burglary. Butthat is the sentence received by Anton Vickerman of Gateshead today, after he had been found guilty of two counts of "conspiracy to defraud" by running a website, surfthechannel.com, that linked to pirated films and more.Piracy is illegal of course and Vickerman was running a site that was so popular that its profits were estimated at £300,000 a year at its height. But there is nobody angrier about piracy than the vast film and music industries, whose businesses are said to suffer from the practice. To them a four-year sentence is a coup.No wonder then that Vickerman was targeted in a private prosecution by FACT, the anti-piracy body, funded by the entertainment industries. In fact the Crown Prosecution Service initially concluded that it could not give authority to bring a prosecution, leaving FACT to pursue a further investigation in order to gather more evidence.Pursue it did. FACT, quite legally, used its own private investigators. A former Dutch police officer was hired to pose as a potential investor, Newcastle crown court heard during Vickerman's trial. It was also established, according to FACT, that profits from Vickerman's company "were funnelled to a bank account in Latvia operated by an offshore company based in Dominica".Surfthechannel did not host pirated content, but linked to it. However, FACT says that Vickerman "targeted pirated films including those not yet released at the cinema" (impressive work, that) and – more to the point – "anonymously uploaded" them to third-party sites.This was no mere collection of links then, although it is interesting that FACT chose to prosecute under a common law offence rather than using the copyright laws which were surely passed by parliament precisely to tackle this sort of thing. But then, conspiracy to defraudcarries a 10 year maximum jail term.So is this conspiracy a more serious offence than committing violence against a person? Is it more serious than breaking into a building with the aim of committing theft or violence? No doubt the damage suffered by Hollywood, (not notably struggling at the box office) and its stars and executives is as serious in its way.Music, incidentally, may have a more legitimate gripe on the piracy front – but the industry has made its share of mistakes too, such as failing to introduce copy protection, coupled with the repeated devaluing of its content through whole-catalogue, all-you-can-listen licensing deals. Who needs piracy when it is all there on YouTube?Finally, though, one can only wonder why FACT doesn't have the heart to prosecute Google and YouTube, or any of the other content archives where links to, or actual, pirated material has been known to crop up. Of course surfthechannel was create to profit only from illegal material. By contrast, FACT argues search engines are quite legitimate enterprises that may happen to have some links to illegal material.Indeed, but it was only this week thatGoogle decided it would relegate the results of pirate sites. Had Google done that a decade ago, it might not have been worthwhile for Vickerman to set up his site at all.
Android's grip on the world smartphone market is confirmed byfigures from the research group Gartner, which says that in the second quarter of 2012 it powered 64.1% of the 153.7m smartphones shipped, up from 43.4% a year ago as that segment of the market grew by 42.6%. (Mobile users can see thegraph here.)Smartphone market share 1Q 2007 - 2Q 2012; normalised to 100%. Source: GartnerIn sheer numbers, Android handset shipments more than doubled from 46.8m to 98.5m–- far faster than any other platform. Of other smartphone platforms, only Apple's iPhone had more than a double-digit share, registering an 18.8% share - essentially flat, up 0.6%, year-on-year - as it shipped 28.9m units. That confirms the situation drawn out by other analysts, which see the smartphone platform race as belonging to Android and Apple - and the handset race to Apple and Samsung, which have about 50% of the market together.Gartner's figure for Apple's shipments is higher than the number given by the company in its financial results, explained smartphones analyst Carolina Milanesi, because "we track sales to consumers, and Apple burnt inventory". The latter point, in which Apple is reducing the number of phones with carriers, could point to the launch of a new iPhone comparatively soon.The analysts reckon that new iPhone purchases were postponed by some who expect the company to announce the next version of its handset imminently: its market share dipped by 3.7% sequentlally "as users postponed their upgrade decisions in most markets ahead of the upcoming launch of the iPhone 5".A growing number of apparent leaks from Apple's supply chain, as well as information from carriers who have begun stocking up on the nano-SIM agreed by Apple and other handset makers as a new standard,  points to a release soon. Online speculation revolves around 12 September, though Apple has given no indication so far of any event on that date.But Gartner's figures also point to a growing world divide, with China trending towards low-cost Android smartphones made by "white box" manufacturers while western markets, and particularly the US, look to high-end names.China is the world's largest smartphone market, with 39m shipments, or a quarter of the world total, of which 80%, or 31.2m, were Android and 12%, or 4.7m, were iPhones.By contrast in the US, the largest single western market, total shipments were 23m, of which 58% – 13.3m – were Android, and 36%, or 8.3m, were iPhones.Separate mobile data from Baidu, the Chinese search engine,analysed by Benedict Evans of the research company Enders Analysis, indicates that page views there from Android phones passed those from Nokia S60 Symbian phones during the second quarter, and at 21.4% are running at about three times the iPhone's 7.9%.Symbian is still second, at 16.6%. (Other featurephone platforms make up the remaining proportion of accesses.) That suggests that many of the Android smartphones being sold in China are not yet being used to connect to mobile data networks.The overall mobile phone market dipped by 2.3% to 419m units, as the number of featurephones sold fell even further, having peaked in the fourth quarter of 2010 and now begun a steady decline as smartphone sales grow. The latter now comprise 36.7% of the world mobile phone market – indicating a long-term decline for featurephone sales. (Mobile users:graph here.)Featurephones v smarphones, world market, 1Q 2007 - 2Q 2012. Source: GartnerThat in turn poses a risk particularly to Finland's Nokia, which shipped a total of 83.4m phones in the quarter, of which about 70m were featurephones. So far, Nokia's adoption of the Windows Phone platform from Microsoft has been of little benefit; sales were around 4m for the quarter, still smaller than the fast-declining Symbian platform, which has been earmarked for phasing out yet still shipped on 9m handsets."Declining smartphone sales are worsening Nokia's overall position, as it had already lost the No.1 phone-maker position to Samsung in the previous quarter and is facing reduced profitability due to continuous declining sales of premium smartphones," said Anshul Gupta, principal research analyst at Gartner.Windows Phone eked out a 2.7% share, with 4.1m handsets – equal to Samsung's home-grown Bada operating system. But that was still more than double the position a year ago, before Nokia began shipping Windows Phone devices.However for BlackBerry maker RIM, once a pre-eminent player on the smartphone stage, there is no let-up in the bad news: its share dwindled to 5.2% from 11.7% a year ago as total shipments shrank from 12.6m to just under 8m.Among smartphone handset makers, the dominance of Apple and Samsung – the latter shipping an estimated 45.6m units by Gartner's measurement, which excludes the Galaxy Note device – has left little room for rivals.Taiwan's HTC saw a drop in total shipments year-on-year, from 11m to 9.3m. Motorola, recently acquired by Google, also saw a fall in total shipments from 10.2m to 9.1m; Google this week announced that it would cull 4,000 jobs, reduce the number of handsets and close a number of its foreign offices as it tries to return the company to profitability.But for Chinese manufacturers ZTE and Huawei, the quarter saw them driving up the world mobile phone rankings, to take fourth and sixth positions respectively, behind Samsung, Nokia and Apple.
Shares in Groupon plummeted Tuesday as the firm once billed as "the fastest growing company ever" said sales had slowed.The daily deals site reported its first-ever quarterly profit as a public company on Monday after stock markets had closed. Revenues increased 45% on the year. But the sell-off began as investors took fright at numbers that seem to suggest a slowing appetite for daily deals.The stock price plummeted in after-hours trading and continued to fall when the markets opened Tuesday. Groupon's shares fell more than 26% to close at $5.53. Its shares are now worth about a fifth of their $31 high.Groupon, which sells discount coupons to local businesses, was the fastest company ever to reach a $1bn in sales. Year on year Groupon is still growing fast but revenue rose just 2% from the first quarter. On a conference call with analysts chief executive Andrew Mason said Groupon Goods, a new division which sells items like heart-rate monitors, jewelry and yogurt makers, was growing fast.But the company's profit margin on goods is small compared to its core business of selling vouchers for local services like waxing, massage or discounts at restaurants.Groupon's billings – the amount of money it takes before it pays a cut to merchants – slipped 5% in the second quarter from the first three months of the year. Mason described the results as a "solid quarter" but said weakness in Europe had created "significant drag" and cost the company over $70m in billings as people had not taken up offers of "laser hair removal and luxury hotel stays in Monaco".Stifel Nicolaus analyst Nat Brogadir said the share price fall was "punishing but somewhat deserved"."Investors either want to see extreme growth and modest profitability or modest growth and good profits. It doesn't look like either are coming to fruition here," he said.So Young Lee at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey described the results as "disappointing". She said she was worried by the declining number of customers Groupon was adding, 1.2 million in the second quarter down from 3.1 million in the first quarter. "In the long term, Groupon's not even four years old and it has done some remarkable things but there are a lot of concerns," she said.Groupon went public last November in a blaze of publicity. Founder Andrew Mason initially played the fool, chugging beer in meetings and being photographed with a cat on his head. But the company's phenomenal growth attracted Silicon Valley investors and the attention of Google. As it reached a billion in sales Forbes magazine described it as the fastest growing company ever.The share sale was the largest tech IPO since Google and came after the daily deal site had rejected a $6bn takeover offer from the search giant. Groupon raised $700m selling shares at $20. The company was briefly valued at over $13bn, it is now worth less than $4bn. The Groupon IPO ushered in a series of disappointing share sales from a new generation of internet companies including Zynga, the online games firm, and culminating in Facebook's disastrous IPO in May.Zynga, owner of hit games including Words With Friends and Draw Something, has lost close to 70% of its value this year. Facebook's shares fell below their launch price of $38 on their second day of trading and have now fallen to $20.Forrester research analyst Sucharita Mulpuru said: "Those valuations were all about how much you can get someone to pay for your stock, they had nothing to do with fundamentals at all. It was about finding a greater fool to pay up."She said she believed that Facebook would eventually recover from its IPO debacle. "That's a strong, profitable business," she said. But the problems for Groupon and Zynga may be more fundamental. "They may just be fads," she said.
After several major games industry events, EA Sports isstillmanaging to reveal new facets of its forthcoming Fifa 13 title. During the publisher's pre-Gamescom press briefing on Tuesday, producer Dave Rutter unveiled the title's new Match Day feature, which will link the in-game action ever more closely to the real-life season, whichever major league you follow.Now, elements such as injuries, suspensions and team form will all be taken from the actual sport on a daily basis and fed into your Fifa matches – presumably if the player selects this option – affecting your approach to team selection and tactics. While this sort of functionality was previously restricted to the paid-for Live Season mode, it seems to be an integral part of the Fifa experience this time round.On top of this, real-life incidences and trivia will make their way into the commentary, so Martin Tyler and Alan Smith will, for example, mention how important a particular player has been during the season, with stats appearing on screen. The game will also show your real-life favourite side's next four fixtures on the menu, so you can choose to play them in synchronicity with the actual season.During the onstage demo, Rutter showed the Match Day mode working via a recreation of last season's Man City vs QPR and Man Utd vs Sunderland matches, cutting between the two to show the commentary reacting to events in the other game. It's not clear how this will be replicated in playable form within Fifa 13 though.EA Sports also announced updates to the popular Ultimate Team mode, with a tutorial element for newcomers, as well as Team of the Week feature and weekly challenges based on the real season. Meanwhile, a new Fifa Seasons mode will augment the old head-to-head seasons, offering revised two vs two competitive and co-op options.It's interesting stuff for committed fans of the series, adding to an already intriguing feature-set, including much smarter attacking AI, more controlled dribbling and a bunch of fresh modes including Skill Games, which will seek to teach you the key shooting, passing and set piece skills of the game.Fifa 13 is out on 25 September in North America and 28 September in Europe. EA will also be releasing a demo on Xbox and PlayStation 3 on 11 September.
Sometimes, it's not what you do, but how you do it that counts. For proof of this, one need look no further than Sleeping Dogs, United Front's love-letter to Hong Kong action movies' late 1980s heyday. Here is a game that sounds like a cocktail of movie tropes and game mechanics that have been reheated and refried so many times that you can practically smell grease on them. But if you're able to stop picking at its component parts and just appreciate Sleeping Dogs as a whole, you'll most likely find that it's one of the most thrilling and consistently enjoyable games of 2012.Sleeping Dogs tells the story of Wei Shen, a Hong Kong bruiser who has just returned to his hometown after a lengthy stint in the US. Things kick off with Wei being thrown in a holding cell for selling narcotics and while there, he bumps into Jackie, a childhood mate who is languishing down the bottom end of the food chain in the local Triads. Wei asks if Jackie can get him some work, and before you know it, Wei's collecting protection money from market stall owners, stealing and selling cars and beating up rival gang members with a tyre iron. What Wei's new Triad mates don't know is that their newfound muscleman is an undercover cop, tasked with bringing down their criminal organisation from within.If the plot set-up in Sleeping Dogs sounds a little tried and tested, then the gaming structure that houses it will strike readers as even more so. To put it bluntly, Sleeping Dogs owes a huge debt of influence to the Grand Theft Auto series. It's set in a huge urban sandbox that the player navigates on foot and in vehicles, it tells a crime story through a series of fetch-quests and, yes, there are a ton of mini-games, side missions, car chases, gun battles and fist fights.But while United Front is working with an established gaming rubric and plot elements that are older than the game's age certificate, it infuses the proceedings with an enticing freshness that allows players to ignore their cliched origins.Take, for example, Wei's loyalties and how they're split between his Triad comrades and the police commanders to whom he reports. Sure, this is a plot device that's one part City on Fire and two parts Infernal Affairs, but United Front uses it as a springboard and dives straight to its murky depths.As Wei works his way up the Triad ranks, he becomes more valuable as a police asset, but he also becomes attached to the criminals he's essentially trying to bring down. His Triad brethren may be a pack of violent thugs and psychopaths, but they have strong codes about loyalty and family, and they care far more about Wei's well-being than his police commanders. They, for their part, are more concerned with building a case against the Triad bosses, and if that means Wei has to break the law, or put himself in harm's way, so be it. In a way, the taskforce commanders are as callous and calculating as the Triad overlords they're trying to bust.So on the surface, Sleeping Dogs is about a man with divided allegiances, but as the player progresses through the game, United Front digs deeper with its narrative. The taskforce authorities show a disturbing willingness to blur the lines of legality; the regular police find themselves having to use Wei's Triad connections to solve crimes that their commanders aren't concerned with. As Wei advances through the ranks, his former friends become liabilities he has to protect. And the Triad's code of honour is revealed to be little more than a set of manners that the gang leaders are expected to observe as they engage in bloody turf wars, which are later revealed to be part of a more insidious power play.Every time the player thinks they have the story clocked, United Front peels away another layer that both changes their expectations and ups the dramatic stakes. It's not completely original, but it's effective nonetheless. The fact that all the characters in the game are very well written and superbly voiced doesn't hurt, either. In short, United Front works hard to pull the player into the game's narrative, and it's easy to become invested in Wei's story even before the action starts. It's easily one of game's strongest assets.The game's second trump card is the in-game map of Hong Kong, represented here as a neon-encrusted metropolis where majestic skyscrapers tower over a sprawling hive of illicit activity. Flea markets and illegal fight clubs rub shoulders with chop shops and gang hangouts. Every main road and highway begs to be raced along, and the city's street grid is intercut by a ton of back alleys and side streets.The map is also bursting with activities, mini-games and side-quests for the player to get stuck into; they can bet money on mahjong or cock fights, compete in street brawls for money and test their mettle on the street racing circuit. In one particularly challenging mini-game, players can attack gang members in their hangouts, hack the nearest CCTV camera and then use it to bust local drug dealers. They can also hunt for lock boxes containing cash, shrines that offer health upgrades and a collection of statues they can trade at the local dojo to open up new combat moves.Story missions and side quests inevitably lead to gun battles, car chases or fist fights and United Front have done a lot of work to make Wei feel and handle like an action movie hero. The hand-to-hand combat system is a two-button affair that owes a debt of inspiration to Batman: Arkham Asylum, but it's loads of fun to use and surprisingly deep. Not only do players have a lengthy list of combos to unlock, they can also use items in Wei's environment to dispatch foes in decidedly grisly fashion – like wall fans into which they can shove faces or meat hooks on which they can impale torsos.Gun fights handle like they would in a cover-based third-person-shooter, but there's an element of bullet-time tossed in for good measure; when Wei vaults cover, the action slows down and players are able to easily draw a bead on opponents. Driving sections remain fun and fresh due to the fact that the game doesn't penalise players too much for collisions. Players are also able to ram other cars off the road using the X button, or hijack other vehicles by having Wei leap out of his car and onto the roof of a target in a move that'll prompt a knowing smile in anyone who ever played Midway's Wheelman.Nearly everything the player does feeds XP into three meters: Face, Police and Triad. The latter two unlock abilities on two skill trees, such as the ability to hotwire a car without setting off an alarm, or the power to disarm an opponent in one swift combat move. High Face rating allows players to wear sharp suits and drive flash cars, but it also bestows gifts such as a car valet who'll deliver a vehicle for Wei anytime and any place he needs it.So while Sleeping Dogs works from an established palette, it's an absolute blast to play. Like the Uncharted series, the focus here isn't to break new ground for the medium through innovation. Instead, the aim here is to make the player feel like an action hero in a piece of blockbuster entertainment, while remaining fun to play throughout. Sleeping Dogs is not the most original game you'll play all year, but it's easily one of the most enjoyable and it's arguably one of the best.
Is it Metro, Store, Style, or Modern? No one outside of close officials at the upper reaches of Party Sinofsky seems to know. And, like all good citizens, most of us can't find the energy to care.But I wonder whether by deprecating the Metro moniker that it has previously used for look and feel of Windows 8 – all because a German supermarket is upset? – and failing to provide a replacement, Microsoft has created its own Orwellian nightmare which could cede crucial ground in its ongoing war with Cupertino.'It's just Windows'Two weeks ago, Tom Warrenbroke the news of a memohe'd seen from Microsoft saying that the Metro name used in Windows 8 development circles should be deprecated. What had been rumoured to take place was thatMetro AG, a large retail group based in Germany, was not happy with Microsoft using the name. The rumour goes that Microsoft backed down over using Metro immediately, issuing the above (still only rumoured) memo.To reiterate, neither side has confirmed this. But what doesn't make sense to me is that Microsoft is currently running in "go big or go home"-mode with Windows 8. Removing the start button and shoving the Metro (what else do I call it?) interface in front of enterprise users is the tech equivalent of sticking one's mid-digit up at your customer base and saying: "Screw you, come along for the ride or not – this is happening." (It's the sort of thing Apple would do, and does.) So on one side we have the largest software company in the world with a market cap of a quarter-trillion dollars dealing with an inventor's dilemma play on its core revenue earner, and on the other side we have (to them) a tiny and foreign retailer getting miffed about a name. Not taking that fight doesn't add up.If the Metro AG thing is true, I think it's just a convenient get-out for Microsoft. Like when you're supposed to go out to a dinner party you don't much fancy and the car won't start. Rather than calling the AA, you dial for a pizza and stay at home and watch Take Me Out. Junking the Metro name lets Microsoft's execs move back into their comfort zone, the Windows brand.This is something you hear time and time again from Microsoft on the subject of the tablet-centric Windows 8 experience: "It's just Windows." The implication of this statement is that there's nothing special about it – it's just the same operating system as before, but running on more devices and with more touch-friendliness.With the Metro moniker in full swing, it sent a message that Microsoft was building something that fundamentallywas notWindows. Metro militated against the Windows brand, and that meant that for the Microsoft in which we trust it had to be killed.NewspeakFrom the angle of trying to preserve the Windows brand, killing "Metro" (the name, not the actual interface) is a good idea. The mistake that Microsoft has made is in not providing a replacement name. What I'm hearing now is that this stuff about "Modern" and "Style" being the new names are just red herrings. There simply won't be a name. The rationale? "It's just Windows."It's like the reduction of the language in 1984, where Orwell described the aim as being to limit the number of words so that "thoughtcrime" simply wouldn't be possible. In the same way, by not calling it "Metro" you remove the chance of thinking that this new interface is anything but... Windows.But, Winston Smith that I am, I tend to think of Metro-style apps as offering a new experience over and above Windows. It's got built-in trust from end to end. It's touch-centric. It's a post-PC experience that negotiates theInventor's Dilemmaand gives life to the Windows proposition in a world where the desktop is no longer dominant.But to say that, we need to talk about "Metro-style" apps, the experience, and discuss post-PC. All of these are verboten when operating under the Sinofsky's Rule where "it's just Windows" and you have "PC Plus" (really, you do - Orwell would be proud). Let's try that again:"I tend to think of [REDACTED]. [REDACTED]. [REDACTED]. It's touch-centric. [REDACTED]"What's actually happening here is that by removing the name and setting down the doctrine of "it's just Windows", Microsoft has invented the tech equivalent of Orwell's Newspeak. All I can actually say is this:"The new touch-centric features in Windows 8 are doubleplusgood."The enduring images of 1984 are Big Brother and the surveillance culture. But for me, the darker scenario in 1984 is the reimagining of the English language into Newspeak, and the trammeling of thought it implies.Accidentally, Microsoft has managed to plunge the Windows 8 proposition into Newspeak. It has got some amazing features (that's Windows 8, not Newspeak) and provides a fantastic post-PC - sorry, PC Plus - experience. But we can't talk about them because we no longer have the language to do so.Enterprise supplyThere are people, like me, who want to talk about how cool this new stuff is. Who want to go out there and evangelise the benefits of the platform. Who want to big it up.Some of us (*cough*) even want to make money off of the back of all this.I'm writing a bookon Metro-style development that's had three name changes so far. Am I fed up with having to redraft reams of text chasing after a nebulous non-name that's being blown around by rumours? Yes. It's irritating and demoralising, even with search-and-replace.For the consumer, Microsoft's position is that there is no name to describe these things. They are "just apps" that run on "Windows". Somehow Microsoft has to craft a marketing message that goes up against iPad and sells that, but whatever its ads do, they won't be talking about "Windows 8-style apps" or "Modern-style". Those TV spots and display ads will just position them as tablet PCs that run Windows. End of.For businesses, the situation is more onerous. Microsoft's real threat comes from enterprise purchases of iPads. So far, iPad in businesses has mostly been a 'bring your own device' affair: people happen to have them and take them into work to sit alongside their existing IT. But I'm hearing more and more implementations where the IT organisation will go out and buy iPads for staff. The research groups IDC and Context have found similar changes.The problem with BYOD from an IT management perspective is that you can't build a strategy on it. Unless you know what the mobile fleet looks like, you can't push out applications. If you buy a CRM that needs to be accessed from phones, then if you have a mixed fleet – enterprise-supplied BlackBerrys and also BYOD devices from all the vendors – executing the strategy becomes expensive. Give everyone Nokia Lumias to use at work and the strategy becomes less risky, and cheaper.There is palpable pressure in business to fix this. The IT organisation has to provide solutions, and users and management are demanding ones that are based on tablets. That can't happen with BYOD. It can only happen with enterprise supply. And at the moment, there's only one game in town.Microsoft's job is to get the Windows 8/Windows RT PC tablets out of the door and into business plans before the iPad reaches a tipping point where it can't be caught. Microsoft's existing reputation and relationships within the enterprise will get them fast out of the blocks. But what's concerning to me is that Apple may be further down the track than had been previously thought.Even hardcore Microsoft shops are under pressure to deliver their software on iPad. Whether they cave in to that pressure has a lot to do with the naming. Even the most ardent lover of Microsoft in such a business still has to defend his or her decision, and it turns out that language has a lot to do with this. Going up to the board and giving a presentation where on one side you're talking about "iPad" and on the other you're talking about "those new Windows 8 tablet thingies that run a new sort of software, but not really because 'it's just Windows', but no we can't run our standard apps on it we need to rebuild them as Windows 8 apps. Huh? No, you're thinking of Windows 8 programs, which are different. Yes, it runs Office. No, actually you can't run that spreadsheet because it's got macros in it. I don't know why they took the macros out. What's that? Uh, no it's not .NET, it's a new thing. What's it called? Well, it really doesn't have a name. Yes, that is kind of silly. Well, I get that you like your iPad. I like my iPad too."Within the enterprise, Microsoft is dependent on the partner channel being able to push and build comfort around a message. The partner channel is something that Apple doesn't have (mostly), which offers Microsoft a huge advantage. Once the marketing managers in the partners work out that they can start slapping "MICROSOFT TABLET FTW!" on all their marketing material that'll drive the message home in the enterprise. The question then is, what's the message. It's hard to sell something that doesn't have a name.If it did – even if that name was just"Spang"- you can have "iPad" on one side and "those new Windows 8 tablet thingies, but we'll need to rebuild that app as a Spang app. What's Spang? Oh, it's the new thing we use to build apps. Yes, it's like .NET in a way. Shall I move on to the next slide?"Not perfect, but better.ConclusionAt the end of all of this, people who want Microsoft to succeed are hamstrung because we can't go out there and evangelise the technology. The lack of a name is killing us.So Microsoft, it's not "just Windows". It's more than that. Let us talk about it.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit. His next book,Programming Windows 8 Apps with C#will be out in December.
A 38-year-old Briton who made £35,000 a month through a website that linked to pirated copies of films and TV shows has been sentenced to four years in prison.Anton Vickerman, whose surfthechannel.com website had around 400,000 users a day, wasconvicted of two counts of conspiracy to defraud in Junefollowing an eight-week trial at Newcastle crown court.He is the first British man to be jailed in the UK for a website that linked to illegal copies of films and TV shows.Vickerman, from Gateshead, set up the website in 2007 as an index of online videos – both legal and illegal – hosted elsewhere on the internet. Prosecutors said Vickerman made £250,000 in profit through adverts on the site in 2008, the year in which he tried to sell it for £400,000.He was not charged on copyright offences, but was convicted on two counts of conspiracy to facilitate copyright infringement following a private prosecution pursued by the anti-piracy lobby group Federation Against Copyright Theft (FACT). He faced a maximum sentence of 10 years.Vickerman was first arrested over Surfthechannel in 2008 following an elaborate sting operation by a private investigator hired by FACT, the court heard during the trial.The private investigator posed as a prospective house buyer and filmed computer equipment in Vickerman's home. Other private eyes had already obtained detailed information about his bank accounts, cars and telephone records, the court was told. His wife, Kelly Vickerman, was also arrested and cleared in June of charges of conspiracy to defraud.Entertainment groups immediately heralded the jail term as a warning to those behind websites that could direct people to illicit content online."This case conclusively shows that running a website that deliberately sets out to direct users to illegal copies of films and TV shows will result in a criminal conviction and a long jail sentence," said Kieron Sharp, director general of FACT, one of the bodies behind the prosecution.He said that unlike other search engines such as Google and Microsoft's Bing – which have been criticised for pointing people to pirated material – surfthechannel.com "was created specifically to make money from criminal activity".However, critics of the private prosecution described the jail term as "deeply concerning, inappropriate and disproportionate".Loz Kaye, leader of the Pirate Party UK, said the prosecution should never have been brought and was driven by private interests.David Walbank, for the defence, told Newcastle crown court on Tuesday that Vickerman was now financially ruined and would likely be declared bankrupt. The court heard that the stress of the conviction had also caused the breakup of Vickerman's marriage.It is unclear whether the verdict will have any effect on appeals being made by the family ofRichard O'Dwyer, a 22-year-old Sheffield student, whose TVshack.net site was closed down in November 2010 after it linked to places where people could watch US TV and movies online. O'Dwyer faces extradition to the US, where he could face 10 years in jail. Prosecutors in the UK have not charged O'Dwyer, whose site had about 300,000 users per month and collected £147,000 in advertising revenue over three years.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 11 August 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (40)PC (1)72 (2)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (16)Wii (14)83 (3)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (64)3DS (36)374 (4)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (45)305 (7)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (40)PC (2)Wii (2)76 (5)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (31)PC (18)377 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (35)PC (11)418 (6)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (45)369 (12)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)PC (3)610 (9)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)PC (2)1211 (11)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (37)PS3 (26)PSP (12)Wii (11)4612 (13)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (31)5713 (15)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)1414 (18)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)1615 (14)Risen 2: Dark Waters(16+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (36)216 (16)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (16)3DS (7)3017 (–)Grand Theft Auto Episodes: Liberty City(18+)Xbox 360 (70)PS3 (30)1418 (20)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)1319 (17)WWE '12(12+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)1020 (–)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (27)Wii (20)PS3 (19)DS (19)9UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Yesterday,Eurogamer posted a Borderlands 2 articlein which lead designer John Hemingway discussed the Mechromancer, a DLC-only character currently in progress. She's a small girl with a mechanical arm, and will have a skill tree designed for folks who "suck at first-person shooters" but want to play with others – in Hemingway's words, "for the lack of a better term, the girlfriend skill tree".Unsurprisingly, the reactions to Hemingway's comments haven't been entirely positive.Gearbox software president Randy Pitchford tackled the issue on Twitter, clarifying that the "girlfriend" name isn't an official title (it's known as the Best Friends Forever skill tree), defending Hemingway from accusations of sexism, and claiming that "a personal anecdote has been twisted and dogpiled on by sensationalists".It looks like Hemingway misspoke, using "girlfriend" as code for "support", "newbie" or "easy" mode, and talked about a "hardcore" skill tree as a counterpoint. However unintentional, that's a sexist way to frame things. Skill and commitment to FPS games doesn't break down neatly along gender lines, nor does the desire to play a support character; assuming it does plays into unhelpful stereotypes about how women approach games and about the market for these titles. Describing a novice mode in this way risks alienating existing female players and newbies of all types.Eurogamer compounded the issue by using a partial quote in their headline and failing to ask or report a follow-up question. Hemingway's words change depending on their context: whether this is a widely used internal nickname or his own word; whether he was speaking generally, about all girlfriends, or specifically about his own. It would have been ideal to see that clarified at the time, not dissected afterwards, especially in the light ofthe franchise's interesting female characters and approach to bad-ass women in their games.But none of this would warrant much reaction ifgame culture wasn't currently primed to go off like a field of fireworksat the merest hint of sexism. Recent events have pulled video gaming's gender problem into the spotlight perhaps more than ever before. A few high profile cases since the start of the year:Miranda Pakozdi harassed on camera;Anita Sarkeesian subjected to vile abuse;Aisha Tyler assumed not to be knowledgeable enough to present at E3. Alongside this, the everyday litany of sexism in gamer culture goes on, too. Xbox Live abuse continues. No women on the internet. Tits or GTFO. Get back in the kitchen. Girls can't play games.That's where this casual misstep draws its power, and why it matters. When women react angrily to the description of an easy way of playing a game as "girlfriend mode", part of that anger is also aimed at all the countless dudes online who'll tell you in the choicest language, if you play while openly female, that you shouldn't be there, that you don't belong. Hearing that sentiment echoed, however casually, by the lead designer on a game that looks to be doing some good things with female characters is disappointing and irritating; it looks like a studio ignoring the fact that you exist, and that their words will have an impact on their community. For the lack of a better phrase, instead of having a discussion about the genuinely excellent idea of a mode that lets inexperienced FPS players game with more experienced friends, the conversation is about how women can't or don't play games.Hemingway certainly didn't mean his throwaway comment to be ammunition for the seamy underbelly of the internet in its ongoing war against women. But it can be – and will be – used by those people as validation of their ideas and actions. In isolation, it wouldn't matter. In this powderkeg culture, almost anything can be the spark that sets off the explosion.
Is there another franchise in the shooter genre that casts a longer shadow than Call Of Duty? Certainly Activision's FPS mammoth draws as much ire as it does admiration from the gaming community, but you can't argue with the statistics. Call Of Duty shatters through unit sales records as a matter of course, year in, year out. The last entry in the series, Modern Warfare 3, grossed a whopping $775m (£495m) in its first five days of release and its predecessor tops the franchise's highest-seller list, having shifted more than 23m copies to date.That last little piece of information probably weighs heavy on the collective minds at Treyarch, the developer behind the upcoming Call Of Duty: Black Ops 2. Since the first Black Ops is the biggest selling CoD entry of all time, expectations for its sequel have been pumped up to the point of absurdity. Whether or not Treyarch can top its personal best depends largely on Call Of Duty: Black Ops 2 living up to the hype, and a big part of this – the silver bullet, in fact – is down to the game's crucial multiplayer mode.First, the bad news: if you were a fan of the wager matches in Black Ops or, indeed, its in-game currency, which allowed some non-linear progression through the unlockables – too bad! They're now things of the past. Kill Streaks have gone too, although they exist in a more malleable form as Score Streaks. The big push with Black Ops 2, seems aimed at delivering as much customisation to the player as possible without breaking the overall balance.The Class Creation tools have been overhauled somewhat. Instead of a set rubric in which players are forced to pick a certain number of perks, weapons and pieces of equipment, in Black Ops 2, they're assigned 10 character points to spend as they please. Let's say, for example, you're a CoD player who hardly ever uses their secondary weapon. Well, in Black Ops 2, you don't need to select one; you simply cash it in for some extra points, and you can spend them something else.Players can also buy up to three Wildcards (each costing a point), which allow them to bend the rules and configure their class further. The "Perk Greed" Wildcard, for example, allows players to select two Perks from the same category – such as Hardline and Flack Jacket. Wildcards can also be used to buy more weapon attachments or extra grenades. To maintain some sense of balance, there are upper limits on what the player can buy – you can't stroll into a match with five guns, for example.Once in a match, players will notice that the rejigged Score Streak system is more user-friendly than its Kill Streak predecessor. In the past, players had to string together a series of kills in order to call in useful items such as UAVs, rocket bombardments and K9 attack dogs. Now they're rewarded for what Treyarch has labelled "positive gameplay". Each Score Streak piece of equipment is assigned a numerical value, and once the player earns that value through their actions, the equipment is available for them to deploy. So, for example, if a player captures a flag (100pts), shoots an enemy on their way back to base (100pts) and then plants their flag at homeplate (100pts) they can then call in a UAV drone (300pts) having only fired one shot.The new equipment in the game is an absolute blast to use. A lot of the guns in the game look like revamped versions of the weapons in Modern Warfare, but there are some completely unique items in Black Ops 2's arsenal too, befitting its slightly futuristic setting. These include the Assault Shield, a metal riot shield that can be used as deployable cover, Shock Charges, that temporarily stun targets and the Millimeter (sic) Wave Scanner, that allows players to see stationary targets through walls (think about that, campers).The Score Streak rewards are equally satisfying. There are obviously the tried and tested assets, such as Care Packages and UAVs, and there are some re-skinned features too – an attack drone mini helicopter presents a smaller target, but it pretty much does the same thing as the Harrier from MW2.Then there are brand new items, such a remote drone that the player flings into the sky as soon as they unlock it, and it circles the battlefield until it finds a target – making it pretty much a guaranteed kill. There's also the HellStorm Missile, which works the same way as a Predator Missile, except that it can split off multiple warheads, decimating enemies moving together in a group. There are even a couple of non-lethal items such as The Guardian (no relation), a turret that emits a microwave pulse that slows down opponents. Stick this baby in the right section of the map and you can create a bottleneck filled with a lot of downed enemies.Players also have the option of taking control of some of their AI equipment remotely. Players can switch to the HUD of items such as attack drones or remote turrets and better direct their fire against foes. They can also leave the equipment to work remotely, if they so choose.There were four maps available at the multiplayer reveal: Cargo, Yemen, Turbine and Aftermath. Aftermath and Cargo were set in LA, the former featuring a decimated downtown area, and the latter set in a container bay at the docks. Yemen is a classic street battle set in a small town, while Turbine – my favourite of the lot – takes place in a canyon around a downed cargo plane. All of the maps look exquisite and favour the close-quarters run-and-gun style of gameplay COD is known for. Aside from Team Deathmatch, we were allowed to play the new Hardpoint match, which is essentially a version of King Of The Hill from Gears Of War 3.Everything the player does in the online mode earns them XP, and each new level offers them a new unlockable item. There are 55 levels in the game, and we're told that hitting the top level won't be enough to unlock all of the mode's content. This means that in order to obtain shiny new perks, guns and equipment beyond level 55 requires players to Prestige – and there are a further ten levels of that available. There are also a ton of medals, tags and baubles in the mode for players to collect for, as Treyarch puts it, "doing something cool in a match".Players now also have the option of playing in ranked matches, as one of the key pushes for Black Ops 2 is in the direction of the eSports market. To that end, they've introduced League Play, which offers skill-based matchmaking and seasonal ladders. If you start playing in the online Leagues, Black Ops 2's online mode will record your skill level, size you up, and plonk you in a league with players you have a chance of beating. Once you get into the habit of trouncing opponents on a regular basis, you move up to the next League in terms of skill-level. Quitting matches in League Play is punished harshly, by the way, as Treyarch doesn't want highly skilled killjoys to be able to drop down to the lower leagues and mess up anyone else's experience.Treyarch has also furnished its League Play mode with a new toolset allowing players to commentate on games, rather than play in them. The designated commentator – or CoDcaster – has an array of play-by-play features to allow them to fill out their uploads including Score Panels, Name Plates and different views they can use to follow the action. Treyarch says it has a streaming component in development, which will allow CoD-heads to follow matches on their tablets.Of course, whether eSports proves a substantial draw for the CoD faithful remains to be seen, but even without it, the online mode looks set to rack up impressive audience numbers. Overall, the focus in Call Of Duty: Black Ops 2's multiplayer is on quickness and customisation.Treyarch wants players to dive into this mode, work out their play preferences and then level up as quickly as possible. This doesn't mean that it'll be easy to become an elite player, but it makes Black Ops 2's online mode arguably the most accessible of its type in series. It's a sharp, brutal and compelling experience, and all of this bodes well for Black Ops 2's chances when it's released this November.
This weekAleks Krotoski, Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurand the Guardian'sJosh Hallidaylook at Google's concession to the entertainment industry by pushing search results for allegedly illegal download sites further down its rankings. They also discuss the search giant's announcement of a major restructure involving the loss of 4,000 jobs worldwide at its recent acquisition, Motorola Mobility.Also this week, Aleks meets Jonty Waring, one of the founders and organisers of Electromagnetic Field a hackers and DIY tech festival taking place in Milton Keynes on 31 August. Jonty discusses the growing hunger for tech camps and the creative benefits of geeks getting together in a field.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Apple is claiming that more than a quarter of Samsung's $30.4bn in US smartphone and tablet sales result from copying of the iPhone and iPad or infringe on other patents, a damages expert for the US company said on Monday.But Samsung's lawyers argued that Apple's evidence was not sufficient to merit such an award as the two sides clashed in the San Jose courtroom as the trial entered its third week.The Silicon Valley company is demanding up to $2.75bn of damages from its Korean rival. The figure includes an estimate of profits lost to infringing Samsung gadgets.The South Korean company sold more than 87m mobile devices in the US from mid-2010, when Apple's complaint originates, to March 2012, according to documents displayed before the jury.Accountant Terry Musika, citing Samsung records and testifying as an Apple expert witness, estimated that $8.16bn in revenue, or 22.7m of those total unit sales over that two-year period, came from products that infringed Apple patents, such as the first Galaxy S smartphone in July 2010.Samsung typically does not reveal its sales in the US or elsewhere. Since the third quarter of 2011 it has stopped giving figures for worldwide shipments of its mobile phones, smartphone and tablets. Instead it provides briefings to financial and industry analysts, who then make their own calculations from other industry sources about the totals. Apple, Nokia and BlackBerry maker RIM all declare how many handsets they have shipped in each quarter, while Samsung, HTC, Motorola and Sony have ceased doing so.However, Samsung has been obliged to divulge details of US shipments for a wide range of allegedly infringing phones and tablets. Those have pointed to far smaller figures than many had expected.Complex calculationsMusika said that his team's calculations suggested that Samsung earned roughly a 35.5% gross profit margin on that revenue, between June 2010 through March 2012, and justified his calculation by saying that it involved a team of 20 programmers, accountants, statisticians and economists to work out the estimated damages at a cost to Apple of $1.75m."It's not me sitting at a desk with a calculator," Musika, a former KPMG and PriceWaterhouseCoopers accounting partner, told the court. "There are literally hundreds of millions of calculations."But Samsung argued that Apple, which was struggling to keep up with demand for the iPhone 4 from July to October of 2010, did not have the capacity to have delivered on those additional sales. "Apple couldn't service its own customers with the iPhone 4, but it could service customers it didn't have?" Samsung attorney Bill Price asked Musika.Price also argued that the damages should vary depending on whether the Samsung products at issue in the lawsuit infringed on just one or all of Apple's patents.Apple's legal battle with its fiercest business rival – which is also its largest supplier – has transfixed the global mobile industry. It moves into a technical damages-estimate phase this week. The trial, which began in late July, has seen a procession of executives, designers and patent experts testifying on behalf of the US company. Closing arguments are expected to begin next week.Apple concluded its case on Monday, upon which Samsung's lawyer made a formal request to have the complaint dismissed on the basis that Apple had not proved its case. Judge Lucy Koh listened to about an hour of argument from both sides before determining that it should continue on the basis that the testimony so far was sufficient that a jury should make a determination of whether there was infringement.Because the case is against the US subsidiaries of Samsung Electronics, Koh did drop three phones that are not widely sold in the US, and not sold by Samsung US, from the case. Those are the "world" variants of the Galaxy Ace, Galaxy S and Galaxy S2 smartphones. But the US-specific models of those phones remain part of the case, and Apple can still pursue its case against Samsung's parent company on those three phones.The world's most valuable technology company is accusing Samsung, now the leader in smartphones, of copying its iPhone and iPad in various elements of "trade dress" – the cosmetic appearance of the devices – and infringing a number of patents covering their onscreen operation. The South Korean company denies that and says Apple infringes several of its wireless technology patents.Musika cited Samsung documents that identified the iPhone back in 2007, when the first of the revolutionary smartphones emerged, as one of four major factors defining mobile trends in the ensuing five years.Prior art?Samsung called its own expert witnesses on Monday afternoon, seeking to disqualify a number of Apple's patents – in particular its "rubber-banding" effect, in which when a user tries to scroll beyond the top or bottom of an onscreen list, it "bounces" back, and its "pinch to zoom" two-finger control gesture, and the use of a single finger to move objects onscreen – by citing university and other products devised in 2003.If the jury decides that Apple's patents are invalid because of such "prior art", Samsung might not have to pay any damages under those elements.Microsoft: no cloningThe trial continues to offer glimpses behind Apple's secretive operations, from its industrial design process to its product marketing machine.On Monday, an Apple executive testified that the company had licensed prized design patents to its one-time bitter rival Microsoft but with an "anti-cloning agreement" to prevent copying of its iPhone and iPad. That deal is believed to be part of a licensing deal struck by Steve Jobs with Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates in 1996 when Apple was in dire straits. Jobs persuaded Gates that Microsoft should cross-license the patents, keep developing Microsoft Office for the Mac platform, and invest $150m in buying non-voting stock in Apple. That deal is believed to be why Apple and Microsoft have not clashed in the courts over any patent issue relating to smartphones since the introduction of the iPhone in 2007 – but in contrast battles with Nokia, Motorola and other handset makers have become commonplace.The decision to license Apple's design patents to Microsoft was consistent with its corporate strategy, Teksler said, because the agreement prohibited Gates's company from manufacturing copies. "There was no right with respect to these design patents to build clones of any type," Teksler said.Apple had contacted Samsung in 2010, hoping to strike an agreement with its rival on patent licensing before their dispute hit the courts, patent licensing director Boris Teksler said. Teksler testified that Apple offered a clutch of patents for licensing but, crucially, viewed patents related to what he called the "unique user experience" as a highly protected category.Those included design patents at issue in the lawsuit, covering the look and feel of the iPhone and iPad. Teksler told jurors last week he could count "on one hand" the instances Apple has licensed those patents. Samsung was offered other patents at a cost of $20 per handset and $30 per tablet. It declined the offer.Apple filed a lawsuit in federal court in San Jose, California, in April 2011.Apple finished presenting evidence on its own patent claims on Monday, and Samsung began calling witnesses. Koh said she hoped the attorneys would be able to present closing arguments next week.
Google is to buy the travel guidebooks brand Frommer's as the internet company ramps up its bid to become the premier destination for local reviews and listings online.Google will pay an undisclosed sum for the Frommer's brand, which launched in 1957 when Arthur Frommer published his 'Europe on $5 a day' guidebook.The deal gives Google a vast and growing archive of digital reviews for its local listings, maps and mobile applications. It comes nearly a year after Google bought Zagat Survey, the restaurant review and ratings service.Google said the Frommer's purchase – which includes more than 300 guidebooks – would complement its aim to provide "a review for every relevant place in the world".The future of Frommer's print titles is understood to be safe in the near term, but could be made online-only as the brand is merged with Zagat inside Google."The Frommer's team and the quality and scope of their content will be a great addition to the Zagat team. We can't wait to start working with them on our goal to provide a review for every relevant place in the world," said a spokeswoman for Google.Frommer's owner John Wiley &amp; Sons announced the deal on Monday. The publishing group said Frommer's no longer aligned with its business strategy and the sale was part of plans to offload several other brands, including Webster's New World and CliffsNotes.Shares in John Wiley &amp; Sons were down 0.27%, at $47.46 a share, in midday trading on the New York stock exchange. Google's stock was up almost 2%, to $654 a share, on the Nasdaq after the deal was announced.
It's the start of theGamescomevent in Cologne today and we'll be reporting from the show. Sony has a press conference this evening, so watch out for that!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamManaging email realistically &gt;&gt; Matt GemmellTo effectively manage our email, we have to accept a few basic truths. They're hard truths, but that only makes them even more valuable. Here they are:What's important to other people is not (as) important to you.You are inherently lazy and egocentric.Ruthlessness is a hell of a time-saver.Read and learnIntel to try out wireless charging technology in ultrabooks and smartphones in 2H13 &gt;&gt; DigitimesIntel may adopt its self-developed wireless charging technology into Intel-based ultrabooks and smartphones in the second half of 2013, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.In addition to Intel, there are already several smartphone players and telecom carriers aggressively developing wireless charging technology. Japan-based NTT Docomo and Sharp both previously launched smartphones with wireless charging functions that meet the Wireless Power Consortium's (WPS) Qi standard, but high prices are still creating barriers that distance consumers, the sources noted.Gotta love those upstream supply chain sources. Can you wait another year, especially as the HP TouchPad had it a year ago?How low (power) can you go? &gt;&gt; Charlie's DiaryCharlie Stross:A newer, and more interesting formulation than mere circuit count is Koomey's Law, proposed by Jonathan Koomey at Stanford University: that the energy efficiency of computers doubles every 18 months.This efficiency improvement has held true for a long time; today's high-end microprocessors require far less power per instruction than those of a decade ago, much less two or three decades ago. A regular ARM-powered smartphone, such as an iPhone 4S, is some 12-13 orders of magnitude more powerful as a computing device than a late 1970s-vintage Cray 1 supercomputer, but consumes milliwatts of power for computing (rather than radio) operations, rather than the 115 kilowatts of the Cray.Should Twitter charge users, pay them - or both? &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGodin's solution is similar to Caldwell's model for his new venture, App.net: While Caldwell wants to make user and developer fees the primary revenue source for his network, Godin suggests that Twitter should charge users for a variety of features that only power users are likely to want--such things as advanced analytics, verification (which some users have already been given, but only on a case-by-case basis decided by Twitter), or other enhancements. The core of Godin's argument is that this would align Twitter's interests with those of its users, which would turn out better for both.What we lose when we glorify "cashless" &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogLook, I'm not exactly a huge fan of grimy greenbacks, but I do feel a need to point out something that most coverage of current Valley darling Square seems to miss: The "Death of Cash" also means the "death of anonymous transactions" - and no matter your view of the role of  government and corporations in our life, the very idea that we might lose the ability to transact without the creation of a record merits serious discussion. Unfortunately, this otherwise worthy cover story in Fortune about Square utterly ignores the issue.Top 5 shell commands for working with data files &gt;&gt; Craig RussellThere is a glut of tools out there for cleaning up and exploring data sets. But time and time again I find myself coming back to the good old command line. Here are my top 5 shell commands for working with data files.Bookmark it.How we [asymmetrically] screwed (almost) the whole Apple community &gt;&gt; Day4They drew an asymmetric screw in a 3D modelling program, emailed it to themselves, screenshotted it, posted it to Reddit, stood back and watched.Clearly, the blogs and newspapers that reported on the screw all fell back on that this was a vague rumor, unconfirmed, but yet discussed what impact the screw could get for the Mac world if it was in use. However, we noticed a difference in the discussions from the readers. While the reporters did not agree fully with that this would happen, pointing out that this was a rumor, readers more clear in their view. Either they perceived the news as truth, or called it fake, no grey zone in between. The split between the two camps, was quite unequal. An estimate would be that 90% regarded the screw as a fact and based all the further opinion on that, only 10% were critical to accuracy.A fascinating study of how people believe what they're predisposed to believe. There's a sort of reinforcement - some people want to believe something like this, so damn the facts (or establishing them).RIM looks to sell NewBay, other assets: source &gt;&gt; ReutersRIM acquired NewBay, a provider of photo, video, and social-networking tools for smartphones and computers, in October 2011 for reportedly around $100 million, as it sought to roll out a new strategy to stem its steady decline.RIM declined to comment on the sale report.Buy high, sell low.Google: formal statement on cutting 4,000 Motorola jobs &gt;&gt; SECGoogle expects to incur a severance-related charge of no greater than $275 million, which it believes will be largely recognized in the third quarter, with the remaining severance-related costs recognized by the end of 2012. Google also expects to incur other restructuring charges related to the actions described above, the majority of which will be recognized in the third quarter. Although Google cannot currently predict the amount of these other charges at this time, these additional charges could be significant.Offers please on how much "significant" will turn out to be.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Google is expected to accelerate the launch of its ambitious music service outside the US after the company announced last Friday that it will downgrade illicit filesharing sites in its search results.Websites that host unlicensed copies of songs and filmswill be relegated in Google search results from Monday, in what is being seen as a major olive branch to the entertainment industry.The change is expected to hasten the expansion of Google Music, the search engine's rival to Apple iTunes, which was announced in November 2011 but has been unable to expand outside the US because of licensing difficulties.The music and film industries havecomplained for years about Google directing people to unlicensed material online. The prominence in search results of alleged illicit filesharing websites such as Pirate Bay and MegaUpload has become a major sticking point in Google's negotiations with the music industry as it attempts to strike licensing deals to launch its own service.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the British Recorded Music Industry (BPI), which represents the four major music groups in the UK, described the announcement as a breakthrough and said it would be helpful to Google's plans to launch its digital music service in the UK."This has the potential to be really significant, but it all depends how it is reflected in the results people see," Taylor said."It makes us feel that Google is a little bit more on our side. It's helpful background music to these [Google Music] discussions, certainly."The BPI also wants Google to give internet users more information about  licensed content in search results, so that queries for an Adele or Justin Bieber song would be more likely to return recommendations for Spotify or Last.fm.Eddie Leviten, the head of communications at the Federation Against Copyright Theft, welcomed the announcement but said the devil was in the detail.He said that some in the entertainment industry will be less than pleased with Google's plans todowngrade only the websites that have received the highest number of takedown requests from music and film groups. Under Google's new algorithm, if an infringing website is not subject to a copyright removal notice then it will not be relegated in search results; and every allegedly infringing URL has to be entered in a Google form, making the submission process slow and cumbersome.Google also submits such requests to theChilling Effectswebsite, intended to show where freedom of speech is being restricted – but also in this case pointing to sites with infringing content.Google says YouTube and other user-generated websites will not be negatively affected by the change. Music industry insiders say that was not anyway a significant issue because the video-sharing website offers a great marketing platform for emerging artists and already offers piracy protections, such as itsContent ID technology, which identifies users who have uploaded unlawfully copied media."It's definitely a positive step but we need to see a little more about how it works," said Leviten.Industry experts said the move was strategically linked to Google's plans to take on iTunes outside the US."This is a great political step forward for Google, said Mark Mulligan, a music industry analyst. "There is no doubt that what Google is doing is strategically linked to what they want to do with their own music service."Mulligan said that forcing Google to demote pirate websites had been a top priority of the entertainment industry for the past 12 months, but the search giant had not previously shown signs of making any concessions."Google has a quite strident negotiation position," he said, adding that the move will smooth the way for Google to launch the most innovative next-generation music service in the market.
Would you pay to use Twitter? A service called App.net has just indicated that at least some people would, by hitting a target of raising $500,000 in funding from individuals paying $50, $100 or $1000 to set up a Twitter clone where "users and developers come first, not advertisers".The brainchild of Dalton Caldwell, a San Francisco-based developer who was one of the people behind the "web 2.0" resurgence in 2006, the schemehit its target fundingon Sunday evening more than a day ahead of its deadline. At the time of writing 7,448 people are offering to pay the base $50 level for access to post to the service, 2,010 paying $100 to be developers with access to back-end functionality, and 59 paying $1,000 for "pro tier" access including phone support and a personal meeting with Caldwell. (See thegraph of funding sources.)Where App.net's funding has come from, by tier (member, developer and "pro")And here is thebreakdown by number of members per tier:App.net members, by tierCaldwell began building the service because he, along with a number of other developers, had become uneasy about Twitter's approach to developers building third-party applications, where it has blocked a number of sites and services from accessing its API, the "hook" that external software needs to provide Twitter functionality. As Twitter tries to generate revenues from its fast-growing user base, it has been putting more restrictions on what developers can do - leading to restlessness among those who have built apps for it."We believe that advertising-supported social services are so consistently and inextricably at odds with the interests of users and developers that something must be done," Caldwellwrote on the App.net signup page.Speaking to Technology Review, he said that "Twitter created as fundamental a technical innovation as e-mail and HTML itself, and they totally blew it." Twitter has been tightening access to its API and the extent to which developers can use it progressively since 2010.The most audacious aspect of the project is that unlike almost every other service coming out of San Francisco - and in stark contrast to Twitter, which is and has been free to post and develop for - App.net charges its users.In ablog post in July, Caldwell says that the key problem with Facebook and Twitter, which offer an ad-supported platform, is that "this 'platform" word starts to get very troubling when talking about business models. Building on top of a platform is a foundational risk, and if your platform decided one day that it doesn't like what you are doing, or likes what you are doing so much they want to compete with you, it's Very Bad. Your platform partner can easily damage your quality of service, or simply shut you down. If that happens, your business is dead."Caldwell argues that if users and developers are paying to use the service, then the operator has no incentive to shortchange either - and no incentive either to intrude into eithers' experience by inserting adverts into feeds (as both Facebook and Twitter do).There are relatively few examples of paid-for alternatives to free services which offer essentially the same functionality as the free version. One isPinboard, a paid-for bookmarking service that offers the same functionality as the freeDelicious. While Delicious is free to use, on Pinboard each user pays a one-off fee on joining for lifetime use; the fee rises with the number of users. (Guardian Technology has been a paid-up user of Pinboard since mid-2011.)In general, though, paid services struggle to grow as quickly or as large as free ad-supported services because users are reluctant to provide upfront payment to a service that may fail, and where its value to them may be different from that being charged, because peoples' earning power varies widely.By contrast ad-supported services in effect charge people for their attention to adverts - and everyone has 24 hours in a day, so in effect everyone pays the same attention cost (though perhaps not potential earnings cost) for an advert.Some services then offer "premium" services by exploiting peoples' ability to pay not to have their attention diverted by ads, or for extra functionality - creating "freemium" services with different tiers of users.Caldwell though aims to buck the trend for services to try to grow entirely on ad-supported models. The idea of app.net grew from a blogpost on 13 July, in which heannounced an "audacious proposal". In it, he pointed to the problems he perceived with SourceForge, an ad-supported code repository: "the site was designed to squeeze every lasat advertising penny out of you," Caldwell wrote. By contrast, he pointed to Github, a freemium service which offers some facilities for free and charges for others."Contemplate for a moment how scary a theoretical purely ad-supported Dropbox would be," he noted, referring to the cloud-based freemium storage service which offers a shareable file locker service. "I can easily imagine the overly-cheerful corporate blogpost explaining why placing ads in my personal documents, or selling the file-listing of my music collection to the music industry, or shutting down IFTTT [If This Then That, a service that allows automation of web services] API access is 'important to the health and welfare of the community.' I happily pay to avoid that nightmare scenario, wouldn't you?"At its core, Caldwell's proposal - and its success so far, attracting just under 10,000 paying customers - points to a rumble of dissatisfaction within some parts of American culture with the pervasive nature of advertising there. "Why isn't there an opportunity to pay money to get an ad-free feed from a company where the product is something you pay for, not, well, you?" Caldwell asks.He points to Imeem - a social media sharing company he founded and ran - which, despite raising more than $50m in venture capital and selling more than $2m of advertising per month at its peak, was sold to MySpace in 2009.Instead, he revealed, he has been focussing on a service called App.net, "a paid service for mobile application developers", with a consumer-focussed iOS app and service.Caldwell thinks that the 10,000 figure for paying backers is sufficiently large to mark a critical mass - as long as the backers are the right people. Paul Graham, a venture capitalist with long experience in the software industry, suggests that "a search engine whose users consisted of the top 10,000 hackers and no one else would be in a very powerful position despite its small size".Certainly App.net has garnered a number of high-profile names, including Stephen Fry and many of the people who were early adopters of Twitter.What is less easy to know is how App.net will fare in what will become a war for time and attention with bigger, established sites and services. Facebook has 955 million users; Twitter, more than 100 million. Will 10,000 be enough to start changing that?
Facebook has been accused of deceiving developers after it emerged that the social networking site did nothing to verify the security of applications it was paid tens of thousands of dollars to review, and which it assured users had been checked.It is believed Facebook was paid up to $95,000 (£60,600) by developers whose applications were entered into its verified apps scheme.The system gave a green tick of approval to apps that passed what Facebook described as its "test for trustworthy user experiences".An investigation by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC)revealed that Facebook took no steps to review the applications in its now-closed scheme. Facebook awarded the verified badge to 254 applications, according to the FTC.Developers paid Facebook $375, or $175 for a student or non-profit organisation, to be given the green tick. Verified apps were given other benefits including prominence in its search results and a higher ranking on the directory of apps.Facebook had said it would subject the apps to a "detailed review process", and then give the verified badge to apps that the social network decided were "secure, respectful and transparent".However, the FTC described the programme as "deceptive" ina 19-page list of wider privacy charges against Facebook."Contrary to the statements set forth in paragraph 46, before it awarded the Verified Apps badge, Facebook took no steps to verify either the security of a verified application's website or the security the application provided for the user information it collected, beyond such steps as it may have taken regarding any other Platform Application," the FTC said.Consumers could also have been deceived by the "verified" tickmarks, the FTC suggested, as the site said that the programme "is designed to offer extra assurances to help users identify applications they can trust… that are secure, respectful and transparent, and have demonstrated commitment to compliance with platform policies".But instead, Facebook "took no steps to verify either the security of a verified application's website or the security the application provided for the user information it collected, beyond such steps as it may have taken regarding any other platform application," the FTC said.Facebook accepted a settlement with the FTC on Friday. Under its terms Facebook must allow an independent watchdog to make regular privacy inspections for the next 20 years. It came just a day afterGoogle was fined a record $22.5m (£14.4m) by the FTC for circumventing privacy protections on Apple's Safari web browser.Facebook closed the verified apps program after just six months in December 2009, saying that it would extend "the idea of verification to apply to all of the applications on the Facebook platform". Facebook agreed to undergo privacy vetting for 20 years.
Google has begun the process of reshaping itself into a handset manufacturer capable of taking on Apple by announcing that 4,000 jobs – a fifth of the workforce – will be cut at Motorola Mobility, the formerly dominant and now ailing mobile handset maker it acquired a year ago.Two-thirds of the job losses will be from outside the US, and a third of Motorola's 94 worldwide offices will be closed. In a regulatory filing, Google said the severance costs could be up to $275m (£175m) in the two quarters to the end of the year and that there will also be "significant" other restructuring costs as it tries to restore the phone business to profitability.Unveiling his plans for Motorola, Google's former Americas boss, Dennis Woodside, who was placed in charge of the hardware company in March, promised to cut the number of devices from the 27 released last year to just a few. He said the new phones would have batteries that last for days, sharper cameras and the ability to recognise who is in a room by their voice.They are being developed by a team of metal scientists, acoustics engineers and artificial intelligence experts implanted like a Silicon Valley startup into the body of what was once the largest company of its kind. It was assembled by former Pentagon research boss Regina Dugan, whose arrival was announced in March."We're excited about the smartphone business," Woodside told the New York Times. "The Google business is built on a wired model, and as the world moves to a pretty much completely wireless model over time, it's really going to be important for Google to understand everything about the mobile consumer."The moves are the first signs of a complete reorganisation under the ownership of the search giant Google, which completed its $12.5bn (£8bn) acquisition of Motorola in May, and appointed Woodside to replace its former chief executive Sanjay Jha, who had run the group since August 2008.There was speculation last summer that Google was merely interested in Motorola for its rich portfolio of patents, which it could use to defend its Android operating system against lawsuits from rivals. Monday's announcement confirms Google is looking to emulate Apple's success by creating a company that controls both the software and hardware components of smartphones, which are rapidly evolving into the personal computers of the future.Motorola once dominated the phone business, but the arrival of smartphones, and particularly the iPhone, hit its business. Although it tried to recover by adopting Google's Android software for its smartphones early on, it has not been able to break Apple's grip on key parts of the US smartphone market. Its handset division has lost money in 14 of the last 16 quarters, while its share of both the smartphone and feature phone markets has shrunk.The company is retrenching to the US. It will stop competing in unprofitable markets and cease offering low-end phones, to concentrate instead on a few phones rather than the 27 it presently markets, Woodsidetold the New York Times.Meanwhile, Google is buying Frommer's Travel Guides in its latest move to boost its content, following its acquisition of Zagat guidebooks last year.Google and Wiley &amp; Sons did not announce financial terms for the Frommer's deal."The Frommer's team and the quality and scope of their content will be a great addition to the Zagat team. We can't wait to start working with them on our goal to provide a review for every relevant place in the world," Google said in a statement.Google maintains that it will not give Motorola any special treatment over other companies building Android handsets. But some rivals such as Sony, HTC and LG, which are struggling in the smartphone market, are concerned that Google's hardware business may get "most favoured nation" status in funding and management, and access to the newest technology.Woodside has embarked on a top-down shakeup in which 40% of Motorola's former vice-presidents have been let go. Motorola is also tightening its supply chain, building fewer models and using half as many components under the direction of former Amazon Kindle supply chain manager Mark Randall.Google's venture into hardware could prove a costly gamble. It faces the same problems that other handset companies do: that Apple and Samsung together have locked up around half of the entire smartphone business, and about 90% of its profits, leaving others fighting for the remaining 10%. In the past quarter RIM, Nokia, LG and Sony have all lost money in the handset business, with only HTC and some Chinese companies competing at the low end making profits.
Oh good, it's Monday again. And to cap it all the Olympics are over. How was your weekend, anyway? Any gaming fun?
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStick a fork in it: Dell is done. &gt;&gt; PandoDailyFarhad Manjoo:In a week and a half, Dell will announce its second-quarter earnings results. Expect a bloodbath. In the first quarter, back in May, Dell gave the market a goose egg--analysts had expected Dell's revenue and earnings to fall from a year ago, but the company slumped way worse than people were guessing it would. Shares tanked, and they haven't recovered. Analysts aren't expecting anything stellar this time--Dell said its outlook was weak--but I suspect Dell could deliver another shock, presenting numbers that will begin to confirm a permanent downward trend.But even if Dell slightly beats the whisper number, its bigger problems will remain: Dell is running out of options.How YouTube will escape Google's new pirate penalty &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandGoogle has announced that it will soon penalize sites that are repeatedly accused of copyright infringement. But one site in particular doesn't need to worry: Google's own YouTube. It has a unique immunity against the forthcoming penalty.Not just that Google owns it.Bitcoin woes: users file lawsuit over $460k in missing funds &gt;&gt; The VergeFour men have sued Bitcoinica, one of the larger Bitcoin currency exchanges before it shut down in May, alleging that the exchange owes them $460,457.70 in lost Bitcoins plus damages. It's a story that will sound familiar to anyone who has been following the saga of the fledgling currency and its nascent economy, a digital Wild West where bad actors routinely take advantage of inexperienced buyers and sellers in the absence of a sheriff.Bitcoinica was launched by Zhou Tong, who claimed to be a 17-year-old based in Singapore and communicated primarily through blog and forum posts. People trusted him with their money despite his lack of experience, in part because of Bitcoinica's clever feature that allowed speculators to short, or bet against, the digital currency.By this point your natural reaction should be closing your eyes, shaking your head and exhaling.A first look at Samsung's US Android business &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansSome nifty graphs here (the Apple-Samsung court case has been both a boon and a challenge to analysts to find new ways to represent data.) The conclusion:In effect, Samsung, as Nokia used to do, is running a broad portfolio strategy, moving multiple handsets in out of the market almost every quarter. The prominent messaging around the Galaxy S2 and S3 (the latter isn't captured in the data Samsung disclosure) belies a much broader product offer.Samsung says not considering buying RIM or BlackBerry license &gt;&gt; ReutersSouth Korea's Samsung Electronics Co said on Thursday it has not considered acquiring Research In Motion or licensing the embattled BlackBerry phone maker's new mobile operating system.Somehow recalls the moment in Toy Story 2 where the toys contemplate crossing the busy main road and the dinosaur says "Oh well, we tried" and turns away to head home.Browser wars: four years of PC Pro site stats &gt;&gt; PC ProThe decline of Internet Explorer also sees one surprising rise - and points to a reason why Microsoft would want to make Surface.Screwpocalypse II, beyond Pentalobe &gt;&gt; Joy of TechNeat.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Strapping a small plastic box full of electronics to your forehead each night is a bedtime ritual that is neither comfortable nor natural. As nightwear goes, it can only be described as a passion killer. But the prize it offers is increasingly sought after by a fast-growing group of data addicts known as "lifeloggers".TheZeorecords your brain activity as you sleep. It then syncs via Bluetooth with your smartphone to produce a graph for you to peruse in the morning. Over the course of a few weeks, it has allowed me to ascertain that it takes, on average, 15 minutes to go to sleep once my head hits the pillow, that I enjoy only two hours of "deep sleep" each night and that, in total, I usually achieve seven full hours of sleep, which involves around three hours of rapid eye movement – or&nbsp;"dreaming".I admit being curious to know this information but, beyond that, I'm not sure what I'm expected todowith such data, other than, say, compare it with other people. How can I use it to improve my sleep quality – other than&nbsp;to know that wearing a plastic box&nbsp;on your head at night can be, let's say, disruptive?But for lifeloggers this is only the start of the journey of self-discovery. Their motivation is to create as many data streams about themselves as possible so that they can be collated and analysed to provide new insights and revelations about their lives.Lifelogging is nothing new. Keeping a diary, using a pedometer or weighing yourself each day are some of the many ways that previous generations have logged their lives. But over the past decade, as digital technology has become increasingly plugged in to the internet, so lifelogging has grown in popularity and significance. Perhaps the best-known practitioner is Microsoft Research'sGordon Bell, who, via his decade-longMyLifeBitsproject, has attempted to capture all his interactions – emails, phonecalls, photographs, etc – so that he can store"his whole life"on a single laptop. It was a challenge first suggested by his&nbsp;boss Bill Gates, who, in his 1996 book The Road Ahead, predicted that it&nbsp;would not be long before we would be able to recall via a computer anything we had read, seen or heard during our lives.At present, lifelogging is largely limited to those who are interested in their health and fitness. Clip-on gadgets such as theFitbitand Motorola'sMotoactv– which can record the number of strides you take each day, the steps you climb, the calories you burn, and your location – help users to monitor their activity to a degree of accuracy that was previously unobtainable. I have been trialling both devices and I can now break down my typical week to see when I'm busiest. Clue: not the daytime hours when I'm largely sitting in front of a computer. Take-home message: be more active.But I already knew that. Where lifelogging carries far more potential – and risks – is when different data streams are layered on top of each other. So, if we add our physical activity&nbsp;data to our travelcard data, to our debit card use, to our internet activity, and so on, we gain a deeper&nbsp;understanding of our habits and decision-making. To then act on this information in the pursuit of improvement is known in lifelogging circles as "self-hacking"."It's the data mash-ups that bring context and insight," saysFrank Bentley, a research scientist at the Motorola Mobility Applied Research Center near Chicago, who also teaches a course on mobile communication at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "They help to move it away from vague information. For example, when I analysed myself, I found that I'm happier when I'm busiest and happier when it's warmer. I now have a quantitative, statistically significant view on my happiness."Bentley argues that all this data could have a profound, as yet unseen, impact on healthcare. "Governments could make informed policy decisions if common patterns were found across whole populations. If clusters of illness and symptoms were found, it could lead to the very sophisticated targeting of treatment. The data will also be very beneficial to medical insurance companies in its aggregate form."And this is where privacy concerns enter the equation. As smart phones become ubiquitous, so the data streams will multiply exponentially. And because they sit in our pockets or bags, they are the nearest thing yet to having your own personal black box recorder. But who controls or even owns the data you create as you get on with your day? Who else has access to it? Do you have any say over how it is viewed or used by others?Adriana Lukas is the founder and convener of theLondon Quantified Self Meetup Group, which meets every two months to discuss the potential and implications of lifelogging. She is excited by such technological advances, but warns about the abuse and misuse of data."There are certainly benefits, but you must be careful," she says. "The fight for our datasets has already started. The aggregation of all this data is where the value lies. Security and privacy of all this data is crucial. It is very valuable."Most smartphone users are still naive about how the data they are creating is being used, says Lukas. "The default setting is that this data is shared. This is wrong. Users are asked to sync with Facebook. People who use these apps are thinking about their health, not about data privacy. But all this data is very valuable. More often than not, you don't even get to own the data you are generating. Most of it is stored on client-side data servers. This is turning into a huge business. Companies are circling at the moment."Whenit was revealed last year that&nbsp;the iPhone was secretly recording data about the user's movements, there was outrage. Users&nbsp;felt violated and Apple quickly moved to fix the "fault". But Lukas says this should be a warning to us that&nbsp;we still know little about how the data we create might be being used by others to better "understand" us."This is truly personal data," she says. "You should be given the explicit 'opt in' choice to share it, not simply to opt out. We need much better standards of data literacy. People really&nbsp;need educating on the importance of all this."Lukas fears a "data dystopia": "Imagine if Tesco got hold of your Fitbit data. Think what they could do with it, alongside your Tesco Clubcard data. We are now swimming in data streams. But try claiming any of&nbsp;them back for yourself. For example,&nbsp;try to search your own Twitter timeline backwards. It's near impossible, yet you created all that data and&nbsp;content. We are being tricked out of our own data online. Without us, it wouldn't even exist. We should be able&nbsp;to analyse it on our own terms and&nbsp;own it."Not-for-profit organisations such asEuropean Digital Rightsand the London-basedOpen Rights Groupare now campaigning for "digital civil rights" including the right to data privacy and ownership. The Open Rights Group, for example, says that while the digital age has the "capacity to bring us greater democracy, transparency and new creative and social possibilities", it means "our freedoms are also under attack in the digital world: from governments and vested business interests".Frank Bentley is more relaxed about such fears, though. He believes as long as people keep on top of the data they create, the benefits – particularly health benefits – mean lifelogging will quickly become integrated into all our lives."Logging the food we eat is an area that needs development, but could bring big advantages," he says. "Image-recognition software is being worked on so it can recognise what food is being eaten. Other ideas include 'jaw counters' which monitor how many times you chew your food. 'Protein-onomics' is the analysis of blood and urine. We will take samples and send them off to be studied with the resulting data constantly adding to our knowledge of ourselves. DNA profiles will soon be in the mix, too. Working out ways to visualise this data is the next challenge. Lots of people in the world can't read a graph or understand correlations."To avoid becoming a gift to hypochondriacs and quacks, this data will&nbsp;need curating by healthcare professionals. "Information is not knowledge," warned Albert Einstein. Quite how willing general practitioners,&nbsp;for example, will be to get involved is unclear.But personal data about each of us is being created, whether we choose to add to it or not. Ignoring it means we risk not being as "efficient" as those who lap it up. In March, thescientist and author Stephen Wolfram bloggedabout how he had analysed a decade's worth of his emails, computer use and phone calls. By doing so, he gained surprising – some might say trivial – insights into his habits. (For example, 7% of the keys he typed were backspaces.) However, it was the potential of lifelogging that excited him most."As personal analytics develops, it's going to give us a whole new&nbsp;dimension to experiencing our lives," he wrote. "At first it all may seem quite nerdy. But it won't be long before it's clear how incredibly useful it all is – and everyone will be doing it, and wondering how they could have ever gotten by before. And wishing they had started sooner, and hadn't 'lost' their earlier years."
Ever wanted to close a drug deal? Or stalk your biggest crush? Help is at hand (at last!) in the form of a new smartphone app –Burner– allowing users to call contacts from a temporary number that expires a few days later, but use their existing iPhone to do it. The creators suggest it'll suit anyone who innocently wants to keep their identity private: for example, if you're selling something but don't want to include your real number. Fans of the US drama The Wire may be slightly more suspicious:burners were used by criminalsto keep the police off their case. The makers of the $2 (£1.50) app say they'll prohibit any untoward activity by logging all IP addresses. Nevertheless, app users havealready set up a Tumblr blogto list lurid personal ads. Requests for sex feature highly. Thankfully, it's not yet available in the UK.
A £150m project championed by George Osborne that promised to bring full mobile phone coverage to millions of rural inhabitants has run into difficulty, because a fraction of that number will be helped and one of the UK's four networks has declined to sign up.Three, which has 8m customers,  told civil servants that it is not prepared to put its equipment on the masts paid for by the Chancellor's mobile infrastructure project. The network is concerned it will not have enough spectrum to deliver a good service, and has delayed its decision to participate until after theforthcoming 4G airwaves auction, which is not due to conclude until early next year.The government had originally hoped to advertise a contract for a company to build the masts this month, so that consumers could begin to benefit from early 2013.A spokesman for the Department of Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), which is overseeing the work, said the contract would be published "in due course".When Osborneunveiled his plan last October, he said it would "improve coverage for 6m people", living in areas where there is no mobile signal at all or where service is patchy.The government has since been forced to scale back its ambitions and the masts will only reach 60,000 premises or less, as well as 10 key roads, including the A2 in Northern Ireland. Civil servants have decided the money can only be used in areas where there is no coverage at all.If the state paid for masts in villages where one network was already providing a signal, this would fall foul of European state aid rules. These prohibit the use of public funds to give one private company an advantage over another.A spokesman for the DCMS said: "The focus of the project is on maximising the number of people benefiting from the investment, as far as reasonably possible. It is still our aim to cover the majority of the premises and key roads situated in complete not-spot areas."The project is designed to get voice signals and where possible 3G mobile internet signals out to as many remote homes as possible. There are some 30m homes and small businesses in the UK, and around 3% of these – 900,000 – do not have full coverage from all four mobile phone networks for voice calls. Under 1% have no signal at all.Internet coverage is more patchy, with 26% of premises out of range of a four-network service, leaving residents with no choice but to sign up with a network that does cover their area.A number of companies, including Arqiva, Ericsson, BT, Vodafone, Telefonica – which owns the O2 network – and Airwave, were shortlisted to build the masts earlier this year. It is understood the subsidy will pay for some 900 masts, although consultation documents had suggested the government was originally hoping up to 2,000 could be built.A spokesman for Three said the company remained engaged with the process. The network, owned by Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, is unhappy with the design of the 4G spectrum auction, which it feels could leave it with a less viable business than its three larger competitors.It wants to acquire more low-frequency spectrum, which rival networks such as O2 and Vodafone were gifted in previous government airwave allocations, but is not certain of doing so. Low-frequency spectrum is valuable because it travels further and requires less masts.If Three put its equipment on the new rural masts, its signal would work indoors but may not travel as far as its rivals' services once customers are on the move.
One of my favourite essays isUmberto Eco's 1994 newspaper columnabout the difference between the Apple Macintosh and the IBM PC. "The world is divided," he wrote, "between users of the Macintosh computer and users of MS-DOS compatible computers. I am firmly of the opinion that the Macintosh is Catholic and that DOS is Protestant … [The Macintosh] is cheerful, friendly, conciliatory; it tells the faithful how they must proceed step by step to reach – if not the kingdom of heaven – the moment in which their document is printed. It is catechistic: The essence of revelation is dealt with via simple formulae and sumptuous icons. Everyone has a right to salvation."I love this essay because it captures an essential truth about Apple. It is indeed like the "one holy, Catholic and apostolic" church because it offers salvation in return for total submission.  Stick to the Apple Way, it says, and ye shall be saved. The wretched users of Microsoft-powered computers, in contrast, have to find their own way to salvation, installing anti-virus and operating system updates, finding printer drivers and enduring other annoyances.Until recently, however, Apple's escalator to paradise stopped short of the heavens. The company lacked a credible cloud-computing offering. But then in 2011 cameiCloud, an online storage service that allows users to store their music files on Apple server farms for download to all the iDevices (iPod, iPad, iPhone) and Macintosh computers they own. It also acts as a data-syncing service for email, contacts, calendars, bookmarks, notes, to-do lists, and other data. As of now, iCloud has more than 150 million subscribers.Here's the proposition. Most Apple customers seem to have lots of disposable income, and so tend to have multiple iDevices. A typical worshipper might have, for example, a Mac laptop plus an iPad and an iPhone.  Each of these devices enables him or her to use email, manage address books and calendars, browse the web, take and upload photographs, download and listen to music, and so on. So what if every single bit of data on all your devices could be securely backed up in the cloud? What if everything you had written, photographed, filmed or downloaded on any iDevice could be automatically available on all your devices? And – to top everything – if one of your iDevices was stolen, wouldn't it be great to be able to remotely track – and disable – it?Yes to all of that. Most of the iCloud users of my acquaintance seem very happy with it. No more worrying about back-ups, or having out-of-date calendars on different devices. In return for an annual subscription, the great Church of Apple takes away the existential angst about data security that plagues less fortunate folks. And for as long as they stay within the enfolding arms of the Church, that blissful state will continue. That this is rather too good to be true should have been obvious to even the meanest intelligence, but it took a personal disaster last week finally to explode the illusion that single-church, cloud-based systems are the answers to everyone's prayers.The victim was a well-known technology journalist and iCloud subscriber named Mat Honan. "In the space of one hour",he reported, "my entire digital life was destroyed. First my Google account was taken over, then deleted. Next my Twitter account was compromised, and used as a platform to broadcast racist and homophobic messages. And worst of all, my AppleID account was broken into, and my hackers used it to remotely erase all of the data on my iPhone, iPad, and MacBook."Note that last sentence. Honan was playing with his young daughter when he noticed that his iPhone had gone dead. He rebooted it to find that it was asking him for a four-digit Pin. He doesn't have one.Attackers got control of Honan's Apple account by first taking advantage of a flaw in one of Amazon's systems, which gave them the last four digits of his credit card number. That and an email address was all that was needed to persuade Apple's customer support people to hand over control of his account. After that iCloud did its stuff. The only problem was that it wasn't doing it for Mat Honan any more.Amazon has now closed the security loophole exploited byHonan's attackerandthere are reportsthat Apple has "suspended" the facility to make password changes over the phone. Horse departed, in other words, and stable door securely bolted. But will Honan's experience dissuade people from putting all their eggs in the iCloud basket? Is the pope a Protestant?
Volvo XC90Price£35,695MPG34.4Top speed127mphThe tagline Volvo is running on its adverts at the moment is: "Admit it! You've always wanted to drive a&nbsp;getaway car." Can you imagine? The sedate Swedish firm, a&nbsp;touchstone for middle-class respectability for generations, churning out getaway cars. Screeching tyres, fivers fluttering in the breeze…Actually, a&nbsp;Volvo would make a&nbsp;superb escape vehicle. The cars are unexpectedly zesty when it comes to performance. They're famously reliable, too, so you wouldn't have to fear grinding to a&nbsp;halt with the police in hot pursuit. They're also anonymous, virtually indestructible and the great fuel economy means you won't have to refill until you're over the border…But, of course, that's not what Volvo wants you to escape from. It wants to whisk you away from the trudge  of everyday reality to a bucolic bolthole. A&nbsp;weekend world of climbing roses and chilled rosé, where if you own a&nbsp;Volvo and a&nbsp;country house you can pat yourself on the back… or, in my case, sit and ponder what might have been.Last Friday I got to live the Volvo dream. I had the XC90, the marque's premium seven-seat SUV, to test and the country house had been rented – a red-brick rectory in Norfolk. Its flagstoned halls and four-poster beds the perfect setting for a "let's pretend weekend".There was no shortage of jail breakers hurtling up the M11 that evening. The road was a bumper-to-bumper parade of 4x4s all jostling to escape from the city – and on Sunday evening the same cars filed politely back.It's a decade since Sweden's biggest export (literally) stormed the SUV market by offering a&nbsp;previously untried blend of non-aggressive yet rugged styling and family-friendly practicality with ferocious off-road capability. In many ways it's the ultimate passive-aggressive vehicle. The XC90 is just as guilty of being a bloated road-hog as the rest of its super-sized class, but it doesn't provoke the same level of loathing.This is because, the XC90 is the SUV most popular among female owners. Volvo had the foresight to appeal to this influential sector of the car-buying public when it first conceived of the XC90, and women were involved in the design of the car right from the start – something all manufacturers should do. Its smooth lines and gentle curves make it look deceptively compact, and far from being intimidating, the huge Volvo appears rather benign.Inside there's more evidence of a woman's touch. It feels refined and amenable. The new model has seven seats fitted as standard, and they can be flipped into 64 possible seating solutions, so everyone is catered for. The middle seat even has an integrated child booster. The D5 engine now boasts 200bhp yet knocks out a respectable 34mpg and, as you might imagine with a female-friendly car, the driver support and safety systems are peerless.At the end of the country getaway, I closed the door on the Old Rectory (and a life that might have been), and pointed the XC90 towards the capital. Cruise control on and satnav muttering, the eager diesel pumped me effortlessly homewards. Yes, it had been a&nbsp;great escape, but who wants to live a double life?Rural Retreats is the UK's specialist in the rental of beautiful cottages and elegant country homes. Three nights at the Old Rectory starts from £1,509, seven nights from £2,526. For more information, go toruralretreats.co.ukor call 01386 701177
The undead are all over mobile gaming, but Telltale's contribution to the genre is more worthy of attention than most, as they bring their famed point-and-click adventure puzzles to handhelds, with an adaptation of hugely successful TV seriesThe Walking Dead(iPad, App Store, £2.99).The story runs parallel to the series, putting you in the shoes of murder suspect Lee Everett as he bands together with other desperate souls, with the attention, as on TV, very much on the living. Quick-time events and basic puzzles involving finding and using various objects make up the majority of the gameplay, but much of the enjoyment comes from the engaging story. Strong characters and well-paced narrative make for an engrossing experience, and with decisions made here set to affect subsequent episodes it will be hard to resist shelling out again for later releases.Close My Deal(iPhone/iPad, closemydeal.co.uk, £3.99) could come in handy should you find yourself stranded with the diverse cast of characters found inThe Walking Dead. Developed by former barrister Clive Rich, it aims to help people with the negotiations that are part of everyone's life, whether with children over tidying their room or attempting to get a pay rise out of the boss. Accessible as a web app on Apple products, and online, it presents some interesting games to teach the basic art of negotiation, as well as offering advice to improve negotiation style and work out how to offer concessions that will lead to the optimum compromise. It may seem like a dry subject, but there's advice here that could be helpful to many.
Every new 2D Mario platforming game sets an increasingly difficult task for its designers. The title is expected to innovate in a genre constrained by strict conventions, a task already bedevilled as they cope with the previous 31 years of Mario gamesmakers plundering Nintendo's toy box of ideas. If all that was not enough, they must also stay true to the cherished Mario template, which demands familiarity as much as it does originality. However, forNew Super Mario Bros 2's opening chapters, it appears its creators have settled on conservative convention. A respect for the Mario games that have gone before trumps innovation, and while the game's levels are smart and refined, they are equally remarkably familiar.Or at least that's the case at first. As the main game reaches its second half, momentum is gained and suddenly it is bristling with creativity and delightful ideas. Vast secret areas also reveal themselves, in a game that is, relative to the genre, quite expansive.As with other recent Mario releases, the mechanics of movement feel a little loose and for much of the game the difficulty is geared to less experienced players. Yet, tucked away in hidden levels and areas, significant tasks await those who remember the intense challenges the series delivered in the 1980s and 90s. As part of a series that includes some of the greatest achievements of video game design,New Super Mario Bros 2falls short of the best, but it does blossom into a splendid game worth the attention of any platforming devotee.Risen 2: Dark WatersXbox 360, PS3, PC, Deep Silver, cert 16Famed for its back catalogue of unforgiving PC games, developerPiranha Bytessurprised with a more accessible take on the RPG with the original iteration ofRisenfrom two years ago. After they grafted a rum-soaked&nbsp;piracy theme to its formula forRisen 2: Dark Waters, the game was released to mild acclaim on PC in April,&nbsp;with a transition to consoles in mind. A transition that, it would seem, did not go well.Technical problems abound, at least&nbsp;on the PS3 version – the game looks five years old yet chugs and stutters throughout, marring what is essentially a solid, if unimaginative, role-playing adventure.There's plenty of content to keep players busy with a lengthy central quest, a refreshingly deep combat system and large, open world islands to&nbsp;explore. But fatigue soon sets in thanks to a flat storyline, repetitive dialogue and a script that is, at best, witlessly profane.Andy Alderson
Famed for its back catalogue of unforgiving PC games, developerPiranha Bytessurprised with a more accessible take on the RPG with the original iteration ofRisenfrom two years ago. After they grafted a rum-soaked&nbsp;piracy theme to its formula forRisen 2: Dark Waters, the game was released to mild acclaim on PC in April,&nbsp;with a transition to consoles in mind. A transition that, it would seem, did not go well.Technical problems abound, at least&nbsp;on the PS3 version – the game looks five years old yet chugs and stutters throughout, marring what is essentially a solid, if unimaginative, role-playing adventure.There's plenty of content to keep players busy with a lengthy central quest, a refreshingly deep combat system and large, open world islands to&nbsp;explore. But fatigue soon sets in thanks to a flat storyline, repetitive dialogue and a script that is, at best, witlessly profane.
New Super Mario Bros 2, Nintendo 3DSBorrowing puzzles and power-ups from various Super Mario Bros. episodes, in the latest instalment you can expect ghost houses, desert worlds, ice levels, Mario's flying raccoon tail and boss battles that end with the princess being whisked to yet another castle.There are new ideas, like its peculiar focus on collecting coins and a power-up that, appropriately enough, simply spews them from Mario's head, but they're not particularly memorable. What's left is a mildly cynical rehash of Mario's past, which – while as mechanically perfect as ever – lacks the personality and sparkle that made the series stand out. New Super Mario Bros 2 is a good and extraordinarily highly polished game, but in a franchise that was previously so mind-blowing it's a disappointingly prosaic effort.Nintendo, £29.99Deadlight, Xbox 360DeadlightIn Deadlight's vision of humanity's consumption by reanimated corpses, the zombies take over in 1986, leading everyman Randall Wayne on a journey through the offices, sewers and rooftops of decaying Seattle in an attempt to find his family. He does this in the style of the original Prince Of Persia, making pinpoint accurate leaps between crumbling platforms, avoiding or occasionally hacking down enemies and overcoming simple puzzles. Silhouetted against the ruins, Randall growls a noir-ish commentary as he finds pages from his own diary among the ruins. With an appropriately bleak final twist, this is a perfectly paced jaunt.Microsoft, approx £10.20 via XBLAPokémon Conquest, Nintendo DSPokémon ConquestConquest represents the unlikely fusion of Pokémon and feudal Japanese warlords. To win you must conquer 17 kingdoms, then use their captured troops and Pokémon to defeat the evil Nobunaga. Like a simplified Final Fantasy Tactics, fights involve positioning your Pokémon for optimum effect in a series of turn-based encounters on battlefields that change subtly every turn. Whether you're recruiting new Pokémon, shopping for equipment or razing another kingdom in the name of freedom, things never get particularly tricky, making this an amiable introduction to a genre that can sometimes get tangled up in its own menus.Nintendo, £29.99Games newsOculus RiftVirtual reality was a 1990s flight of fancy that never quite got airborne thanks to clunky technology and enormous expense. NowOculus Rift, Doom-creator John Carmack's latest creation, would like to make our collective VR dreams come true at last. Having achieved several times its target investment on crowd-funding site Kickstarter, it promises a sub-$300 VR headset in time for Christmas …Sony Online Entertainment's president John Smedley has hosted an Ask Me Anything session on notorious social news site, Reddit. In it, he admitted that the updates that sent the hardcore flocking fromStar Wars Galaxies, Sony's long-running and costly escapade in multiplayer online games, were "stupid decisions" and "a complete and  utter fail" before offering his apologies …Finally, other games out this week include the long-awaited and unusually glossy indie adventure,Dust: An Elysian Tail(Xbox 360).
I'm not driving well. I drift left, until the wheels cross the white line. Then the other way, right, to the centre line. I'm also giggling. Drunk? No, just a&nbsp;bit kinky. You see, this car has a&nbsp;"lane departure warning system" that, instead of beeping like other cars, has a vibrating driver's seat that sends little throbbing pulses to my arse – left cheek for nearside lane departure, right for offside. And I'm finding it rather thrilling. Ha, it's actually making me depart my lane, exactly the opposite of what it's meant to do. But then the French engineers probably didn't take English perverts into account when they designed it.The special seat – upholstered in brown Bavarian bull hide, incidentally – isn't the only good thing about this car. The DS5 looks brilliant, bold and ballsy. It shouldn't really work – it's an odd mishmash: a&nbsp;hatchback, an estate, a compact executive. It looks like a different car from every angle, as well as looking forwards and backwards in time. But somehow – the chrome detail helps – it comes together into one.Inside, it thinks it's an aeroplane, with a bewildering array of dials and switches, some of which are on the ceiling. I love that overhead console up there, with a compartment for my shades, even if I do press a red button with SOS written on it, most probably scrambling a coastguard helicopter, every time I try to get at my mirror aviators. And I love that there are 14 windows – 14 separate pieces of glass – if you include the ones in the roof.It's not perfect. Some little things niggle. Such as the automatic wipers that operate too slowly for the conditions (in a proper British July deluge, they're on medium swish), and the awkward split back shelf. More seriously, the ride is well 'ard; you need your own rump to be covered in Bavarian bull hide if it's to survive the battering it gets. And – most weirdly – we all get earache when the windows are down. Seriously. Is it something to do with pressure, or frequency? Luckily, we take the DS5 on holiday to Cornwall, in midsummer, so there's little need to open the windows.Flawed genius, then. I still prefer it to an Audi A4 or a BMW 3 Series, though. Simply because, in an age when cars are all very similar, here's one that's trying to be different. It merits its DS moniker, nods back to the days when Citroëns were about innovation, brave style and futuristic design. That's got to be worth a bit of earache and a sore arse, hasn't it? Plus, there's always the built-in on-board massager for that, even if that's not what it was meant for. (Drifts towards centre line.) Bzzzzz! Ooh, naughty Citroën! Stop it! (Don't.)Citroën DS5 HDi 160 6-speed manualPrice£25,900Max speed134mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.5 secondsCombined fuel economy55.4mpgCO2 emissions133g/kmGreen rating7/10Cool rating8/10
Google is to make a significant change to its search algorithm from Monday, downgrading websites that persistently breach copyright laws.The move is a victory for media and entertainment giants, which have complained for years that Google does not do enough to prevent access to material that breaches strict copyright laws on content such as music videos and TV shows.Googlesaid in a blogpostthat it would take into account the number of valid copyright takedown notices that it received for any given sites. Those sites with high numbers of removal notices may appear lower in user search results, it said."This ranking change should help users find legitimate, quality sources of content more easily – whether it's a song previewed on NPR's music website, a TV show on Hulu or new music streamed from Spotify," wrote Amit Singhal, the company's senior vice-president for engineering.The decision follows prolonged behind-the-scenes lobbying by the music and film industries to get Google to demote the search position of sites which they say infringe their copyrights, such as the Pirate Bay.Google has resisted on the basis that its search results should reflect what sites people point to for particular words or phrases – the basis on which its search reputation was built – but that has become less and less tenable as it has tweaked its algorithm to favour or penalise sites that it sees as "spam" for other sorts of content.The fact that the blogpost is signed by Amit Singhal, Google's most senior engineer in its search team, indicates the level at which this decision has been taken.Google's previous refusal has also been said within the industry to have been the reason why it has struggled to sign content deals with the music and film businesses to rent or sell a broader variety of films or music outside the US.But the decision means that it may now be able to sign up the record labels and film studios so that it can compete more effectively with Apples's iTunes. Google has for a long time had plans to make money from selling films and music via Google Play, according to documents released earlier this year at its trial against Google, but revenues have been far below its projections despite the wide penetration of handsets running its Android software in the smartphone market.The move was welcomed by the entertainment industry Michael O'Leary, senior executive vice-president for global policy at the Motion Picture Association of America, said in a statement: "We are optimistic that Google's actions will help steer consumers to the myriad legitimate ways for them to access movies and TV shows online, and away from the rogue cyberlockers, peer-to-peer sites and other outlaw enterprises that steal the hard work of creators across the globe."
After more than a decade of toiling to bring internet television to the mass market, Paula Byrne's time has come. A year ago, she sold her technology business to Amazon and now the online retailer has placed her in charge of its biggest engineering hub outside America, a team of several hundred housed in new offices near London's Silicon Roundabout.Amazon is entering the video rental business in a big way. But rather than receiving DVDs through the post, its customers will be watching films and TV series online.The US group has acquired LoveFilm, whose British boss, Simon Calver, has now moved on, and its engineering team has been merged with Byrne's.Together they will create the websites and apps that distribute Amazon's vast library of films and television shows to every shape and size of screen.Their remit is global. Byrne's team have just finished Amazon's video rental app for the iPad. "You've got a group of people in the UK that isn't just building services for Europe," says Byrne, "We are going to be doing this for Amazon on a worldwide basis. That is such a great thing for the UK economy."Amazon is the second American digital giant to plant the stars and stripes in TechCity, another name for the cluster of technology businesses that has formed near Old Street roundabout in east London.This spring, Google Campus opened in the area, offering desk space and mentoring to startups.For Byrne, the buzz is important. She enjoys her lunch hours in Whitecross Street, where street food stalls have revived the local market."You can feel it humming. There are people from technology, from media. We have brought hundreds more people like that into the area."A Liverpudlian who moved south to study business and marketing at the City of London Polytechnic, Byrne's career was launched in computer games. In the late 1980s, she found herself at Telecomsoft, a subsidiary of BT, doing a brisk trade selling games for Atari and Amiga consoles. In 1995, she was put in charge of developing what was probably the UK's first interactive TV service. The idea was to deliver all the benefits of the internet through the use of the remote control. An awkward alliance between Sky, BT and HSBC bank, it offered email and a limited range of shopping and financial services.The business, Open, was eventually sold to Sky and Byrne then set up on her own.It was her technology that enabled millions of X Factor viewers to propel Will Young, Leona Lewis and others into a pop career and others to eject Katie Price from I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here! by pressing their red buttons. Byrne's startup, Pushbutton, pioneered interactive services for Sky and ITV.As domestic broadband speeds increased, she turned her hand to delivering television over the internet. Pushbutton repurposed the iPlayer for BT Vision and helped put LoveFilm on Sony Bravia internet TVs and PlayStation games consoles.At home in Hertfordshire, Byrne's three teenage children already do most  of their viewing through the use of games consoles.This is a pattern which is being repeated across the UK. Xboxes with internet connections are now being used to stream films from LoveFilm or its rival Netflix to the family television set. "Although I've been at this a long time, it feels as if we are only just beginning," says Byrne. "We are here now at this really sweet spot in time. We've got the technology that finally enables this experience that customers have wanted for years."The official statistics produced by TV measurement body Barb revealed that, in 2011, 91% of viewing was still live rather than on demand.In homes where internet TV is easy, such as those with a Virgin Media Tivo box, the picture is a little different. Virgin estimates that 1bn on-demand programmes were watched in 2011.Byrne thinks traditional television channels have some years left to run, but that their dominance has already been challenged."There are many ways content can be scheduled. For some people, TV channels fulfil that purpose; for others what is much more important is what the people they hang out with recommend. The way people choose what they want to watch is going to become more sophisticated and diverse."So Amazon is racing to adapt its service to every screen and gadget on the market. While it has its own tablet, the Kindle Fire, the retailer does not want to limit its potential audience. With a long list of jobs to do, it made sense to buy Byrne's company.Given the attention being paid to Amazon's low tax contribution to the UK, the decision to site a global engineering team in London was well timed politically.Byrne says the move was talent led. "The UK has always had a great reputation in this industry. What Danny Boyle did in the Olympics opening ceremony summed up the kind of things that the UK is good at, executing things creatively and well," said Byrne.Amazon's founder, Jeff Bezos, has yet to pay a visit to Silicon Roundabout, but two weeks into the office move, Byrne isn't quite prepared for him yet."It's like when your in-laws come round, you want everything to be perfect," she said.
Millions of players of Blizzard Entertainment's Diablo, World of Warcraft, Starcraft and other online games have been warned to change their passwords after the company revealed that it was hacked on 4 August.Blizzard Entertainment says it has no evidence that the intruders acquired credit card information, billing addresses or players' names.But it said that hackers were able to access other data, including email addresses and answers to players' personal security questions. Blizzard says it doesn't believe such information alone is enough for anyone to gain access to its Battle.net online accounts, which let people play with others around the world online.It warned users to beware of "phishing" emails that might purport to come from the company asking people to follow a link to reset passwords. Those should be ignored, and users should instead log in directly on the site using a bookmark.The company also says hackers took encrypted versions of passwords. As a precaution, it is recommending that players change their passwords.Blizzard, which is a division of Activision Blizzard Inc, didn't say how many accounts were affected, but there are millions of accounts on the system."We encourage our North American players to change their passwords," the company said inan FAQ page about the hack. (Battle.net users canclick here to log in.)After carrying out a security audit, Blizzard now fears that the hackers have gained access to the data used to reset or change passwords, including "secret" questions and answers. Mobile users will also be encouraged to update their software."We urge all members of our community to closely monitor all of their online accounts," the company said.The hack is the latest in a growing list where companies holding millions of accounts have seen databases compromised. While in theory encrypted passwords should be safe – and Blizzard used a method called "salting" to make encrypted passwords essentially uncrackable – other elements such as secret questions and answers may give the hackers the clues they need to break into other systems.But Blizzard won praise from Rob Cotton, the NCC Group chief executive, for its action."Blizzard should be given a lot of credit for its response," he said. "It's been clear and open about what happened, apologised to users and made assurances that it will improve its security systems. Other organisations and policy makers should take note, as this is the kind of transparency we need if we're to combat the cyber threat effectively."Even though Blizzard had what it believed to be tight security measures in place, cyber criminals still managed infiltrate its systems. It highlights the importance of regular testing, external audit and continually updating security measures to stay ahead of the latest threats."Blizzard said that it learned of the hack on 4 August, but that it took until now to announce it because it had been working "around the clock" to work out how the hack was done, and what data was accessed. "Our first priority was to re-secure our network, and from there we worked simultaneously on the investigation and on informing our global player base. We wanted to strike a balance between speed and accuracy in our reporting and worked diligently to serve both equally important needs," it said.Online games companies are an increasingly popular target for hacking attacks because they often hold user names, emails, passwords and credit card or other payment details. Even if the hackers cannot get access to the details directly, grabbing a large number of emails can set them up for phishing attacks which may yield some users' passwords and other details, or help to plant viruses on machines via phishing emails with malicious attachments.
Facebook has agreed to tighten its privacy policies after it settled a long-running dispute with the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC).The social network was accused by the regulator last year of introducing "unfair and deceptive" changes to its privacy policies in 2009, including settings that made users' confidential profile information public without their consent.Facebook also shared personal information including status updates, geographic location and marital status with advertisers and third-party applications without telling users, the FTC said.News of the settlement, which ties Facebook to biannual privacy inspections by an independent watchdog for the next 20 years, came just a day afterGoogle was fined a record $22.5m (£14.4m) by the FTC for circumventing privacy protections on Apple's Safari web browser.The allegations laid bare by the FTC about the two internet giants will heighten concern about the security of peoples' private data in some of the most popular digital destinations. Facebook boasts more than 955 million active monthly users, according to its latest figures. Google controlled two-thirds of the US search market in June and its share is even greater in most European countries, said the metrics firm ComScore.The FTC saidFacebook was liable for "a broad range of deceptive conduct" relating to what it tells users about their private profile information.The bulk of the charges against Facebook relate to its overhaul of users' privacy settings in November 2010. The FTC said that Facebook failed to tell users that it changed the settings so they could no longer restrict access to their name, profile, picture, gender, friend list, pages, or networks."Facebook's failure to adequately disclose these facts, in light of the representation made, constitutes a deceptive act or practice," the FTC said.The social network also made public users' photos and videos even after their accounts had been deactivated.The five , commissioners were split over whether to settle the dispute, with three voting in favour, one abstaining, and Commissioner J Thomas Rosch dissenting on the basis that Facebook had denied liability for its actions. He argued that it should at least be required to take the position that it neither confirmed nor denied liability – a position he also argued in dissenting from the 4-1 verdict over Google's fine. Google denied liability to the FTC; it was fined because it was already the subject of a consent order similar to that now tying Facebook.
One point that got mostly overlooked in theFederal Trade Commission (FTC) fine against Google- $22.5m, which would be a lot for you or me, but amounts to about 15 hours' operating profits based on the company's operating profits from its second quarter - was the dissenting opinion of one of the five commissioners, J Thomas Rosch, from the majority.(Update:Rosch has again dissented after theFTC settled with Facebookover its altering of privacy settings. More in the piece below.)The commissioners split 4-1 in what they thought should be the correct way to treat Google over its behaviour. In fact, Rosch's dissent was so strong that the other four had to write anopinion(PDF) explaining their reasoning.But first, here's Rosch's beef. In hisminority opinion(PDF), he says that he thinks that the FTC Act obliges him (and the others)to determine whether there is both 'reason to believe' there is liability and whether the complaint is in the 'public interest' before we vote out any complaint, whether it be a litigation complaint or a consent decree.Clear enough so far? He's setting out what the ground rules are for deciding whether to vote on something: liability and public interest.Now it gets interesting.There is no question in my mind that there is "reason to believe" that Google is in contempt of a prior Commission order. However, I dissent from accepting this consent decree because it arguably cannot be concluded that the consent decree is in the public interest when it contains a denial of liability.That is: if Google won't agree that it is liable for what it has done, then Rosch doesn't think it should be let off with just a fine. In fact, he's really quite vexed (reading between the lines) at the fact that all Google does accept about the FTC is that it has jurisdiction, and that it's doing this in the right location: He points to the FTC Order (handing down the fine) which says "[The] Defendant [Google] denies any violation of the FTC Order, any and all liability for the claims set forth in the Complaint, and all material allegations of the Complaint save for those regarding jurisdiction and venue."Yet, at the very same time, the Commission supports a civil penalty of$22.5 million against Google for that very same conduct. Condoning a denial of liability in circumstances such as these is unprecedented.He also points out that Google has been charged before with "engaging in deceptive conduct" over Buzz, its social network which enrolled you whether or not you really wanted to be enrolled (much the same as Google+, in fact, though that seems to handle privacy rather better - so much better that nobody can tell how much of anything actually goes on there). Google, says Rosch, is essentially being charged with contempt of the FTC's Consent Order over Buzz - which is how it got into this whole thing.Says Rosch:"This scenario – violation of a consent order – makes the Commission's acceptance of Google's denial of liability all the more inexplicable."He points out that $22.5m "represents a de minimis amount of Google's profit or revenues." But it's even worse, he says:"the Commission now has allowed liability to be denied not only in this matter but also in the Facebook settlement where Facebook simply promised to 'go and sin no more' (unlike Google, Facebook was not previously under order). There is nothing to prevent future respondents with fewer resources than Google and with lower profiles than Google and Facebook from denying liability in the future too."And that's the real nub of Rosch's complaint with the mamjority decision: that if you let Google (and Facebook, which was also put under a consent order essentially for swapping around its privacy rules so often) off without admitting that what they did was wrong, then others will too. And if youdon'tdo that, then it becomes one law for the big guys withhefty lobbying operations, and one law for the small ones.For complete clarity, I emailed the FTC on Thursday, and Commissioner Rosch's office responded to my queries as follows:Commissioner Rosch doesn't think that the Commission has any business accepting a denial of liability when  1) Google sees fit to pay over $22 million in civil penalties;  2) Google is in clear contempt of a Commission order;  and  3) there is no limiting principle, so that the acceptance of a denial of liability in this case represents a precedent for respondents less well-heeled and with a lower profile than Google to also negotiate a denial of liability.  Commissioner Rosch notes that the FTC has a precedent here -- it is to allow defendants to "neither admit nor deny" liability.    The Commission just didn't hold Google to that precedent in this case.Update:in hisFacebook dissenting opinion(PDF), Rosch says: "I cannot find that either the "reason to believe" or the "in the interest of the public" requirement is satisfied when, as here, there is an express denial of the allegations set forth in the complaint." So it's just as with Google: Rosch feels that companies should take responsibility for their actions (or inactions) - and wants the FTC to shift to a model like the Securities and Exchange Commission, where if you deny the charges then you can't be part of a consent order (essentially, getting you out of going to trial).There's certainly evidence that within the FTC, Google isn't exactly flavour of the month. In a call with reporters, David Vladeck, the director of the FTC's bureau of consumer protection, pointed to other privacy screwups by Google - Buzz, the Street View Wi-Fi data collection - andsaid"The social contract has to be that if you're going to hold on to people's most private data, you have to do a better job of honoring your privacy commitments".  He wasn't impressed by Google's explanation that the cookie workaround was unintentional: "As a regulator, it is hard to know which answer is worse: 'I didn't know' or 'I did it deliberately'."Google's statement, beyond which it's not shifting, is that "We set the highest standards of privacy and security for our users."But if Rosch was the dissenter, why did the other four think it was OK to let Google off without admitting liability? Here's what they say:Here, as in all cases, a defendant's denial of liability in a settlement agreement has no bearing on the Commission's determination as to whether it has reason to believe the defendant has violated the law or that a proposed settlement will afford appropriate relief for the Commission's charges. To the contrary, the Commission acts based on its consideration of the staff's investigative work, and in this instance we have strong reason to believe that Google violated its order.In other words: denying that you killed somebody doesn't cut much ice when you're found holding the knife still in their heart. (Or, less dramatically, denying you ever took those cookies isn't much use when you've been photographed on CCTV with your hand in the cookie jar.)The key question, the commissioners say, is whether Google will now abide by the consent order. The fine, they imply, is a big whack on the back of the hand for Google "when the accompanying complaint does not allege that the conduct at issue yielded significant revenue or endured for a significant period of time." That's an important point, since there's absolutely no way of knowing how much revenue - if any - Google actually derived from what it did.Yet simple measures of revenue aren't the key point. What's really important, as Vladeck said, is whether we, as consumers, can trust companies with our data, because our data is becoming all that there is of us (and if you don't believe that, read again about howtechnology writer Matt Honan had his digital life erasedby a couple of hackers who wanted access to his Twitter account).And after this fine, and with the EC still pondering whether it acceptsGoogle's offerings to solve its antitrust questionsover search, and the FTC - them again -pondering the question of whether Google has abused its dominant position in search, and with the Wi-Fi/Street View issue rumbling on in Europe (with the German data protection authorities considering what action to take, and now the UK'sInformation Commissioner's Office doing a forensic examination of the data), and with theGoogle Book scanning controversystill rumbling on too, one wouldn't say that Google is out of the woods yet. Even if the FTC's fine represents less than a day's profits, the effects on its reputation could linger for a lot longer.
So you've upgraded to the larger screen ofthe terrific new 3DS XL, but you don't want to lose all the data you have saved on the old model?Well fear not.Here's a useful video from the people at Nintendoto show you how to transfer everything from the source system to your shiny new gadget – including your profile, e-Shop account details and purchases, photos you've taken, Mii creations and all your Streetpass data.There's also a detailedhow-to guide at the Nintendo UK website.So, go to it – it's really not all that hard ...
Our Apps Rush column is going weekly and splitting between iOS and Android - here'stoday's roundup of the 10 best Android appsfrom the last week - with aseparate post covering gameson both platforms.Here's today's roundup of iPhone and iPad apps from the last week:Great British Bake OffRandom House has served up some tasty treats in time for the new series of popular TV-contest Great British Bake Off. The app includes 50 recipes culled from the show's two spin-off books.Rounds: Franklin FrogBritish book publisher Nosy Crow tends to focus on fiction with its book-apps. This marks a new direction: a non-fiction app for children explaining the life cycle of frogs, with characterful animation and child voice-narration.Sing!Music apps developer Smule released its latest karaoke app this week. Sing! is a logical step on from the company's Glee Karaoke, except now with social features to the fore, and 100 licensed tracks to sing along to. ReadApps Blog's interviewfor more details on Smule's plans.Racing Post for iPadHorses may be dancing at the Olympic Games, but back in the traditional horseracing industry, its newspaper of record the Racing Post has a brand new iPad app. It'll offer two editions a day, one published at 8pm the night before. News, stats, columnists and customisable racecards all feature.2000 ADDrokk! Venerable comic 2000 AD has made its iOS Newsstand debut with an iOS app that sells individual weekly issues, or offers a range of renewable subscriptions. A free sampler is included to whet the appetite for Judge Dredd: Day of Chaos and other stories.Craft Beer LondonFancy a classy capital-city tipple? Craft Beer London's new app is your friend. it promises reviews, listings and maps for the city's craft beer pubs, breweries and shops, as well as news of new places and businesses as they emerge.MetaIt's late to be getting into competition with Instagram, given its 80m+ users. Still, Meta is intriguing: a photography app that places great emphasis on the "handcrafted" nature of its filters. Plus it works with Instagram, Facebook and Twitter anyway.TuneWikiMusic-playing app TuneWiki has been available for years, but a brand new version - as in not just an update - was released this week. It still enables you to play music from your iPhone with scrolling lyrics, but social features are now a bigger part of the mix.Little White LiesStella Artois and Little White Lies magazine have teamed up for a film-focused app in the UK. Users can read reviews, find out where films are screening near them, and get details on Stella's own film-related events.Bloc PartyAs British band Bloc Party prepare to release their Four album, they've launched an official app. The usual news, music clips, videos and social features are included, but more eye-catching is a weather "fourcast" that checks your location, then delivers a video weather forecast from the band members themselves.That's this week's selection, but what have you been using on your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch? Make your recommendations in the comments.
If your diary is looking a little bare for the rest of the year, fret not – we have the solution. Here's the latest round-up of games events, some aimed at the public, others targeted at developers and people who want to become developers. All of them will be fascinating and sociable, and if you're in the vicinity, you should immediately arrange to attend...As ever, if you know of anything that I've missed, mention it in the comments section and I'll add it!Game Dev NorthWhen:August 11 (tomorrow!)Where:Leaf, Bold Street, LiverpoolWhat:This is a regular get-together for developers working in the glorious North West of England. Organised by a trio of local studios, it's totally informal, so open to those looking to get into the industry, as well as people who just like to meet up with Northern game developers (and who doesn't want to do that?). With big movers &amp; shakers like Sony Liverpool, Evolution Studios and TT Games in attendance, this is a networking Valhalla. There are more detailshere.Dare ProtoplayWhen:This weekend!Where:Caird Hall, DundeeWhat:This is a free showcase of all the finalists in the annual Dare to Be Digital competition, in which small teams of students are encouraged to build working game prototypes. Organised by the University of Abertay, Dare has seen some amazing games over the years, making this well worth a visit if you're in the area. A separate component,Dare Indie Festwill show off indie titles and features a series of talks on game design. Protoplay is continuing over the weekend, and finishes on Sunday evening.Turing FestivalWhen:23-25 AugustWhere:various venues, EdinburghWhat:This really fascinating celebration of digital technology has a wide remit taking in music hacks, medicine technology and security. However, on August 23 from 9am until noon, there's a dedicated gaming strand, organised by Scottish games industry polymath Brian Baglow. Speakers include game design authoritiesErnest AdamsandTom Armitage, so it should be an interesting highbrow morning. The tickets are £15 and you can purchase themhere.London Games FestivalWhen:27 Sept - 28 OctWhere:various venues, LondonWhat:After a break last year, the London Games Festival is back, taking in a range of events around the capital. As usual, it encapsulates a series of self-contained treats including the excellentEurogamer Expo(27-29 September, Earls Court) (boasting hundreds of playable games, many getting their first ever public airing), Future's Golden Joystick Awards (26 October) and the always fascinatingMCM London Comic Con(26-28 October). Sure to keep that whole 'London is lovely' vibe going after the Olympics.Play ExpoWhen:13-14 OctoberWhere:EventCity, ManchesterWhat:Originally a retro gaming event, Re-Play has moved to EventCity in Manchester and is now offering four different themes: re.play, now.play, pro.play and cos.play. So you'll get a huge range of vintage coin-ops to play, as well as discovering some of the big Christmas releases for 2012 (the likes of EA, Konami and Namco will all be there). And you can do it all dressed as Link! If that wasn't enough, the founders of the iconic Britsoft developer Bitmap Brothers will be doing a talk. Dig out your copies of Speedball and Chaos Engine and get down there. Tickets are £13.20 for the weekend, or £8.80 for a day.GameCity 7When:20-27 OctoberWhere:various venues, Nottingham city centreWhat:The annual games event that I will go ahead and call 'utterly unmissable to anyone who has even glanced with ardour at a video game' is now a week-long odyssey, taking in the usual selection of inspiring talks, indie game expos and amusing evening shenanigans. This year Peter Molyneux will be taking over for a whole day and you can expect lots of insight and indiscreet comments about working for Microsoft. Gamesblog will there too, albeit in a reduced capacity, hosting one of seven different mornings at the Broadway Cinema cafe. We might well find something else to do as well, if the organisers let us.ExPlayWhen:31 October -2 NovemberWhere:The Assembly Rooms, BathWhat:Now into its second year, ExPlay is boutique conference aimed at small studios and game design students in the West of England. It features a bootcamp to guide start-ups through their first project as well as loads of interesting talks and discussion events. It was in Plymouth last year, but now its moving to Bath, and is being sponsored by Edge magazine, which will be hosting a quiz on the last night. And you get to visit the lovely Assembly rooms, where Jane Austen no doubt discussed the state of indie game development in Somerset, while supping tea and observing the stultifying cruelty of Georgian society.Launch conferenceWhen:13-14 NovemberWhere:Birmingham Science Park, AstonWhat:Aimed at developers, start-ups and students, this friendly and diverse conference showcasesG the most interesting work coming out of studios and academic institutes in the Midlands. There's a huge range of speakers including Rod Cousens (CEO of Codemasters and all-round industry veteran), Trevor Williams (co-founder of Playground Games, the developer of Forza Horizon) and Jo Twist (CEO of UK games industry trade body, UKIE), plus, I'll be there talking about games journalism! This is a really valuable event for wannabe developers in the region, with lots of access to movers and shakers in the region.
