Woke up this morning to find my PC had been rebooted (ah, Windows Update), and when I went to Gmail, all I got was a blank page. I am running Internet Explorer 7 withIE7Proinstalled on Windows XP SP2.Jack SchofieldI don't know how common this is, whether it's IE7Pro's fault, or whether Microsoft or Google is going to fix the problem. However, there is a workaround. You can still use Gmail from IE7 if you use the older interface instead of the buggy Newer Version. You can force it by adding ui=1 to the address:http://mail.google.com/mail/?ui=1Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to be enough just to tell Gmail that you want to use the Newer Version. What happens here is that Google simply ignores your preference and resets the interface to the Newer Version every time.Another and perhaps better workaround is, of course, to use Firefox instead of IE7. That isn't an option for this particular machine, which spent last year as a Microsoft-only XP SP2 test box. (It's currently testingAvira AntiVir PersonalEdition Classic.)Has anyone else run into this problem?
If you owned a Nintendo 64, you'll remember Turok — a classy first-person shoot-em-up featuring a Native American protagonist and a jungle full of dinosaurs. But given that not only was its early popularity eroded by a string of increasingly lacklustre sequels — and its publisher, Acclaim, went spectacularly bust — this next-gen retread has to qualify as one of the most unlikely comebacks ever. However, Disney subsidiary Touchstone has made a good fist of it: it looks superb, the jungle surroundings are utterly convincing, the weapons and control system are unimpeachable and, best of all, next-gen artificial intelligence extracts intriguing gameplay possibilities from the interplay between you, dinosaurs and human enemies, both in the single-player game and online. Load times are an issue, and Turok never feels like something entirely new and original, but it is solid, well crafted and enjoyable.
Although no one knows if these mind-expanding games work any better than doing the daily sudou, Nintendo keeps them coming. Maths Training is more sedate than the rest, cutting back on cutesy graphics and animations in favour of repetitive textbook-like puzzles. Each one is part of the complete 100-cell program, with medals for beating the clock and randomly selected puzzles to keep each round interesting. It's a little boring to watch; however, the sideways perspective is perfectly designed for the stylus, and the way it tracks your daily score is suitably compulsive.
The voice of unreasonVoice recognition seems like a good idea - until you try to use it. And it's a really bad idea to try writing code with Vista's voice recognition. (Thanks to Sabrina for the link.)Out of this world manoeuvreThis looks as graceful as a dolphin: it's the space shuttle doing an elegant backflip in orbit. Let's hope it's not like a giant fairground ride for the astronauts and that they don't get motion sickness.What is the internet for?A magical collision of two of the biggest timewasters on the internet: World of Warcraft and porn (but it's worksafe, aka SFW).Got a favourite technology video? Tell us about it in the comments!
Happy Valentine's Day!fromhere. Morehere(for SoTC romantics) andhere(for WoW-lovers).
According to Gamesindustry.biz, PS3 has now shifted the magic one million units in the UK. From the article: "The console was released in the UK on March 23 last year, meaning it has reached the milestone quicker than the PlayStation 2, which took 50 weeks to sell one million units".It's still not as fast as Wii, which managed the feat in just 38 weeks, but it's still an important achievement considering... well,everything.In other good news for PlayStation acolytes, Rockstar has moved to dispelclaims from Microsoftthat the online multiplayer elements of GTA IV would be exclusive to Xbox 360. Morehere.
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is negotiating to rescue the embattled internet company Yahoo through an alliance that could set up a heavyweight business showdown between the Australian-born media mogul and Microsoft's Bill Gates.News Corp has begun tentative talks about merging its online division, which includes the social networking site MySpace, with Yahoo to create a powerful combined presence on the internet.The tie-up would provide a handy escape route for Yahoo, the world's most popular web portal, which is searching for a way to avoid succumbing to a $44bn (&pound;22.4bn) hostile takeover bid from Microsoft. But it would infuriate Microsoft, which is anxious to get its hands on Yahoo to bolster its flagging internet offering and to create a viable rival to the web search leader Google.Yahoo's management is likely to be drawn towards a deal with News Corp because it would allow the internet firm to remain largely independent. Murdoch's media empire would jointly invest $15bn (&pound;7.7bn) alongside a private equity firm and would end up with a 20% stake in Yahoo according to details obtained by Techcrunch, an influential Silicon Valley blog.If the talks progress, Murdoch would be pitched into a head-to-head battle with Gates, who remains chairman of Microsoft although he spends much of his time distributing his $56bn fortune through healthcare projects in developing countries.Analysts said it could turn into one of the biggest takeover battles seen in the technology industry. "The entertainment value for all of us would be like nothing we've seen since the days of AOL and Time Warner - and it might even exceed that," said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Research in New York.Neither News Corp nor Yahoo would comment last night, although the negotiations were reported on the website of the Wall Street Journal, which is owned by News Corp.Yahoo's founder, Jerry Yang, is under intense pressure from shareholders over his refusal to accept a Microsoft takeover. A Michigan public pension fund which owns 13,600 Yahoo shares yesterday sued the company for failing to consider the $31-a-share bid properly. A lawyer for the fund, David Fink, said: "Just saying no is not an appropriate response."At the very least, News Corp's interest will give breathing space to Yang. It could put a value on Yahoo of as much as $50bn, allowing the internet company to argue that it is a better proposition than Microsoft's bid. This, in turn, would put the onus on Microsoft to offer more money.But a deal with News Corp faces several hurdles. It would not involve an immediate payout to shareholders who may be impatient for cash."It's not something Yahoo shareholders could trade on immediately," said Gartenberg. "Even if it has the potential to deliver a higher valuation, it's not the same thing as someone offering $31 a share."News Corp, which owns newspapers including the Times and the Sun, has a range of websites in its online division including the movie review site Rotten Tomatoes, the image-sharing venture Photobucket and the men's magazine Askmen.com.A combination would do little to tackle Yahoo's main weakness - the fact that it has been steadily losing ground to Google in lucrative internet searches which bring in millions of pounds from online advertisers.Some reports last night suggested that in order to make a tie-up with News Corp work, Yahoo would need to surrender the search battle by contracting out its search technology to Google. Such an arrangement could fall foul of competition regulators as it would enhance Google's already overwhelming dominance in trawling the internet.
I have had a Maxtor external hard drive (USB) for some years, which I use for data back-up. It no longer appears on My Computer -- it used to be Drive F. Windows' Device Manager says it is working normally, but the location is given as Location 0.Dick EmpsonThis could be any number of things. Try using XP's hidden Disk Management utility: go to Start, select Run and paste in diskmgmt.msc. If you right-click the drive you can give it a new file letter, but I doubt this will work.Try plugging the external hard drive into a different PC -- preferably via a powered hub -- to see if it's a drive problem or a PC problem. If it's a drive problem it could be a loose wire, a bad USB connection or the drive may be corrupted (no MBR?) or dead. If so, your best chance of recovery is probably to remove the drive from the external case and install it as a slave in a PC.If it's a PC problem, unplug all your USB devices, and use the Device Manager to uninstall the EHD. Power down completely, wait 30 seconds, restart the PC, then plug in the EHD and hope that Windows finds it.
You gave some advice about an annoying piece of software called MAAgent. I now have this on my PC after buying my daughter a Samsung MP3 player for Christmas. There was no option to install it or not (I thought I was installing just the Samsung Media Studio) and I find I cannot now remove it. MAAgent is in a folder called MarkAny/ContentSafer. Can I simply delete the folder?Tony JonesI don't have MAAgent, but the general approach is as follows. In Admin mode, create a restore point so you can go back to where you were. Next, runHiJackThis, and click to fix the O4 item for MAAgent.exe. Run the Windows Task Manager, select MAAgent and click End Process. You should now be able to delete the MarkAny folder. Reboot your PC and check that the MP3 player still works. Finally, search the registry for references to MarkAny names and delete those entries or, for preference, runCCleanerand see if it will remove them for you.Normally it's safer to rename folders temporarily, rather than delete them immediately, and to export registry entries before deleting them, so you can put things back the way they were. In this case, I'm assuming that you could simply reinstall the software, if necessary.
We've just downloaded the most up-to-date version of iTunes to our Dell PC with XP SP2 and now sound is distorted.Sarah MorganApple's site has a very long discussion,Fix for distorted sound in iTunes ver 7.0, which started in 2006. An approach that worked for some people is to change the iTunes settings to 16-bit sound and 48 kHz or less. Other suggestions are to turn off all the enhancements and set the buffer size to Large (Edit, Preferences, Advanced). An older and shorter discussion,iTunes sounds funny, suggests switching iTunes' sound playback from QuickTime to Windows.
I have a lot of clipart, which I use for parish work. It requires the use of a Kudo Catalog Reader. I've just bought a Mac and my operating system will not support it.Ken MossThe Kudo Catalog Reader is an old program that could be supplied on CDs of clipart, but Mac OS won't run the Windows version, unless you install Windows. The Kudo websites (kudo.com, imspace.com) no longer seem to work, so I searched Google for a Mac version of the program, kudocatalogreader2.0.sit.hqx. The University of Michigan has a1995 copyin its archive (download), so you could try that. However, I'd have thought you could still access the clip art files directly.
I seem to have been victim of a virus: I no longer have Control Panel in Windows XP.Michael CoxonEverything in Windows can be controlled using Group Policies, which enables companies with servers to lock down their users' PCs. Viruses can use the same settings in the Registry. If you remove the NoControlPanel Policy, the Control Panel should reappear.PC Toolsexplains how to edit the registry to do this. However, theKelly's Kornerwebsite offers lots of tweaks and fixes to do this kind of thing simply by downloading and double-clicking a small reg file. Try running number 256, controlpanelrestrictionrestore.reg.
When you're dealing with a flooding emergency in the middle of the worst drought for many years, the last thing you need is barriers to the sharing of geographical and meteorological information.Yet that's the situation faced by Australia. The authorities' response is to consider the widespread adoption of Creative Commons licences for public-sector information.Last month, the government of Queensland approved the use of Creative Commons, which allows free re-use of copyright material subject to certain conditions, as part of a new licensing framework. Meanwhile, the Commonwealth (federal) government is expected to give the green light to creative commons in a new set of guidelines for the management of the government's intellectual property.The new Australian policy will be watched with interest by Britain's free-data movement. Historically, Australia is a pioneer of free data: a 1968 law exempted most data produced by the federal government from copyright protection.However - as in the UK - organisations can and do charge for certain kinds of data. Another complication is that licensing regimes vary from state to state.One result, says Baden Appleyard, a lawyer and research fellow at Queensland University of Technology, is "confusion, lack of interoperability and unnecessary expense in the provision and re-use of public-sector information".Last year, a study found that confusing government policies were harming a business worth up to A$12bn (&pound;5.6bn) a year to the economy. "Government agencies often use their limited funds to collect, manage and distribute the data. This drives some agencies to adopt pricing policies that 'over-recover' the cost of producing information," says the report's author, David Hocking, chief executive of the Australian Spatial Information Business Association.Appleyard's group says that creative commons licensing offers a way to unlock the potential of this data.Researchers at Queensland will shortly publish a study on the pricing of public sector information which is expected to set out the case for making all government data free. We will watch with interest. In the meantime, we think the UK government could usefully copy one set of Australian ideas: a policy review in 2002 which said that the government should not try to charge for data where to do so is not cost-effective, would be inconsistent with policy objectives or would unduly stifle competition and innovation. Bonza!&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Internet evangelism shares a marketing technique with sellers of quack medicine, in that the promoters are eager to emphasise any successes and ignore any failures. A snake-oil seller might present a testimonial from an ill person who tried a folk remedy and subsequently improved. But we won't hear about all the people who got worse or even died no matter how much they drank the Kool-Aid. There are no double-blind tests for safety and effectiveness.The lack of success of John Edwards's campaign for the Democratic Party presidential nomination provides a counter-example to the excessive hype surrounding how the internet affects the political process. In theory, with his populist message addressing themes of poverty and healthcare, he was an ideal candidate to attract the kind of grassroots support that ends up hyperbolically described as "people powered revolution". The Edwards campaign recruited many consultants and bloggers who have extensive new media platforms. It used YouTube to get attention for the launch of his candidacy. With the arrival of staff from the Howard Dean 2004 campaign, which first employed many internet based strategies, aninternet bubble for Edwardsshould have been inflating rapidly.Yet the magic didn't work. Edwards did not win a single primary contest, and eventually suspended his campaign. While net evangelists might argue that nobody can reasonably assure success every time, critical evaluation requires paying attention to all outcomes, not just the ones used in a sales pitch. And if supposed gurus tend to end up with weakly performing major candidates, that's an objective measurement which puts a very low limit on their power. One might even wonder if too tight a focus on a narrow segment of argumentative partisans can ultimately be counter-productive.Ironically, one explanation given for the bad performance waslack of attentionfrom the press. This contradicts much that has been said about routing around old media, and the influence of discussion forums and bloggers. By implication, it also points out how heavily some of the would-be revolutionaries rely on the establishment press to aid in distributing their message of allegedly disrupting the world as we know it.None of this is to gainsay the notion that raising money for political candidates by using the internet and online communities is a powerful campaign technique. Moreover, the diffusion of internet-based fundraising into political campaigns provides a case study in the conflict over whether innovation is driven by individual genius (the "Great Man" theory of history), versus a competing idea that changes arise out of many broad social effects. We can see how, when the time had come, the concept caught on. And then became a standard part of the campaign machinery, like earlier media advertising, telephone soliciting or direct mail appeals.But once a method has been incorporated into the political world, it's simply one of a range of manipulative practices, without any special democratic nature or utopian implications. Often, the more things change, the more they remain the same. Note there are always particular quirks. For example, the Republican candidate Ron Paul has long been popular with some fringe elements that tend to be very noisy on internet sites. When this very small but extremely loud base combined with more mainstream factional support focused on using Paul as a vehicle to express opposition to the Iraq war, it was enough to generate significant publicity and funding for him. However, again, when votes were counted, he never became a serious contender.There's a saying that success has a thousand fathers, but failure is an orphan. Any successful political effort will have many contributors who deserve some credit. These days a winning candidate will almost certainly be using the internet in some manner. Hence bubble blowers will jump on that bandwagon and point to whatever is being done as the secret of success (and why they should be hired to do more of it). But at heart, none of this is anything more than politics as usual. Any real reforms for citizen involvement must look elsewhere.&#183;sethf.com/infothought/blog
If all goes to plan, by the end of the year your commute to work may be shared with dozens of gamers, a mobile phone in one hand and a curious plastic object in the other. On closer inspection, the object could turn out to be the Zeemote JS1, a Bluetooth joypad device designed for mobile games, and recently announced by Californian start-upZeemote.The light and comfortable pad measures 95mm x 35mm x 20mm and houses a small anologue stick, plus four buttons.The aim is simple: Zeemote hopes its easy-to-use gadget will bring genuine mass appeal to the perennially under-achieving mobile games industry.The early signs are quietly positive. Several developers have signed up to support the device, including Sega and Eidos, which means versions of Sonic the Hedgehog and Tomb Raider Anniversary will be playable via JS1 - not a bad opening gambit.A few other dedicated Zeemote titles have been revealed, including a puzzler named Fireworks, which allows you to synch two Zeemotes to one phone for two-player gaming - which means you'd better good friends with your opponents as you're going to be getting very close to them indeed as you huddle around your mobile's tiny screen.Zeemote hopes to get the device into the shops in May, at first as part of a bundle deal with phone handsets. The company hasn't officially announced a partner yet, but it's the sort of thing that might interest the youth-orientated thinkers at Nokia and Sony Ericsson.I'm excited because there are loads of mobile games I don't bother to play due to compatibility issues between my handset's keys and my huge fat fingers. It's rare in the games industry for a third-party peripheral manufacturer to come up with a product that really captures the imagination.However, Zeemote will need a great deal of support from the industry, and it will need to convince phone owners that they absolutely must have one more gadget in their pocket or handbag. While the former is happening - symbolised by a nomination for the innovation award at Mobile World Congress - the latter is a trickier prospect.But it's not impossible. Zeemote CEO Beth Marcus, a veteran technological pioneer whose previous company Exos sold its groundbreaking force-feedback technology to Microsoft in the 1990s, is hosting a panel session at next week's Game Developers Conference entitled Disruptive Forces in Gaming.It will look into unheralded and unexpected technologies or ideas came out of nowhere to shift the gaming roadmap. She's clearly hoping to add one more to the list.
Matthew Inman may be a genius. Or he may be a fiend. What the Seattle-based web developer and online marketer has  done is figure out a way to get people to advertise his sites without paying them. What's even smarter is that he's got the people who search engines rank most highly to do the advertising: bloggers and social networkers.It works like this. Inman devises a free quiz, which appears on some webpage. You take it - answering perhaps a dozen arcane questions about Star Trek. At the end, you're presented with a badge or widget for your blog, website or social networking page; there's also the option of some HTML code that can just be copied and pasted in to any page's source.Tucked awayBut tucked away within the HTML code that puts the badge or widget on your site - and unseen by human readers of the blog, because the badge or widget obscures it - is a link to an entirely different site. Search engine spiders spot the link, see that many bloggers seem to be pointing towards it and raise its page rank, producing high search results for certain keywords (also in the HTML) such as "cash advance"."About a year ago I built a free dating website [Mingle2]," says Inman, who previously worked for a search marketing company. "Unless I could get users to sign up I was dead in the water - a dating site without dates is pretty much useless."At first, he tried creating linkbait to get his site noticed. That's not as sinister as it sounds: linkbait means interesting content on a website which baits visitors to place links to it from their websites. "I created a few of these linkbait pieces and they gained quite a bit of traffic, but I still wasn't getting many signups," Inman says. "Eventually I created the 'how geek are you?' quiz and added a link to the quiz badge that said 'free online dating' and linked to my homepage."As his quiz badge spread across the internet like influenza, Inman's dating site began ranking at Google for "free online dating", and people started to sign up. He claims to have generated nearly a quarter of a million links in four months, eventually ranking number one for such searches on Google. Six months and 2 million visitors later, Mingle2 was bought by JustSayHi.com, another free dating website, which is now Inman's employer.The original geek quiz has been followed by more than 80 quizzes, badges, blog widgets and blog bumper stickers, attracting up to 175,000 visits per day to JustSayHi's blog widget section. Inman was also responsible for the Blog Readability Test, hosted on criticsrant.com. As a viral widget, it's been picked up by tens of thousands of people.Google views things differently. The alt attribute tag in the HTML ought to be used for a meaningful description of the image but has keywords - like "cash advance" - instead. A small visible text link - such as "online payday loans" - points to cashadvance1500.com. Search engines now see many inbound links to the loans site which ranks highly for its keywords. And criticsrant.com gains too.Is there something fiendish going on? Who benefits? "Criticsrant.com and cashadvance1500.com are both owned byNextInternetwhich is the venture capitalist/incubator that funds us," Inman says. "Cross-linking and cross-promoting is something companies with multiple websites do all the time."The plan worked well, especially when the Blog Readability Test was picked up by Wired's Underwire blog. However, Inman points out that his work is used voluntarily, and that nobody is paid to do so."We created a piece of content that webmasters and bloggers really liked. We provide them some suggested HTML code to make it easier to share," Inman says. And those links to cashadvance1500.com? "The links we put in the code are completely visible. Webmasters are free to remove them, change the code," he says.Search engine optimisation - the real, if disguised, objective of the exercise - offers good and bad techniques. Google's quality guidelines advise against the latter: "Avoid tricks intended to improve search engine rankings," Google says.Link schemes that increase page rank are also disapproved of. However, Google often won't take action on a single site, preferring to "improve the algorithm to spot all sites of a similar nature". (Sites suspected of breaking the guidelines may be reported athere.)The Guardian showed Google some of Inman's work. "Widgets that are distributed with a link back to the site that created the widget are fine," it says. "However, going a step further and selling links to third parties is against our quality guidelines. Sites that employ or distribute such widgets may risk losing rankings." Inman's response? "We're not selling links to anyone. We own or have very close partnerships with all the websites who we are targeting in those quiz badge links. If the widgets come with a bit of advertising attached I don't see it as being too terrible."As the links to the sites are visible in the code and displayed on screen, it's not surprising that Inman admits that a "huge percentage" are removed. But enough survive to make his job worthwhile."I could adjust my badge code to easily hide those links," Inman says. "Instead, I keep them out in the open."Using Yahoo's Site Explorer, Danny Sullivan, a search engine guru and editor-in-chief forSearchEngineLand.com, found more than 150,000 inbound links to cashadvance1500.com. "I think putting an entirely off-topic link next to a graphic is pushing it," he says.The Guardian emailed bloggers who had published the Blog Readability Test with its links intact. Tony Hillerson, a software architect from Colorado, seems unperturbed. "I did notice that there was anad thereand I didn't mind, since I thought it was funny," Hillerson says. "In that context, I really doubt they got any clicks. All in all, it was funny, and the price to pay was to have these guys get a few possible clicks off of me, so I don't mind."'Offending code'But Stephen Sherlock in Massachusetts didn't realisewhat was happeninguntil we told him. Now, somewhat annoyed, he's removed the "offending code" - the link to cashadvance1500.com. "I don't like those who game the system. I'll be much more careful with the next opportunity to participate in a meme like this," he says.Dan Thornton, a community marketing manager for Emap and editor for Disposable Media, innocentlyadded the test to his blog. He says: "If I'd examined the HTML I definitely would not have included the link on my page, and would have publicised the fact that it's a scam."Hiding link code in a widget like this is basically using the same methods as you would use to spread a virus, and while this is essentially just to aid someone's Google ranking, the fact they felt they had to hide it in such a way makes me a little annoyed."Inman says: "This is just a clever spin on linkbaiting that gives me a competitive edge. Placing links on websites to aid in search marketing efforts is nothing new." Yet the dividing line between fiendish money-making or clever marketing may never have been narrower.
The latest attempt to grab a slice of the rapidly growing massively multiplayer online (MMO) market — think Word of Warcraft — is Pirates of the Burning Sea. And as the title suggests, this is a wonderfully original take on a genre dominated by fantasy and sci-fi. Set in the 18th Century Caribbean, Pirates pits nation against nation in a struggle for booty. Your job is to choose an allegiance, grab a ship and get stuck in. And fans of the Sid Meier Pirates games will feel right at home with the enjoyably visceral naval combat. More cerebral players will find excitement in building warehouses and trading goods. In fact, the in-game economy is already a highlight, and is practically a game in itself. Unfortunately, a steep learning curve and underwhelming land-based sections detract slightly from the whole. But if you have any interest in naval combat, commodity prices and large swords then Pirates of The Burning Sea is worth a look.
Move over, laptops. It's robots that have been tipped as the next-generation classroom aide. The first long-term interactive study investigating the potential use of robots on early childhood education has produced some surprising results.Led by Javier Movellan from the University of California's Institute for Neural Computation in San Diego, the study tested four robots by introducing them into a classrooms of toddlers aged between 18 months and two years.In one of the experiments, a 2ft robot was programmed to walk around the room, using its sensors to navigate, as well as react to the toddlers by sitting down, giggling when it was touched and lying down when its batteries faded. Once the toddlers had familiarised themselves with the robot, they began to treat it with care and attention - hugging it, helping it up when it fell down and covering it with a blanket when its batteries ran out. Movellan says this is an encouraging reaction.In a class of its own"The children don't seem to have a problem adjusting to the capabilities of the robot very quickly, learning what it can and cannot do, and acting accordingly," Movellan says. "Overall we are finding that the children treat the robots as social beings, but somewhat special. They don't treat them as toys, but they also don't treat them as if they were humans."But how do the robots compare with pets? The analogy is a decidedly good one - both robots and pets are, in the eyes of a toddler, a special creature whose properties are not known ahead of time, and only by interacting with it can these be found out. Movellan and his team did not compare the toddlers' behaviour towards pets to their behaviour towards the robots due to the complex operational properties that any robots intended for use in the classroom would have."I think the message is that children this age very quickly figured out the operational properties of the robot and adjusted accordingly. As such the robot was a class on its own - neither a toy, nor a pet, nor a peer, but something in between. The interesting thing of course is that the robot was not 'alive' in the standard sense of the word, yet it was treated as a live being, raising the interesting scientific question of what it means to be alive and how do we recognise that something is alive."Measuring the interaction between the robots and the toddlers proved a difficult challenge for the research team. After a few unsuccessful attempts, the team settled on two approaches: the first entailed multiple people assessing in real time the quality of the observed interaction using a computer joystick; the second was simply counting target behaviours such as how many times the toddlers touched the robots, and where they touched them. The team then watched videos of the various interactions throughout the study and concluded that the toddlers responded better to the robots over several months."The toddlers' reactions have been a constant source of information, and surprise to us, particularly during the first years of the project," Movellan says. "One thing that became apparent to us was the importance of timing. When you get the timing right, magic happens. When you get it wrong, it disappears. Simply moving the robot's head too slow or too fast can make a difference on the appearance or disappearance of social behaviours towards the robot. We are working on robots that can automatically detect the different moods the classroom goes through and adjust their behaviour accordingly."Movellan says the results of the study prove that technology is very close to producing robots that can interact with humans in a social manner. "Rapid progress is possible but we need to think differently than the way traditional AI and industrial robotics used to think."Using toddlers in the study instead of older children was a strategic move - the team felt that interaction with toddlers would help them focus on the affective aspects of the interaction while avoiding speech. With speech recognition technology not yet ready to be used in a noisy classroom, toddlers proved to be a perfect solution because they use speech sparsely yet they can still achieve meaningful forms of social interaction."Toddlers are a very good model for the robots we want to develop. They're very good critics, and by choosing to interact or not interact with the robots they let us know exactly whether or not we are making progress."Scientific motivationBy carrying out this study, Movellan and his team have proved it possible to use robots as teaching aides. The aim of the study was to develop systems that could assist teachers in a personal manner. Movellan says the main scientific motivation was to understand what it takes to develop robots that can interact with people."The social benefits of using robots to interact with toddlers are numerous. I like to think of robots as intelligent toys that can help enrich the life of children, both from a cognitive point of view as well as a personal one," Movellan says."The interaction we observed between the children and the robots definitely had a very positive effect in the classroom atmosphere and the overall sense of happiness of the children."But Movellan is careful to point out that robots can never be a substitute for human interaction. "It's true that we can say the same thing about pets and toys. Personally, I like the physicality that robots bring when compared to videogames and television."Movellan and his team are now focusing on experiments that they hope will prove that robots will make effective teaching tools. They will continue bringing robots to schools and refining them to improve their social intelligence. The team is also planning to build an infant robot to approximate the complexity of human infants."Our goal with this is to reverse engineer the developmental process infants go through during the first year of life. We want to figure out how it is that they seamlessly solve problems that elude the most sophisticated AI programs," he says.
Green EfficienCityGreenpeace has launched a 3D interactive virtual city to show how the UK can fight climate change.tinyurl.com/2urqouSpace-age jammiesTravelodge is testing astronaut-style high-tech pyjamas make of DermaSilk, "which feels like a second skin".tinyurl.com/ysoo95Big five sign onGoogle, IBM, Microsoft, VeriSign and Yahoo have become the first corporate board members of the OpenID Foundation.tinyurl.com/3aaeasSafer hexMindful of the date, Getsafeonline.org warns that one in five online daters is targeted by scams.tinyurl.com/2zde2aLetter slidesDasur has introduced SlideIT, a novel way of quickly entering text on a touch-screen PocketPC or Windows Mobile phone.tinyurl.com/ypbug8Europeana boots upEuropeana, the forthcoming European digital library, has a video of Van Gogh's boots and a survey on its test site.europeana.euLet's play ballELSPA, the UK's Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association, is supporting the Conservative party's childhood report, More Ball Games.elspa.comCarbon zero laptopsStaples has launched a CarbonZero scheme whereby the Toshiba laptops it sells "have their lifetime carbon footprint offset".toshiba.co.uk/staples
The conference room window overlooks a line of floor-to-ceiling, gleaming steel flasks. The steel feels chilly but not cold; the warehouse-like space they inhabit is unheated in the Arizona "winter". But don't lift the inner styrofoam lid and stick your hand in: they are filled with liquid nitrogen, which boils at 77 degrees Kelvin (-196C). From a nitrogen storage tank, a pipeline snakes along the ceiling sending a runner to each flask - more correctly, "dewar" - to top it up.Most of the dewars are occupied. This is a little eerie. We are at Alcor, the cryonics organisation. The dewars' 79 occupants were - possibly will have been - people with a dream: that given enough time, medical science will advance enough to cure them of whatever killed them. To pay for their decades - centuries, possibly - at temperatures cold enough to prevent decomposition, they bought life insurance policies of between $75,000 (&pound;38,500) and $100,000. Legally, they are dead. To Alcor's staff, they are "patients".Cryonics is a small community. The two largest cryonics organisations, Alcor and Michigan-based Cryonics Institute, together poll about 1,600 members. Alcor has 79 patients and 33 pets in cryopreservation; CI has 85 patients and 50 pets.Grand dreamScience was always going to be slow to fulfill a dream as grand as this. First, cryopreservation techniques need to improve so patients' bodies - and especially their brains, the repositories of memory and personality - suffer minimal damage. Second, the medical techniques for revival, such as cures for Aids, cancer and heart disease, must be developed. Many cryonicists opt to preserve only their heads, hoping for revival technology good enough to give them new, younger bodies. However, there are not even animal experiments to bolster the idea. Nobody has yet frozen and revived any mammal.But the dream no longer seems quite as lunatic as it did in 1962, when Robert Ettinger's The Prospect of Immortality launched the modern cryonics movement. But because cryonics is so small, it has little funding for research.The area of most immediate concern to cryonicists is improvements in preservation techniques: less damage at the beginning means an easier eventual repair job. The key technique, which came into use in 2001, is vitrification.Ice cream that's melted and refrozen develops ice crystals. So do human bodies, where crystals can tear through delicate tissues. As one cryonicist puts it: "We didn't evolve to be frozen." Vitrification avoids this by replacing the blood with a mixture of antifreeze-like chemicals known as cryoprotectants via a machine like the cardio-pulmonary bypass devices used in hospitals. The right mixture at the right temperature, between -90C and -130C, becomes a smooth solid, like glass - hence vitrification.This process and the cryoprotectants used vary between Alcor and CI; Alcor's cryoprotectants were developed and published by 21CM, a media-shy Florida-based company whose website stresses vitrification's usefulness to organ banks. Publishedresearchhas shown that vitirication preserves the brain's structure remarkably well.The downside is that cryoprotectants are toxic. In addition, vitrified human flesh tends to fracture. These are, respectively, the key areas for ongoing research to Ben Best, CI's president, and Alcor. Tanya Jones, director of operations at Alcor, says the cause of the fractures isn't clear, but that at least a few large fractures are easier to repair than many small ones.The other problem is that it's illegal to vitrify someone while they're medically alive. So the teams have to wait for someone to be declared dead before they can go to work with vitrification.Meantime, medical research throws up a new and promising headline almost every day. Last year, scientists at the J Craig Venter Institute successfully transferred an entire genome from one bacterium to another. In Maryland recently, scientists built an entire microbial chromosome.Or take, for example, the work being done by Lance Becker, director of the Penn Center for Resuscitative Medicine. Becker is not directly concerned with cryonics, but it's easy to see connections. Becker wants to extend today's five-minute window for successful resuscitation after the heart stops."Fundamentally," he says, "what we are focused on is bringing people back to life from death or near-death, and reinventing or revolutionising the way we approach that." Becker's key discovery is that cells don't die during that five-minute window. The real damage comes when the heart restarts and oxygen floods the tissues, a process known as reperfusion."It's pretty well accepted that at the point at which the usual human being gets pronounced dead, all their cells are alive. It's a very eerie question: if all their cells are alive, what is death?" says Becker. Besides, if all the patient's cells are alive, why can't the patient recover and walk out of the hospital? "With our current therapies we can't do it."One option, says Becker, is cooling the patient - by a few degrees, not to cryonic extremes - to buy time, an idea he says has been around for thousands of years. In studies, dogs and mice cooled before reperfusion have recovered better. "We believe it prevents reperfusion injury."Cooling, he adds, is much quicker if you cool the blood directly, either by injecting a slurry of micro-ice particles or by using a bypass machine. Imagine, he says, a soldier in the Iraq war, bleeding to death while you watch. "If you could zap, perfuse him, put him on a plane, wing him to a major hospital and fix him all up - that's not at all crazy."Mad or prescient?That idea is in fact close to Jones's vision. "If we succeed in our mission," she says, "cryonics will become a process carried out in hospitals by medical staff for much shorter times."That in itself is a change from the early days, when cryonicists more often aspired to immortality, not just more life. In addition, the demographics are changing. Formerly, most cryonicists were young, male and geeky. Now, Alcor gets whole families.The important unknown is: Can a cryosuspended brain, warmed and revived, retain the memories and personality of its owner? Until this is proven - in a dog, if not a human - cryonicists don't know if they're mad or prescient. How long before we know?Best says: "I think within 30 years we'll see a successful revival, but the people revived then would be cryopreserved 30 years from now." Last in, first out: the earliest patients to be cryopreserved suffered the worst damage. James Bedford, who in 1967 became the first person ever to be cryonically suspended and who is now at Alcor, was barely perfused at all. "For the people being cryopreserved now, under the best conditions, my guess is 50 to 100 years." Given the current rate of medical progress and research into nanotechnology, says Jones: "If we haven't done it in 100 years, it's not going to work."
Personally, no, but many people will. Like other social networks, the 3D online environment is a gathering place for real-life and virtual couples and singles, and the in-world events calendar is already stacked with Valentine-themed social functions in all time zones and catering to all languages. Second Life residents can expect a huge variety of activities, from romantic cinema screenings to virtual speed dating.The interactivity of virtual environments offers many levels of intimacy and offers ripe playgrounds for developing shared experiences. In this space, the unique selling point is its collaboration, and it's ideally situated for creative self-expression. People separated by distance can still enjoy activities that build relationships, like achieving goals together while solving problems and overcoming obstacles. In online community research, people who meet online - or hang out online with people they already know offline - say these experiences cement emotional relationships in ways that are often stronger than in social ties formed offline.But since the in-world voice service launched in Second Life in 2007, people have been able to interact in audio instead of via text, supporting extra dimensions of intimacy. It also ensures that the person on the other end of that attractive avatar is indeed the gender they say they are. For couples separated by distance, the voice service can be a boon; they can retain the emotional closeness in an environment that supports collaborative play.Of course, there comes a time when it's best to bring a relationship back offline, but as a stand-in for physical proximity, Second Life and other virtual worlds are rich environments for meeting across the miles.&#183;Aleks Krotoski is an independent researcher currently working at Linden Lab, creator of Second Life.
Extended problemsI have had a Maxtor external hard drive (USB) for some years, which I use for data back-up. It no longer appears on My Computer - it used to be Drive F. Windows' Device Manager says it is working normally, but the location is given as Location 0.Dick EmpsonJS:This could be any number of things. Try using XP's hidden Disk Management utility: go to Start, select Run and paste in diskmgmt.msc. If you right-click the drive you can give it a new file letter, but I doubt this will work. Try plugging the external hard drive into a different PC - preferably via a powered hub - to see if it's a drive problem or a PC problem. If it's a drive problem it could be a loose wire, a bad USB connection or the drive may be corrupted (no MBR?) or dead. If so, your best chance of recovery is probably to remove the drive from the external case and install it as a slave in a PC. If it's a PC problem, unplug all your USB devices, and use the Device Manager to uninstall the EHD. Power down completely, wait 30 seconds, restart the PC, then plug in the EHD and hope that Windows finds it.Removing ContentSaferYou gave someadviceabout an annoying piece of software called MAAgent. I now have this on my PC after buying my daughter a Samsung MP3 player for Christmas. There was no option to install it or not (I thought I was installing just the Samsung Media Studio) and I find I cannot now remove it. MAAgent is in a folder called MarkAny/ContentSafer. Can I simply delete the folder?Tony JonesJS:I don't have MAAgent, but the general approach is as follows. In Admin mode, create a restore point so you can go back to where you were. Next, runHiJackThis, and click to fix the O4 item for MAAgent.exe. Run the Windows Task Manager, select MAAgent and click End Process. You should now be able to delete the MarkAny folder. Reboot your PC and check that the MP3 player still works. Finally, search the registry for references to MarkAny names and delete those entries or, for preference, runCCleanerand see if it will remove them for you. Normally it's safer to rename folders temporarily, rather than delete them immediately, and to export registry entries before deleting them, so you can put things back the way they were. In this case, I'm assuming that you could simply reinstall the software, if necessary.Out of tune iTunesWe've just downloaded the most up-to-date version of iTunes to our Dell PC with XP SP2 and now sound is distorted.Sarah MorganJS:Apple's site has a very long discussion,Fix for distorted sound in iTunes ver 7.0, which started in 2006. An approach that worked for some people is to change the iTunes settings to 16-bit sound and 48 kHz or less. Other suggestions are to turn off all the enhancements and set the buffer size to Large (Edit, Preferences, Advanced). An older and shorter discussion,iTunes sounds funny, suggests switching iTunes' sound playback from QuickTime to Windows.Shorn of artI have a lot of clipart, which requires the use of a Kudo Catalog Reader. I've just bought a Mac and my operating system will not support it.Ken MossJS:The Kudo Catalog Reader is an old program that could be supplied on CDs of clipart, but Mac OS won't run the Windows version, unless you install Windows. The Kudo websites (kudo.com, imspace.com) no longer seem to work, so I searched Google for a Mac version of the program, kudocatalogreader2.0.sit.hqx. The University of Michigan has a1995 copyin its archive, so you could try that. However, I'd have thought you could still access the clip art files directly.Out of Control PanelI seem to have been victim of a virus: I no longer have Control Panel in Windows XP.Michael CoxonJS:Everything in Windows can be controlled using Group Policies, which enables companies with servers to lock down their users' PCs. Viruses can use the same settings in the Registry. If you remove the NoControlPanel Policy, the Control Panel should reappear.PC Toolsexplains how to edit the registry to do this. However, theKelly's Kornerwebsite offers lots of tweaks and fixes to do this kind of thing simply by downloading and double-clicking a small reg file. Try running number 256, controlpanelrestrictionrestore.reg.&#183;More atblogs.guardian.co.uk/askjack. Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk.
Many pipers, many tunesVictor Keegan (We'll pay the piper if we like the tune, January 31) says that market research would show that people want simple inexpensive downloads of music. Well, those that download do, but that's not for everyone. Don't forget that CDs, with their explanatory notes etc, are attractive to many consumers; not everyone is interested just in songs; not everyone likes or uses MP3 players or wants mobile music, and minority - non-pop - tastes are poorly served by services like iTunes. Choice in supply methods is needed.Ian WinshipNewcastle upon TyneTricky licencesAs anyone who's tried to get a digital map out of the Ordnance Survey will know that, unless you're in an academic setting (Free Our Data, February 7), the licences are fiendishly complex and expensive. It seems that finally the government is throwing its toys out of the pram over this. At last! I understand the OS is a company and has invested a lot of time, money and effort into these maps, but do they have to be so damn tricky?!brightmeadow.co.ukHow slow can you go?I subscribe to BT Broadband with expected speeds of between 2Mbps and 8Mbps. I have noticed considerable deterioration during the past six months in the downloading of web pages, so I checked out my actual speed using BT Broadband Help software. At 7.45pm the speed was 0.256Mbps and the BT message said that this is "within the acceptable range". Are other readers having this deteriorating service?David Brownvia emailOLPC concernsThe OLPC security guy they talked to, Ivan Krstic, squashed the possibility of OLPC's default software having any possibility of becoming a botnet (Crime fears, February 7). The reporter then counters that OLPCs are supposed to be able to run Windows XP, and that's not secure. But XP is some seven years old now, and the number of vulnerabilities and possible back doors has been addressed so many times that new exploits will be fewer.ryanpricemedia.comHate, not free speechI read Patrick Barkham's piece on hackers attacking Scientology (Hackers declare war on Scientologistsamid claims of heavy-handed Cruise control, February 4). I followed the link to theProject Chanalogyhome page. Barkham's article failed to mention the homophobic nature of the attack on Tom Cruise and Scientology. This throws a different light on the hackers - no longer are they heroes of free speech, rather peddlers of hate speech.Peter SladeAshland University, OhioRead my lipsThis is what happens when a paper asks someone to evaluate work that he or she has an explicit and long-standing interest in refuting (Dawn of the digital natives, February 7). I suspect that the NEA report has some problems, and that it's based on a romanticised notion of the Good Old Days, but Steven Johnson's not the guy I would turn to to get the straight dope on the matter.theamericanscene.comAs a father of an eight-year-old who prefers working math problems to reading, I'm delighted that I can count his reading of Star Wars how-to tutorials of fictional videogames as reading.edsupport.ccWe do this, tooJust saw your piece on telemedicine in Aberdeen (Face to face, February 7). We have been doing this since April 2006 when Skype launched its free video platform. We have done more than 1,000 consultations, especially with disabled patients who find travel difficult.Dr J Edene-med.co.uk&#183;Read all this week's letters and blogshere.Write to: Letters TechnologyGuardian  119 Farringdon Road London EC1R 3ER. Telephone:  020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Many gamers are alienated by computers, preferring instead consoles which offer low-cost installation-free entertainment - and they don't require consistent upgrading with expensive components to play the latest games, either.In return, PC gamers argue that the open platform allows for more creativity in terms of games released and player-created material, and also a constant edge in the technology stakes. But they've had to concede that the debacle surrounding the latest iteration of Microsoft's multimedia API, DirectX 10, hasn't done much for the platform's reputation.DirectX is a collection of tools that facilitate communication between hardware and Microsoft operating systems; all Windows releases since 95, and the Xbox and Xbox 360 operating systems, use it. Each DirectX release brings new graphics technologies and performance improvements, ideally leading to increasingly visually compelling software.Phased outThe arrival of DirectX 10 was much anticipated. Unfortunately, it's also been heavily criticised. DirectX 10 was released as an exclusive for Microsoft's latest desktop OS, Windows Vista, leaving Windows XP (and 2000) users comfortable with their current setup chagrined.The phasing out of redundant operating systems is inevitable, but with DirectX 10's release, Microsoft has almost completely ended support in this department for everything other than Vista. And for non-enthusiast PC users, who might not be upgrading for a while, this is a serious handicap. Microsoft attracted ire for this decision; it was labelled everything from lazy programmers to extortionists.Chas Boyd, DirectX's software architect, explains Microsoft's position: "DirectX 10 requires specific features of the Windows Vista operating system in order to take full advantage of graphics hardware, specifically the functionality offered by the new display driver model. The adoption period associated with any new technology can cause some users to feel left behind."We've done our best to limit complexity for users by assuring that all DirectX 10 titles are backwards compatible with DirectX 9 hardware and Windows XP. As Windows Vista becomes the platform of choice for PC gamers, we feel confident that Windows gamers will appreciate the quality and features Windows Vista brings to gaming, and to DirectX 10."Certainly the API's new features have been praised by developers. Bernd Diemer, lead designer of Crytek's stellar Crysis - arguably one of Vista's biggest selling points for gamers - has nothing negative to say about it. "DirectX 10 is designed to give a cleaner interface with lower CPU overhead and an extended feature set which allows complex rendering solutions to be achievable in real time," he says.Boyd elaborates on the feature set: "We took a dramatic new approach with DirectX 10 in Windows Vista, rebuilding it from the ground up in order to provide a rich, incredibly detailed experience, while delivering many times the graphics performance potential. New features in DirectX 10 maximise the power of the graphics processing unit [GPU], allowing games to more efficiently use powerful modern video cards to their fullest potential, while freeing up the central processing unit [CPU] for improved artificial intelligence in games and bigger game worlds. The programmability and power of DirectX 10 allows developers to create more complex environments and detailed characters, as well as more powerful physics and artificial intelligence. We also re-architected the Windows Display Driver Model to provide more stability and better performance."These improvements are undoubtedly a boon for developers, but what about consumers - especially those without Vista? Diemer believes that the sales of DirectX 10-compatible hardware are evidence enough that those gamers will be moving to Vista simply so they can get the most out of their computer. "A significant number of gamers are already moving to DirectX 10-capable hardware such as the nVidia Geforce 8800 series," he notes, "so the real issue is whether they should move to Vista in order to fully exploit their hardware. The launch of Crysis is a clear signal that there's no better time to move to Vista than now."Boyd agrees. "Crysis has been almost universally declared the most visually advanced game available," he concurs, "due in no small part to Crytek's use of DirectX 10. Other titles including Gears of War for Windows, BioShock, World in Conflict and Flight Simulator demonstrate what DirectX 10 can offer to games in a variety of genres."Of course, all the games Boyd mentions are included in Microsoft's Games For Windows initiative; a prerequisite for DirectX 10 games receiving additional promotion is that they also support DirectX 9. Crysis is no exception. It comes with both DirectX and DirectX 10 versions playable in the box, and several videos testify to the clear, impressive differences between the two. In practice, though, many gamers have reported the two rendering solutions produce an almost identical image - similar enough, at least, to not vex the average gamer. They also allege that the DirectX 10 build of the game can have performance costs on systems below the high end.Further, Crytek has come under fire for disabling the "Very High" (maximum) visual settings in Crysis' DirectX 9 build, which is the one many XP users will be playing if their existing graphics card is up to it. Some allege that this was an attempt to convince XP stalwarts that highest visual quality available in the game can only be produced with DirectX 10. But this isn't strictly true; it's been discovered that it's possible to re-enable the maximum visual quality settings in Crysis with some simple editing of the game's configuration files. This makes the DirectX 10 and DirectX versions of the game more or less on a par with each other, barring subtle visual tricks only DirectX 10 can achieve.Boyd doesn't comment on this much-mooted design decision, but he does want to remind players to wait and see. "Right about now we are seeing performance parity between DirectX 9 and DirectX 10 implementations," he concedes, "and from here on DirectX 10 performance will grow. We are already seeing some image quality improvements due to DirectX 10's more precise specification of how the hardware should work, which helps both DirectX 9 and DirectX 10 games visually. DirectX 10's advanced features will enable games to use visual techniques that would be more complicated to implement under DirectX 9. For example, improved interfaces allow higher scene complexity for richer, more detailed worlds at a given performance level. At a practical level, DirectX 10's more consistent feature set also means more games shipping sooner because of reduced game development times."Better for developersHe adds: "It takes time for adoption to grow and the full realisation of the potential to unfold. We've seen our development partners do some amazing things with DirectX 10, and with additional driver and hardware support, we're confident that DirectX 10 technology is on its way to changing the way the world looks at computer graphics."At this point, DirectX 10 appears to be more of a boon for developers than players. Should many of the gamers who've upgraded to DirectX 10-capable hardware (for performance reasons) upgrade to Vista so they can get everything they paid for?As time draws on, as hard drives fail and need to be replaced and as more DirectX 10-geared software hits shelves, most gamers will eventually end up with Vista. But they'll never forget that it isn't easy being a PC gamer sometimes.
In this space a week ago I claimed to be reviewing Omnifone's MusicStation service. Except I completely messed up - through a vast oversight, I was using the Vodafone Live! service, which I criticised for being complex, prone to interruption and expensive.But idiocy has its virtues: in this instance, it means I can see just how fantastic the real MusicStation service is by comparison. Here it is in a nutshell: Vodafone contract or pay-as-you-go customers pay &pound;1.99 per week, for which they get unlimited music downloads with no data charges, and keep the music as long as they keep paying. It's a music subscription service, and you'll surely find yourself listening to more music, even if you don't actually buy more as a result.It's very, very slick. There are 1.5m tracks on offer (which does include jazz and classical, going off the beaten track: I found some Glenn Gould I've never seen in a shop); you can search by artist or track or album name, and download tracks or whole albums at a keypress.You can get recommendations of similar artists to those you've already downloaded, or top names in whichever area of music you're interested in. In just a few days of testing I tried out a far bigger range of music than I'd ordinarily come across in a month. That's because it's subscription. Stop paying and the music vanishes; and you can't transfer it to a computer.But so what? If you love a track or album that much, buy the CD or track online. This lets you range far and wide, to see what you like and loathe. Only "explicit" music - such as Kanye West's latest - was blocked. The mobile becomes the iPod.The arguments against subscription are weak. These days, why commit to purchasing something when technology means you can just try it? MusicStation means you can carry music around, make playlists, and recommend tracks to friends (the "community" concept is very slick). Many users might never actually buy more music, but that's OK: the MusicStation servers note each track you play, for which a bit of cash goes to the record label. It's like file-sharing without the guilt. And heaven knows we need that.It's also cheaper than a PC-based subscription: Napster (&pound;9.95 per month) is &pound;119.40 per year; MusicStation, &pound;103.48.The only downside I could find was that the Java application is a vampire on your phone's batteries. You'll need regular recharging. Let's hope Vodafone sees sense and kills off Live! soon, for this, truly, is the future of music.Pros:Intuitive, cheap, good range of tracks, "community"Cons:Sucks up batteries: your phone needs regular rechargingomnifone.com
I used to spend a lot of time nagging people to back up their PC hard drives. Now I'm spending a growing amount of time telling them to back up their online information. It's great that users can now tap into so many services that exist in "the cloud" - which was a graphical representation of the old phone system, but is now used to stand for the internet. But the fact that your data is online doesn't mean it's safe.Microsoft's Hotmail has been the great teacher. I can't imagine that any other web-based service has reduced so many people to tears. If you've never had the pleasure, Hotmail's most important feature has been that your email only survives as long as you log on every 30 days. Miss the deadline due to, say, a delayed flight, illness or simple forgetfulness, and Microsoft deletes your mailbox. If you had anything important in there, too bad. It's gone.If you're still playing Russian roulette with Hotmail, then at least upgrade to the new Live version. This doesn't delete your email unless you fail to log on for 90 days. Better still, you can download a version of Windows Live Mail to your desktop. This will collect your email from Hotmail and other services, and save it on your PC's hard drive. So if Microsoft deletes the online copies, you haven't lost them forever. There are many other ways to lose your web-based data. A nice example was the chap who had all his email, his photos and a website with Yahoo, and some of these services were paid for. Sadly, he wrote something on Yahoo Answers that apparently violated the provider's terms of service, so theydeleted his account.A friend who took my advice and switched from Hotmail to Gmail also lost all his email, because he hadn't downloaded it with, say, Thunderbird. In this case, it's not clear if he just forgot his password or was hacked. Either way, his mailbox wouldn't let him in, and Google made him wait five agonising days before he could say he'd forgotten his password and answer the security question. Which he couldn't answer, as it happens. Oh, how we laughed.And if you assume most of these software-as-a-service providers have foolproof backups, think again. If a service has 200 million users, spread over thousands of servers in various locations, it could have many terabytes of data and gigabytes of mail arriving in a continuous stream.Taking daily backups is a non-trivial task. Sure, they could have operators stacking thousands of tapes in underground bunkers, but how much would it cost to find the bit of tape you need? If you are not paying anything for a service, it's best to assume that there are no backups, and that no one is going to provide any real personal help.In fact, those are wise assumptions even if you are paying top whack. If you are wrong, you may get a nice surprise, but don't bank on it. Even cloud-based services that are reliably set up, well run and have great backups are not invulnerable. Companies go bust all the time. Your data ends up on the back of a lorry, destined for some other underfunded web 2.0 startup. You won't even get chance to bid it a fond farewell.I think personal computing is wonderful, but hard drives fail and laptops get lost or stolen, so it makes sense to back up your data. I think cloud computing is wonderful too, but operators make mistakes, passwords get lost, servers get hacked, companies fail and so on, so it makes sense to back up your data.As Schofield's Second Law of Computing asserts, data doesn't really exist unless you have two copies of it. Preferably more. And the only person who can be held responsible for that is you.
If 2007 was when social sites such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook went ballistic, then 2008 may be remembered as the year when networks went local and mobile. People love to listen to music, gossip, exchange videos or have a spamless way of emailing with friends. But they don't just want to do it at work or at home but where they are and when they want. Existing networks are already migrating their services to mobiles but unless you have a biggish screen (such as the iPhone) the experience won't be memorable. The question is whether the likes of MySpace will win or whether the local market will be captured by nimble start-ups harnessing the twin strengths of the mobile: content that can be supplied instantly by users plus the ability to harness the power of GPS chips now appearing in smartphones that not only know who you are but where you are.Global networks might seem so powerful they are bound to shift existing customers to mobiles. But it doesn't always work like that. Just as dotcom giants such as Yahoo, Google and Microsoft failed to create sites to thwart MySpace or Facebook, so those sites won't necessarily triumph against a new era of start-ups building communities from the bottom up.Who will win? In theory, well established sites using postcodes as such as yell.com or 192.com - the two market leaders - or even upmystreet.com, one of the survivors of the dotcom boom, are in with a big chance. For instance,192.comsoon found lots of data about me, including who my neighbours are (from the electoral roll) and most of the nearby restaurants and pubs - including some I didn't know about - with an aerial map that makes Google look out of date. It can also track down where your phone is (with your permission) and is used by poker sites to check applicants' ages. But it is weak on user-generated content, and two thirds of its services are paid for, which is good for the bottom line now but won't necessarily be the revenue model for the new community sites.One of the most interesting new ones isqype.com, which models itself on the highly successful yelp.com of the US. Qype started last June as a pan-European site that claims 500,000 visits a month in the UK and is growing at 50% every two months. Rob Hinchcliffe, its UK community manager, claims people are moving away from "time-suck" networks such as Facebook towards socially useful ones that "help make our lives easier as well as fostering online networks and micro communities". I was impressed that there were seven reviews of a local curry restaurant. From this week, he says, users will be able to post YouTube videos of restaurants or clubs they are reviewing. It also has a stripped-down option for small-screen phones in which you simply insert a street or postcode and what you are looking for.Interesting contenders includewelovelocal.com(which I have already reviewed);trustedplaces.com, which is building up reviews from users; andoutside.com, which homes in on postcode data from local galleries to Burke's Peerage (though typing postcodes into Google can be just as good).Mygamma.com, which has been nominated for a Best Mobile Social Networking award, looks promising but kept sending me back to a mobile gaming site, which was disconcerting.Another one,gypsii.com, which has just landed a contract with China, was slow to load but looks interesting: you select where you are and it tells you how far other restaurants, interesting houses etc are with user-generated photos - though it had a disconcerting habit of producing restaurants thousands of miles away. Others include,touchlocal.com(where, in theory, you can read others' views of local plumbers),toptable.co.uk,beerintheevening.com, plus, of course all the local interest you can find on our own Guardian sites such asguardianrestaurantbookings.co.uk. And all this is without mentioning Google's as yet unrevealed plans to capture this space for itself.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is negotiating to rescue the embattled internet company Yahoo through an alliance that could set up a heavyweight business showdown between the Australian-born media mogul and Microsoft's Bill Gates.News Corp has begun tentative talks about merging its online division, which includes the social networking site MySpace, with Yahoo to create a powerful combined presence on the internet.The tie-up would provide a handy escape route for Yahoo, the world's most popular web portal, which is searching for a way to avoid succumbing to a $44bn (£22.4bn) hostile takeover bid from Microsoft.But it would infuriate Microsoft, which is anxious to get its hands on Yahoo to bolster its flagging internet offering and to create a viable rival to the web search leader Google.Yahoo's management is likely to be drawn towards a deal with News Corp because it would allow the internet firm to remain largely independent. Mr Murdoch's media empire would jointly invest $15bn alongside a private equity firm and would end up with a 20% stake in Yahoo according to details obtained by Techcrunch, an influential Silicon Valley blog.If the talks progress, Murdoch would be pitched into a head-to-head battle with Gates, who remains chairman of Microsoft although he spends much of his time distributing his $56bn fortune through healthcare projects in developing countries.Analysts said it could turn into one of the biggest takeover battles seen in the technology industry."The entertainment value for all of us would be like nothing we've seen since the days of AOL and Time Warner – and it might even exceed that," said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Research in New York.Neither News Corp nor Yahoo would comment tonight, although the negotiations were reported on the website of the Wall Street Journal, which is owned by News Corp.Yahoo's founder, Jerry Yang, is under intense pressure from shareholders over his refusal to accept a Microsoft takeover.  A Michigan public pension fund which owns 13,600 Yahoo shares yesterday sued the company for failing to consider the $31-a-share bid properly. A lawyer for the fund, David Fink, said: "Just saying no is not an appropriate response."At the very least, News Corp's interest will give breathing space to Yang. It could put a value on Yahoo of as much as $50bn, allowing the internet company to argue that it is a better proposition than Microsoft's bid. This, in turn, would put the onus on Microsoft to offer more money.But a deal with News Corp faces several hurdles. It would not involve an immediate payout to shareholders who may be impatient for cash."It's not something Yahoo shareholders could trade on immediately," said Gartenberg. "Even if it has the potential to deliver a higher valuation, it's not the same thing as someone offering $31 a share."News Corp, which owns newspapers including The Times and The Sun, has a range of websites in its online division including the movie review site Rotten Tomatoes, the image sharing venture Photobucket and the mens' magazine Askmen.com.A combination would do little to tackle Yahoo's main weakness – the fact that it has been steadily losing ground to Google in lucrative internet searches which bring in millions of pounds from on-line advertisers.Some reports last night suggested that in order to make a tie-up with News Corp work, Yahoo would need to surrender the search battle by contracting out its search technology to Google. Such an arrangement could fall foul of competition regulators as it would enhance Google's already overwhelming dominance in trawling the net.
We don't have room in print for all your letters and blog pingbacks - but do here. You were exercised about Vista's sound, whether the lazy win online and the Wii. Click through for the full text...SOUND VISTAIn your article on Vista audio ("Why Vista sounds worse", 31st Jan 2008) I was surprised that you didn't mention the controversy surrounding the DRM aspects. Essentially, it appears that Vista artificially introduces a lot of overhead encrypting and decrypting data whilst passing it around internally, and also, in some cases, deliberately downgrades the quality of its audio and video output. Bruce Schneierhas mentioned thisbut a more comprehensive exploration of the way in which Vista (mis)handles audio isavailable. Might these issues be of far greater relevance than the claim, in your article, that the drivers just aren't ready yet? Richard Kemp, Abingdon [Tim Anderson comments:Nobody I talked to thought that DRM was to blame: the "protected media path" is apparently not involved in ordinary audio playback.]I posted a couple of quotes from the article on my OU (Language) students' Conference Website, with due acknowledgements of course, in the hope it might help fellow students. Basically, quite a few of the students are having problems with Vista and audio software, so I thought they should read the article. One student, however, took issue by saying her husband (he works for worldwide semi-conductor firm and is a software engineer) thought the article was wrong! She says, "All audio goes through the kernal (sic!) and nothing in Windows can bypass it, as its also the memory controller". She further asserts that "the reason everything goes through the kernel, is because thats where the Security layer is..." "All OS's do this..even OSX." I read the Guardian everyday and consider the Technology pages to be very informative and professional. I would very much like to refute what she says, but not being an IT expert can do little but recommend the article. Is there anything you could say to enlighten me further, please; Tim Anderson's qualifications would be a boost? I am not a Vista user, having steam XP still. Bill Headdon, Tunbridge Wells&gt;&gt; In general, because the interplay between pro audio hardware and software is so complicated, there's little incentive for engineers to replace systems that work well - if it ain't broke, don't fix it. But in this case, even if their PCs went belly up tomorrow, they'd stick with XP.blogs.cnet.comREWARDING THE LAZY?&gt;&gt; the title (The internet rewards the lazy and punishes the intrepid) led me to think: what ever happened to long term business planning? Are companies ever built to last or are they built to flip? My vantage point is skewed because I work on the Web, where 1 year is an eternity for some and the notion of creating, building and holding a business for 10 years is nearly impossible ("it will be shut down or sold").watchmojo.com/web/blog&gt;&gt; More people want to share the adventure of surfing. This annoys an elite who are looking for that greater challenge. Underneath the rhetoric of adventure, this is just another complaint from a threatened elite. Surfers detest the effects of the great unwashed. If they are so annoyed, they can buy the beaches, rather than destroy property. The answer for Carr is a fence.thebewilderness.typepad.com/my_weblog/&gt;&gt; This is plain rubbish. The technology that informed people to move from the first bottleneck due to real time traffic information will also inform people about how traffic is diverging away from the first bottleneck. It will help drivers make an informed decision about their route and, in fact, an intelligent system may even help the driver route better based on instantaneous analysis of traffic divergence from the first bottleneck.krishworld.com/blog/&gt;&gt; isn't sharing your knowledge about such [new] things part of the fun of finding them? Not for Nick, apparently. Maybe we could share that kind of thing with a few other bold types, provided we like the cut of their jib or whatever, but not with the riff-raff. Come to think of it, maybe we should copyright those shortcuts and surfing hotspots. There's an idea. What do you say, Nick?mathewingram.com/work/&gt;&gt; Nick sounds like the people who discover a new cool band, watch them play in small clubs, then when they make it big, turn away in disgust. Where I agree with Nick is that the lag time between discovery and commoditization is getting shorter and shorter -- trends move faster and are more transient, cool experiences are shared across geographies and demographics more rapidly than ever and the inaccessible is no accessible. Heck, I call this a good thing....glasshouse.waggeneredstrom.com/blogs/PAYING TO NETWORK&gt;&gt; The issue with such a business model is always going to be dilution of the audience. Web site owners are going to wonder how much more difficult it is to simply set up their own application rather than add someone else's to get all of the revenue instead of a portion of it. And shared revenue can only go so far when it has to sustain a company AND pay the users as well. The more users who sign up, the smaller the piece of the pie for each of them, at which point they'll most likely move on to the next similar company that promises a higher payout.profy.com/&gt;&gt; Come on, guys, this is the most basic business principle - you don't pay your users. You give them products and services and they pay you the money. You may enjoy it a little bit now but it won't be sustainable in future.blog.santoshmaharshi.com/MUSIC BUSINESSVictor Keegan (We'll pay the piper if we like the tune, January 31) says that market research would show that people want simple inexpensive downloads of music. Well, those that download do, but that's not for everyone. Don't forget that: * packaged music (CDs) with explanatory, etc notes is attractive to many; * not everyone is interested just in 'songs'; * not everyone likes or uses MP3 players or wants mobile music; * minority - non-pop - tastes are poorly served by services like iTunes; The 'music industry' as depicted in the press tends to relate to the small number of major global companies who dominate - don't forget the long tail that entertains the rest of us. Choice in supply methods is needed. Ian Winship, Newcastle-upon-TyneMICROSOFT NATURAL KEYBOARD (TECHNOPHILE)I bought a Microsoft Natural Desktop keyboard 4000 a couple of months ago and it provided me with my favourite error message so far (no fault of Microsoft). Whenever I've bought a keyboard before I have never bothered to install any software that might have been included. I didn't realise that the software had to be installed for this keyboard, so I just plugged in and switched on. The computer failed to boot, and the error message was: "Keyboard malfunction. Press F1 for Help". Mm. Press F1 on a keyboard that isn't working? Iain Fenton, AlvaMECTRICITYDid we go metric in the 70s (Letters January 24 and 31)? Technology Guardian isn't sure: In 'Is a US spy satellite going to land on my head' (January 31, p.2) we hear that recently "a 600ft asteroid zoomed passed us at a distance of just 538,000km." Give those writers an inch and they'll take a... Bob Rotheram, NottinghamWII KNOWI read Charles Arthur's piece on games consoles (Technology 31.1.2008) waiting for him to to make the key observation, but he never did. As Bill Clinton might have said: it's the controller, Stupid. Nick Radcliffe, Edinburgh&gt;&gt; I find fault with the implied definition of hardcore gamers, here, in that they don't play Wii but choose Xboxes and PlayStations. Mario Galaxy is more a gamer's game than Grand Theft Auto.headlessness.com/&gt;&gt; It would appear that, big surprise, people like playing games with other people. Even more folks think there is more to life than button mashing. The genius part of it all, however, is that it was all done without the benefit of the gamer market. 'Keep it simple and stupid' as they say, or maybe that should be 'keep it simple and social'?pclive.wordpress.com/EXPLORER PISA (ONLINE ONLY)"How Internet Explorer became as wonky as the Leaning Tower of Pisa: Builders know this: if you get it wrong at the foundations, then the structure will never be right, no matter how hard you try. Look at the Tower of Pisa, built on too-soft ground. Despite enormous modern efforts (pumping concrete beneath one side, steel hawsers), it's impossible to straighten." Thought you'd like to know the truth about this one. They have now stabilised the Leaning tower of Pisa and indeed, straightened it up a little. They only didn't straighten it up completely because of the massive loss of of such an iconic tourist attraction! Ok, so getting the foundations wrong is pretty critical, but they can do some amazing things these days - such as picking up your whole house and moving somewhere else! Sorry, couldn't resist the correction. Steve Baines (architect), NottinghamONLINE SHARINGWith regards to the Jan 25, 2008 article (online), entitled "All This Online Sharing Has Got to Stop," I could not disagree more with the author. Online sharing is simply the direction things are moving. To say that grandmothers shouldn't be allowed to exchange needlepoint patterns, or listeners music, or readers written media, is to entirely defeat the democratic nature of the internet. If anything, sellers and marketers should strive to convince people that it is WRONG to exchange copyrighted media over the internet, rather than simply attempting to prevent it (which will not ever be successful, because for every tech guru at a company, there is a hacker who can get around their safeguards). When you take away free porn, shared music, shared text files, and "How To's" from the internet, all you have left is a shopping mall that can enter peoples homes and hawk its wares. Maybe instead of punishing the customers for finding the easiest and cheapest way to get what they want, sellers and marketers should actually pay attention to what the customers are doing, and learn how to market to them better. Anyway, good article, but lay off the internet. It sounds like you want us to go back to the time when customers blindly accepted the prices of things that were served up by the umbrella corporations, and everyone was constantly royally screwed by profiteering executives. It may not be perfect, but the internet provides a sort of enlightenment to consumers that could lead to an economic renaissance if allowed to flourish, rather than letting the greed of current monopolies stifle communication and lead us back into the cave of ignorance from which we are just starting to emerge. Chase Snyder, Goshen, Indiana
Online retailer Play.com has today launched a store selling digital music tracks without DRM (digital rights management) copy protection, in a move it is describing as "taking on iTunes in the UK".The website — which sells music, DVDs, toys and gifts — is offering individual tracks and albums without DRM. It claims to be to the first major UK retailer to offer digital music in a format that means buyers can move tracks between devices and play them on various music players, including Apple's market-leading iPod.Play.com's new online music store,PlayDigital, will offer tracks from EMI — home to Kylie Minogue, Lily Allen and Coldplay — as well as from a number of independent labels.The retailer said it was hoping to broker deals with other labels to sell their music in DRM-free format.The top 100 tracks will cost from 65p per track and albums from £4.99. Play.com said albums in the top 100 would be available £1 cheaper than on Apple's download service, iTunes.Serious challengeWendy Snowdon, head of PlayDigital said the new store could "seriously challenge the likes of iTunes"."This new innovation is a result of customer demand to have access to instant downloads, however and whenever they wish to consume music. It is only a matter of time before the other labels embrace this, as it is what the music fans want," she added.Play.com is one of many companies to start selling DRM-free tracks in recent months. Last month, Napster, the once illegal music-sharing website and now major music retailer, said it planned to start offering the format later this year.Online music storeemusichas always sold music from independent labels in DRM-free format.Falling salesDRM systems, which stop buyers moving tracks between devices, making multiple copies and passing them on to their friends, were originally stipulated by big record labels. The companies have relaxed their stance over the past year as music sales have continued to fall.Although digital sales have risen strongly, they have not made up for the drop-off in revenue from CDs and the effect of rampant piracy.Responding to users' demands for music that can be used on several devices, EMI was the first to break ranks on DRM last April. The label started offering DRM-free tracks in better audio quality at a higher price in a deal with Apple's iTunes.Universal, the world's largest music group, is also experimenting with tracks that are free of copy protection. The home of Mika and Amy Winehouse has been running a six-month trial to explore the appetite for DRM-free "open" MP3s.
ThePlay.comweb site has started offering high quality (320kbps) MP3 music downloads at prices from 65p, with about a million tracks from EMI and independent music labels. The files don't have DRM (digital rights management) copy protection and so will play on almost any music player, mobile phone or personal computer.Apple is already offering EMI tracks without DRM, but in the AAC format, which not all devices support. Also, while Play.com's prices vary (many tracks cost 70p), a spokesman said: "we're going to be cheaper than [Apple's] iTunes. Whatever price iTunes goes down to, we'll be looking to go lower."The EU has told Apple to standardise its prices across Europe, and it is thought it might cut UK track prices from 79p to 66p or so.Play.com is also expected to face competition from Amazon.com, which is already undercutting Apple on price, and is offering a large DRM-free music library in the US. It is expected to launch the service in the UK this year.And unlike Play.com, Amazon has already signed up all four music majors -- Universal, Sony BMG, Warner Music Group and EMI.Play.com says it is talking to the other three, "and if one or more had been quicker we might have held off the launch. We think that within the year, the others will be on board."In the UK,eMusichas also been offering DRM-free tracks from smaller labels for more than a year, but Play.com says it's not trying to compete with more specialist music sites. Its core business is selling CDs and computer games, but it also sells books, gadgets, phones and clothing. "We see ourselves as an e-tailer, and we're really pleased to have trumped Amazon"Update: Katie Allen, our Media Business Correspondent, has covered the storyhere.
Nokia has developed a "green" phone using recycled steel and bio-materials.Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, the Finnish firm's chief executive, pulled the clamshell handset out of his pocket during his speech at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona yesterday, pictured above. "It shows what can be done with materials," he said. "It is only a concept now but it gives you an insight into how we think we can break new ground." Nokia, which last year made four in 10 of the more than 1bn handsets sold worldwide, has been developing the handset - branded Remade - at its laboratories.The metal casing and keypad are made from recycled steel, while inside the phone Nokia has been working on materials with an organic origin, such as polylactic acid plastics.
Everyone in the mobile games industry knows that social gaming is the way forward - it is the gold-plated escape chute that will lead out of the current ghetto. They also know that casual games are just as important - if not more so - than big name console conversions and half-arsed movie tie-ins. And this is why we're seeing lots of developers working on simple games with connected features. The simpler and more connected the better.Last year, the stand out example was Digital Chocolate's lovelyDchoc Caféseries, offering well-presented versions of archetypal games like solitaire, complete with chat and high score elements. This year, it seems studios are keen to explore user-generated content, adding one more trendy web 2.0 concept into the bubbling mix. Two examples stand out - mostly because they're based around the same concept - the simple paper and pen game, Hangman. Last night, Glu Mobile'sMy Hangmanwas awarded the Global Mobile Award for Best Mobile Game at the GSM Awards. The game allows you to customize its background with your own photos and even cut and paste photos of your mates onto the face of the gradually embodied hanged man.Slightly more ambitious, perhaps, is Vivendi's Celebrity Hangman, which allows users to write their own 'pop-culture themed' lists of hangman challenges and submit them to the dedicated Web site. These lists could then be selected to appear in the weekly download packs, available to fans of the game.Industry analyst,Informa, reckons mobile social networking could be worth US$52 billion by 2012. The mobile games industry wants a piece of that action.
One way for Yahoo to avoid being taken over by Microsoft would be to find a more attractive (but also very rich) suitor. Step forwardRupert Murdochof News Corporation. Yahoo and News Corp are reportedly "in the middle of marathon discussions".TechCrunch says:According to our source, the deal structure would spin off Fox Interactive Media (the primary asset is MySpace, but IGN, Scout Media, Photobucket, Fox Sports, AmericanIdol.com, Flektor, Ksolo; plus investments in Hulu, Simply Hired and Snocap are also assets of FIM) into Yahoo, along with a big cash injection from News Corp. and an unnamed private equity fund. The total investment would be valued at around $15 billion.Yahoo would be valued at somewhere around $50 billion before the transaction, north of Microsoft's $44.6 billion bid. That would leave News Corp., plus the private equity group, with more than 20% of the combined entity. They'd be the largest single stockholder and effectively in control of the combined Yahoo/FIM entity and their nearly 150 billion monthly page views (which would be second only to Google).Of course, this does raise the question as to whether Yahoo staff and users would want to be associated with the company that does annoying stuff like Microsoft Office, Windows Mobile, Silverlight, Xbox 360 and Encarta, or whether it would prefer to get into bed with Fox News, American Idol, MySpace, The Wall Street Journal and the UK's leading newspaper, The Sun. Tough choice, eh?Comment 23 by Blowski at TechCrunch sums it up nicely:it seems that half the users will leave if News Corp buys Yahoo!; the other half will leave if Microsoft buys them. But if nobody buys them, everybody will leave as their service slowly degrades compared to the rest of the internet.
Google suffered a serious blow to its ambitions to move its commanding position in online search on to the mobile internet yesterday, when its first major European partner, T-Mobile, dumped the company in favour of technology from rival Yahoo.Google will lose more than 90 million mobile users of its search engine as Yahoo replaces the company as T-Mobile's partner in the UK and across the continent. The switch will be particularly galling for Google's European boss, Nikesh Arora, as he used to work for T-Mobile before he joined the Californian company in 2004.Hamid Akhavan, T-Mobile's chief executive, said the company decided to go with Yahoo because its mobile search technology was better than anything offered by Google. The mobile phone company's customers will still be able to access Google on their phones but on the first page that users hit when they go on to the web through its Web 'n' Walk' service, Google's search bar will be replaced by Yahoo's from April."We have established a partnership with Yahoo that is strategic, this one is more than just working together. We believe we can have a longer and deeper relationship," Akhavan said at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona.T-Mobile was the first major mobile phone operator to make it easy for consumers to go wherever they want on the mobile internet, signing a landmark deal that placed Google as the front page of Web 'n' Walk in June 2005.But T-Mobile now wants to make the search results much more relevant to the fact that consumers are using a mobile phone. So while a search for coffee on an internet-connected computer brings up links to Wikipedia and sites about the history of coffee, a search on the new Yahoo oneSearch portal on Web 'n' Walk will produce coffee shops in the local area, using location data supplied by T-Mobile's network. Clicking on a search result will produce a map showing the shop's location. Yahoo will share the revenues it makes from paid-for search advertising with T-Mobile.Akhavan, however, stressed that  T-Mobile will continue to work with Google in other areas including the company's fledgling mobile phone operating system, called Android. He said yesterday that  T-Mobile will be offering customers the first so-called Gphone, with the software installed, towards the end of the year.But Arun Sarin, Vodafone chief executive, yesterday warned that he will not be signing up to Android until he is certain that the technology is not a way for Google to control the mobile internet."Frankly we have not participated with Android at this stage because we do not know what this operating system does, how it is connected, how it is wired especially at the back end," he said.One of the main talking points at the Congress, the industry's largest trade show, has been the threat to the traditional mobile phone companies by online companies and technology firms that want a slice of the mobile internet, such as Microsoft, Google and Nokia.
Expect to see more 'lifestyle' products for the Nintendo DS, according toGamespot's in-depth and rich interview with Nintendo CEO Satoru Iwata. The company's president hopes to see the handheld integrated in more ways in public spaces - which bodes well for the location-based gaming circuit and suggests a wider range of uses for the machine.From the interview:I will say, though, that one of the lifestyle proposals we'd like to put into effect in the first half of this year is an experiment aimed at getting people to use their DS's in public spaces as part of a larger effort to make the DS a more helpful tool for people in their everyday lives. It's a portable, single-architecture platform that can receive anything given a Wi-Fi hot spot with over 20 million units in use in Japan and about the same amount in the US and Europe.I really think the idea of making it a gaming machine that's also useful in your daily life is a good one, and possible. We'll be keeping an eye on the experiment's results while hopefully increasing the number of places you can use your DS in progressive steps.Indeed, with the sheer number of new users - from a massively broad demographic - output for the machine will need to be adapted to cope with the desires of this audience. Iwata assures hardcore gamers that the company won't neglect them, but requests their patience:Games that are easy to pick up and play have the possibility to appeal to new people and show them the fun and value of video games. They also have the benefit of allowing experienced gamers to play together with newcomers. That was really missing from the market before, and I think it needs to be there.At the same time, Nintendo has teams working on meeting the needs of more hardcore gamers. The big complaint from them now may be that we're not pouring all of our resources into that sector exclusively, but I feel that it's Nintendo's mission to make both kinds of games. Every experienced gamer today was a beginner at some point, who encountered an experience that made them fall in love with games.It'll be fascinating to see what happens with this new direction as Nintendo continues to open up its platform to independent developers. If, indeed, it does.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Vodafone chief executive Arun Sarin yesterday hit back at threats from European telecoms commissioner Viviane Reding, who earlier this week warned that she would regulate the price of sending texts abroad and accessing the mobile internet overseas if the industry did not slash prices.Speaking at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Sarin added that the company might buy more businesses in India to increase its ownership of the mobile phone spectrum in the booming market.On Monday Reding delivered a stinging rebuke to the mobile phone industry, accusing Europe's networks of overcharging customers for sending and receiving texts when outside their home country. She also wants the cost of accessing the mobile internet slashed for travellers who are 'roaming' abroad.If prices do not fall dramatically by July, Reding said she would introduce proposals for price regulation. Last year she forced through cuts of up to 70% in the retail price of voice roaming.But Sarin said retail price regulation was unnecessary and potentially harmful."Ours is a very competitive industry, our prices are falling 10%, 15%, 20% a year on virtually every product ... In a competitive industry it is, in my judgment, not appropriate for a regulator to be talking about retail price regulation," he said."You do need retail price regulation where markets do not work and I have not seen any evidence that these markets are not working."In her speech, Reding said she thought part of the problem was the high wholesale rates the networks charge each other for roaming.Sarin said it would be "fine" for Reding to provide guidance on wholesale rates. However, imposing a retail price on the industry would "kill" innovation.Last year's Mobile World Congress was dominated by Vodafone's acquisition of a controlling stake in Indian mobile phone company Hutchison Essar. Yesterday Sarin said that might not be the only move the company makes in the fast-growing Indian market.The Indian government has been issuing licences to potential market entrants with the expectation that they will be granted slices of the airwaves to enable them to run services.Sarin said Vodafone's Indian business wanted desperately to get hold of more mobile phone spectrum and buying some of these new entrants could be a way to achieve that goal."There will be some consolidation," he said. "We, for example, have very limited spectrum. We would love to get more spectrum ... but, frankly, if there is no spectrum available we will buy spectrum."He would also like the mobile phone industry to reduce the number of operating systems to be found in the three billion phones currently in use across the world. He believes there are close to 40 operating systems in use, which is preventing the development of services and applications."We have to reduce that number. There's no way that developers of cool applications can develop for that many operating systems. If we had three, four, five, that would be better," he said.But Sarin stressed that the mobile phone industry did not want to go down the route of the PC sector, which is dominated by one software provider, Microsoft. "Note, I didn't say one ... we've seen that movie before," he said.He also called on the industry to stop bickering about future mobile phone technology and to incorporate the WiMax standard into the next generation of GSM mobile technology, called long-term evolution or LTE.Vodafone, its US joint venture Verizon Wireless and China Mobile, in which Vodafone has a small stake, yesterday announced that they would push LTE as the next generation super-fast wireless broadband network. LTE is unlikely, however, to be used much in Europe until the next decade.
Photo: Tech DigestIn Barcelona,Tech Digesthas had a look at Spice's Movie Phone, which is expected to go on sale in India this summer, with photos. Stuart Dredge says:The phone has a 2.8-inch screen, and its headphone jack doubles as a TV-Out port for connecting to a big-screen TV. But it's that optical drive that makes it stand out - you slot the tiny discs into a tray that pops out from the back of the phone - much like loading UMDs into a PSP.You can fit a two-and-a-half hour film onto one of the discs - and a bit more if the compression is tweaked. The 40 films that'll be available at launch are mainly Bollywood movies, and Spice told me they're readying 1,000 more through deals with studios. The films will be sold in mini DVD-like cases for the equivalent of $5.The phone uses theVmediadisc format (FAQ) with drives developed and manufactured by Panasonic Communications in Japan. The same drives are expected to appear in other phones and small devices, including home players. Longcheer Technology is doing a handset for sale in China.Note: dual layer 2GB discs andrecordable drivesare on the way.Sure, you can put a movie on an SD card. However, small optical discs can ultimately be manufactured in large volumes for a few pence/cents each.I've pasted a bit of the official press release below:Spice says:Another world first for Spice, The Movie Phone is an incredibly exciting new product incorporating fantastic, incomparable, and as yet unseen, technology. Launched in partnership with Vmedia Research, Inc; Longcheer; Cinram; PacketVideo; Panasonic Communications Co., Ltd; the new phone has been developed in response to increasing consumer demand for mobile and converged entertainment and is being shown at Mobile World Congress for the very first time. The Movie Phone will be launched into India and South-East Asia in June 2008, with further plans underway for a global roll-out. Initially, 40 big titles will be available, with big plans in place for further titles. Spice has already partnered with various big entertainment houses like Eros, Shemaroo and T-series who are excited to develop content in v-media disc format for it to be available to mobile phone users across the globe.Compact, versatile and stylish, the Movie Phone combines high-end mobile phone functionality with top-of-the-range entertainment features - allowing the user to play movies on small discs, without compromising on digital quality. The handset comes with a user-friendly interface and features:A large 2.8" TFT screen with 262K colour display Wireless music TV out connection Full movie viewing (up to 3.5 hours)In addition, also included is a standard 3.5 mm stereo headset port and an audio-out port. The audio-out port also functions as a TV-out connection transforming the Spice Movie Phone into a home entertainment player with a single cable connection to any TV.Dr B K Modi, Chairman of Spice Corp, said: "Spice Corp is delighted to be the first to launch a disc-based movie phone. We believe the Movie Phone will become the most popular multimedia communications platform worldwide and may even change the way we all view movies, just as the i-pod changed the way we listen to music. Consumers are increasingly demanding entertainment to be immersive, mobile, engaging and collaborative. With this trend in mind, the phone is developed to meet the needs of consumers seeking entertainment mobility, enabling them to play their favourite video content whilst on the move without the effort and technical requirements involved in downloading. Global interest in the Movie Phone has been phenomenal - with big media houses showing a particular enthusiasm in the opportunity to develop original content to a massive new audience of mobile users."Steve Volk, CEO and founder of Vmedia Research, said: "Spice Mobile has created an innovative mobile phone that gives consumers an entirely new mobile entertainment experience. Vmedia transforms the mobile phone into a personal theatre so you can watch exactly what you want, on your schedule, any place you happen to be. Vmedia discs are a new standard in mobile entertainment - full-length, new release movies with no compromise in quality or ease of use."
MCVwrites about a recentWatchdogconsumer rights programme in which the team condemn the Nintendo DS because, 'it discriminates against Northerners'. From the article:Leading the morale crusade was Manchester-based DJ Michelle Livesey who stated: "Basically you have to say the different colours that flash up on the screen as quickly as possible. I'm saying, blue, blue, blue and it's saying no, even though it was blue."Then it got to yellow. I'm going, 'yeller' and everyone's saying to me you need to be a bit posher. You need to say, 'yellow' and as soon as I did, it picked it up."Ok, localisation teams. Top priority.Now someone should speak with theNational Rail's Train Tracker people. I keep getting redirected from "Brighton" to "Lords".
Before the Microsoft takeover bid, Yahoo announced that it was going to lay off about a thousand staff. It did that today, withCNetreporting that "One source inside the company said the number was 1,100, which is slightly higher than expected. The layoffs bring the headcount down to about 13,200 employees."Meanwhile the really talented Yahoos will be wondering if this isn't a good time to accept that job offer from Google.....Update: I see thatSusan Mernit(was Yahoo Personals) has postedJust got laid off at Yahoo, which suggests Yahoo management is not operating with a full set of braincells.Yahoo has also lostSalim Ismail, who was hired to run Brickhouse, Yahoo's in-house "hot product" development unit started by Flickr co-founderCatarina Fake. (Valleywagsays Ismail was fired.) Brickhouse was part of Bradley Horowitz's Advanced Development Division, and it's not a shock to see thatBradley has left for Google. Brickhouse did things like Yahoo Pipes, Bravo Nation and FireEagle.At this point, it would be entirely justified if Microsoftreducedthe value of its bid for Yahoo, since Yahoo is now worth less -- and has less of a future than it had on Monday. Indeed, if Yahoo takes a few more cycles down the death spiral, you have to wonder how low the price ought to go....
I'm on paternity leave at the moment so have only just cleared the nappies and caught up on last week's news. Most of it has been commented on here but theannouncementof the firstdownloadable contentfor Mass Effect has left a sour taste. Mass Effect is a fabulous game, one of the best of 2007, but it was obvious that the immense promise wasn't fully realised. The core story was excellent -Knights of the Old Republicgoes 80s sci-fi - but the pre-launch hype had talked of planetary exploration and off the beaten track adventure. Sadly this promise was never fulfilled with the relatively small number of optional missions all far too similar. Shooting a generic bunch of assailants in overly familiar interior environments wasn't quite theElitestyle free roaming I had in mind. So it's hard to escape the feeling that this new content should have been included in Mass Effect from the off.You only have to look at Oblivion, the other great Western role-playing game on the 360, to see how downloadable content should be done. It had 5 or 6 content packs available after release - heck, the Shivering Isles expansion is larger than most full priced games - but considering that Oblivion had 100+ hours of action on its own it was hard to feel short-changed. Well, okay thehorse armourwas a joke, but you get my point. Downloadable content for console games then, happy to pay?
It's been in development almost as long as the universe itself (nothing like a gross exaggeration to kick off a mundane 'news' story), but it looks like the creative process is almost over. EA has announced a worldwide release date of September 7 for Will Wright's ridiculously ambitious evolution sim,Spore.The title, set for release on PC, Mac, Nintendo DS and, of course, mobile phones, gives players the chance to create life in their own personal sandbox universe, before building civilisations and eventually jetting off into space. Most aspects of the game - which takes place through a number of distinct creational phases - are editable; players will be able to upload their creatures, vehicles, buildings, etc, to a central server where they can then be downloaded by other users. Will Wright has referred to this combination of features as massively single-player online gaming. Or MSPOG, which is much more catchy."The wait is almost over," commented Will Wright, possibly from his game design laboratory, which I imagine resembles the secret government research facility that Brent Spinner is not allowed to leave in Independence Day. "We're in our final stages of testing and polish with Spore, and the team at Maxis can't wait to see the cosmos of content created by the community later this year." Excellent use of alliteration there.For all its obvious epoch-bending ambition (have I mentioned that it's ambitious?), Spore really reminds me - at least structurally - of old arcade and 8bit home computer games. This whole 'phase' concept, with each section getting its own graphical style, is reminiscent of titles like Bruce Lee and Beach Head, where each level presented a different form of gameplay. I think possibly, that's where the similarities end.Newsweek has a really massive interview with Mr Wrighthere.
Yahoo's board is already coming under fire, with the first lawsuit to make them consider Microsoft's takeover bid. According toBloomberg:The Wayne County Employees' Retirement System of Michigan, owner of about 13,600 Yahoo shares, yesterday sued Yahoo over the bid rejection. In a complaint filed in Delaware Chancery Court, the group asked a judge to force Yahoo to consider takeover offers.If there are many more actions, Yahoo's board could soon find its position difficult.... And they'll all be up for re-election soon.
Nokia has developed a "green" phone using recycled materials in an attempt to reduce the environmental impact of mobile handsets.The Finnish mobile phone giant's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, pulled the silver clamshell-shaped handset from his pocket during his keynote speech at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona this morning."It really shows what can be done with materials," he told the assembled audience of mobile phone industry executives. "It is only a concept now - I cannot make a phone call - but it gives you an insight into how we think we can break new ground."Nokia, which produced four out of every 10 of the more than a billion handsets sold worldwide last year, has been developing the product - branded "Remade" - at its laboratories. Today was the first time it has been seen in public.The phone's corrugated metal casing and flat, touch-sensitive keypad are made from recycled cans. Nokia said the phone also contained electrical components made from recycled materials.Campaigners have become increasingly concerned about the impact mobile phones have on the environment. More than three billion people worldwide now use mobile phones and, with many replacing them on an annual basis, there is huge amount of waste.Last year Greenpeace raised questions about toxic chemicals in Apple's iPhone.Although the Remade phone is still only a concept and Nokia has announced no plans to enter production, one company insider commented: "I really do hope we make this."
The besieged internet company Yahoo has rejected Microsoft's $45bn (&pound;22bn) takeover offer, raising the possibility of a prolonged battle that could involve a challenge to unseat its board.After "careful evaluation", Yahoo said its management had unanimously concluded that Microsoft's bid "substantially undervalues" its brand, online following, growth prospects and its recent investments in internet advertising platforms.Its defiant stance set the scene for a showdown in Silicon Valley as Microsoft considers whether to sweeten its offer or to begin a so-called "proxy battle" for shareholder votes to install its own slate of directors at Yahoo's annual meeting.In a sentence interpreted as a recognition that its chances of remaining independent are minimal, Yahoo left the door to negotiation ajar: "The board of directors is continually evaluating all of its strategic options in the context of the rapidly evolving industry environment and we remain committed to pursuing initiatives that maximise value for all stockholders."Pitched at $31 a share, Microsoft's offer was made at a 62% premium to Yahoo's sluggish stock price but market sources suggested Yahoo wants as much as $40. By lunchtime yesterday, Yahoo's shares were up by 2.2% to $29.86.Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Research, said: "In its original letter, Microsoft was suggesting that we could do this the easy way or the hard way. It looks like Yahoo wants to do it the hard way."Microsoft wants to buy Yahoo to create a credible rival to Google, which has used its search technology to build a dominant position in the global market for online advertising. The money spent on internet advertising is forecast to leap by two-thirds to $75bn within two years.Chaired by Bill Gates, the Seattle-based software company is likely to be assembling candidates to stand for Yahoo's board. The deadline for nominations is March 13 and such a move would turn the takeover decision over to a vote by Yahoo's investors. But it would be a disruptive process and would risk causing the departure of key Yahoo staff.Yahoo is negotiating from a position of weakness as its popularity among on-line consumers is waning. Gartenberg said Yahoo's rejection gave little clue of an alternative path. "We didn't hear from Yahoo how they plan to keep the company separate - what innovations they have up their sleeve to drive value and to make a combination with Microsoft unattractive," he said.With the scent of money in their nostrils, hedge funds and arbitrage specialists have already piled into Yahoo's stock and they are unlikely to allow the firm to escape without some sort of deal.There has been speculation that private equity buyers, or a media outfit such as Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, could be tempted to make a rival bid. But this is unlikely as Citigroup rates the chances of a successful competing offer at 5% and sees the prospect of regulators blocking Microsoft's offer at 10%.Mark Mahaney, a Citigroup analyst, said that from Microsoft's point of view, buying Yahoo was the only "game-changing" option to improve its modest share of US online advertising, which slipped from 7.6% to 7.5% in 2006.In an email sent yesterday to Yahoo's workforce, the founder, Jerry Yang, noted that the company's sites were the most visited in the US. He reiterated the firm's target of growing users by 15% annually. "I hope you are as proud as I am of the Yahoo we have built and we continue to build. Thanks for your hard work," wrote Yang in entirely lower-case type.
Internet users who illegally download music and films could lose their access to the web under legislation aimed at cracking down on those who flout piracy laws. Powers being drafted by the government will compel internet service providers to take action against customers who access pirated material.The Department of Media, Culture and Sport will recommend the plan in a green paper on the creative industries to be published this month, a source with knowledge of the paper said. Under the new sanctions users will face a "three strikes" regime. A warning email will be sent for the first offence, followed by suspension from the service and finally termination of the internet contract.A draft copy of the green paper said the government "will move to legislate to require internet service providers to take action on illegal file-sharing," although it has yet to decide if information on offenders should be shared between the ISPs, the Times reported.The government has come under increasing pressure from the music and film industries to penalise users who download pirated files. Although piracy is illegal, prosecutions are rare.The UK's four largest internet providers - BT, Tiscali, Orange and Virgin Media - are already in talks with studios on a joint voluntary agreement to share information on web violators.But under the legislation they could be forced to cut off customers. ISPs which fail to enforce the rules could face prosecution, and suspected customers handed over to the courts.It remains unclear who would be responsible for arbitration in disputed allegations, for example when customers claim that other users have "piggy-backed" on their wireless internet access.A spokesman for the Department of Media, Culture and Sport said: "There are still meetings going on and consultation to take place, so nothing is finalised. The strategy document is to be released within the next couple of weeks."The green paper is also expected to call for a &pound;200m national film centre, as well as 19 other schemes intended to turn Britain into the "world's creative hub". Other pledges include the launching of a global arts conference, dubbed the "World Creative Economy Forum" modelled on Davos, the creation of a new college of digital media and the protection of live music venues such as the Astoria and the Hammersmith Apollo in London.The government is also expected to reveal plans for a new creative festivals season, a new film centre on London's South Bank and a permanent home for London fashion week.Under plans to be announced by Gordon Brown and the culture secretary, Andy Burnham, children will be given the right to "five hours of culture a week" encouraging them to visit galleries and museums, attend the theatre, or study a musical instrument.And some 1,000 creative apprenticeships for young people are also being proposed, which will be managed by a new Skills Academy.
Aleks KrotoskiinvitesJemima KissandKevin Andersonto another round-table tech-chat-fest, with the following items on the menu...As Google opens an advertising sales office in Washington DC to manage web ad campaigns for the candidates in the race for the White House, Jemima speaks to the search giant's Peter Greenberger. He explains howGoogle is helping to make the candidates' cash go further by targeting it at specific voters, using the company's fiendish search techniques.Charles Arthurreviews theAsus Eee PC(also sold in the UK as the RM Minibook).The computer is notable mainly for its low price and small size- £169 and smaller than an A5 pad.It has been causing something of a stir in British schools- we find out what has made the machine such a hit.Jemima also invitedEd Freyfogle from Nestoriato give her an Elevator Pitch of his new enterprise. Ed rides in the lift for 2 minutes as he profiles hisup-and-coming web business, which uses web 2.0 methods to create a property search site.And there's news and what you've been saying onthe blogs, including comment on government plans to apply ratings to video games, the possible death of DAB radio, the Open ID Foundation and more...Enjoy, and don't forget:&gt; Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.uk&gt;Post a message on the blog about this week's programme...&gt;Join our Facebook group
Yahoo is stepping up its battle to become the mobile internet technology of choice with the launch of OneConnect, a new tool that provides easier access to messaging, email and social network contacts.The service is designed to aggregate text messaging with email and instant messages from a range of different providers, but in a format that can also use geo-location to update the user when a contact is nearby.Contact cards will combine links for messages to different social networking profiles and mobile phone users can plug into multiple messaging platforms including Google Talk and MSN Messenger.Yahoo said it has 29 global partnerships with mobile operators and expects the service to become available via hundreds of different mobile handsets.The internet company also announced at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona today that its OneSearch service will be the exclusive search tool for T-Mobile's European customers from March this year.Yahoo hopes its mobile search service will become the default access point for internet services as consumers become increasingly comfortable with using web services on their phone handsets.The company's OneSearch product aggregates news, weather, financial data, photos and web links according to the search query, but shows more streamlined results than a PC-based search.Yahoo and T-Mobile also announced that they are working on additional services including mobile versions of messenger, email and the photo-sharing site Flickr.The Yahoo and T-Mobile deal follows an announcement yesterday by Nokia that it will include Google in its search application, introducing the site alongside Yahoo and Windows Live on four new handset models.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
T-Mobile and Orange will today announce a partnership to run a commercial trial in west London of a new mobile TV technology which could allow handset users to tune in to up to 100 channels.The technology, TDTV, has been developed by US-based NextWave Wireless at its British unit in Chippenham, Wiltshire, and could provide a cheaper and more efficient way to get broadcast TV on to mobile phones. The trial, due to start in late summer, will see several thousand Londoners given either a new handset - made by a far eastern manufacturer rumoured to be LG - or a wireless receiver, no bigger than a matchbox, which will transfer the channels to their mobile phones.The six-month test will see Orange and T-Mobile share their masts in London and install equipment that will allow them to broadcast 24 high-quality TV channels including several from the BBC and BSkyB, and 10 digital radio stations. It follows technical trials of the service carried out by Orange in Bristol last year. Orange and T-Mobile are also inviting O2, Vodafone and 3 to take part in the London test.TDTV uses a slice of the 3G spectrum which Britain's five networks spent &pound;22.5bn buying eight years ago and which has so far lain dormant. As a result, TDTV works with the phone companies' systems, making it easy to bill customers.TDTV is more efficient and has more capacity for channels than other mobile TV solutions. Orange, T-Mobile, Vodafone and 3 are all offering mobile TV through their 3G networks but they suffer from congestion if more than a handful of customers use the service in the same place. TDTV uses a different part of the 3G spectrum and many more users can watch TV simultaneously.The European Union has proposed using a Nokia-backed standard called DVB-H for mobile TV in member countries, but there will be no spectrum available for it in Britain until the analogue TV signal is switched off in 2012, and the operators will have to pay if they want it.DVB-H, which O2 tested in Oxford two years ago, can carry only about two dozen channels while TDTV could have up to 100.Two years ago Virgin Mobile launched a mobile TV service in partnership with BT which used part of the digital radio spectrum, but a lack of attractive handsets and paltry channel selection forced its closure last year.
