Few objects evoke the 1980s as much as the Sony Walkman, bringing to mind memories of hours spent untangling chewed cassette tapes and images of Jane Fonda enjoying an aerobic workout. But last week the company revealed that it stopped the Japanese production of the Walkman cassette tape player in April this year, and once stocks disappear from the ''stores, that will be it.Even if, as a spokesman said, the players will continue to be produced in China for export to markets in the Middle East and Asia, it is surely only a matter of time until the world's first low-cost, portable music player is consigned to the same dustbin as Betamax video recorders and other obsolete technologies.Launched in Japan on 1 July, 1979, the original Walkman was created under the aegis of Sony co-founder Akio Morita, who wanted to be able to listen to opera on flights between Japan and the US.For lucky British schoolchildren, it was more likely to beNow That's What I Call Music!, the pop compilation series that began in 1983; or, for older fans perhaps, surreptitious recordings of John Peel's Festive 50.There were the home-made compilations painstakingly put together for friends, too: without the Walkman boosting the market for cassettes, several of us now in early middle age wouldn't have cupboards stuffed with tangled old tapes, their provenance spelled out in scratchy ballpoint.Sony has sold 220 million of the cassette players, which were first marketed in this country with the name "Stowaway" – but "Walkman" soon became the generic name for all such personal stereos.That held largely true even following the launch of the first Sony Discman – a portable CD player – in 1984. It was only in 2001 that Sony lost its dominance in this market, when Steve Jobs at Apple launched something called an iPod.Meanwhile, a world that Akio Morita hadn't envisaged was also emerging: one in which teenaged youths could subject their fellow bus passengers to the tinny sound of today's pop pap playing from their mobile phones.
Dragons' Dentelevision entrepreneur Peter Jones hopes to tap a market of careless windsurfers and butter-fingered sailors by launching a waterproof, floating mobile phone that can withstand being dropped in the sea – or down the lavatory.Distributor Data Select, owned by Jones, will bring out three models this week under its Toughphone brand, of sturdy handsets which originated in 2008 as a joint venture with forklift trucks firm JCB. One of the new phones, called the Tradesman, is billed as the world's first floating mobile.Initially aimed at people working on building sites or in other outdoor trades, Jones hopes to broaden the brand's appeal to sporting types. About 50,000 Toughphones have been sold to date and Jones believes the market could grow to 250,000 devices."These phones are not just suitable for tough working conditions, they're also ideal for people who lead outdoor lifestyles such as mountain climbing, skiing and sailing," Jones said. His company says the phones could equally be handy for customers who enjoy a good night out and are likely to drop their mobiles in inconvenient places.Jones, 44, has been a regular on the television show Dragons' Den since 2005. He founded a national academy for budding entrepreneurs last year and has been tipped recently as a potential investor to turn around Gordon Ramsay's struggling network of upscale restaurants.
There was a time, long ago, when Rupert Murdoch's Myspace was biggest beast in the online jungle of social networking. Before Twitter was even conceived, while Facebook was a mere university project, the site was a pioneer in status updates, personal profiles and photo-sharing.But it's been downhill for the last four years. Long eclipsed by Facebook and with a distinctly uncool parent company, the website is reinventing itself with an extensive redesign and a shift towards "social entertainment" that, it hopes, will help reverse its declining audience and revenues – and which could dress the business up for a face-saving sale by News Corporation.Rolled out to the US this week and the UK in mid-November, the revamp cleans up the notoriously ad-saturated, cluttered pages, introduces a real-time feed more than reminiscent of Facebook's news feed and adds new sharing features, including cross-posting to Facebook and Twitter."This is way more than a redesign," Myspace's chief executive, Mike Jones, tells theObserver. "This is a new strategic focus for the business, a complete rebuild of the majority of technology that runs the Myspace platform and a long-term commitment [to] our strategy of social entertainment. News Corp made a big commitment in allowing us to go down this path and follow this strategy."These days, Facebook so dominates social networking that it is difficult to remember Myspace's own time in the limelight. It claims now to have 130&nbsp;million active monthly global users, while the internet metrics analyst comScore puts the figure at 90 million for September 2010, down 18% year-on-year. In the UK, traffic is down 35% in 12 months to 2.738 million users.Rupert Murdoch astonished many in the media industry when News Corporation swooped on Myspace in a $580m (£332m) acquisition in July 2005. The deal was the result of an in-depth study by an internal team charged with making News Corp a serious presence on the web. But it hasn't quite worked out that way: Murdoch did not count on Facebook's exponential growth. ComScore puts Facebook at 620 million global users for September 2010, up 51% in 12&nbsp;months. Gartner analyst Ray Valdes says this month's redesign is essential to try to stop Myspace "sliding into oblivion".While more similar to Facebook in its crisper design, it also tries to differentiate itself by establishing Myspace as a more distinct, youth-focused brand. But even this might not be enough, Valdes warns: "The niche-oriented approach might be successful if Myspace were a spanking new startup that can control its first impression to the market, but Myspace has been around the block several times and the brand is unfortunately tinged with the aura of a has-been. The odds are against it."With its old-media parent and its messy, dated design reminiscent of moribund web pioneer GeoCities, Myspace had become an easy target for ridicule in the tech community. But it still commands a significant, if declining, audience. With a clearer strategy that finally puts bands and music – always its most compelling offering – at the centre of the site, it will aim to win back a core community that, in many cases, are moving on to other sites. Solo bass guitarist Steve Lawson was one of a number of musicians who signed up to "Quit Myspace" day last week, exasperated by what he describes as a site that has been playing catch-up with more innovative rivals since 2006 – but with a "paymaster that has no interest whatsoever in providing useful, accessible, community-based tools for musicians"."I didn't delete my Myspace page as a protest," he says. "I deleted it because it added confusion to my web presence. It was an ugly, clumsy, inaccessible version of information that was available in a much better form elsewhere."David Ham manages the UK bandMarner Brown, who released their debut single last month. The band uses Myspace, as well asReverbNationandSoundCloud, but now sees Facebook as the major networking channel for bands and artists. "Myspace has moved from being primarily a social tool to a noticeboard," Ham says.Short of a miraculous turnaround, will Myspace come to be regarded as one rare failure in the mighty News Corp empire? "News Corp underestimated just how fast the social media business could change," says Simon Dyson, senior analyst at Informa Telecoms &amp; Media. "They thought they could maintain their dominance in the same way they have for pay TV."If News Corp does try to sell, it is unlikely to get anywhere near the $580m it paid; Evercore Partners recently valued the site at half that. "If it had to sell it at a big loss, it doesn't look good for a renowned company such as News Corp to have failed in such a big way."The problem now is that once a social media site loses popularity, it never seems to be able to get it back. No matter how much News Corp spends on it, it will still be seen as the social media site of yesterday."
If the plastic guitars, pretend drumkits and front-men wailing into a mike ofRock Band 3are all a bit too, well, rockist, it might be worth putting up with the downstairs neighbour's murderous glances by trying something new.DJ Hero 2is refreshingly different, replacing instruments with a mini-turntable, and classic rock songs with inventive, original mixes splicing more than 90 tracks from all over the pop, electro and R&amp;B universe. Ever wondered how Deadmau5 and Lady Gaga would sound together? Now you can find out.This second iteration's improvements over the original, released this time last year, are manifold. The tracklist stretches itself further into different genres while maintaining the same overall quality. There's a new structure to the single-player game, which now starts you off as a novice spinner in Ibiza and charts your course to superstar DJ. The learning curve is much better, gradually introducing new tricks like spikes and crossfades to follow progression from easy through to expert.Freestyling is far more important than previously. Players have complete control of the mix for whole sections, and there are some excellent face-off multiplayer modes to tempt you into buying another set of decks. It's a sequel, yes, but far from more of the same.
Rock Band 1: yeah, good harmless fun.Rock Band 2: interchangeable withRB1.Rock Band 3: an extraordinarily comprehensive, multifaceted music game of such scope and ambition as to take the breath away. Seriously.There's nothing like the required space here to doRB3justice, so let's deal out some stats. There are 83 new songs (of wide-ranging vintage and merit) and disc-import support for the previous twoRBtitles giving a total of 250-odd, even if you haven't downloaded a single add-on.The new interface manages to make reasonable sense of the provision for a seven-piece band comprising three vocalists, drums, bass, guitar and keyboards – the new keyboard is a proper Howard Jones-esquekeytar, velocity-sensitive and with a two-octave, 25-key board.Where it really impresses is in the variety. As well as extensive, multi-difficulty party and "career" play, its new Pro mode takesRB3away from the frivolous and towards the tutorial – it requires that you learn how actually to play musical parts. Primers teach the basics and from there on it's really a question of how dedicated you want to be.In any event, though, if being in a plastic band appeals, don't look any further. Game of the year so far, no question.
In the 50 years since the events ofFable II, the industrial revolution has come to the world of Albion and it's not the only significant change. King Logan, eldest son of the second game's hero, has grown into an increasingly tyrannical ruler and, as his brother or sister, you are charged with leading an uprising, with the ultimate aim of deposing your sibling and uniting a disillusioned populace.The first half of the game, therefore, is a romantic tale of revolution as you gather followers, winning over influential leaders with word and deed. Along the way, you'll find yourself making promises and, as you progress further down the road to rule, it becomes clear that keeping them all is going to be almost impossible.PreviousFablegames have offered some tricky choices, but few were as agonising as they are here. It's rare for a game to offer such testing moral dilemmas, let alone feel so politically relevant: making unpopular cuts to fill the treasury's previously empty coffers has an eerie resonance.The quality of the storytelling and characterisation in theFableuniverse has always been high, but the exceptional voice cast lends additional gravitas. The likes of Ben Kingsley, Michael Fassbender and Simon Pegg deliver terrific performances, though they're helped by an excellent script that is equally comfortable with high drama and slapstick comedy.One quest pokes gentle fun at table-top role-playing games (with a splendid payoff line that should tickle those who completedFable II) while a nightmarish, hallucinatory sequence in a distant land is perhaps darker and more disturbing than the series has ever been.Other refinements see combat and menus streamlined, with weapons evolving over time, developing unique looks and characteristics through the player's actions.It does seem on occasion that Guildford-based developer Lionhead Studios has  stripped back too much: interactions with villagers are limited and many of the choices are slightly silly. Behavioural inconsistencies are to be expected with a game this ambitious, but it's still a little incongruous to see a king delivering a package for a servant.Yet these are rare moments of irritation in an adventure rich with action, pathos and humour. Despite losing a little of its bucolic charm in the process of industrialisation, Albion is still a joy to explore, with fairy-tale locations that stir the imagination and a wealth of memorable characters and moments. It's a charming and thoroughly British triumph that deserves to be celebrated.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Probably indoor plumbing – that is one of the great advances in civilisation, and probably the thing I appreciate the most. But technology is such a tenuous subject because it's always changing, So now if you leave home without your cellphone, you panic; 15 years ago you wouldn't even think about a cellphone. Technology is always rushing ahead.What frustrates you about technology in general?I've just turned 60. Now you can give any five-year-old a computer and they can just do it. I don't have that literacy. But what frustrates me most? That every major advance in technology comes out of war.Is there any piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Many. Cars, television sets – things that don't work. As technology advances, it's strange how it makes us impatient. Things that used to take hours – like in terms of editing, now you edit on computers – we're used to it being instantaneous. So when the computer takes 30-40 seconds to accomplish what it is you want, you're sitting there going: "Jesus Christ, this is taking so long!" Whereas literally 10 years ago, it could take two days.If you had one tip to give about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Not to be intimidated by it, and not to buy into the crap they're telling you. Email, for instance – it's wonderful, and it's instant communication, and of course I use it, but it's destroyed many things. It's destroyed jokes – people don't tell jokes any more, they email them.Do you consider yourself a luddite or a nerd?Certainly a nerd, but not a technology nerd.Mac or PC, and why?Well I did have a PC for years, but my wife made me get a Mac about a year ago. You know, Mac people are kind of evangelical, and I find them the same. I know that's sacrilegious, but Macs are better looking than most PCs and better designed. But I&nbsp;still use Gmail on my&nbsp;Mac.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I grew up close to UCLA in Los Angeles, so I was on that campus all the time, taking advantage of the screenings and other events. When2001: A Space Odysseycame out, Arthur C Clarke was giving a lecture as promotion for the film. I went to see him, and he said a number of things that impressed me.One of the things he said was that by the year 2000, there will be no difference between technology and magic. And that really resonated with me, because he's right – we take things&nbsp;for granted, like a microwave oven. You look at movies made in the 30s: they go to the box, and it goes "ding", and out comes the prepared meal – that's a microwave oven.Look at GPS too. My wife adores her iPhone, and it has GPS on it – it has&nbsp;everything. It's science fiction, that&nbsp;thing. Do I want one? No, I&nbsp;don't, but I want my assistant to have&nbsp;one.•John Landis is the director of such films as The BluesBrothers, Animal House, Trading Places, Coming to America, The ThreeAmigos and An American Werewolf in London, as well as thegroundbreaking video for Michael Jackson's Thriller. His new film, theEaling comedy Burke and Hare, is now showing across the UK.
WTF CostumesWhile we seem fully on board with the concept of knocking on people's doors and demanding free fun-size chocolate bars, one element of trick-or-treating has failed to cross the Atlantic: dressing up in humiliating costumes. Here, a witch's outfit is all we demand of our children, but in America, Halloween is treated as if it's the fancy dress version of the World Cup, with participants transforming themselves into everything from the Keyboard Cat to living iPods. Of course, another American element is that most of the extroverts here are fully grown adults. This site collects some of their extreme examples of fancy dress, from a baby emerging Alien-style from their father's blood-splattered chest to warped scenes of sexual congress and a moving tribute to Daft Punk.The Middle Class HandbookThe Middle Class Handbook.The middle classes are the most ridiculed and derided people in Britain, despite the fact that most of us belong somewhere in the top, bottom or middle-middle of it. Regardless, everyone will find something horrifyingly true about themselves or hilarious about Barbour-wearing folk in this soon-to-be-a-novelty-book field guide. Among its newly discovered social tribes are the "chaveau riche", "Jamie Oliver's Army" and "Saga Louts", while How To Be Middle Class entries explore such issues as service station etiquette, with a father who treats it "like a cross between a Formula One pit-stop and an Ebola colony". Elsewhere are reports on the middle class struggle, what the chattering classes are wibbling about and how couples talk about other couples.Blog roll: HorrorFrankensteinia.FrankensteiniaFrankensteinia (not a real word) defined from Boris Karloff to his various comic book reanimations.Monster LandDedicated to the study of monsters in pop culture, including the shirtless True Blood hunks.Shock Till You DropNews, trailers, videos and cast interviews from the latest horror movie and DVD releases.The Groovy Age Of HorrorVintage gore blogger asks: "Is a monster scarier if it's shown or merely suggested?"Cinema SuicideElvira has some important info for you, plus prepare your VCR for hot new flick The Disco Exorcist.Fascination With FearThrills, reviews and excellent lists like "Female villains in horror" and "Holy Shit! Endings".What we learned on the web this weekLuke Perry Loves His Fans.Luke Perryloves his fansHowThe Empire Strikes Back should have endedThe manwho invented LOLCats is allergic to catsZach Galifianakisis such a teaseHow tomake an AvatartThe Mad Mentheme tune is now available with added swingWhat it'slike in 1998The beautyof the mosh pitWhat SimonCowell looks like with Dannii's nose, Cheryl's mouth and Louis's headSome interestingthings found at airport security
What do you get if you run an Aston Martin together with a Renault Clio? One answer, of course, is a car crash. But that would be a deeply unfair description of the Renault Laguna Coupe 3.0 V6 dCi GT, which doesn't resemble a&nbsp;violent collision at all. It's much more harmonious, what in jazz-rock circles used to be called a fusion.In a sense, though, the Laguna Coupe is a bit likethat drawing of a&nbsp;young beauty who, from another perspective, looks like an old hag. From the rear, the car is very much the shapely, shiny young thing, but the side profile is a little less twinkly and perhaps a tad moreTwingo.But if its lines were any slinkier, it would presumably be more expensive. Why it would be, I'm not sure. Is an elegant curve more costly to manufacture than an inelegant one? I have no idea, technically speaking, but highly attractive cars do tend to be highly damaging in the wallet region. So it's reasonable to conclude that there is a correlation between aesthetics and price, even if the exact nature of the correlation must remain, for the time being, in the field of pure speculation.In any case, if there was a spectrum of driving enjoyment that ran from your average Renault hatchback to, say, anAston Martin Vantage, the Laguna Coupe is definitely nearer to the Vantage than it is to the Clio.This is the diesel version, and it's as smooth and responsive a ride as you're likely to find running on taxi cab fuel. In fact, it's the top of the range, both in price and most aspects of performance, out-accelerating the&nbsp;larger-engined petrol version.As you'd expect from a Renault, it's almost absurdly safe. It has eight airbags, for example, which is more than enough for a slumber party. And if you get anywhere near another car or any kind of solid object, it bleeps and whines like a synthesiser on an early experimental rock album. Inside, it's so comfortable and intelligently laid out that it's not hard to imagine you're driving something more salubrious than the name Renault perhaps unfairly conjures.My one gripe had little to do with the car, because the offending arrangement is common to many cars: the automatic headlight setting. As anyone who has left their headlights on to discover a flat engine the next day will no doubt point out, in one way it's an excellent development. But the problem with automatic lights is you can get out of the habit of switching lights on. Which is fine if they're on "automatic" but potentially disastrous if, for some reason, they're not. Not only does it&nbsp;render you less visible to other cars but, almost as worrying, more visible to the police. Enough said.Renault Laguna Coupe 3.0 V6 GTPrice£30,800Top speed150.4mphAcceleration0-62mph 7.3 secondsAverage consumption39.2mpgC02emissions192g/kmEco rating4.5/10Bound forThe Institut FrancaisIn a wordSoigné
If a movie had been released today with an all-star British cast – John Cleese, Ben Kingsley, Stephen Fry, Simon Pegg, Skins star Nicholas Hoult, Zoë Wanamaker and even a cameo from Jonathan Ross – if it were the third in a money-spinning, Bafta-winning series, if it were being heralded as a triumph by most reviewers, one might expect it to be the lead story in most review pages and arts programmes.Fable III is funny and engaging and is sure to turn a healthy profit for its British creators Lionhead Studios. But it isn't a movie, it's a game, and even though gaming is now financially the biggest entertainment industry in the world, it still isn't really on the cultural map.Lionhead CEO Peter Molyneux may hope to change that with the stellar cast – movie stars have been lending their voices to games for a while, but the Fable III lineup is particularly impressive. Of course, in artistic terms, the question is whether, having employed this star cast, the game gives them dialogue which uses their skills. While game graphics and music have progressed in leaps and bounds – there's even an Ivor Novello award for game soundtracks these days – writing tends to be rather neglected, with writers brought in after the important game decisions have been made to "wrap a story round it".There's some evidence of this in Fable III. Having employed Cleese and Wanamaker, they're used to voice what are effectively menus, with dialogue such as: "You've amassed enough money to buy a house. Houses are excellent investments." It's to Cleese's credit that he managed to make that line sound passably interesting, but I wish he and some of the others had been used more imaginatively. And unlike a movie, games don't tend to put all their star power in the first few minutes: it's a good few hours' gameplay before you get to Fry or Ross.Much of the casting is good – Michael Fassbender brings a steely realism to what might have been an over-the-top evil ruler Logan, while Naomie Harris's rebel leader Page is measured and believable and games-voicing veteran Sean Pertwee delivers a superb performance as a mercenary soldier.The game is occasionally puzzling – why, in an industrial-era game, does the hero spend the first section wearing furs and carrying a hammer or sword? – but it hangs together in a good-humoured and often charming way. It reminded me most of 1987 classic The Princess Bride – often nonsensical, but sometimes laugh-out-loud funny.And of course, games aren't movies. Fable III might not make The Review Show, but given the enormous sales of the previous episode, Molyneux is unlikely to mourn that too deeply.Naomi Alderman is the Guardian's games columnist and the author of Disobedience and The Lessons
Following the death of notorious filesharing service LimeWire,killed by the US courtsafter a four-year battle with the Recording Industry Association of America, its legal rivals are beginning to voice hope.Following the news, we suggested that the shutdown would be just a "temporary inconvenience for filesharers", and that the tens of millions of users would simply find somewhere else where music is free at the point of access. One astute commenter called it a "pyrrhic" victory for the industry.Today, we hear from Steve Purdham, the outspoken chief executive of UK music streaming siteWe7, who argues that those accustomed to downloading copyrighted content must be educated into the benefits of the lawful alternatives."It's a huge positive for the music industry that LimeWire has been shut down," he said. "But what we don't want is for the site's users to simply move on to the next illegal peer-to-peer sharing site that grabs their attention."Mark Mulligan, a music analyst Forrester Research and another candid opiner, says it's not that straightforward. "It's not about the technology, it's a paradigm shift ... The reason they fileshare is not because they love the way the technology works, it's because it's easily accessible content which is free," hetold the Guardian earlier this week."The simple fact is that the vast majority of music fans don't like paying for music – and that's even more pronounced in the filesharing community."But what the analysts aren't taking into account, Purdham reckons, is the plague of viruses and malware often passed around peer-to-peer filesharers. With legit streaming services, that danger is eradicated."Consumers need to be more aware of the viable and legal options available and with piracy still rife, there is clearly still a level of education to be had," he said. "The massive growth of LimeWire demonstrated the demand and desire of people wanting to consume music digitally. Now that great legal services are in abundance such as We7, Last.fm and Pandora, consumers don't need to run the risk of downloading from illegal filesharing sites."LimeWire had its day; there is no longer justification for a service which doesn't respect artist rights in today's world."To keep generating the music we love, artists need to be paid. People want to support the music they care about ... The issue of piracy is one created by the music industry itself. To solve it, we need to stop demonising consumers and create a sustainable business model that can work for everyone."• At the time of writing, it appears that the RIAA website is set to suffer anapparent retribution attack from online activists Anonymous. It is the second time in as many months that the RIAA website has been targeted.
The YouTube co-founder, Chad Hurley, is stepping aside as the video-sharing website's chief executive and taking an advisory role.Hurley, who launched YouTube in February 2005 with Steve Chen and Jawed Karim, said he was moving to the role of adviser and had handed over responsibility for the site's day-to-day operations to Salar Kamangar, the former vice-president of web applications at parent company Google."Right now I am in the process of transitioning into the role of adviser, stepping down, still being involved in the company, but it's given me an opportunity to work on new projects," he told theF.ounders international web conferencein Dublin last night."We were lucky enough to find Salar, who was one of the founders of [Google] AdWords. He is responsible for the whole thing," Hurley said. "For me he was someone who was going to be able to drive the business."Hurley added that he had been working on a new idea for two years now, but declined to reveal more details.He added he "would have loved to stay independent" before Google bought the company in 2006 for $1.65bn (£1.03bn), but said the search giant had allowed it to remain independent and they had an excellent working relationship. He was only required to stay at the company for 18 months after the Google acquisition.Hurley said his philosophy for developing YouTube and his next business was to create "something that I would use and others would find useful too".It was also important to "have fun" because start-ups are so difficult. Hurley described the early days of YouTube as "like a hurricane".He said he was barred by rules relating to publicly listed companies from "talking numbers", but added that the site is now getting about "two billion views a day" with "hundreds of thousands" uploading video. Today YouTube put up a graphic on its front page celebrating "1 billion subscriptions".Hurley also predicted the demise of conventional advertising campaigns at the Dublin conference.He said he believed there is still a healthy future for advertising, but added that the likes of Kellogg's and Cadbury will seek sponsorship-style exclusivity around individual TV programmes."I think you will see a point where the traditional model of advertising on TV or advertising online will go and advertisers will cover one programme, no matter what platform it's being broadcast on. You'll see the same ads whether you are watching it on your TV, your computer or your phone," Hurley added.He said he thought long-form video would "become more important over time" on YouTube but live streaming on the website was not being pursued aggressively.A U2 concert in Los Angeles got close to 10m streams when it was broadcast live in one of the first pilots for YouTube. "I don't think it's going to be a regular thing," Hurley said.He added that YouTube is talking to three partners about new revenue streams.
Access to the internet for London underground commuters will move a step closer on Monday, as a trial at Charing Cross tube station gets under way.A six-month test run funded by BT will enable commuters to access the internet on the Northern and Bakerloo line platforms and in the ticket hall at the central London station.The service will be free for BT broadband customers with unlimited BT Fon Wi-Fi minutes and for BT Openzone customers. Subscribers to other carriers, including O2, Tesco Mobile, Vodafone and Orange, can also connect to Openzone as part of bundled mobile contracts.Around 68,000 passenger journeys a day are made via Charing Cross, London underground said today, and those with internet-connected devices will now be able to get online throughout the station – but not, yet, on the tube trains themselves.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson,has pledgedto bring wireless internet and mobile phone coverage to the underground in time for the 2012 Olympics.Johnson has taken it upon himself to kickstart years of stalled negotiations, saying in September that he would "bash heads together in the mobile phone industry" to connect the underground to the outside world.In May this year, he said: "London is the home of technological innovation. We in City Hall are doing our best to keep up, and one of our most important projects is called Wi-Fi London. Every lamp-post and every bus stop will one day very soon, and before the 2012 Olympics, be Wi-Fi enabled."BT said the costs are low because Openzone will be running over London underground's existing Wi-Fi setup at Charing Cross.The telecoms company said any expansion of the service would "depend on the results of the trial and be subject to further discussions with London underground".Kulveer Ranger, the mayor of London's transport adviser, said: "An ever-growing commuter populous has been clamouring to be able to check their emails and browse the net whilst on the go. This trial at Charing Cross will allow them to do just that whilst on the tube platform."This is an important step towards seeing how this could be achieved and is part of the mayor's ambition to examine ways in which we can use technology to adapt the city's transport system to meet the needs of those using it."
With all the gossip about PSP2 and the ever increasing growth in app/mobile/download gaming it's easy to forget about the original PSP. Although Sony's once magical device - honestly, who wasn't impressed by that screen in 2005? - has lost some lustre the handheld console is still a gaming force. The likes of Monster Hunter and Phantasy Star Portable 2 are proof that for hardcore gamers at least it still remains a viable option. As you would expect though sales have suffered recently.Sony'slatest financialsshow that global unit sales have fallen by 50% to 1.5 million in the second financial quarter this year. Given the relative lack of new PSP software releases and the age of the console this is not a major surprise and actually 1.5 million sales is probably a little higher than you may have expected. Or is that just me?Unsurprisingly the PS3 has done better with 5.9 million consoles and 60.1 million units of software sold from April to September. In the same period in 2009 sales were 4.3m and 38.7m respectively.Anyway, what do you think? Still use your PSP? Or has it been passed over in place of your DS, phone or tablet?
Life can be cruel, especially to fans ofDemon's Souls, the brilliant but unforgiving RPG adventure that has seduced and enslaved many a Gamesblog reader. Regulars on our Chatterbox forum became so devoted to the game following its UK release in June that I arranged to geta selection of their questionsout to its Japanese developer, From Software.For a long while many of you must have quietly feared that a response would never be forthcoming. But now, the title's director Hidetaka Miyazaki and SCE Japan Studio's Takeshi Kajii have tackled all of your queries, aided by translators at Namco Bandai Europe (thanks, chaps!). The answers are often short, snappy and wonderfully obtuse, but true Demon's Souls fans probably wouldn't have it any other way. Plus, there's a tantalising hint that, despite a few whispers to the contrary, we can perhaps tentatively look forward to a sequel. One day. Perhaps. Fingers crossed...MeepMeep: Did you face much opposition from management, trying to dissuade you from releasing such a difficult, hardcore game?HM:Yes, sometimes.*laughs*TK:There was some quite strong pressure from management...  However, on the creator's side, their concept was very clear, and they explained it very politely, so we were able to have the game released as it is.MeepMeep: What did the testing groups make of it?TK:At the beginning, of course, there were a lot of comments about the difficulty of the game, saying for example that it was too difficult!HM:But then we explained very clearly the intention of the game regarding its difficulty, and they kindly understood our position. So the difficulty level hasn't become a problem.CB Podge: Does it annoy you that people have found certain exploits to make killing the harder bosses easy?HM:No, it doesn't. It was not intentional, and if we had discovered it during development we would have corrected it. However, now that some remain in the final game, I think that these exploits have become part of the its flavour.Of course, this will be taken in consideration for future versions, especially those instances which are not exploits but bugs that prove to be a disadvantage for the players.BeardofBees: How was the difficulty balance tested during development?HM:First, I set up numerical formulas myself as a reference. Based on this, we adjusted all the parameters together with the people in charge of planning those parameters. Afterwards, we repeated the tests and made modifications over and over.The tests were mostly done by the members of the development team, but at a certain stage, we also received the help of SCE's Tuning Team.BeardofBees: What gave you the idea to release a 'difficult' game like this into a marketplace where most games lead us gently by the hand and can usually be finished by the poorest of players?HM:Our intention wasn't specifically to make a difficult game. We first wanted to create a game with a high sense of achievement, and in order to do this we needed to increase the difficulty.BeardofBees: Was it a harder decision for a Western audience, and is this why it took so long to get released here?HM:I think so, but I am only a member of the development studio, so I don't know if this is true or not.TK:At a certain point, we had a game that had been created to our liking and that we ourselves thought was interesting. But it wasn't a game made in keeping with the general fashion of the time – because of its harshness toward the players for example, or because of the way the online system was created. So I think it was difficult for foreign publishers to evaluate the game.Actually, even in Japan, at the beginning the sales figures of the game were quite low as well. The game became popular thanks to the feedback from the players, the exports also grew, and the word spread in Western countries, but this process took time.Dominicorourke: When will I be able to use the PS Move to loose my arrows at skeletons?HM:We don't have any plans for that at the moment.Satansallsmiles: How did the concepts for the more passive multiplayer aspects come up? I feel that these really add to the sense of community in the game - was this an intentional design decision or a respnse to time or technical limitations?HM:This came from a very precise and intentional plan. The decisions in creating the online system weren't dependent on any limitations we might have had, but something we voluntarily wanted to put in place.Satansallsmiles: Is the Royal class cheating?HM:No, this is not cheating. I think Royal class is a magnificent way of living.Dizzyisanegg: What was the thinking behind having such an anonymous main character and the bare-bones story?HM:There are two reasons for this: First, we wanted the player to be the main character of this adventure. The other reason is that we wanted to stimulate the imagination of the players.Libation: What have been the primary influences on the development of Demon's Souls?HM:Hum, that's a difficult question… That's why my answer to that question is always that my main influence is the book series called "Sorcery".*laughs*DaveFalse: The game took off due to word of mouth, and people importing it from Asia and then US. Did you expect this to happen?HM:No, we didn't foresee it at all. This is why it has been a series of happy surprises for us.TK:That was very interesting for us, and people valued the game differently than we thought they would. We were a bit stressed before the release of the game… I remember that it was a dark moment when we saw the first order figures.*laughs*I really think that Demon's Souls became what it is today thanks to all the players.DaveFalse: Which part of the game are you most proud of and which is your favourite level and/or boss?HM:This is also a difficult question. What I am the most proud of is the fact that so many players accepted the style of Demon's Souls and enjoyed it.My favourite stages are the Valley of Death and Latria. My favourite bosses are the Phalanx and the Adjudicator. I will let you imagine why I like those best…DaveFalse: The "short cut" on 4-1 where you can roll off the battlements and cut out half of the level. Was this intended or something that was discovered by players? If so were you tempted to remove it once you were aware of it?HM:This was not intentional. If we had discovered it during development, we probably would have fixed it, but it's a fine line. Maybe we would have hesitated…DaveFalse:The fact you can kill one of the Maneaters on 3-2 from outside the fog gate. Again was this intentional and if not were you tempted to "fix" it?HM:Again, this wasn't intentional either. But for this one, if we had discovered it during development, we definitely would have corrected it.DaveFalse:How long do you intend to keep the servers going for online play?TK:In Japan and Asia, SCE is publisher of the game so we can decide what to do about the servers. But in the US and in Europe, there are different publishers so this has to be discussed with them. We have daily tracking of the number of players connected to the servers, so we will take this into account when we make a decision about them. But I can't tell how long they will stay online right now. If a lot of people keep playing online, we can keep the servers online.Naboomagnoli: Is there any chance of owners of the Asian version being able to play against owners of the European edition?TK:There are different servers for each region, so this will be difficult.Naboomagnoli: Are there any weapon types that you wish you'd made more/less effective? When I start a new character I always find it hard not to end up using the Crescent Falchion from World 4-1 cause it's so much more powerful than anything else around!HM:There are a lot of weapons like this one.*laughs*If I were to pick out one weapon, it would be the Bowgun. It was a bit too weak. But I agree, the Crescent Falchion is strong!Naboomagnoli:Are there any equipment setups you think work really well that people rarely use?HM:Hmm, right now I think everything is well known and used by everyone, so I can't really recommend anything in particular. I'm afraid that people say, "We already know that!"Shadowmind: If you do make a sequel are you going to make significant improvements to the AI?HM:That would depend on the concept of that sequel. I think depending on that, the course of the improvements would change...Anonymous: One specific question I've been wondering about is to do with Character Tendency. I want to shift my CT towards White. Can I do this by playing as a Blue Phantom and helping another player defeat a boss?HM:No, this method doesn't shift your character tendency toward white. You need to summon another player and help him to revive.FINAL QUESTION: Will there be a sequel?!HM:I will let Mr Kaiji answer that question.TK:At the moment, my answer is "no sequel!" However, we have been encouraged by all the players, and this title is so well supported, and besides we like this title so much… Well, this is my own feeling, but I think one day we could bring you another Demon's Souls...
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
When we spoke to Force Unleashed II art director Matt Omernick, he told us about the sense of seamless transition between the movies and games, between the original Star Wars trilogy and its high-tech modern successors. We soon discovered that this idea of cross-platform continuity is carried through to the audio effects.Despite being surrounded by digital technology, the Star Wars sound engineers – like the Force Unleashed art team – are forever returning to the series' improvisational foundations. While Omernick, talks about researching old movie props and poring over Ralph McQuarrie's concept sketches, everyone in the audio dept idolises Ben Burtt, the sound designer who created just about every iconic Star Wars noise, from the swishing fizz of the lightsabers to R2D2's bleeps and Darth Vader's bronchial respiratory wheeze. "His concept is that you should take sounds from the world around you and put them in your art," says sound designer, Brian Tibbetts. "When anyone who's in audio hears about Burtt, he instantly becomes one of their heroes."The video game sound teams have access to all of Burtt's original sounds, but there's a problem. "A lot of the time, with the material you have from the Star Wars films – it's not actually a game-ready asset," says music supervisor, Jesse Harlin. "In the movies, you may have a ship that flies past the screen for two seconds, but in a game the player may be able to pilot that ship, so you'll need the start up sound, the shut down sound, the idling sound, the engine rev sound – all of that we have to create from the two-second reference fly-by. So the original sound is just the palette, the kernal of where that engine comes from – we have to do a lot of work on our own to create the assets to fill that out."Now, of course, the team has replaced analogue effects and tape spools with the audio workstation,Pro Tools, and endless plug-ins to provide weird digital effects. But working with those original sounds is still tricky. As Tibbetts explains,  "We use the Burtt stuff for reference, but then we chop it up, we time compress it, or expand it. We try everything. For the noise of the Gorog (a huge boss monster), I live on a dairy farm and there's this one pen where they have all the sick cows; every once in a while a cow will be screaming – it's very sad – but I always try to record it. So the Gorog has all these layers of cow screams in its roar."Tibbetts is not alone in experimenting with offbeat methods. "I remember one time, we had a loop of bees buzzing," says Harlin. "We ran it from Pro Tools, through a wall into a guitar talk box – the kind of thing Peter Frampton used. Then I brought the hose up to my mouth, stuck it in front of the microphone then tried to re-vocalise bee sounds into the mic, via a hose. There's a lot of crazy stuff that still happens…"Even the casting of actors for the Force Unleashed games has been a little unconventional – especially the team's quest for an authentic Vader, which ended at a Star Wars spoof site. "Will Beckman, the voice-over director was just surfing the web and he came acrossChad Vader," explains lead sound designer and voice director, David Collins. "He just came flying into my office and said, 'you got to see this guy!' Voice matching is probably the hardest thing we do. It's one thing to try and match a really corny carton character like Roger Rabbit, but trying to voice match an actor like James Earl Jones is really difficult, because people are so in tune with it.But when we heard Matt Sloan, we were like, 'Wow! This guy is really good'. And Will just basically tracked him down – he was working in a library in Wisconsin. We asked, 'how are you doing this?' And he said, his friend has this tube and he feeds the sound through a guitar amp – it was this crazy set-up. We tested him on Empire at War – we did it over an ISDN to his home – but then for this game, wehadto fly him out here. We spent a little time with him, and just came up with our own process. There's a weird alchemy with Matt: there are numumerous actors whose natural resources are a lot better, but they just don't get there. With Matt… I can't even explain it, it just happens. It's the weirdest thing."In a recording studio back at LDAC, Collins explains how the game soundtrack is split into different passes - background noise, music, foley noise, special effects, dialogue, etc - and then layered and mixed in post-production. He shows off a short CGI sequence from Force Unleashed 2, in which the gigantic gorog creature stomps into a huge amphitheatre to fight Starkiller and General Kota. The foley effects are done by Jana Vance and Dennie Thorpe at Skywalker. They've worked on Avatar and most of the Pixar movies and perform all their sounds in real-time. For this sequence, they created the impressively booming footsteps of the approaching rancor and gorog beasts by setting off a series of mini-explosives. And this wasn't even the most challenging effect to capture – that was the arena chants. "You'd be surprised at how hard it is to find crowd sounds that don't have vevuzuelas or people yelling 'go giants' or whatever," says Collins.This sequence also shows off the Lucas recycling ethos. Early on, a piece of solo horn music fades up and sounding convincingly gladiatorial, it could have easily been written for this moment. In fact, it's actually an unused theme from the original Force Unleashed. As for the sound effects, the clanging noise of the chains around the gorog's neck may sound familiar to Dickens fans. As Tibbets explains, "One day I went up the ranch and we noticed that some huge chains had been left there from A Christmas Carol – so I used them for the gorog. I really hurt my back [shaking them around] but in the tradition of Ben Burtt, it's about trying to be as creative as possible!"It's easy to be cynical about the Star Wars machine – about the myriad spin-offs, sequels, prequels and game tie-ins that have flooded out of LDAC and Skywalker Ranch over the years. But this is still a place that eats up and thrives on the old magic of Star Wars. Certainly, Force Unleashed II has had a troubled gestation, with the departure of its talismanic creator Haden Blackman (who has since formed his own studio,Fearless) andrumoursof a canned third title and job losses. But Force Unleashed II looks like a robust actioner with high production values, and there were plenty of hints about Force Unleashed III as well as some kind of live-action project. Then there is Bioware's fascinating MMORPG,The Old Republic, and Traveller's Tales'Lego Star Wars III. Star Wars has been down before; it always comes back.
Alchemy. Photo byfdecomiteon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAdobe demos Flash-to-HTML5 conversion tool &gt;&gt; John Nack on Adobe"Pre-Adobe, I made my living building rich, Flash-intensive sites for Gucci, Coca-Cola, Nike, and other big brands. Doing that job today, I'd be in a jam: How could I create rich experiences that run on desktops (where Flash is the obvious, consistent (cross-browser/-platform) choice) and on iOS devices where Flash isn't allowed?"Demystifying KB976902, a.k.a. Microsoft's "Blackhole" Update &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security"I have verified with Microsoft that this update is designed to smooth the way for the deployment of future updates on Windows 7 systems... The confusion appears to stem from a timing mistake by the folks at Microsoft, but this incident illustrates the hysteria that can ensue when the world's largest software company fails — for whatever reason — to be fully transparent with a user base that has come to expect detailed advisories with every patch."Home Office does u-turn on Internet Explorer 6 - Will this become a domino effect? | TechEye"A Home Office representative confirmed to TechEye today that it will upgrade to Internet Explorer 8, although the department gave no indication when the move will happen." Never dealt with Sir Humphrey, TechEye?Microsoft Investor Relations Press Releases &gt;&gt; MicrosoftFor July-Sep: "# Office 2010 is off to a fast start with revenue growing over 15% in its first full quarter in market.&#10;# Microsoft continues to see a healthy and sustaining business PC refresh cycle.&#10;# Xbox 360 consoles grew 38%, outselling every competing console in the U.S. for each of the past four months.&#10;# For yet another quarter, Bing continued to grow market share, while achieving major milestones in implementing Microsoft's partnership with Yahoo."Not mentioned: online services lost more money ($560m) than it took in revenue ($527m).Telling the Story of Friendships &gt;&gt; Facebook blog"Today I'm excited to be launching Friendship Pages. They contain the public Wall posts and comments between two friends, photos in which both are tagged, Events they RSVP'd for together and more. You'll be able to see a friendship page if you are friends with one of the people and have permission to view both people's profiles."This is either brilliant or creepy or both.HTTPS Everywhere | Electronic Frontier Foundation"HTTPS Everywhere is a Firefox extension produced as a collaboration between The Tor Project and the Electronic Frontier Foundation. It encrypts your communications with a number of major websites." Useful if you suspect there might be people around using Firesheep - another Firefox extension.Koobface Worm Targets Java on Mac OS X &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security"It is not surprising that attackers would begin leveraging Java to attack Mac users with threats that have traditionally only menaced Windows users. My research shows thatJava is now the leading vector of attacks against Windowssystems, findings that recently were buttressed byoodles of attack datareleased by Microsoft."MacBook Air more profitable than other Apple laptops, says analyst &gt;&gt; Macworld UK"The [new] MacBook Air sports margins between 28% and 37%, said Brian Marshall of Gleacher &amp; Co., who estimated the new notebooks' bill of materials (BOM). That's significantly above the approximately 20% margin for Apple's entire notebook line."Boonana Trojan Horse warning and removal instructions &gt;&gt; SecureMac"When a user clicks the infected link, the trojan initially runs as a Java applet, which downloads other files to the computer, including an installer, which launches automatically."Java considered harmful. (Or possibly: internet considered harmful.)Rethinking Wikipedia contributions rates &gt;&gt; eaves.ca"One things about open source projects is that they rarely die. Indeed, there are lots of open source projects out there that are the walking zombies. A small, dedicated community struggles to keep a code base intact and functioning that is much too large for it to manage. My sense is that peer production/open source projects can collapse (would MySpace count as an example?) but the rarely collapse and die."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Despite the ever increasing attraction of app gaming – for me on iPhone and iPad -  I'm still clinging on to my DS and PSP.  Yes, the likes of Plants Vs Zombies on the iPad have proved beyond any doubt that the Apple (and Android) platforms can offer games that are at least as good as the best that Nintendo and co can offer. Sometimes though the traditional handhelds can't be beat. The lengthy time I recently spent on Phantasy Star Portable 2 on PSP would have been far less comfortable on an iPhone. Likewise with my current fave – Super Scribblenauts. This DS game is released tomorrow (Friday) and takes the brilliantly clever"write it then see it" originaland simply makes it more fun to play.The fact you can now use the dpad is easily as beneficial an update as the ability to use adjectives. If you played the original you will know what to expect. Set a challenge – an easy example being "how do I reach that item in a tree" – then simply type the word of object you think you would need. For this simple case you may type in "ladder" or maybe an "elephant" to knock the tree down? The game's dictionary is hugely impressive and usually offers up the item you had in mind. The freedom is liberating at first and you find yourself typing in "blue vampire" or "green fridge" just for fun. Once the novelty wears off – as it will have done for veterans of the original – it comes down to the quality of the challenges.What I have played so far suggests a nice variety of setting although the levels do feel a little more restrictive than the original game. Generally though I was happier with the tighter challenge.  The game will also appeal to parents of youngish children who will find the game an amusing way to teach spelling.Anyway, what do you think? You planning to get the game? Or was the original all the scribbling you needed?
China has overtaken the US as home of the world's fastest supercomputer. Tianhe-1A, named for the Milky Way, is capable of sustained computing of 2.507 petaflops – equivalent to 2,507 trillion calculations each second.The US scientist who maintains the international rankings visited it last week and said he believed it was 1.4 times faster than the former number one, the Cray XT5 Jaguar in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. That topped the list in June with a rate of 1.75 petaflops.The US is home to more than half of the world's top 500 supercomputers. China had 24 in the last list, but has pumped billions of pounds into developing its computational ability in recent years. The machines are used for everything from modelling climate change and studying the beginnings of the universe to assisting aeroplane design.Housed in the northern port city of Tianjin, near Beijing, Tianhe-1A was developed by the National University of Defence Technology. The system was built from thousands of chips made by US firms – Intel and Nvidia – but domestic researchers developed the networking technology that allows information to be exchanged between servers at extraordinary speeds.Tianjin's weather bureau and the National Offshore Oil Corporation data centre are already using it for trial projects. "It can also serve the animation industry and bio-medical research," Liu Guangming, director of the National Centre for Supercomputing,told China Daily.Tianhe-1A was in seventh place in the last rankings. Its domestic rival Nebulae, housed in Shenzhen, was at that time ranked second, capable of sustained computing of 1.271 petaflops.The next set of rankings is due next week, but Jack Dongarra, the University of Tennessee computer scientist who oversees them,told the New York Timesthat Tianhe-1 "blows away the existing number one".Wu-chun Feng, a supercomputing expert and professor at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, told the NYT: "What is scary about this is that the US dominance in high-performance computing is at risk. One could argue that this hits the foundation of our economic future."Professor Arthur Trew, of Edinburgh University, who oversees the UK'sHECToR supercomputer, said the Sino-American battle to have the fastest device was not particularly significant. "They are showing off with big machines – fine. It's the underlying message that is important. The fact they are pumping this kind of money into building these machines in general is far more important … Europe is being left behind," he said."Having the computer is only half the battle. You have to use it, use it sensibly, and actually produce results. That requires software and brains and a lot of investment on top of the machine."Trew added: "The number of software engineers that China is turning out and putting into centres dwarfs anything we are doing in the west. I remember going to Shanghai and being astounded by the number of people they had – hundreds. Edinburgh is one of the largest centres in Europe and we have got 100."Essentially, supercomputers allow research that could not otherwise be done because it involves calculations too complex to solve by other means or where an experiment cannot be carried out."Where you have complexity and cannot experiment – because a system is too large or small, or [the effect] happens too quickly or slowly, or it is just too expensive – you have to simulate it … The range of applications is growing and growing," said Trew.The NYT calculated that Tianhe-1 could perform mathematical operations about 29m times faster than one of the earliest supercomputers, built in 1976. Scientists in the US are already contemplatingexascale computing– aiming to develop devices capable of performing a million trillion calculations a second.• This article was amended on 29 October 2010. The original referred to petaflops per second. This has been corrected.
The UK information commissioner was prevented from taking stronger action against Google earlier this year after its Street View cars collected sensitive Wi-Fi because the Data Protection Act at the time limited his powers.Rob Halfon, the Conservative MP for Harlow, revealed today the information commissioner, Christopher Graham, told him his office was hamstrung by UK data protection legislation when it came to taking action against Google. The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has since been given extra powers to fine organisations up to £500,000 for "serious breaches of the Data Protection Act".The US technology company admitted earlier this year that its Street View cars had collected sensitive personal information – including whole emails, passwords and URLs – from some Wi-Fi users on unsecured networks while photographing UK locations. Google admitted to "mistakenly" collecting the data in May, sparking criminal and privacy investigations in a number of countries including the UK.Graham was criticised for ruling in July that Google was unlikely to have collected "significant amounts" of personal data or data likely to "cause any individual detriment", despite an ongoing criminal investigation in the UK and contradictory findings by equivalent bodies in other countries.Google last week admitted the data harvested when its Street View cars photographed residential areas was more sensitive than initially thought. The ICOsubsequently saidit will re-examine the data following the revelations."In the view of the UK information commissioner, who examined the Google computers, there was really nothing to worry about [at the time]," Halfon said, during an MPs' debate about privacy and the internet held in Westminster Hall."I have subsequently spoken to the information commissioner. His view is that he would have liked to take stronger action against Google, but that his office was constrained by the Data Protection Act 1998," he added."Perhaps this is true. But why did he not say so at the time? ... Indeed, their public announcement in July was all the more surprising given the actions of foreign governments."An ICO spokesman confirmed after the debate that the information commissioner had subsequently been granted extra powers. "On 6 April 2010 the Information Commissioner's Office was given the power to issue monetary penalty notices, requiring organisations to pay up to £500,000 for serious breaches of the Data Protection Act. As the Google Street View data breach occurred before this date, even if it was appropriate, we would be unable to use this enforcement power on this occasion," he said.The news will anger privacy watchdogs who called the original ICO ruling "farcical". Halfon said the body's action had been "lamentable and lily-livered".Ed Vaizey, the culture minister, revealed during the debate that the Metropolitan police "have decided it would not be appropriate to launch a criminal investigation" over Google's data breach.Vaizey said he will meet with the information commissioner next week "to discuss what he intends to do as the next step, certainly what he intends to do about the data, but also what he intends to do in terms of Google's breach of data protection".Aninvestigation by the Canadian privacy commissionerfound that Google's data harvesting occurred when a lone engineer programmed the company's Street View cars with code enabling them to scoop so-called "payload" data from unsecured wireless internet connections in the near vicinity.Google admitted the "mistake" in May following an investigation by the German privacy watchdog, but the true nature of the data collected has only come to light in recent weeks. The company now says it wants to delete this data as soon as possible and is cooperating with investigatory bodies around the world.The company faces an unprecedented 38-state class action on this matter in the US, a judicial inquiry is ongoing in Spain, and investigations are underway in a number of European countries.Halfon also said he was "given the strong impression" by Google on 14 September that the data collected by the company was "very basic and did not amount to very much"."It was confusing for me then to read what Google's vice-president of engineering and research, Alan Eustace, said on the company's blog over the weekend," he added."[...] I hope sincerely that this house, the government, and the British public, have not been deliberately misled. I hope also that Google's U-turn on this is voluntary, rather than a scenario where they only admitted the truth because investigations by other governments have given them no alternative."Halfon also used today's debate to call for a self-regulatory internet bill of rights with the power to fine private companies found guilty of invasions of privacy. He said the UK was in need of "an information commissioner who acts as a policeman, not an apologist".Don Foster, the Liberal Democrat MP for Bath, said any inquiry should also look at the role of the ICO. "For [the ICO] it's difficult because there is a lack of clarity about where the boundaries of his powers exist," Foster added. "It's difficult to understand how someone meant to look at these issues on our behalf is being prevented from doing so by the legislation."Nadine Dorries, the Conservative MP for Mid Bedfordshire, said it "isn't enough for the information commissioner to stand back – he needs to push the boundaries and test them".In April 2009angry residents in Milton Keynes blocked the pathof a Google Street View as it photographed panoramic imagery of Broughton, owing to concerns over privacy.The MP for North East Milton Keynes, Mark Lancaster, today said the driver of the vehicle had refused to stop recording the imagery when challenged by the group, adding that Google had not responded when requests were made to remove the specific imagery.Alex Deane, director of campaign group Big Brother Watch, said: "Google must now sit up and take notice of the concerns of many members of parliament who today voiced their concerns at the company's reckless approach to personal privacy."They will no doubt get a verbal ticking-off from the internet minister Ed Vaizey when they next meet, but a simple slap on the wrist doesn't go far enough.""It is a great shame that the Met have let Google off the hook as what they did was plainly wrong. The ball is now back in information commissioner's court. Thus far he has been an apologist for the worst offender in his sphere not a policeman of it – let's hope that he now shows some teeth and punishes Google for their wrongdoing."
As the Bloglines RSS aggregator is closing at the end of the month, could you recommended another web-basedRSSreader? I don't particularly want to use Google Reader if there is a suitable alternative.David DixonIn ablog post, Ask.com says it is closing Bloglines on 1 November, and that "being locked in an RSS reader makes less and less sense to people as Twitter and Facebook dominate real-time information flow. Today RSS is the enabling technology – the infrastructure, the delivery system. RSS is a means to an end, not a consumer experience in and of itself. As a result, RSS aggregator usage has slowed significantly, and Bloglines isn't the only service to feel the impact. The writing is on the wall."This is true, but it's not the whole story. First, in 2005, Ask.com bought Bloglines and Google launched Reader, and at that point, Bloglines was much better. Since then,Google Readerhas been redesigned twice and got much better, while Bloglines hasn't – the newBloglines Betawent nowhere. Second, people have many other ways to consume RSS (Really Simple Syndication) feeds from websites. These range from powerful but complicated online services such asNetvibes(of which iGoogle is basically a knock-off) to simple email clients such as Microsoft's Windows Live Hotmail (the desktop version).The "line of least resistance" now leads from Bloglines to Google Reader, because most people already have a Google account. When you are logged into one Google service, Google Reader is just a pull-down menu option from the Google home page. And my warnings about putting too many eggs in the same basket – where you risk losing your data if your account is hacked or blocked – don't apply to RSS feeds.But although it looks as though the web-based reader market is closing down, leaving Google Reader with total market domination, there are still a few alternatives. If you like Bloglines' relatively simplistic approach, for example, have a look atFastLadder, or possibly the beta version ofFeedShow.Nonetheless, the main market trends are to combine RSS webfeeds with feeds from social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and to display the results in a more magazine-style format. If you fancy that kind of thing, tryActivorus. (Feedlyalso takes that approach, but in a Firefox browser window.)One of the benefits of reading RSS feeds is that they provide lightweight versions of stories without all the website's furniture such as logos, widgets and navigation systems. Full RSS feeds mean you no longer have to go to the website and wait while your browser downloads JavaScript code, Flash and Java applets, large photos and other mostly-pointless rubbish. However,Feedlooks– which is still in beta – has now "reinvented" feed reading by letting you "read content in full visual glory without leaving the app". Feedlooks looks like a basic feed reader (with a built-in Twitter client), but when you click on a link, it shows the original story from the web site. You can try it for an hour without creating an account.Finally, for real geeks who think Bloglines was much too ponderous, there's the open sourceTiny Tiny RSSproject. You can set it up on your own server (it requires PHP, MySQL, etc), which is the least transitory option. Unfortunately, the Tiny Tiny RSSdemo siteis no longer accepting new users, but you can hunt around for ones that people have set up on free servers.As I'm sure you know, the key to trying different RSS readers is OPML (Outline Processor Markup Language), an XML format for outlines originally developed by Dave Winer forRadio UserLand. Before Bloglines closes, all users should click on Feeds, then choose "Export Subscriptions" and save the resulting OPML file. Your alternative RSS reader should be able to import it.
How do you measure the effects of the internet on the economy?This is a difficult question to answer. The main reason for the difficulty is that the effects of the internet range from the highflying entrepreneurs making a killing in the city, to someone checking an email on their phone. How do you measure such a range of effects?One way the Office for National Statistics (ONS) deal with this by breaking down the economic activity of the country into categories. The economic effects of the internet are largely included under the categories of "communications" and "business services", and then to a lesser extent in other categories.You can see that this classification makes it difficult to isolate the value the internet to the UK economy.However the ONS also have some great research oninternet commerceandinternet accessandsocial trendsbrought about by the internet.TodayThe Boston Consulting Group(BCG) funded by Google UK, have brought together a number of the ONS data sources mentioned above and data from the consulting firm Sanford C. Berstein, and produced areport on the economic value of the internet.The approach they have gone for is to classify the effects of the internet into levels of influence. The first, and easiest to measure, influence is digital transactions, for example internet downloads and online purchases. The least influential level includes the social effects of the internet, these are not easy to measure.One of the key conclusions of the BCG report is the estimate that, in 2009, the internet business made £100 billion in the UK.  That is 7.2 % of the 2009 GDP.We have extracted the data from the charts in the BCG report, and have a sheet of all the publicly available data sources used in the report, so you can look at the figures in a useable format.•Get the dataDownload the data•DATA: download the full spreadsheetWorld government data•Search the world's government with our gatewayDevelopment and aid data•Search the world's global development data with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?FlickrPlease post your visualisations and mash-ups on ourFlickr group•Get the A-Z of data•More at the Datastore directory•Follow us on TwitterData summaryMeasuring the economic effect  of the internetSectorSector's share of 2009 GDP (%)Internet7.2Real estate and business services23Manufacturing12Wholesale and retail11Financial services9Health and social work7Construction6Education6Other services5Public administration and defence5Transport and storage5Mining3Hotels and restaurants3Communications2Utilities2Agriculture1Source: the UK Office for National Statistics BCG analysisReal estate and business services includes rents and the imputed cost of home ownership, in addition to business activities and business services.Communications includes telecommunications, so there is large overlap with the Internet economy.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Set amid the rolling hills and lush forests or Marin County, about an hour outside of San Francisco, Skywalker Ranch is the spiritual home of Star Wars. Built and extended throughout the eighties, it's where George Lucas has his production company and where Skywalker Sound, the legendary audio facility originally known as Sprocket Systems, is based. "George planned Skywalker Ranch as a Mecca for filmmakers and creative artists of all kinds to come and make movies in Northern California," says our tour guide for today, David Collins, LucasArts' lead sound designer and voice director. "That was his dream, and Star Wars afforded him that dream…"And true enough, the main building, a gleaming white architectural confection constructed in the style of a late-nineteenth century ranch house, is out of bounds today: a writer's workshop is being held there. Instead, we're closely chaperoned into the technology building ("no photos, no filming" is the constant refrain from Lucas staff) and assemble in the Stag theatre, the site's 300-seat screening room. It's a typically luxurious edifice with slight art deco leanings, the gargantuan speakers hidden behind the screens and the walls to maintain the clean design. We're told that the two golden statues at the front of the auditorium were originally part of Emperor Palpatine's office in Episode II. Lucas does love to recycle those props."This is George's premiere space to look at films," says Collins. "It's probably the most THX-certified room in the world. Everything is totally custom made. A lot of screenings go on here and at Skywalker Sound when they're making films, they'll come in here to review what they're mixing. Skywalker Sound boasts seven mix stages of various sizes: Avatar, Star Wars, Jurassic Park, Saving Private Ryan, all the Pixar films – they were all mixed here. And in fact, when the building is very busy, they will remove several rows of chairs, put in a console and mix films right in this theatre."Elsewhere in this building are 32 editing suites and 12 mixing 'pods' ("George has this idea that you should be able to edit and mix at the same time, because that's where digital technology has gone," says Collins). They're used not just by movie companies, but also for TV, advert and trailer work – and video games, of course.And then there is our next destination, the scoring stage, a cavernous arena the size and height of a generously-proportioned sports hall. It was built to record full symphonic orchestras and can accommodate up to 120 musicians. "The acoustics in this room make it one of the most flexible recording rooms in the world," says Collins. "There's quite a decay, but what's amazing is you can pull out a series of panels in the walls and completely deaden the sound. We can get the reverb down to about half a second if you want to record a rock band or something. There are also isolation booths so you can set up drums, vocals, guitars… anything you can think of."The variety of music that's been recorded here is impressive. As well as orchestra work, they've had jazz big bands, pop groups like Nsync and rock bands like Joe Satriani's super group side project, Chickenfoot. We go through to the control room, adjacent to the scoring stage, and meet the award-winning in-house recording engineer, Dan Thompson, who's barely visible behind an enormous multi-channel mixing desk. "We have a lot of classical clients," he explains. "The Kronos Quartet have recorded many records here. The pianist Frederic Chiu has recorded 15 albums. We do a lot of video game scores – Uncharted was done here. We did some work on SOCOM 4. And of course movie soundtracks – Hellboy, Zodiac, Jurassic Park III…" I ask about the desk, and he explains it's a Neve 88R (there's a picture of iton the front page of Neve's website) – "It's the only analogue desk in this building. It's the thing that heats this room," he jokes. "It also turns into a spaceship and takes off," adds Collins.Right now, the room is set up for a string quartet – there are just four chairs in the middle of the enormous space, surrounded by spot mics and large wooden slabs called diffusers, each sporting an irregular mosaic surface. "They give the sound a little bit of early reflection," explains Collins. "A lot of what gives a room its character is the way sound bounces off the walls. If you want to sound like a cathedral or a symphony hall this room is suitably cavernous. But for recording, say, a string quartet you want some early reflections in order to make the sound more interesting – the diffusers provide that, because the sound bounces off them in interesting ways. The microphones pick that up and it brings out more of the harmonics of the instrument."Collins talks about the chaos in here, when there's a full orchestra to record. "You've got a ton of chairs, a ton of stands – all of which need to be lit. There are headphones, mics – it's just a sea of cables." Navigating all this will be one sound engineer charged with checking the headphones, mics and settings for each musician during the session – "this, by the way, is the coolest job ever," says Collins. "Being amongst the orchestra is just the most amazing sound. I mean, it's one thing to listen to a recording, it's another to be out there feeling the vibrations, feeling the air being pushed out at you. It's overwhelming."In many ways, the process of recording game and movie soundtracks is similar. In both sectors, due to tight productions schedules, the orchestra will very rarely get any rehearsal time before a session: "They do one or two takes of each cue then they move on," says Collins. "These musicians are sight reading as they go, they're incredibly high calibre. A game will be recorded in one week. They just fly through it." For film soundtracks, the conductor does at least get to see what he's working with: a large screen at the back of the auditorium plays the relevant movie sequence, so he can conduct in time with the action.For Force Unleashed II, LucasArts employed an 85-piece orchestra, featuring musicians from the San Francisco symphony and San Francisco opera. The team recorded an hour of brand new music for the game over three days and four sessions on the scoring stage. But this is where game and film music start to diverge. The TFU2 compositions then had to be blended in with elements from the original John Williams pieces as well as sections from the first Force Unleashed game to create a three-hour score that can be split into constantly interchangeable elements."With a film, you know that everybody's always going to be experiencing the exact same second of music, at the exact same time. It's a linear, passive experience," says music supervisor, Jesse Harlin. "But a video game is an active experience – and because of that, it takes a very special type of composer who is able to plan for, and work with, essentially modular pieces that can be re-combined in the game engine, depending on what the player is doing. You have to be able to expect the unexpected."The composer they use is Mark Gritsky, who also worked on Force Unleashed I. "Mark is one of my favourites," says Harlin. "There's a whole musical language to Star Wars that has been established by John Williams and Mark really understands the harmonic and melodic sensibilities that Williams created. He knows how to write new music that exists within the same world: you can seamlessly go from the music of John Williams to the music of Mark Gritsky and it feels like it's all part of the same universe."Concludes tomorrow!Part one isherePart two ishere
A quarter of a century after the first ".uk" internet domain name was registered in Britain, the internet is now more valuable to the country's economy than the transport, construction or utilities industries, a report published today will claim.The internet contributed some £100bn, or 7.2%, to gross domestic product in 2009,according to the authors of The Connected Kingdom, a report commissioned by Google and carried out by US consultancy Boston Consulting Group.Despite relatively slow broadband speeds, the UK is a global leader in e-commerce, with the highest online spending per capita in the world, as ranked by BCG's index. It also has the second largest online advertising market in the world after the US, according to consultancy Bain.Although the internet permeates almost every part of the UK economy, if it were treated as a discrete sector in its own right, its notional size would make it the fifth largest industry in the UK, just behind financial services, which accounted for 9% of GDP last year.Internet companies now employ 250,000 people, according to BCG, and many of those jobs have been created by small and medium-sized businesses.Paul Zwillenberg, a partner at BCG and one of the report's authors, said: "Everyone thinks the global Silicon-Valley-based companies are driving growth, but this report makes clear that in the UK it is coming from the 'mom and pop' businesses. They now have global footprints, they are selling to the 'long tail' and they are making their businesses more efficient."Zwillenberg added that one of the principal reasons for the strength of the internet in the UK is the huge amount of money Britons are spending online: "We are now a nation of digital shopkeepers," he said.Around 62% of adults, or 31m people, purchased products online in 2010. Last year, they spent £50bn on goods or travel, or about £1,600 each.Online shopping has become big business in the UK because of a lingering belief among consumers that they are victims of "rip-off Britain", the report claims. "There is a perception that prices are higher in Britain and there is a perception – correctly – that you can buy goods and services cheaper online," Zwillenberg said.He added: "We don't have the 'big box' stores like Walmart. [That has encouraged] e-commerce and with e-commerce comes advertising, because if you're selling stuff, you're going to advertise."The report also found that the UK is a net exporter of e-commerce goods and services, exporting £2.80 for every £1 it imports, in contrast to what is happening in much of the rest of the economy. The country exported £9.5bn in e-commerce goods in 2009 and imported £3.4bn.BCG also uncovered some dramatic geographical imbalances in the internet economy. Not surprisingly, London and the south-east are the strongest areas for the internet, while Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland scored poorly.Matt Brittin, managing director of Google in the UK and Ireland, said that although it has transformed business models, changed consumer behaviour and created new industries, no-one has tried to put a precise value on the UK's internet sector until now."We all know how the internet has changed the way people access information and communicate" he said. "Now… we can see its adoption by British businesses has become a major contributor to the UK's GDP, and that the internet is a central pillar of the UK's economy."Zwillenberg described the £100bn figure as "a very conservative estimate". Half of that total is consumer e-commerce, with a further £10bn spent last year on internet service providers and equipment used to get online. The remaining £40bn comprises government spending and private investment in internet technology, including major infrastructure projects rolled out by companies such as BT.The £100bn figure does not include business-to-business e-commerce – a £360bn a year market – or take account of the indirect benefits the internet has created, including productivity savings. Zwillenberg pointed out that the average UK household saves £1,000 a year shopping online.The report also finds that the internet's importance to the UK economy is set to grow. If current growth rates continue, the report predicts the internet economy could account for between 10% and 13% of GDP by 2015."One of the key drivers of that growth is going to be broadband penetration", Zwillenberg said. "If we get universal broadband penetration, we think we'll get to 13%". He added that closing the so-called "digital divide" will be vital if the internet's contribution to the UK economy is to grow as rapidly as the study predicts.More than 19m of the 26m households in the UK now have an internet connection and broadband penetration has more than doubled since 2005. One in five UK adults still do not currently use the internet; the government has set a goal of ensuring everyone has internet access by 2015."It is important to get the last part of the population online," Zwillenberg said. "There are a lot of people who could really benefit from getting access to government services online or taking advantages of the cost savings on the internet. They are the ones who need it most."
Soviet Safeway (in 2008). Photo byp373on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Phone Marketplace Is Weak at 1000 Apps &gt;&gt; PCWorld Business Center"Some developers blame the Microsoft coding, others say they can't use an overlay such as with Android apps, while still others are waiting to see how successful Windows Phone 7 will be. It's likely that some developers l don't want to see their blood, sweat and tears go the way of Microsoft's Kin."However, among the most needed things are enterprise apps. Previously there were reports that the Windows Marketplace would put more effort in this area, including offering companies the capability to create in-house apps, but so far there's been little talk or action on this."Actually this feels completely wrong. The Marketplace is growing very fast - and Apple's lineup didn't happen overnight either.Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) - Q1 2011 Earnings Preview &gt;&gt; iStockAnalyst.comAnalysts' consensus is earnings per share for the figures to be announced tonight at $0.552. That would translate to net income of $4.87bn, and (if they grow in line) revenues of $17.09bn.Microsoft having big Apple week -- just don't tell Melinda Gates &gt;&gt; TechFlashOffice 2011 for Mac, the Windows Phone Connector for Mac, Messenger for Mac. But Melinda Gates won't let Apple stuff cross the Gates threshold, apparently.FusionCharts v3 Documentation &gt;&gt; FusionChartsInteresting: adapting the Flash-based FusionCharts so that they can run on the (non-Flash) iPad too."Starting FusionCharts v3.2, FusionCharts also allows you to create JavaScript based charts (sometimes also referred to as HTML5/Canvas charts). This feature allows you to create charts in web browsers where Flash Player is not supported e.g. in iPhone/iPad. FusionCharts internally makes use of Highcharts library to generate JavaScript based charts. This feature works seamlessly with the current implementation mode of FusionCharts, which means you do not have to write any additional code to implement this."Digg's Algorithmic Mystery Tour &gt;&gt; Digg AboutOn the Digg blogg, a warning that you might see a different set of "news" - randomly. "There's a chance you might notice some weirdness on Top News during this test."Did Digg game its own system to benefit publisher partners? &gt;&gt; Dumplings from this Panda!Short answer: no, but it may have been trying out different algorithms and creating fake users to try them out. Certainly it's a puzzle. (Suggestions that the Guardian is somehow involved aren't true.)YouTube API Blog: Flash and the HTML5 &lt;video&gt; tag &gt;&gt; YouTube API blogFrom June: "While HTML5's video support enables us to bring most of the content and features of YouTube to computers and other devices that don't support Flash Player, it does not yet meet all of our needs." Worth bearing in mind. (Thanks@hellosomfor the pointer.)Twitter's temptation continues in South Korea &gt;&gt; Yonhapnews"According to the Twitter Korea Index, the number of Korean Twitter users jumped from 127,000 in January to more than 1.8 million today. Twitter has even surpassed Facebook in Korea, where it has 1.58 million users."Is Apple About To Cut Out the Carriers? &gt;&gt; Gigaom"Sources inside European carriers have reported that Apple has been working with SIM-card manufacturer Gemalto to create a special SIM card that would allow consumers in Europe to buy a phone via the web or at the Apple Store and get the phones working using Apple's App Store."Full price, of course.webOS 2.0 review &gt;&gt; EngadgetLooks like a nice interface. The conclusion: "Despite some issues, webOS 2.0 is probably neck and neck with iOS4 when it comes to polish and ease of use, and that's a pretty huge thing for Palm. This isn't just a good OS, it's a great OS, and the updates in this version have made it even better. It's obvious that when combined with even slightly better hardware, it's also a fast experience that makes it easy to get real work done. And that's the problem with webOS 2.0, really. Palm is still hampered by last-generation, underpowered hardware."Apple's Push For HTML5 Video Wins on the Web | Peter Kafka | MediaMemo | AllThingsD"Video search engineMeFeedia, for instance, now says that 54 percent of Web video is now compatible with HTML5. That's more thandouble the tally the company had back in May— less than six months ago. And because MeFeedia's numbers include old archival stuff that most people don't watch, as well as big troves of Chinese video you're unlikely to see, the practical number for most Web surfers is much higher."Then again, it isn't hard to find Web video that isn't compatible with your iPad or iPhone — or your Android handset from Google, either. And once you do, the fact that the clip is in the statistical minority won't make you feel any better."Journey Planner API Back Online &gt;&gt; Malcolm BarclayAn independent developer writes: "When it comes to the journey planner, TfL's primary objective is always ensure the website planner is online (some peoples jobs depend on it). If the API has to be pulled for load reasons or some idiot does something stupid; I'll be the first one to support such a decision. So a word of warning, don't screw this up for everyone. If you don't know what a session key is, the difference between a HTTP POST &amp; GET request or how to XML parse you have no business using the API."Apple delays white iPhone until next spring &gt;&gt; ReutersTruly becoming the Chinese Democracy of iPhones. Dammit, aren't unicorn horns white to begin with? So what the hell is the problem?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The internet is worth £100bn to the UK economy, more than 7% of national income, according to a report out today.If it were an industry in its own right, the internet would be more than twice as large as the UK hotel and restaurant market and nearly as big as the financial services sector, which accounted for 9% of GDP in 2009, the study says.The findings come in a report for Google, the internet's most successful company. The study, by Boston Consulting Group, US consultants, places a value on the UK internet market for the first time.BCG partner Paul Zwillenberg, one of the report's authors, said the internet is giving UK companies access to international markets and allowing them to generate "astounding" growth.But the research also found that there is a digital divide in the UK, with some parts of the country – including Scotland and Northern Ireland – lagging far behind London and the south-east.The report finds that British consumers' willingness to shop online was powering the internet's expansion. "A lot of it is driven by e-commerce", Zwillenberg said. "As a proportion of retail sales, [online transactions] are high. The UK is punching above its weight."The country has the biggest e-commerce market in the world when measured by the amount spent per capita, BCG found. The popularity of shopping for goods and services online has also helped to fuel a boom in online advertising as companies spend heavily to attract users to their sites.Britain has the biggest online advertising market anywhere outside the US. It is worth around £3.5bn a year.The internet economy is likely to grow by 10% a year for the next five years and could contribute up to 13% of GDP a year by 2015, the report's authors conclude. It is already larger than the utility and transport industries combined.That growth will depend in large part on whether targets for broadband penetration are met, however. The government has said it wants everyone to have internet access at a speed that would allow users to download video content by 2015.Twenty-five years after the first UK website address was registered, and over a decade since the dotcom crash threatened to wipeout a generation of fledgling British internet companies, the report also highlights the success of small firms in using the internet to boost global sales. The UK now exports goods and services worth £2.80 for every £1 it imports. Google's annual turnover was £23.6bn last year, almost a quarter of the £100bn contribution the entire internet made to the UK economy in 2009.
It's only the third of the series in the UK, but already the release ofa new Professor Layton gamefills me with unreserved joy. The games – in which a detective solves puzzles while  unravelling a greater mystery – are  incredibly charming. Although Layton is nominally British, the accordion music and the fact he seems to drive  aCitroen Dyane, along with his  thrillingly Jewish first name "Hershel", give the games a pan-European feeling. I'm not alone in loving them – the games have sold 10m copies, and are among the most popular on Nintendo's DS console.Puzzle games such as Professor Layton haven't had the high profile of more action-based twitch-reflex games. Even Tetris is as much a test of reflexes as lateral thinking. But it's precisely the lack of high-octane thrills that makes me love Layton. Though I can enjoy spending an eveningracing my assassin avatar across rooftops in Veniceorshooting cowboys,I hate the twitchy sensation of having adrenaline racing through my body but without physical movement to use it up.If you want to experience the quiet meditative delights of puzzle games without shelling out for a DS console, there are online casual games to enjoy. Try the mind-bendingElectric Box,in which you have to send electricity to a motor by constructing Heath-Robinson gadgets. Or the design gameSprocket Rocket, which provides an even greater inventive challenge.The lovely thing about puzzle games is that you know however hard the challenge  confronting you seems, it is soluble. In a  confusing world, they're a comforting place to spend some time.
LimeWire's launch predates the Apple iPod by 19 months and the iTunes store by 23 months. Today millions of users accustomed to illegally sharing copyrighted content over the past decade will be temporarily inconvenienced after apermanent injunction against LimeWire's illegal peer-to-peer filesharing operation.The New York federal court ruling is a significant, but not game-changing legal victory for a battered music industry. But LimeWire as we know it is dead. As with the closure of other peer-to-peer networks such as Napster before it, LimeWire must now go legit.The permanent injunction follows a four-year legal battle brought by music industry heavyweight, the Recording Industry Association of America. The level of damages faced by the site will be revealed in January – the RIAA says LimeWire has single-handedly cost the music industry hundreds of millions of dollars.Ripples from the ruling will reach the internet'sinnumerable other peer-to-peer networks. But history says it will do no more. The internet is awash with people sharing things, legally and illegally."It's not about the technology, it's a paradigm shift," says Mark Mulligan, an analyst specialising in music at Forrester Research. And the notion that you can eradicate illicit filesharing if you eradicate particular networks is a fallacy."It's so much more than that," Mulligan adds. "The record labels have won this battle, but they've not won the war."Some have predictedthat the LimeWire closure will have an "unprecedented impact" on peer-to-peer filesharing. Hold your horses, look at the history books, says Mulligan."It's significant to a degree but I wouldn't say it's game-changing or will change the filesharing landscape. There are many instances of filesharing networks [where] once the legislative process has caught up with them they've just tried to make a pass towards legitimacy. Look at Napster and Kazaa – there are numerous examples," he adds."It has done nothing to dent the scale of filesharing. The reason they fileshare is not because they love the way the technology works, it's because it's easily accessible content which is free."The simple fact is that the vast majority of music fans don't like paying for music – and that's even more pronounced in the filesharing community. Look at Spotify, they're at a peak conversion rate [percentage of paying customers among all users] of 5% at the moment – and it's that high because of their iPhone strategy and portability."The best case scenario for freemium models of music streaming is a 10% conversion rate, insists Mulligan. "LimeWire even in their wildest dreams couldn't hope to convert that amount of people. Hopefully for LimeWire's sake and for the industry's sake they can convert a small amount of users, that's the best they can hope."The solution, experts predict, is a service free at the point of access and subsidised by a third-party carrier –a mobile operatoror an internet service provider, for example."This is where LimeWire should start to play," Mulligan says. "In the current landscape that's the only way that free can be made to pay."George Searle, LimeWire chief executive, today put on a brave face. "Our team of technologists and music enthusiasts is creating a completely new music service that puts you back at the centre of your digital music experience," he wrote onthe parent company's site. "We'll be sharing more details about our new service and look forward to bringing it to you in the future."
MySpace's redesign has been a very long time in the making.The company's response to theFacebookexplosion - and subsequent nosedive in its own traffic - appeared to be to go into lockdown, some kind of paralysing crisis. Several high-profile executives left, including chief executive Owen Van Natta and co-creator Chris DeWolfe, while it chose to take a very old world approach to updating its embarrassingly dated design by saving up all its ideas for one massive revamp. The more agile approach would have been to keep attacking smaller problems and improving the site incrementally - but then again, there was so much to rethink that maybe a blank slate was less intimidating.Either way,MySpacegave itself a massive challenge by taking so long to overhaul a site with such a serious competition.comScore puts international users at 90 million in September 2010 - down 18% from 110m a year before. In the UK, the drop in user numbers has been even more dramatic, falling 35% year on year to 2.738 million users from 4.242m. Users have also been spending less time on the site; average minutes per user fell from 23 to 12.7 in the UK, down 44.7%. And comScore's data on the exposure of advertising on social networking sites also looks pretty bad for MySpace; it has 5.6% reach compared to Facebook's 71.6%.So that'sthe stateof the MySpace union. Now - what have they come up with to turn all this around?Unsurprisingly, they've dumped a lot of old features, including the logo and 'a place for friends' strapline. The main focus of the new site is music, as you might expect, and it's all about personalisation. It's everything you would expect in a music focused site, down to the rounded corners of the graphics (which, in their blockiness, are reminiscent of theMetrolook).•Design: Generally cleaned up, tabs moved to the page top and news feeds of activity.•Sharing: Recommendation and sharing features for music, TV and games content with your friends.•Customisation: Musicians have new tools to design their pages, accounts can synchronise with Facebook and Twitter and there are loyalty badges for users."It's music first,"Rebekah Horne, MySpace managing director for international, told us - explaining that the redesign took place over 12 months. Rather than trying to compete with Facebook, this new look is about shifting away. "This heralds a new direction. Particularly for the music scene in the UK, this connects the socialisation of content, through the tools of the site, with people using the site across music, TV, gaming, celebrity gossip - it adds that social layer."I asked if that means describing music, TV and games content as the foundation of the site, and putting a social layer over that; Facebook, arguably, is the reverse. Horne didn't seem to want to commit to that. "We provide a platform for both," she said. "Content creators can build an audience, and there's a better tool set for interacting with and connecting to other fans."Isn't it unusual to 'hard launch' a site these days? "It's not a hard launch. It's a suite of new products supporting our new strategic focus, but new products will be rolled out incrementally. MySpace has changed from a pure social net, a user-to-user community, to be more around the content... people can connect based on their shared interests."Horne admitted the cleaner site was informed by user research that the site "had too many ads, was too cluttered", and that simplifying the process for adding a friend, for example, had reduced the number of ads.The MySpace generation?Anyone with a lingering nostalgia for the days of pasting in ropey MySpace skins will be delighted to hear you can still do all that with the new design, Horne assured me. What the site has done is add more intuitive customisation tools for less HTML-happy users. (Hey - they were ugly, but had a certain popular charm about them.)Developers are already being given an API for the games section of the site; current apps includePledge, which lets indie bands raise money from fans,Romeo, a mood-based music player, andHunted Real Time Radio, which plays the most popular MySpace artists of the last 60 seconds.The UK will get the new MySpace look in mid-November, with updatedAndroid and iPhone appsalso due soon.  Facebook, Twitter and YouTube integration is already built in, but there's more of that coming. MySpace wants to "enable openess", it says, so expect syncing, apping and integration.For News Corporation, this revamp could be about pushing MySpace one last time, putting some serious money into the new look and an updated, more focused strategy that will help it compete. Or - and this is more likely - this new look is aboutdressing MySpace up for a sale.Isn't it a shameMTVdidn't buy MySpace back in the day? "Possibly," says Horne. "But we have a stronger proposition in music now than MTV, and a good stake to the claim that MySpace can really start to define a generation in the same way MTV once did."MySpace's new 'grid' layout option
LimeWire, one of the world's most popular peer-to-peer filesharing websites, has been shut down after a four-year legal battle with the US music industry.A federal court in New York issued a"permanent injunction" against LimeWirelate on Tuesday, ruling that the platform intentionally caused a "massive scale of infringement" by permitting the sharing of thousands of copyrighted works by its 50 million monthly users.Founded in 2000 by Mark Gorton, a former Wall Street trader, LimeWire is now restricted from allowing the searching and sharing of copyrighted material. The website will continue "working with the music industry to move forward", a LimeWire spokeswoman confirmed.US judge Kimba Wood ruled that record companies "have suffered – and will continue to suffer – irreparable harm from LimeWire's inducement of widespread infringement of their works", adding that the potential damages were "staggering".The court also ruled that LimeWire should "use all reasonable technological means to immediately cease and desist" copyright infringements still taking place through applications already downloaded.Yesterday's court order comes after a four-year legal battle between LimeWire and theRecording Industry Association of America, the representative body for many of the world's largest record labels.In May, Wood found LimeWire liable for widespread copyright infringement. The level of damages faced by the site's New York-based parent company, Lime Group, will be decided in January 2011.The RIAA said LimeWire has cost the music industry hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue.According RIAA figures, US recorded music sales fell to $7.7bn in 2009 from $14.5bn in 1999. The rise to prominence of peer-to-peer filesharing networks is singled out as a primary factor for this decline by the RIAA.The site's popularity is reflected in a survey by NDP Group, which found that LimeWire was used by 58% of people who have downloaded music from a peer-to-peer network in the year from May 2009.Following Tuesday's injunction, the RIAA said: "For the better part of the last decade, LimeWire and Gorton have violated the law."The court has now signed an injunction that will start to unwind the massive piracy machine that LimeWire and Gorton used to enrich themselves immensely."In January, the court will conduct a trial to determine the appropriate level of damages necessary to compensate the record companies for the billions and billions of illegal downloads that occurred through the LimeWire system."Earlier this year, LimeWire planned to release a service called Spoon, which would allow users to legally purchase copyrighted tracks. The deal fell through, however, when record labels were told that the site would need at least a year to migrate illicit filesharers to the new service.Napster, which claimed more than 100 million users at the height of its popularity at the beginning of the decade, collapsed in 2002 under the strain of a number of legal challenges.The company reinvented itself as a legal download service in 2004, later launchingwhat it claimedwas "the world's largest and most comprehensive MP3 store", before unveiling a "freemium" model – similar to that of Spotify – last year.
In what seems to be the missing link in the evolution of mobile and gaming, more evidence of a Sony Ericsson PlayStation phone has been unearthed byEngadget- along with tantalising pictures of a prototype handset.PlayStation phone - Sony Ericcson's prototype. Photo: EngadgetOriginally slated for a 2010 release, 2011 now looks more likely for the handset which could put Sony Ericsson back in the smartphone game. The PlayStation phone will probably run Android 3.0 (amore advanced version of Androiddestined for tablets and higher-powered phones) and the prototype pored over by Engagdet has 512Mb of RAM, 1Gb of ROM with two familiar PS controller buttons and a central touchpad.This would be Sony Ericsson's first Android handset and one that Sony would use to launch a new section of the Android Marketplace specifically for PSP Android games. Engadget got wind of this back inAugustbefore these pics were published, and said games would probably include PlayStation staples Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, God of War and LittleBigPlanet, though 3D and augmented reality games are likely.Will it be here in time for Christmas? Sounds like that was the plan, but it might be a push. Either way, Sony will be hoping the handset can help it compete against games on the iPhone and iPod, and perhaps lure a few social gamers onto a more serious gaming gadget.• Update: It's fake, claimsNowGamer. I've contacted Sony for clarification.... and they gave us a big fat "we don't comment on rumour or speculation". On balance, though, it is very likely there is some form of PlayStation phone in the works. Those "rumours and speculation" stretch back years - check out thismock upfrom early 2008.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
At the Letterman Digital Arts Center in San Francisco, legendary special effects house Industrial Light and Magic shares its office space with LucasArts, the game development arm of LucasFilm. Here, concepts of game and filmmaking are closely entwined – the two work together, drawing ideas and technologies from each other as the twin entertainment media converge.It's a gaming event, for example, that helped kickstart a new R&amp;D project at ILM – real-time movie-making using motion capture systems. As Mike Sanders, the digital supervisor at ILM, explains: "On the first Force Unleashed game, LucasArts called us and said they were doing a press junket and wanted to do the Clone Cam thing with everyone on the tour. So I said, that's going to take a while, why don't we do something different? Let's write some code to port the virtual reality in this room into the game engine live and then we'll put the press people right into gameplay and they can lightsaber battle against the apprentice in real-time."Sure enough, a week later ILM had modified a system that could port motion capture footage directly into a game engine. In other words, you could have two actors in mo-cap suits performing moves, and everything they did was fed live and direct into a PC running an environment from the game. "This was the basis for us thinking, 'hey why don't we use the game engine as a real-time renderer for… anything'". As he's speaking Sanders picks up a camera plugged into his computer set-up and points it at different parts of the room. On a PC screen he's running an environment from Force Unleashed 2, and as he pans the camera, the in-game camera changes accordingly.Concept models of Davy Jones from Pirates of the Caribbean – later rendered in CGI by the team at ILM.Of course, ILM has been converging real and CG elements like this for years (including the ground-breaking creation of Bill Nighy's Davy Jones character in Pirates of the Caribbean) – it's just that in the past, all this data would have been fed into a computer to be later lit, tweaked and placed within the environment. The thing is, not only does such a staged process take more time, it also robs the director of creative autonomy.What Sanders and his team are doing now is evolving and condensing the practise. With the ILM system, directors will be able to 'film' CGI sequences in a real room with real actors, while looking into their cameras and seeing the virtual world. "It's kind of how Avatar was shot," says Sanders. "That's the idea: real-time animatics, real time game cinematics, whatever you want. So for VFX shots, rather than doing render passes overnight, you can do base layouts, base lighting tests and animation tests and watch in real-time – this will be a game changer in the future."This R&amp;D concept is now part of ILM's Director's Toolkit, an array of digital tools designed to facilitate moviemakers working on CG-heavy projects. As ILM spokesman Greg Grusby explains, "This new technology means we can give a director a view of their characters performing in the actual environment they will be seen in for a given shot or sequence with interactive lighting, shadows and a choice or render looks. It's much more robust, and the system is flexible enough to be placed in a director's home or office. Via a game controller, the filmmaker can scout virtual locations, create storyboards based on actual camera placement, test camera moves or begin choosing lenses, camera platforms or map out other technical details of a shot."It's also a very hands-on intuitive system. "I wanted to show management how easy it was to use the tech," Sanders continues. "So by myself, I shot three pieces of motion capture, processed it, looped it back over the game engine, and with the virtual cameras, I did maybe 30 different shots and 120 camera moves. Then I cut it all together in Final Cut Pro with audio in less than two days. The motion system is just broadcasting what's going on in the room and the animation system's picking it up, retargeting it on to the character and recording it to the game engine. I was just trying to show that you don't need $10m and a team of 30 people to pump out animatics, or even game cinematics, anymore..."And in this way, the director has complete control over his CGI shots, using cranes, dollies, whatever he wants to achieve a shot, which is then converted straight into CG footage. It's the sort of virtual filmmaking that can be difficult to grasp for conventional helmsmen. As Sanders explains, "We work with a lot of directors, some of them get it, some of them don't in terms of the spatial understanding. Spielberg's awesome – he'd just grab the camera and go look for a shot that you would never have imagined, but he knew where it was in his head and when he went to it, everyone would think, 'ah that's why he's doing it.'"Sanders is certain that this virtual filmmaking technology will filter across into games, and we'll start seeing movie sequences that have been constructed in real-time. "I think you're going to get way more dramatic and cinematic quality in game scenes," he says. "It's already happening in the film sector, and in animatics in general – there's a lot more decision making going on at the front end of the art process."The creative process is no longer linear," he continues. "It's more cyclical in terms of iteration. Traditionally, you'd have a script, then a storyboard, then you go into asset build, and you do your pre-production art then you go into production and post-production… Well all of that stuff is being considered at the front end now. And nowadays we're still using production tools in post-production – with Star Trek and Transformers 2 we used virtual cameras in post-production, live in the shot, actually adding CG camera moves on the animation, adding camera shake – JJ loves his camera shake. We replicate all of that realistically, in real-time, on Maya… it's happening throughout the process. It's changed the way we think."It is somewhat comforting to note, however, that while digital technology guides everything that's done here, there is still room for techniques and influences garnered from the original movie trilogy. In another part of the building Matt Omernick, talks about how the design of Force Unleashed 2 has been heavily inspired by the grungy, melancholic look of Star Wars and Empire Strikes Back. "We go back to the original inspirations: that's true for story – back to the Joseph Campbell stuff – and that's true for art," he explains. "We look at the Ralph McQuarrie drawings a lot. Even though it's a very different art style, there's a spirit to what was done there that you don't see anywhere else.""We drew a lot of inspiration from the very Earth-based, gritty, lived-in type of design that was new to sci-fi when the first films came out. Tatooine embodies it the most, that's for sure, especially when you get into Mos Eisley and everything is sand-beaten and torn up and chopped away. The cantina, the interiors, we used as visual reference quite a lot – we'd say, look, you can tell this door has had eight different types of droid bump into it seven times a day for 50 years. And then in contrast the empire is so clean and perfect and reflective and shiny… We used those as our spectrum – it should be one step above Tatooine, somewhere around the bad part of Naboo!"He also talks about how the art team has learned key techniques from Lucas and  Irvin Kershner. "The Star Wars films were really smart about using colour carefully and thoughtfully," he explains. "Most backgrounds in the films are quite de-saturated – they reserve colour and saturation for the most important elements on screen. This gives the viewer absolute clarity on what's important in your image."He shows a still from the opening moments of Star Wars, with R2 and C3P0 walking down a corridor in the doomed rebel ship. The stark featureless white background means our attention is locked on C3PO, while R2, with some blue colouring, is the secondary priority. There's similar background uniformity on Hoth and on Endor, forcing our attention onto the warring Rebel and Imperial forces.In Force Unleashed 2, then, the team regularly uses flags and doorways painted in saturated blues and reds to indicate new areas for the player to explore. As Matt Omernick explains, "It works really well because during gameplay you have experience points popping up at you, you have holocrons, there's all this critical information, but what we don't want to end up with – that a lot of games do – is this sort of confusing visual confetti. Sometimes, you just see colour everywhere. So we use colour cautiously to guide the player's eye and give them information about their priorities."This 'colour ramp' shows how the designers have matched the predominant scenic colours to the emotional and narrative action in each section of The Force Unleashed II.The team has even produced a chart showing the over-arching game plot and the points in which emotion and action build to crescendos. Each different stage of that process is given a relevant colour, matching the intensity of the narrative, and that colour is used throughout the environment. In this way the scenery becomes a subconscious guide to the story.Omernick also talks about how the Force Unleashed design team has been given access to props from the films. "Up at Skywalker Ranch, there's this giant warehouse of archives, which has everything from Jabba the Hutt to a box that was in the corner of the cantina. Thankfully, a lot of those props still exist, but Lucas has also done a good job of documenting the movie props via photography and making that available to us. And there's all this really cool prop re-use that you only pick up on it when you go through the archives. An example is, in the cantina in Star wars, behind the bar, there are these weird cylinders with holes punched in them – presumably that's what they pour drinks out of. But when you fast-forward through the movie and you see the droid, IG-88 – his head is the same object! (a Rolls-Royce Derwent jet engine burner,according to Wookipedia)Each vehicle and character class in Force Unleashed II is designed to be instantly recognisable from its silhouette.According to Omernick, even in the area of character design, where human modelling is now uncannily detailed and intricate, the team is continually drawing back to the basics. "Many games suffer from a similar visual problem – when you see an enemy way off on the horizon, you're like, 'well, what is that? Is it a stormtrooper, is this person going to hurt me?' So we spent a lot of time working on each character's silhouette – we weren't thinking about volume, or colour or do they have lights or VFX on them, we just thought let's get the silhouette right, so when you see a guy on the horizon you can immediately say, 'holy shit, that guy's huge and he's got a frickin flamethrower!'"To pack in more emotion and atmosphere, the art team (which reached 60 members during the peak development time on TFU2) has built a new deferred lighting engine, which allows multiple real-time light sources, adding an extra sense of Empire Strikes Back-style shadowy menace to everything. And for the vast menagerie of characters, there are new facial models with more polys, better use of shaders and a dramatically improved facial animation system. There are nice little graphical flourishes too – like when lead character Starkiller ventures outside on the storm-swept planet of Kamino, his clothes get visibly soaked from the top down. When he goes in again, they gradually dry and lighten up.For any new planets, species or spacecraft that LucasArts adds to its games, they need to consult LucasFilm licensing, the Orwellian-sounding department that checks everything is canon. "They understand what is, and what isn't Star Wars," says Omernick. "If there's something we're excited about, but unsure about, that's where licensing will come in. They'll be like, 'this is fine, but change this, alter that, the skin colour should be different…' That's the whole reason that division is there, to maintain continuity... They are the Star Wars brain!"Continues tomorrowSee part onehere
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamZynga Tops Electronic Arts as Social Games Spread &gt;&gt; BusinessWeek"Zynga Game Network Inc.'s estimated worth surpassed Electronic Arts Inc.'s stock-market value, a sign of the ascendance of social-networking entertainment at the expense of traditional video games."Zynga, the maker of such games as "FarmVille" and "FrontierVille," is valued at $5.51 billion, according to SharesPost Inc., an exchange for shares of privately held companies. Electronic Arts, the second-largest game publisher by sales, is worth $5.22 billion on the Nasdaq Stock Market."Yes, but how many acres do the Farmville farms cover?Scrivener for Windows &gt;&gt; Literature and LatteIf you're doing the Nanowrimo (write a novel in the month of November) challenge, and use Windows, you might find Scrivener useful. Though you might just find it useful whatever you're doing.Nielsen cops to iPad stat cock-up • The Register ForumsIn reference to..."The customarily competent media-survey firm, The Nielsen Company, has backtracked on its startling claim that one-third of all iPad users have never download an app. The company now says that the number of download virgins is fewer than one in ten."This articleand therelated download (PDF)&#10;have been amended to reflect updates to the percentage of iPad users in the survey downloading apps," now reads a post on the company's blog describing the study in which the download stats appear."The "Possibly a simple answer" comment looks like it's got the solution to this puzzle.Dawn of a New Day &gt;&gt; Ray OzzieWritten in a kind of looping professor-ese that makes it read like the transcript of what might have been a good speech, he notes (in a sidelong no-names way) that Apple and Google have outdistanced Microsoft in mobiles and the cloud, and then asks people to consider a post-PR world: "there's one key difference in tomorrow's devices: they're relatively simple and fundamentally appliance-like by design, from birth.  They're instantly usable, interchangeable, and trivially replaceable without loss.  But being appliance-like doesn't mean that they're not also quite capable in terms of storage; rather, it just means that storage has shifted to being more cloud-centric than device-centric.  A world of content – both personal and published – is streamed, cached or synchronized with a world of cloud-based continuous services."Basically, a warning to those in Microsoft who are listening: change or get run over.WARNING!!! iPhoto 11 Erases ENTIRE iPhoto Libraries &gt;&gt; Pigs, Gourds and WikisApple has a habit of occasionally putting out software that wipes key elements such as music or photo libraries. Backups are good.12-year-old finds critical Firefox flaw, earns $3,000 bounty &gt;&gt; ZDNetWow. "By Alex's estimation he spent about 90 minutes each day for about 10 days until he spotted it–a flaw in the memory of the running program."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
A security flaw has been found in Apple's latest iPhone which allows strangers to bypass the handset's passcode-protected lock screen with a few button presses.Most users set up a password to prevent others from accessing the phone's contents, but a Brazilian manposted a videoof himself on the internet showing a quick way of getting around it. He taps the "emergency call" button, then enters three # signs, taps the green call button and immediately presses the button on the top of the phone that locks the screen.That simple procedure gives access to the phone app, which contains the address book, voicemail and call history – but it does not allow access to texts, emails or any other iPhone apps. The Guardian tried out the procedure with success on an iPhone 4 running iOS 4.1, the latest version of Apple's mobile operating system.The iPhone is one of the best-selling handsets on the market, but security researchers have criticised its weak security. A similar flaw discovered on the iPhone in 2008 allowed people to easily bypass the lock screen to access mail, contacts and bookmarks. Apple acknowledged the bug and issued a software patch.In August this yearthe German government warnedthat several Apple devices including the iPhone and iPad had two critical security weaknesses, and advised users not to open PDF files or access unfamiliar websites until Apple released a fix.Hat-tip:9 to 5 Macandwired.co.uk
On this week's Tech Weekly, the comedian and presenterRobert LlewellynjoinsAleks Krotoskito talk about Carpool, his hugely popular web chatshow with celebrities, scientists and the general public, set in his car. Tech Crunch'sMike Butcherjumps on board too, giving his insights into the top news stories this week.The trio talk about Google Street View's latest privacy fumbles, as the UK's information commissioner re-opens its case against the mapping service. Allegations around the world suggest that the company collected email addresses, email content and passwords in addition to the photos that make up the 3D representations of cities, inspiring privacy campaigners to call foul.Robert is vocal in his concerns about the source of the £530m earmarked by the coalition government in last week's comprehensive spending review for broadband rollout; the BBC isn't a source for such infrastructure, he says. Mike concurs. And all three are curious about the future of software distribution via Lion OS for Mac, but what will the walled garden mean for consumers?Don't forget – Tech Weekly is coming to the Bradford animation festival at the National Media Museum on 9 November.  Our guests will include Charles Cecil, Kieron Gillen and Dan Pinchbeck, and it'll all be presented by Keith Stuart.There's details on how to come join us here – tickets are FREE.And later in November Tech Weekly is coming to Dublin for a meetup –Jemima has more details here– come and visit us!Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Google has pledged to donate $5m (£3.15m) in grants to non-profit news organisations to help "develop new approaches to journalism in the digital age."The technology giant will invest $3m in journalism projects outside the US, it said today. The remaining $2m will be donated to theKnight Foundation, a US-based initiative for supporting innovation in journalism.Nikesh Arora, president of Google's global sales operations and business development, said the company hopes the grants will "help new ideas blossom and encourage experimentation", adding that the aim is to benefit news publishers of all sizes, not just smaller enterprises.He wrote on the company's blog: "Journalism is fundamental to a functioning democracy. So as media organisations globally continue to broaden their presence online, we're eager to play our part on the technology side."[...] But while we're mostly focused on working with news organizations to develop better products for users, we also believe it's crucial to encourage innovation at the grassroots level."Singled out for special mention by Arora wasDocumentCloud, a user-generated index of primary source documents enabling easier use of public records.In February this year Google donated $2m to the Wikipedia's parent company, the Wikimedia Foundation. Last month the company handed out $10m to five non-profit organisations thattackled serious global challenges.
It was during a recent heated discussion about the merits of Fifa 11 that I came to a strange realisation – for me, the world of football sims and football management sims peaked in about 2005 (as an aside, this was probably the year real-life football peaked for me as well).There's always an element of rose-tinted glasses in this sort of statement. I was at university at the time and living with friends - the perfect scenario for prolonged bouts of social gaming. The tendency to get misty-eyed about your pre-job/wife/child (delete as appropriate) lifestyle means it's not that hard to find people who genuinely believe that Space Invaders was better than Call of Duty or that PacMan was better than Fallout.However, despite my fondness for that period of my life, it seems I'm not alone in holding such opinions about these particular games. For many, Championship Manager 03/04 and Pro Evolution Soccer 4, both released in 2004, represent the pinnacles of their respective genres. How is it that, six years later, they're still looked back on fondly by so many gamers?Depth, depth and more depthI've been playing the preview code of Football Manager 2011 (out in the first week of November) for the past few weeks – it would be unhealthy to do nothing but play New Vegas, right? – and, as much as I love it, I can't help but feel that the series has long since taken a wrong turn from which it may never recover.I'll make it on to the Guardian's graphics team one dayThis wrong turn, as sort of illustrated in the graph above, is to focus on becoming more and more realistic at the expense of what makes the game actually fun. Depth, it seems, is now valuable for depth's sake alone.In CM03/04 it was possible to sit in your living room, laptop in hand, and whizz through half a season with your eye on the TV, pausing only to pick the team and delve into the transfer market. The depth, if you wanted it, was there lurking below the surface – the tactics engine was, and still is, obscenely complex.But you could leave that to someone else if you wanted – just download a tactic from a forum, stick one of the game's super players in (Evandro Roncatto playing MC in 'Diablo' ... ahhh ...) and you could lead pretty much any team to glory.Now, many of you will sneer at this. What's the point in playing a management game if you aren't even going to make your own tactics or create your own training regimes?But for many (dare I say most), the pleasure to be found from 'Champman', as it was affectionately known, was not in watching 90 minute matches to observe the movement of your right-back with 'Closing Down' increased by 10%, but in creating your own fantasy world in which Plymouth could beat Real Madrid in the Champions League final and Cherno Samba could become England's greatest-ever striker.Everyone could play Sports Interactive's Championship Managers in the way they wanted to. And it's this freedom and accessibility that's given those early iterations a place in the hearts of so many today.OverwhelmedSix years on, and starting a season on Football Manager is about as complex and stressful as a mortgage application. Training regimes, press conferences, tactics training, player interactions, coach recommendations, scouting, board meetings - it's easy to feel overwhelmed.It's true that you can switch off a great many of the extra bells and whistles if you'd rather have a simpler experience. But knowing that your appalling home performances may rest on the fact you've neglected to fiddle with one of these thousands of variables is frustrating.New features include being able to hold short conversations with players, greater tactical analysis, more press conference questions – all well and good for hardcore simulation fans but, for the rest of us, it just means it now takes even longer to get through a season.Don't get me wrong, I still enjoy Football Manager and think the game is an incredible accomplishment on many levels. But the level of effort and commitment required is now beyond the point most people are interested in.Fifa 11Fifa 11, I feel, has suffered from a similar problem. Fifa 10 was probably the most I've enjoyed a football game since university. 2010 World Cup was even better, I felt, although obviously hamstrung by its lack of club teams. I was disappointed, then, to find Fifa 11 really quite different to the previous two iterations.The game was critically very well received – after all, in terms of graphics and gameplay it is a fantastic rendering of the game of football. But I've found that, more often than not, matches are simply hard work. Chances are few and far between and, unless you play as a top team, it's difficult even to keep possession.I daren't write off a new game completely after only a month of playing, but, as with Football Manager, it seems to have been decided that realism at the expense of fun is a fair exchange.Thirty-yard screamers and last-minute  5-4 comebacks were unrealistically frequent in PES 4 – but who cares? If realism is paramount, why do people so rarely play games of Fifa with 45 minute halves? Australia won the 2006 World Cup when I played through it with a friend. Spain won in our version of 2010. I don't need to tell you which is the more cherished memory.Of course, it seems logical that games offer more and more depth as technology improves. The games industry needs us to buy new versions of the same games every year, and new features and added realism are always the most obvious bait. The question is, how long can this trend continue? In 10 years, will Football Manager allow you to pick the types of food a player eats before a game?Reversing the trendThe forthcoming release of NBA Jam for the Wii suggests games publishers are aware of the gap in the market for sports games with a focus on 'fun'. I'd predict that a similarly pitched football title (or even a simple HD re-release of an old PES) would go down very well with gamers.The simple answer to all my moaning, of course, is that there's a difference between 'games' and 'sims' and Football Manager, and now Fifa, are the latter (ironically, Fifa contains the closest thing out at the moment to a management 'game' in its watered-down management mode).Racing fans can choose between F1 2011 (sim) or Need for Speed (game). Aviation enthusiasts can pick up full-on flight simulators or opt for H.A.W.X.  But Fifa, Pes, Championship Manager and Football Manager all seem to be pushing in the same direction. Why can't football fans be offered the same choice?It's assumed, with sports titles in particular, that what people want is the closest possible representation of real life on their small screen. But this isn't true of other genres.Medal of HonorMedal of Honour, for example, isn't an attempt to recreate real life as a soldier. It's an attempt to recreate the life of a soldier as depicted in an action film. Logic would dictate that the biggest-selling football series would have more in common with the recent Goal! films than Sky Super Sunday.Of course developers are hardly trying to make games that aren't fun. But the overwhelming focus on new features and realism is, I feel, beginning to make the whole genre of football games suffer.Since there must be a levelling off point for game realism, a new trend for simplicity and retro, Sensible Soccer-style playablity will come. But how long will we have to wait?
A 27-year-old Armenian citizen, suspected of masterminding a computer worm that infected at least 30m computers worldwide, stealing financial information and sending out billions of malicious emails, has been arrested.Police in the Netherlands have seized and disconnected 143 computer servers that were being used by cybercriminals to co-ordinate one of the largest "botnet" attacks ever recorded. The malicious worm, named Bredolab, could infect up to 3m computers a month and send out more than 3.6bn infected emails a day.Infected machines will receive a notice detailing the extent of damage inflicted and advice on removing it at the time of the next login, the Dutch national crime squad confirmed.The 143 servers being used as a base for the attack are owned by the Dutch hosting provider LeaseWeb. The company identified the malicious use of a small portion of its servers in the summer, a day before Dutch authorities ordered LeaseWeb not to immediately destroy the botnet so that it could be forensically investigated.Today, Dutch police confirmed that an Armenian citizen, aged 27, has been arrested as the suspected mastermind behind the Bredolab network. Police declined to reveal the gender of the suspect, who was arrested at Yerevan airport on Monday evening and is being held in Armenia.Dutch authoritiestoday saidthat the suspect made several attempts to retain control of the botnet after police seized and disconnected its servers.As a last throw of the dice, authorities said the suspect used 220,000 infected computers to orchestrate a so-called "distributed denial of service" (DDoS) attack against LeaseWeb.A typical email sent out by a Bredolab-infected machine would contain "news" of the death of a celebrity and invite recipients to open the attached file. Once the attachment is opened the machine becomes infected.The Bredolab virus takes complete remote control of a computer and has the ability to obtain sensitive information by recording keystrokes, accessing files, passwords and a user's financial data. Previously, cybercriminals have targeted users of the social networking sites Facebook and MySpace with the Bredolab worm.Early indications from security experts suggest that Bredolab has been almost completely stopped in its tracks by the actions of the Dutch police. Prior to 29 September,Trend Microrecorded an average of 200 Bredolab samples a day from its monitors – that figure fell dramatically to just four a day after this date.Alex De Joode, head of security atLeaseWeb, one of Europe's largest hosting providers, said the botnet had evaded detection because of its "highly sophisticated" method of lying under the radar."Basically, this was a factory where you could buy, for example, 10,000 infections in the UK and a cybercriminal could upload a trojan or piece of software that could infect RBS or any bank and go on to attack British IP addresses," he said."It is very significant, as the malware writer could specifically target their audience. Instead of sending an RBS trojan to Uzbekistan, they could direct it to the UK. It was also highly sophisticated because the interaction went through proxies, so there was no connection through LeaseWeb – it did not arouse suspicion because there was no irregular traffic patterns."De Joode said it was hard to estimate the scale of the damage done, or the amount of sensitive information collected, by those behind the attack at this stage, saying it was only clear that 30m computers around the world are capable of spreading the malware.Rik Ferguson, a senior security advisor at Trend Micro, said that his analysts tracked down the origination of Bredolab to Russia."Bredolab was truly a global criminal distribution software network," he said. "It rose very quickly in prominence around August 2009, so we set up monitoring straight away. Interestingly, [Bredolab] tried pretty much every avenue possible to infect machines – including 'drive-by downloads', and installing other malware."
The mobile network3has released the first in a series of research papers describing traffic use and behaviour among its mobile broadband customers, published here first by the Guardian.Of the 2,500 terabytes of data used across the network in July, it's no surprise thatFacebook(by several metrics now the most popular website in the world) came out top, accounting for 7.023 terabytes of data use across the network. 3 says the data, from more than 1 million customers, is specifically from mobile broadband or dongles, which evidently have moved far beyond primarily business use; 3 claims its users account for 40% of the dongle market.Of the top ten most visited services, most are the names you'd expect, includingYouTube,Google,MicrosoftandMSN- and evenBebo(MySpacedid not make the top ten).Apple, which includes traffic toiTunes, accounted for 2.491 terabytes through July.Top sites visited by 3's mobile broadband users, July 2010In decreasing order:Facebook 7023 gigabytes of dataZynga 3584Apple 2491Google 1717Farmville 1680MSN 947Hotmail 708YouTube 678Microsoft 657Bebo 304The surprise is that casual gaming companyZyngais second only to Facebook in volume of data used at 3.584 terabytes, while Zynga's own flagship game,Farmville, is listed fifth with 1.68 terabytes for the month.That volume can partly be explained through the data-intensive graphics and imagery of the games, says Charlotte Blanchard, 3's director of internet products and services, but that result also reinforces the growing popularity of social gaming that goes far beyond the traditional profile of a 25-35, console-buying male. "With gaming on Zynga and Facebook the profile is very different, and much more female and over 35s," she said. "That social element drives the frequency of use, and I do think people will be surprised how quickly this social gaming space is starting to kick off."On the other hand, even releasing this data reminds consumers quite how closely network operators are watching consumer behaviour and shaping their traffic accordingly. "We've always had to find a way to manage certain traffic, so that things like emergency traffic can always get through and that we can provide a good experience to the majority of customers – despite that fact some people may want to be streaming huge amounts of video," Blanchard said. "Maintaining a minimum level of good customer experience on those core service always been our approach to managing traffic."If 3 is to support the growing customer base that enjoys social media and gaming, but don't want to appear to be penalising them by restricting their data use, is it looking at offering dedicated gaming or social media bundles? "We've got no confirmed plans for that route," said Blanchard. "We're just focusing on encouraging and supporting the majority of our customers. This research shows there might be an opportunity to do that but we don't have any plans."
Wonderful game though it was, the original DJ Hero suffered from poor sales. So it's great that Activision has backed a second iteration. Perhaps it was dismissed as rhythm-action fodder for those who spend half their lives in clubs – whereas those in the know will tell you it represents about as much fun as you can have with your clothes on while manipulating a bizarre input device attached to a console. If the alt.country heads and jazz cats had a go on it, they might just have some sort of epiphany.DJ Hero 2, like its predecessor, bears scant resemblance to any form of known DJing, and adheres solidly to the blueprint set by its predecessor. But it shows plenty of evidence that serious thought has gone into how to improve it – mainly by adding plenty of new features which make you feel much more in control of proceedings.This time around, the scratching, tapping, crossfading, spinbacks and so on have been augmented by sequences of freestyle scratching, cross-fading and rhythmic sample tapping, plus so–called "held taps", which are longer, effected samples that you have to press and hold. Plus, if you're that way inclined (and in a real club nothing makes the spirits sink more than seeing a DJ do this), you can grab a mic in order to sing or rap along. And you can now attach two turntables in order to battle a friend.This time around, in other words, there's more to do, and more periods in which you can do your own thing. It generally feels much slicker than its predecessor – the visuals give a great impression of the excitement found on the best dancefloors, the single-player game feels more coherent (you have to establish a superclub-style brand on the back of skills on the ones and twos) and the music is better. The original game's bias towards bootleg-style hip-hop mixes has given way to a clubbier vibe (although the audacity of some of the mixes will still make you grin). Top DJs like Tiesto, the RZA and Deadmau5 have contributed, along with David Guetta, whose cringeworthy cheesiness really shouldn't tally with his incredible popularity.You can buy various bundles, with one, two or no turntable peripherals (the peripheral itself is unchanged), most of which come with a free copy of the original game. Even if you bought the original, it might be worth getting another turntable, as the battle mode will get any party started, while making a racket that non-participants will still appreciate. For our money, this is the best rhythm-action game money can buy – it would be a travesty if it failed to find an audience this time around. Much like the travesty which is David Guetta's failure to attract universal hoots of derision.DJ Hero 2 was reviewed on Xbox 360
Google's newly appointed director of privacy has admitted the internet giant was "taken by surprise" by concerns over its Street View mapping product and has generally given its users too many "unpleasant surprises" in recent months.Alma Whitten, one of Google's longest-standing privacy and security experts, today said the company had "taken to heart" concerns raised about its Street View service, which adds panoramic street-level photographs to Google Maps.Google installed Whitten late last week as privacy director of its engineering and product divisions, following intense scrutiny of the company's ambitious mapping project in a number of countries including the UK.The UK Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) hassaid it will reinvestigate datacollected by Google's Street View cars, which the company has admitted include some users' emails and passwords."The main focus is to rebuild trust. There have been more unpleasant surprises than we would have liked in the past period and it's definitely a very big focus of mine to make sure that doesn't happen again," Whitten told the Guardian yesterday."We're very aware that our business is based on the trust of users and if damaged [then] that's the worst thing we could do," said Whitten, adding that the company would now place more emphasis on inventing "privacy controls as fast as the products we invent them for".Street View has been accused of invading privacy since it debuted in five US cities – New York, San Francisco, Las Vegas, Miami and Denver – in May 2007. Although the photographs it uploads to the internet are taken of public spaces, complainants and privacy activists say the product is a gift for those with malicious intent and that being photographed on the site should be operated on an opt-in, rather than an opt-out basis.Google, for its part, says an opt-in system would be unworkable and that it goes to great lengths to protect those who do not wish to be shown online. Approximately 3% of the population of 20 German cities due to be photographed on Street Viewopted outwhen offered the opportunity, the company revealed last week."There is a degree to which the company has been taken by surprise by the Street View concerns," said Whitten, who has a global role but will be based in London. "It's something that we've taken to heart, how differently people have reacted to it across cultures. We need to make sure we're listening and have our eyes open to it, definitely."It's an ongoing goal for us as the company's products continue to evolve. We do want to make sure that we have thought things through and we don't want to frighten users when products are launched – we want surprises to be pleasant ones."Based at Google's modern offices in Victoria, London, 44-year-old Whitten will lead a significantly expanded team of engineers and product managers on controls such as theGoogle Dashboard, which houses a user's privacy settings on one single page for easier use.Google has also saidthat it will send all employees on a new "information awareness programme", beginning in December, and a new compliance process will be added to the product review setup.While such measures are driven by Google, others have come about as the result of pressure by governments and privacy campaigners in individual countries.In Germany, Google responded to an unprecedented level of public debate around the internet and privacy prompted by the impending Street View launch by offering an opportunity for members of the public to opt out of being photographed on the site. This offer was taken up by244,000 German households. In Italy, regulators said Google must widely advertise where its mapping cars are going at least three days in advance."The important thing is that we remain an ambitious company built around giving everybody universal access to information that will help them. [It's important that] we don't have to tone down that ambition," Whitten said."We want to be equally ambitious about having good privacy controls and coming up with new, out-of-the-box ways to solve some of these problems, so we want – as much as possible – not to back down on what is a founding principle for this company."For me, it comes back to data and the challenge of Google explaining what we do with it, what our intent is. Some of that is rocket science, so we do need to be able to explain rocket science – it's a core responsibility that we do a better and better job of technically explaining these things."Whitten, who published her PhD – titled "Why Johnny can't encrypt" – on the usability of online security mechanisms in 2004, joined Google when "it was just a white web page with a search box in the middle", one year before the company floated on the stock market and long before the launch of Gmail and Street View. "In some ways, it's changed a lot since then, in others ways not at all," she said.Whitten argued that misconceptions about Google's services, for one, have been ever present. "There are lots of things people think we do that we don't," Whitten added. "The biggest is people thinking we use all these kinds of data to track people individually – and somehow we have data that we're selling to people. People don't really understand how Google makes money – when we try demystify that, most of the time people understand."Although Whitten has been in charge of looking at privacy issues for Google's engineering team for two years, the new role – not to mention ongoing legal investigations – presents new challenges."My responsibility ultimately is to protect the privacy of Google users," she said. "In the coming months I'll be hammering out the details [of plans outlined inlast week's blog post], and continue doing work with the Dashboard and some of the other things we've got in the pipeline. Really, it's to make sure that we get better at explaining rocket science."
A west country burr and scouse grumbling as you wander around a medieval village? Yes, the Fable franchise is back. Developed by Peter Molyneux's Lionhead team, the Fable series of action role-play games has always flattered to deceive. Fable 2, while enjoyable, never really gave you a compelling reason to spend time away from the main adventure by getting married or buying a house. It felt – like many previous Molyneux games – that these were good ideas waiting to be properly implemented. Fable 3 fixes this. Like the other two games in the series, this is ostensibly an RPG but one that focuses on action and interaction rather than fiddling with stats. Fallout fans, for example, will scoff at the simplistic weapon upgrades but they would be missing the point. Fable is much more about what you do than how you do it, and never more so than in Fable 3.This time round the game is split in half. The first part of the game follows the standard template, so think quests, combat and exploration. As a prince (or princess) your main aim here is to recruit followers to your cause and eventually overthrow your tyrannical sibling. Support is achieved by visiting the various – and varied – locales and gaining the trust of the locals. While much of this is secured by delivering an item or clouting whatever enemy is bothering them, there is some real invention to most quests. Acting in a play or donning a chicken costume are just some of the early challenges. Once you have got your army together – this can take anything from eight to 12 hours depending on how much you explore – the revolution can begin. At this point you take charge of the kingdom and it becomes a strategy game. You can still get down and dirty – literally – with your subjects but the emphasis is now on the bigger picture. As a change of pace it works fantastically well. Best of all, your decisions have a real impact and there are some surprisingly tough decisions to make.While this new structure is the biggest success in Fable 3, there are a host of smaller improvements too. Interactions with the locals are on a one-to-one basis now, making any success more worthwhile. For example, wooing a partner takes longer but the upside – or downside if you get an STD – is more keenly felt. You can also get down to some dirty dancing or hold hands with other characters and lead them to safety in a similar way to the PlayStation 2 classic Ico. If this is too romantic then you can always fart or belch your way to disapproval.What else? Co-op is more tightly integrated than before and works well offline (online is not live until Friday). The scrapping of menus is a plus point too. Now when you press start you enter the "sanctuary". Here you can access your weapons, costumes – all fully customisable – and the world map. Your butler Jasper – John Cleese – hangs out here too and acts as your guide to the action. Cleese is joined by Ben Kingsley, Simon Pegg and others in a game that is quintessentially English. Presumably the 16+ age rating is for the use of phrases like "sod off" and "bloody hell".Five stars then, right? Not quite. For a start, the graphics are mixed. The locations are varied and generally evocative, with wind blowing through swaying branches. However, despite the new inclusion of industrial steam and grime the settings are fairly typical fantasy tropes. There is also some occasional scenery "pop-up" too, though this is minimised if you install the game to the Xbox hard drive. But the character graphics and voice sync are at least two years behind the high standard set by the Mass Effect series.Loading times are an issue too. While the use of the world map and fast travel gives the perception of a living world the on-foot action is still interspersed by far too many loading screens as you enter a new section. The world still tends to feel like a collection of levels. Also the glowing trail that shows you your next objective is off-putting. Yes, it can be removed, but it does tend to limit exploration as you mindlessly follow it on auto pilot. As you would hope, though, going off piste is rewarded by treasure and money.Despite these concerns it is hard not to get sucked into Fable 3. The combination of gaming styles – action, role-playing and strategy – works wonderfully together and there are some real consequences to your decisions. It may be too accessible for hardcore RPG fans but Fable 3 is hugely enjoyable and the perfect game to play on a cold winter's evening.• Fable 3 reviewed on the Microsoft Xbox 360
As our minibus pulls up to the LucasArts entrance area, there is a strange but not entirely unexpected welcoming party. Darth Vader and six stormtroopers are lined up along the road, standing to attention in the blinding Californian sunshine. Yesterday San Francisco saw its hottest day since records began, and today the temperature remains in the high nineties. Of course, press trips like this are rare, and the staff at LucasArts like to pull out all the stops. But these poor bastards must think they're back on Tatooine.We're here to tour theLetterman Digital Arts Center, a sprawl of modern office buildings constructed in 1999 to house LucasArts and legendary special effects company, Industrial Light and Magic (ILM). LDAC takes up 860,000 square feet of office space (and 17 acres of parkland) on Frisco's historicPresidiosite, once a major Spanish stronghold and then a US Army base for 150 years. And like the previous residents, the Lucas organisation has left its own distinctive mark on the landscape; by the main entrance there is an ostentatious fountain with a life-size statue of Yoda at its head.This is where all the in-house Star Wars games are developed; currently that meansForce Unleashed II, a Jedi brawler set between the two cinematic trilogies. It's also where ILM produces its cutting edge special effects: the likes of Avatar, Star Trek and Iron Man II have all recently passed through here.A Boba Fett statue housed in the Letterman reception.The company's far-reaching influence over the last 35 years of cinematic design is abundantly obvious in this vast complex. Everywhere we walk, there are models from the era before digital computer effects took over. We pass ET, the slimer from Ghostbusters, a large spacecraft from Deep Impact; in the reception area there's Han Solo frozen in carbonite (beside a fan-made life-sized model of Jar Jar in carbonite – Lucas liked it so much he wanted it hung here) all intricately detailed and lovingly preserved. On one wall you'll even find the front door to ILM's original office, emblazoned with, 'The Kerner Company, Optical Research Lab', the pseudonym the department once went under in order not to draw attention to its building. "They wanted to keep it because every big director they worked with in those early days touched that door handle," explains LucasArts PR manager Barbara Gamlen as we wander by.The Howard Anderson optical printer – a relic bought by George Lucas to help with compositing effects in Star Wars.Throughout the complex, the walls are lined with painted concept art. We pass a particularly massive canvases depicting an airport scene from Diehard 2, and there are early sketches of Darth Vader, the At-Ats and the Star Wars droids. Every turned corner, every expanse of vertical space, offers an arcane treat for fans of blockbusting cinema, right down to the ancient Howard Anderson optical printer used to composite many of the effects shots in Star Wars. Lucas also owns the world's largest collection of classic movie posters and dozens of his favourites are hung around this building, as well as on the walls at Skywalker Ranch. Apparently, he'll regularly request that they're moved around, slipping post-it notes on the works to be transferred.The close unification of LucasArts and ILM in these buildings is symbolic of the convergence we're now seeing between games and movies. Developers on both sides of the divide now employ the same tools, the same staff, and they're exploring the same technological horizons, using bleeding edge motion capture to record human movement, and experimenting with 3D visuals. At LDAC that sort of cross-pollination is rife. "We can walk the corridors and have conversations with the folks creating the Clone Wars TV series, with writers, artists, directors and animators that are carrying the Star Wars legacy forward," says global VP of publishing, Mary Bihr. "And we can talk to people from Industrial Light and Magic, who not only work on Star Wars and Indiana Jones, they touch other properties – right now they're working on films like Rango and Transformers III. We're all housed here in this one facility."One of our first ports of call is the ILM shooting stage, a darkened warehouse-like space lined with computers and esoteric film-making equipment. "Basically the entire room is a live virtual space," explains digital supervisor Mike Sanders. "We can do blue screen, green screen, HD, you name it. It's equipped for state-of-the-art virtual cinematography, so there's a 40-camera motion capture system in here – if we have actors in mo-cap suits we can record whatever they're doing."This system is used in almost every movie that ILM works on now. The background characters and hero actions in Iron Man, Transformers and Pirates of the Caribbean were captured here. "We also provide a lot of digital doubles of actors for the stunt work," says Sanders. "We'll either do full CG replacements or we'll do a head or face replacement. We have a technology called Clone Cam, which allows us to rebuild the actor's head in immensely high resolution. It's a photographic technique like a scan, but laser scans take too long, and there are a lot of inaccuracies if the actor moves their head. We invented this technique about six years ago because we were doing Lemony Snickett and we needed a digital baby. You don't want to put babies in front of a laser…"This same technology, the motion capture cameras and the Clone Cam, have also been used in LucasArts' latest games, including Force Unleashed 2. The pipeline is slightly different, and the data has to be scaled down (it can take all night to render a single frame of a movie CG sequence – a video game needs to render 30 frames a second), but it's the same teams and equipment serving both sectors.And vitally, this isn't just movies leading the way with video games benefiting from a trickle down effect: game technology is ahead in certain areas. "When we've been able to share our real-time shaders and real-time lighting advances with ILM, they've been blown away," says LucasArts art director Matt Omernick. "In fact, they have wanted to adopt it into many of the projects that they're working on. For a lighting artist, there's a huge advantage in being able to get a scene perfectly right, iterate on it 100 times in one day andthensend it off as a render. Movies have got to the point where you can do almost anything, and while games still have a lot of problems to solve, what we're good at is doing things very quickly, and iterating very quickly, and that inevitably gets you to a higher quality. That will feed back in to both industries."It's also a gaming event that helped Sanders and his team to develop ILM's latest technique – real-time movie-making using motion capture systems...Continued tomorrow.The staff cafe at the Letterman Digital Arts Centre, with an amazing view of the historic Presidio site.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Apple iMacs.. with Microsoft mice. Photo by4nitsirkon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft vs. Apple: Who's winning? The numbers don't lie &gt;&gt; ZDNet"To compile the charts in this post, I went beyond the simple summary reports and dug deep into the details, recording and cross-tabulating data for desktop and mobile OSes from November 2007 until October 2010. I found four unmistakable trends."I suspect that the decline he found in Linux, though, is actually due to the overall market growing, and so making the number of Linux users (who one would assume remains steady, at least) appear smaller.Important development at Digg &gt;&gt; Digg BlogNew CEO Matt Williams, six weeks into the job: "Unfortunately, to reach our goals, we have to take some difficult steps. The fact is our business has a burn rate that is too high. We must significantly cut our expenses to achieve profitability in 2011. We've considered all of the possible options for reduction, from salaries to fixed costs. The result is that, in addition to lowering many of our operational costs, I've made the decision to downsize our staff from 67 to 42 people."Download details: Windows Phone 7 Connector (for Mac) - Beta &gt;&gt; Microsoft.comIn time for the US launch, only four days after the UK launch, Microsoft offers a Mac synchronisation client for Windows Phone 7. Smart work.How a Pas5woRd Can Sink Your Company &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAnother reminder that it makes sense to have secure passwords, and how to make them.Windows Phone 7 is worthy addition to smartphone market &gt;&gt; Chicago Sun-TimesThough critical of the fact you can't (yet?) integrated other services into the People and Picture hubs, he's largely in favour: "Overall, though, this interface is an exciting victory. There's been an obvious attempt to reduce visual clutter and find clever solutions. After seeing a permanent hardware status bar on the top of every phone I've owned over the past decade, it's almost upsetting to find that it's gone from Windows Phone 7. But if you really do want to check your battery or signal level, just give the top of the screen a little swipe and the familiar bar will drop down. Nice."When is a smartphone not a smartphone? When it's a converged device! &gt;&gt; AllAboutSymbianSteve Litchfield thinks software is easier to improve than hardware: "I'm looking forward to seeing what Nokia do with the N8 in terms of software and firmware updates. After all, its rival smartphones are largely already maxed out in terms of funtionality, since its their hardware that's the limiting factor. On the N8, its the software that's currently the main constraint and, hopefully, with the imminent new browser and perhaps a re-written Social application, it can get a long way towards satisfying this other 'smartphone' definition - as well."Dutch National Crime Squad announces takedown of dangerous botnet &gt;&gt; Dutch Home Ministry"The High Tech Crime Team (THTC) of the National Crime Squad today announced the takedown of a dangerous botnet. The botnet had infected at least 30 million computers worldwide. The botnet was part of the Bredolab network, used by cybercriminals to distribute malware to unsuspecting users' computers." That's a big botnet.Online Tracking Company RapLeaf Profiles Users by Name - WSJ.com"'Holy smokes," says Mrs. Twombly, 67 years old, after The Wall Street Journal decoded the information in RapLeaf's file on her. "It is like a watchdog is watching me, and it is not good.'" Take that, Google!Getting Real: Make Opinionated Software &gt;&gt; 37SignalsWords worth remembering for designers: "The best software has a vision. The best software takes sides. When someone uses software, they're not just looking for features, they're looking for an approach. They're looking for a vision. Decide what your vision is and run with it."And remember, if they don't like your vision there are plenty of other visions out there for people. Don't go chasing people you'll never make happy."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Public wireless networks have always been perceived as generally safe. Surely, the odds of having your private details stolen out of thin air must be slim to none? And surely, the ability to steal those details must be restricted to the most knowledgeable and most evil of techies? EvenGoogle's recent announcement that it accidentally collected complete emails, usernames and passwords using its Street View carswas treated as a one-off accident. Grabbing private data from unsecured networks isn't something that the average user can do – so the average user isn't concerned.On Sunday, Seattle-based developer Eric Butler may have changed that perception for good by releasing a tool calledFiresheep. Firesheep takes almost everything required for stealing people's Facebook and Twitter sessions – along with those from many other sites – and puts it into one attractively designed Firefox extension. Never underestimate the power of good packaging.Password stealing from open networks is nothing new, and the flaws that Firesheep exploits have been known for more than a decade.ARP spoofing, a more powerful technique in which all the data on a network is surreptitiously routed through one rogue computer, has been known and occasionally exploited since the 1990s. Point-and-click tools for password-stealing and login-hijacking have been around for almost as long – the most highly regarded one, Cain and Abel, was first released in 2001 and is still used today.Using these tools required three things: a significant level of technical knowledge; a desire to hunt around the less friendly parts of the internet; and the nous to deal with software that might, if you choose unwisely, do a lot of nasty things to your computer.Firesheep, though, has an easy-to-use interface and, perhaps most importantly, a cute name. Surely this can't be a "cracking tool"? It wasn't released by someone going by a name like 'dEvILSp0RN42'. It doesn't feature white text on a black background. It has well-thought-out and literate documentation. To use it, you simply install it into Firefox and click a few buttons. One minor additional step, installing WinPcap, is required for Windows users.I've already seen folks on Twitter casually mentioning that they can't wait to try out Firesheep somewhere public. The perception that it's fun and at most "slightly illegal" is strong. I expect at least one journalist to naively write an article about how they used it in a public cafe and found – much to their shock, surprise and horror – that it actually worked. Let's be clear: using this on a network that you don't completely own and control would be a violation of theComputer Misuse Act. Logging in to someone else's Facebook account is exactly the kind of "unauthorised use of computer material" that the act makes illegal.Cracking tools don't get mainstream media coverage because most journalists don't have the deep technical knowledge required to understand them.TechCrunchwas one of the first sites to cover Firesheep, saying that Butler "exposed the soft underbelly of the web" – but that soft underbelly had been exposed for years. Firesheep is doing a much more important thing: it's shining a bright, 500W halogen floodlight on that soft underbelly and telling everyone where they should attack it. This tool may do for Wi-Fi hacking what Napster did for MP3 sharing all those years ago: take it out from the shadowy parts of the internet and place it centre stage.Raising awareness of security issues, and creating the demand to help close them, can only be a good thing.• Tom Scott's web site is tomscott.com; he's on Twitter at@tomscott
