Health hazardAlmost half of the top-selling US console video games contain "unhealthy" messages for girls, including unrealistic body images, provocative sexuality and violent behaviour, according to a study   commissioned by Children Now, a "child advocacy organisation" in California. The group said that 38% of female game characters had large breasts, 46% had unusually small waists, and 54% were depicted as fighting or being violent, Reuters reports.They are not all bad. Children Now said that some popular games showed positive images of women, such as Mia Hamm Soccer by South Peak Interactive and You Can Be A Woman Engineer by Cascade Pass.The study did not point out that video games also show unrealistic body images of men (except for Arnold   Schwarzenegger in his prime) and unrealistic and/or violent behaviour by plumbers, dragons, bandicoots and small blue hedgehogs.Web playWould-be liggers who want to hone their skills at home can play Club Blag on theMinistry of Sound site. The game, developed by Wildcat Productions, comes in modem and broadband versions and uses Windows Media Player 7 for video. Players must also register athttp://uk.flipside.com.Also, Microsoft has improved its popular online    game, Fighter Ace II. The updated version offers 13 new planes, including the De Havilland Mosquito, and two new maps, including the English Channel. Go towww.zone.com/fighterace/news/tbltnewsdecupdate.asp.Gravy chips3dfx Interactive, which dominates the retail market for graphics cards with its Voodoo chips, is selling the bulk of its assets to its main rival, nVidia, for $112 million. 3dfx has struggled because of the unpredictability of the retail market. By contrast, nVidia has sold mainly to PC manufacturers, and has signed   a lucrative deal with Microsoft to provide graphics chips for the Xbox games console.Scooter scoopThe race is on to launch the first game that cashes in on the popularity of microscooters. Ubisoft has tipped its hand and plans to distribute Freestyle Scooter in February. The game will be "more oriented towards fun than simulation". It is being developed by Shaba Games and will be published by Crave Entertainment. From the screen shots, it looks like a cross between Tony Hawk's skateboarding and Dave Mirra Freestyle BMX. Won't they all?Track recordGeoff Crammond is a notorious perfectionist who likes to get his Formula 1 racing game right rather than rush it to the shops.Perfect Grand Prix, an unofficial add-on from The Mavericks, enables users to tweak Crammond's program, Microprose Grand Prix 3, by updating liveries, driver names and so forth.The latest Track Pack, which costs &#163;14.99, also adds the three latest circuits and updates Monza (which has a new chicane). Seewww.perfectgp.com
One of the secrets of Microsoft's financial success is that it caters for the market - people with money to spend - rather than the installed base. This is fine for people buying Windows with 733MHz and faster Pentium III processors, but those of us with 200MHz or (like me) slower Pentium MMX chips often want to forego the fancier effects for a bit more speed. Fortunately, there are several ways to do this. The same techniques can be used by anyone who wants a cleaner, faster system.First, get rid of any background wallpaper: using a plain background will speed up your screen display. To do this, right-click on the desktop and select Properties from the drop-down menu. In the box labelled Wallpaper, select None. You can, of course, use a pattern (click the Pattern button). You can also change the colour of the desktop. To do this, click on the Appearance tab and look towards the bottom right for the word Color. Clicking the down arrow will reveal a palette of the colours available.Next, click the Effects tab. This covers a number of effects, none of which is really necessary. Unless you like them, you can untick them all, though it may be worth keeping the one that says: "Show window contents while dragging."The last tab on the desktop's Properties sheet, labelled Settings, lets you change the screen resolution and the number of colours used. There is a trade-off between the two, but Windows looks better if you can select at least High Color (16 bit).Even more important to performance is Windows's use of "virtual memory". Windows almost never has enough real memory (Ram chips), so it stores pages of code it isn't using in a large file (Win386.swp) on the hard drive. When it needs these pages, it "swaps out" pages it is no longer using, and reloads the ones it stored before.Swapping pages of code slows Windows down. This is why having more real memory - 128MB or 256MB, rather than 32MB or 64MB - can produce a dramatic improvement in performance. Making sure Windows has lots of swap space is the next best thing.Windows does let you control the swap file settings. Open the Control Panel (from Start|Settings) and double-click the System icon. On the System Properties sheet, select the tab for Performance, and click the button for Virtual Memory. This lets you set minimum and maximum sizes for the swap file, and move it to another drive or partition.Some people find that defragmenting the drive and fixing the size of the swap file can increase performance, since this avoids the swap file growing and shrinking over a patchwork of disk space. However, in   my experience, Windows is usually best if left to manage its own swap file.But there is one useful change to make at this point. Click the File System button, and on the Hard Disk page, change the setting for "Typical role of this computer" to Network server. This will allocate more memory for handling file directories.The Performance tab of System Properties also tells you how many resources Windows has free, though it is not the most convenient place to look. For a quick update, use Windows Explorer: the raw number is under the Help|About menu option. Further information is also available from the Resource Meter in Start| Programs|Accessories| System Tools. The Resource Meter runs as a background program, but you can get the details by double-clicking the icon in the System Tray (Systray) next to the clock on the far right of the Task Bar.Most of Windows's problems start when it runs out of resources, so it is doubly unfortunate that one of the worst resource leaks is Internet Explorer. Opening and closing a lot of browser windows consumes resources because IE fails to release them properly afterwards.When resources are below 25%, Windows' performance starts to deteriorate, and when the number falls below 10%, you are heading for a crash. You can usually get some resources back by closing all program windows, including Windows Explorer, and waiting a couple of minutes for Windows to sort itself out. However, it is usually better to reboot your PC.The resources problem means it is not a good idea to run a lot of background programs, most of which will be visible in the Systray. Things like ICQ, RealPlayer and Microsoft's Task Scheduler can go. Low-level utilities and, in particular, virus checkers not only consume resources, they may also make Windows less stable. It is less convenient to run these things separately but it may be worth the effort.Some Systray programs can be disabled by right-clicking them and selecting the appropriate configuration. Some can be disabled by removing them from the StartUp folder. In Windows 98 and Me, some can be disabled by selecting Start|Run and typing msconfig to run the configuration utility. Select the StartUp tab on the right and untick programs you don't want Windows to run.
SantanarchyThe official San Francisco police department arrest report apparently said that the suspects were nabbed for behaving in an "unChristmas-   like fashion" - which understandably might be a problem when you're talking about a blasphemous legion of 100 men and women in Santa suits. Now an annual phenomenon, the Cheap Suit Santas have caused problems in a number of US cities and also sent a contingent to the Burning Man festival (must have been hot in the desert in those Santa suits). Their shameful - or is it shameless? - exploits are chronicled on theSantarchy in the USAwebsite (www.santarchy.com), including video clips and a hall of shame picture gallery. Where will they strike in 2000?Planet kidsPlanet Gullaneis a new kids' website from Gullane Entertainment, the people who produce Thomas the Tank Engine, Sooty, Pugwash and other characters. There's merchandise, of course, but kids who love the characters will have fun playing around with the games and running the video clips. Needs a fast connection though, or children are likely to get bored waiting for sections to download.BluetoothyRed-M, a company that specialises in networking solutions based on Bluetooth short-range wireless communication technology, has set up a website dedicated to the latest Bluetooth news and developments. In affiliation with the news service Lexis/Nexis, Red-M will send email bulletins to subscribers, with links back to the Bluetooth news site. The service, called M-news, is free but you need to register.New line-upThe portal siteLineOnehas relaunched itself with a focus on services and celebrities. There's a call manager to handle calls while surfers are online, a calendar feature, and software agents that will search the web for information of interest to a particular user. In addition, Line One has lined up some intriguing columnists - who can resist lifestyle advice from Joan Collins, de-stressing with Ruby Wax, football views from George Best, games and entertainment news from Craig Charles, and a satirical view of current affairs from Jeremy Hardy.Code worksCryptography, the encoding of digital information, is a topic much in the news in recent years as governments, law enforcement agencies, businesses, privacy advocates and citizens argue over who should have the right to use it and how impenetrable systems should be. However, most people probably have only a vague understanding of encryption. A good site for some easy and fun crypto lessons - designed for teaching students but good for self-learning too - are atwww.achiever.com/freehmpg/cryptology/crypto.htmlCatchy tunesFirst MP3s, then peer-to-peer sharing of songs. Now Gotuit, a Boston start-up, has come up with software called Songcatcher to record songs from the radio using a PC. Gotuit says the method is completely legal, too. Download Songcatcherwww.songcatcher.comthen attach a radio, using an audio or microphone jack. A premium version of Songcatcher is available for $29.95 per year.New and noted&#149;  Find a romantic getaway atwww.BestRomanticInns.com&#149; Try out an online snowboarding game to win prizes from Thomas Cook atwww.thomascook.co.uk/competition/snowboard2001.html&#149;  After the turkey, an alternative to the Queen's message from Aardman Studio's Angry Kid:www.angrykid.com
In the wake of the Claire Swires email furore, it has finally become apparent why employers are so keen for us to not to send out "personal" emails. Not because of fears for decreasing productivity, but because, like Norton Rose - which has overnight become the best-known law firm in the western world - they do not want their name all over a real-life corporate- sponsored knob gag read by a few million people.Be honest now, when you read "that email", was there any hesitation about immediately sending it to a dozen of your nearest and dearest?I certainly pondered, and may I say that I am quietly proud of those two or three seconds of rumination before I pressed the Send button. The reason it took so little deliberation for me was simple - I just did not believe it.I was not the only one either. The normally excellent technology news siteThe Registerwas taken in too. At the start of the week, days before Old Media got hold of it, The Register asked "Is this the Greatest Ever Email Hoax?", positing that Claire Swires was a figment of Bradley Chait's imagination.Of course, the truth is that poor old Miss Swires was the   victim of an exemplary case of 21st century Peter and the Wolf. Everybody has been hoaxed by email at one point or another, and we are just not sure who to believe any more, be it the plea to send old T-shirts to Colombia to pay for little Juan's lifesaving operation, the chain email that purports to be from Microsoft and Disney that will earn you a free trip to Disneyland, or my favourite: the Yale University graduation speech allegedly made by Oracle supremo and billionaire Larry Ellison. The hoax begins: "As I look out before me today, I don't see a thousand hopes for a bright tomorrow. I don't see a thousand future leaders in a thousand industries. I see a thousand losers."So where should you look if you do not want to find yourself looking a bit silly? For starters you should visitwww.urbanlegends.com. Urban Legends has been going since 1991, and does not just deal with internet hoaxes. Its remit is much broader than that - it deals with any online or offline urban legend. The site describes an urban legend as a story that "appears mysteriously and spreads spontaneously in varying forms" and "contains elements of humor or horror (the horror often 'punishes'   someone who flouts society's conventions)." So it's easy to see why most of us thought the Claire Swires email was a put-up job by someone with too much time on their hands.A site that not only identifies the latest potential hoaxes, but also digs around to find out whether they are true or not, is the impressivewww.snopes2.com. Such is the boundary-free aspect of the internet that it has all the lowdown on the Swires email.The truly gullible would do well to spend five minutes browsing David Spalding's informative Hoax du jour page athttp://korova.com/virus/. This is a well thought out and illustrated introduction to net hoaxes and how to handle them, with a look at how they evolved and the best way to deal with them.Spalding has plenty of good advice for anyone who may be wondering what to do when confronted with an email hoax, particularly computer virus hoaxes. The famous Good Times email for example, which warns you that an email with an attachment entitled "Good Times" would "destroy your hard drive", first did the rounds back in 1994, and is still mailed around today. It is so famous is it even has its own extremely helpful FAQ page.    Any email newbie who has not come across it yet can find it atwww.public.usit.net/lesjones/goodtimes.html.One of the best sites to check out virus hoaxes is, unsuprisingly, anti-virus software manufacturer Symantec's site atwww.symantec.com/avcenter/hoax.html. It has a database of old hoaxes, and worried technical support engineers can even email Symantec a suspected virus to be checked out. Another worth a look is the rather worthyhttp://hoaxbusters.ciac.org/, but for far more attitude, and a marvellously healthy dose of cynicism, sign up for The Crypt newsletter fromhttp://sun.soci.niu.edu/~crypt/.Email newsletters are a great way to keep up with the latest hoaxes, and one site that has always kept up iswww.tourbus.com, where you can sign up for the latest from internet old hands Bob Rankin and Patrick Crispen.But what none of these sites has the balls to tell you, though, is that telling friends the email they have excitedly just sent out is, in fact, complete rubbish is an utterly thankless task. Your best bet then, is to save yourself the effort and use the excellent Urban Legend Combat Kit atwww.netsquirrel.com/combatkit. .This ingenious little URL lets you find the specific hoax and each has a prepared note ready to send. It neatly sidesteps the patronising tone most people employ when replying to what they know are hoaxes, and this is essential for one very important reason. As the Claire Swires debacle has shownwww.drink.to/yum- next time it could be you.
Students and academics around Britain are being invited to demonstrate their entrepreneurial prowess, with a prize fund of &#163;1 million.Launchit2001is a competition announced today by Cross Atlantic Capital Partners (XACP), a venture capital management firm, and Brainspark, an internet and technology incubator. The competition, supported by the Guardian, hopes to unlock the innovation hidden in university campuses and find Britain's next big name in IT and telecoms.The competition,www.launchit2001.com, is open to any individual in higher education or teams that include a student or academic staff member. XACP and Brainspark will select the best new business ventures submitted from universities, engineering and business schools in   Britain. The best two or more winning ventures will be eligible for direct investment from XACP and Brainspark from a fund of &#163;1m, ranging from &#163;100,000 to &#163;500,000 packages. XACP and Brainspark are seeking entries for concepts that are beyond the initial research phase. Ideally, entries will have products and services that are ready to be commercialised or ideas that have passed a successful proof of concept. Entries will address one of four key areas within the IT and telecoms sectors: new enabling technologies (including nanotechnology and optoelectronics), internet infrastructure, enterprise software, e-communications and wireless infrastructure and applications.Launch2001 is supported by the Guardian, whose Online section has reported   extensively on the venture capital industry and the challenges associated with raising money. Victor Keegan, editor of Online, said: "Editorially, the Guardian has welcomed the revival of the venture capital industry in Britain, and the successful development of ideas originating in universities. We are delighted to be supporting Launchit2001."Though each team must include a student or member of the academic staff, members are encouraged to add senior management from outside the university. The deadline for online registration and submission of a two-page executive summary is February 5, 2001. Selected entrants will be notified by March 2 and will have until March 30 to submit their full business plan.Visitwww.launchit2001.com
Reasons to postIf it is physical disability that prevents Paul Appleyard (Feedback, December 14) from licking a stamp and walking to the postbox then he has my sympathy.However, inviting competition entries by post rather than e-mail has the twin advantages of enfranchising the majority of the population who do not have a computer and disqualifying those who just can't be arsed to tear themselves away from the screen for the time it takes to write a card.Perhaps if Paul had experienced the problems I have had in keeping an e-mail service up and running (thanks, BT) he might share the view that - even in Gadget Heaven - snail mail is a service to cherish.Root Cartwrightroot.cartwright@btinternet.comWhy can't I send my competition entry by email? It's a bit old tech having to send it snail mail to a technology magazine.Les Deanled@aber.ac.ukExercise.Jim MaloneJim@malone78.freeserve.co.ukUnderstatedDavid Birch (Online, December 14 - It's Location, Location, Location) says: "The magnitude of the LBS revolution... is impossible to understate". No need to bother about that then.Doug Welchdoug@mereheath.demon.co.ukSafety gadgetsIt is surely only a matter of time before one of the conditions for being licensed to drive a potential killing machine (ie a motor vehicle) on the roads is to have installed in every one ot these an electronic gadget to issue on response at least the following information: location; speed; owner; registration number and name of driver.This will enable any   infringements of speed limits to be listed and will also provide a most useful guide to a vast number of criminal acts that are regularly committed with the aid of these lethal vehicles.John Robertsjrmundialist@compuserve.comVinyl noiseRe Roger Perry's letter under a banner "Vinyl is Best": Perry means tape not vinyl, since that is the initial recording medium.Tape is an inherently noisy medium, and, if recorded as analogue, the noise from the medium is inevitably mixed with the recorded signal. To get the tape onto vinyl, most of the bass must be extracted, otherwise the stylus wouldn't stay in the groove. To play back the vinyl, the bass must be restored. So another layer of corruption is added.It is usually over-restored, which creates that "vinyl warmth" which fools non-musicians into thinking they are in the presence of high fidelity.Plus, of course, scraping a stylus through plastic adds another level of corruption.Vinyl is a very long way from "the closest approach to the original sound".Conrad Corkconradcork@tadleyewing.co.uk
It was 8.40am and my breakfast guest, Robin Caller, delayed by trains, finally arrived. Our meeting had been postponed so many times that I had to ask him to remind me what the reason for it was. He told me the company he worked for was a British web start-up that felt it had not really got the credit that it perhaps deserved.Oh dear, I thought to myself, not another one of those. How many page impressions does your site get each month, I asked, to keep the conversation going. I thought he said 600 and I replied: "Six hundred?""Yes," he said."Six hundred... six hundred million.""Six hundred million?" I gasped. "Hang on, that would would put you up in the global league." (Lastminute.com, forcomparison, had 38 million page impressions in October.)"Yes," replied Caller, European commercial director, for the company in question, FortuneCity. He added that it was the 11th most popular web site in the world, according to the authoritative Media Metrix ratings for August.I later checked this out and confirmed thatFortuneCitywas indeed ranked number 11 in the world, putting it at the top end of the web's Premier Division - behind the likes of Microsoft, AOL and Yahoo, but only one place behind Amazon and three places ahead of eBay, the very successful net auction house. According to Media Metrix, FortuneCity had 15.3 million unique users in August.Not bad for a company started less than four years ago by five people in a back room off Kensington High Street in London, close to an alleyway occupied by tramps. FortuneCity's core product is free web building space, which comes with 100MB of free storage for each user. It earns its revenue mainly from banner adverts.In contrast to the millions of pounds spent on promotion by the likes of Lastminute.com and Boo, it has got where it has with little advertising - and no one seems to know when an article was last written about it. They think it was about two years ago.Caller, who got his job in response to a tiny advertisement in Media Guardian, admits: "To some extent we have been successful in spite of ourselves". You can say that again.Peter Macnee, president and CEO, says: "I guess we are the least known big internet company in the world. I'm proud of it. There are a lot of small, unsuccessful, internet companies that everyone knows about... In the last couple of years there have been a lot of internet companies that spent a majority of their time on public relations campaigns. They were the poster boys of the good times and now they are the poster boys of the bad times. We are better off putting our resources towards building a good business. I'm happy that we are not the poster boys of the bad times and that we are not used as an example of the death of the dot.com age."FortuneCity was started by Dan Metcalfe who, inspired by the success of the US web-building company Geocities, started a UK variant. The company enabled users to build their own web sites, including the facility to build virtual homes and cities and be part of a community with its own elected mayor. Its slogan was: FortuneCity for the people by the people. Dan and his brother Jeremy, who between them have 40% of the shares, are still active on the board even though they brought in professionals such as Macnee, to run the company.FortuneCity has an eerily quiet London base with pine floors and whitewashed walls at the end of a cul-de-sac in part of the BBC's former Woodstock studios in Shepherds Bush. The official headquarters have been moved to New York to be part of the pioneering US scene.Following an equity issue on the German (Duer) market, nearly 30% of the shares   are now owned by German citizens. The biggest remaining shareholder with 12.5% is Time Warner whose own website was four places behind FortuneCity in August at number 15.Metcalfe fondly remembers the early days when it was a case of just trying to keep up with the growth. Every time he pressed the "reload" button on his computer he found that two or three more new members had registered - a growth that was soon to be measured in thousands, then millions. In the early days the company shared computer facilities with various small internet service providers and he had to drive the company's computer round to different locations in a Beetle.The amazing thing about FortuneCity is how has it managed to be so successful with low-key promotion. It has had no advertising at all for the past eight months since the company   retrenched and cut staff in the face of the impending downturn in the capital-raising markets - yet it claims that new users have continued to register at around 4,000 a day.The secret is a combination of "viral" (as in virus) and "guerilla" marketing. Viral marketing is mainly passive - when the message is passed by word of mouth or by email from user to potential user. FortuneCity assists this by feeding one of its properties from another. If someone registers on the FortuneCity site they are offered a V3 domain name and they may then opt for the newsletter, thereby fuelling the organic nature of the business.V3, acquired by FortuneCity last year, claims to be the world's largest provider of redirect services, personalised website URLs and matching email addresses. FortuneCity also owns Hotgames, the gaming site, and Gelon, a well-regarded   Wap company, though none is branded with FortuneCity's name. Gareth Williams, director of European operations, says a lot of users will be using a FortuneCity site without actually knowing it.Guerilla marketing is highly active. It aims to get FortuneCity's name as high as possible on the internet's search engines because they are the main way people find their way around the web. Alan Mills, known within the company as "king of the search engines", spends nearly all his time engaging in cat-and-mouse tactics with the software engineers employed by the likes of AltaVista, Google and AskJeeves to secure maximum exposure on the web's huge network. A dozen search engines account for 90% of the total traffic.He demonstrated by getting "Free web pages" and "Free web page" typed into AltaVista's search engine - and FortuneCity emerged in first or second place out of   nearly 200,000 references. A similar search on Google put FortuneCity in 10th place out of 765,000 references to free web pages. Part of the strategy, he said, was to get FortuneCity's name in the titles and meta tags which appear near the top of the code behind a web page. But search engines were getting more sophisticated and often weighted sites by the number of other links pointing to your site. "You don't know what criteria they are using, but you can work it out by trial and error. That's my job."FortuneCity has been spectacularly successful in building a global customer base. It now has almost 20m unique users (compared with 2.2m for lastminute.com, one of the UK's better known sites) and claims to be still expanding by 5% to 10% a month. It has 130 employees including 55 in Europe.Its market share is stronger the further away it is from the biggest western markets (partly because of its emphasis on local language sites). Its market reach in the UK (measured by the proportion of the internet population using its site a month) is 9.4% and in the US 9.9%. In Germany it is 17.4%, in France 16.8%, in Japan, 15.3%, in Canada 15.7%, in Australia, 12.4% and in Hong Kong a startling 43.2%.FortuneCity is one of the very few internet companies that has a leading market position in all the main world markets. It is a position that many other web companies can only dream about.But, as most dot.com companies know to their cost, it is one thing to attract users to your site, especially when you are offering something for nothing, but quite another to convert the user base into revenue and profits. Revenues (mainly from banner advertising) in the first nine months of 2000 increased by 90% over the previous year to $9m. But losses over the same period rose from $14.7m to $32.7m.The company claims to have taken corrective action. It cut staff by 40% earlier in the year when the climate changed for the worst in the capital markets, and drastically cut its spending on advertising and marketing. It has still got $26m cash in the bank from the $97m it raised when it went public and reckons that its "burn rate" (the rate at which it is losing money raised from investors) is down to $1.2m a month - enough, it is claimed, to see it through until 2002 when it   hopes to break even. Peter Mcnee says the company was lucky, or smart enough, to raise capital early on and cut back its operations quicker than others who are now cutting back almost every day. This has left FortuneCity, he says, with enough money to "power through".Not everyone agrees. Lehman Brothers says that the 40% recovery in FortuneCity's share price on Monday last week (it happened on the day Online was visiting the company!) was "not justified" and is concerned that it has cut its operating expenses to a minimum and that there are very few resources for growth. Lehman adds: "We are becoming increasingly concerned with the deteriorating revenue outlook_ We retain our Underperform rating."Macnee claims that Lehman's analyst has done little to get to know the business and says that they have given Vitiminic, which has a market capitalisation three to four times larger than FortuneCity's, a better rating despite the fact that its revenues in the third quarter were less than 10% of FortuneCity's. "The reality," he says, "is that the institutional investment community has soured on the vast majority of business-to-business and business-to-consumer businesses."Although the company is dependent on banner advertising at present, Macnee predicts that advertising in this medium will change dramatically in the next six months with access to broadband advertisers, including technologies like streaming audio and video. "It's going to be much more like a television kind of advertising with interactive capabilities_ before you are able to see the content you are looking for, you may have to sit through a five second commercial instead of a static banner."He admits this is a bit contrary to FortuneCity's alternative culture, but adds: "I think there is a general rain check going on out there - that the great things that the internet can deliver can't come for free."That is true, but it remains to be seen to what extent the punters agree. After all, if FortuneCity, with all its users, does not manage to generate enough revenue to cover its outgoings, what sort of message would that send out to everyone else?
Energis yesterday turned a blind eye to the growing uncertainty surrounding the valuations of telecoms companies by announcing an estimated &euro;1bn (&#163;606m) e-commerce acquisition that it believes will "fix" its position in the important German market.Chief executive Mike Grabiner said Energis's takeover of web-hosting and applications services provider Ision was its largest to date and fitted its stated strategy of broadening its European operations."It fixes Germany for us and takes a major further step in our strategy to become the leading data and internet solutions provider in Europe," he said.Shares in Energis fell 10% in early trading, reflecting uncertainty in the market at the price Energis was paying and the fact that the deal would delay the firm's profitability at a time when telecoms shares are out of favour because of their heavy debt levels."The price paid looks very full, is dilutive financially to existing shareholders and the asset quality is questionable," said Mike Williams, analyst at Deutsche Bank. Others fear Energis may need to raise further funds by issuing more shares at some stage next year. Later trading saw the shares recover to close down 19p at 480.5p in a mixed market for telecoms stocks.Energis finance director Chris Hibbert denied that the deal was over-ambitious or that it was overpaying. "This is not a bold acquisition, it's an evolution of what we have being trying to do over the last two or three years. Compared to valuations we saw earlier in the year, it is a far better price."Ision, based in Hamburg, specialises in complex webhosting and other internet products to large companies wanting to increase online business. Customers include Europe's largest online stockbroker Comdirect, Deutsche Bank and media group Bertelsmann.It also owns more than a dozen internet hosting centres across the continent. In the nine months to September 30 Ision had revenues of &#163;40.7m and pre-tax losses of &#163;6.8m.Energis believes the market Ision operates in should sustain strong growth for several years. The takeover involves a cash and shares payment of &euro;812m to Swiss firm Distefora for its 75% stake and an offer for the remaining publicly traded shares which is likely to take the deal value to &euro;1bn.The move comes at a trying time for Energis. Wanadoo's recent takeover of Freeserve has cast some doubt on Energis's long-term relationship with the British internet firm. Their contract runs until September 2003.Energis had secured a position to become the network provider to Richard Branson's People's Lottery but yesterday's decision by regulators to stick with Camelot is thought to have cost it &#163;40-50m in annual revenues.
Are we ready for the web-enabled social worker? The royal borough of Kingston-upon-Thames, tucked away to the south-west of London, believes we are.The children and families division of the borough's community services directorate has set up Young Livin', a help and advice website for youth in the area. The site gives young people access to a social work service, via site-based email.Team manager Eion Rush, who leads the project, said: "We have been working to try and make our services more accessible to young people. Young people rarely refer themselves to social services. They come through police, school, GPs, parents - by which time the problems are likely to be fairly serious."About a year ago, Mr Rush and administrator Linda Jackson set up a project at local Tolworth girls' school to find out what issues pupils would like advice and help about. The group also developed a poster, which has been used on the site's homepage, to inform their peers about their services.During the course of the project, Mr Rush became aware of two things. First, that most children wouldn't dream of phoning up social services or walking into an area office for help. And second, that children were seeking help and advice via the internet - and not always with the best results.One 12-year-old contacted a wrestling federation website for advice about how to cope with domestic violence in his family. He got an email telling him that he could join up and beat up his stepfather when he was 18.Students at the school worked with Mr Rush and Ms Jackson to build the website, which they then piloted among their peers. The final version was launched earlier this month.The site allows young people to email a "personal adviser" - a social worker by a less stigmatising name. "Everyone needs advice," Mr Rush pointed out.Every one of the 19,000 young people in the borough has an email address through their school. Eight in 10 have internet access at school but they can also access the site from any linked computer, including in local libraries.A young person wanting help can fill in a simple electronic (email) form on the site. This form is routed to one of two offices - depending on which area the young person ticks as their place of residence - where duty officers deal with it. Those staff will then follow them up as they would any other referral, although they will always reply by email to the young person - and sometimes advice is all that's needed.Depending on the seriousness of the problem (and whether or not the person has ticked "urgent" on the email form), they can call a pupil out of school. To this end, they are planning to work closely with all schools in the borough, following the successful Tolworth pilot. A copy of every email also goes to a central account, where there are random checks to ensure that enquiries are being properly dealt with.In the site's first week, there were 300 hundred hits. "It provides an accessible and confidential service to young people using a medium that they are entirely at ease with," said Margie Rooke, head of children and family services. There have also been three young people asking for help.Social services are now working with 14-year-old Alice Jones (not her real name) who contacted the site because she was in fear of being physically abused by her father. "I was getting desperate and I knew there was no point in talking to my mum," she said. "I was too embarrassed to speak to anyone and felt ashamed. When I heard about the website at school assembly I thought I could tell someone without having to face them. I just sent it off.""I hope that cases like Alice's show that we'll be able to intervene earlier," said Mr Rush.A monitoring group of young people has been set up to review both the site and representative email from the social workers, to make sure that the responses hit the right tone. A by-product of the site is skills development for young people. Eighteen-year-old Malcolm Cannon, who, as an A-level work experience student, helped design and build the site, has been offered a web design job on the back of it.Youth involvement is "definitely important", he said. "It's made by kids for kids. We feel that we know what information we want to find. Kids should enjoy it first. So, if me and the Tolworth girls liked it, we could assume others would. It's come from them and it's entirely what they wanted."Malcolm and four girls from Tolworth launched the site in front of Kingston councillors. "We were being asked and the councillors could see that this was what the young people of Kingston wanted," he said. "It was definitely something a bit different for them."
Lu Youqing had made a date with death, publicly on a Shanghai website and then repeatedly over the last months of his life in open letters to his "web friends". When he died from cancer on December 11 - the notice appeared first on the site - hundreds of readers posted messages, mostly in sorrow but some in hope. "It is you who have cured us of diseases ..." wrote one. "In today's world, your diary is like a breath of refreshing wind."Lu's self-revealing letters, which were published in book form shortly before he died, have established a new standard for honesty in a society where reticence and considerations of face inhibit frank discussion of illness and death.Lu, 37, was a former journalist with a degree in Chinese literature who, like many young intellectuals in the new era of "economic reform", went into business. He leaves behind his wife and 10-year-old daughter. His story, which was reported on China's main television stations and newspapers, and discussed on many other websites, has also focused attention on the rising incidence of cancer in China and the paucity of adequate treatment.Most of Lu's last thoughts were gentle memories of happier times and wry reflections about the attention he was attracting. But he had harsh comments to make about overcrowded wards in which a bribe is often the only way to get quick treatment. He described the grim   plight of "the cancer patient from outside the city, living in a small hotel beside the Shanghai tumour hospital, taking all the family savings with him and waiting for a sick bed and operation".He also noted how Chinese society still ostracises those who are marked by misfortune. "From the moment you pick up a lab report stating that the doctor has diagnosed cancerous cells," Lu wrote, "life starts to get tough. If you're an official your career will stop dead, the personnel department will start looking for your successor and people will start positioning themselves to replace you ... If you're a business man, your credit will suddenly be devalued ... If you're a student you may give up your studies."The medical authorities say that cancerous tumour cases are rising sharply. Not surprisingly in a country with high tobacco consumption, lung cancer remains the commonest form: the death rate from it is the highest of any developing country.This year a national conference on tumour prevention was told that cancer now causes one out of every five deaths in China. Annual cancer-related deaths now total 1.3m a year.   Advocates of healthy eating in the west have held out China as a model society with a high consumption of naturally unrefined plant food and a low consumption of animal protein. Both were thought to explain the country's low rates of cancer and cardiovascular disease. But Chinese specialists say that changes towards a less healthy diet and a less active lifestyle - the consequence of economic improvements in the past 20 years - have raised rates of the two degenerative illnesses dramatically.Stomach cancer has always been an exception with far higher rates recorded in China than in the West. This has often been blamed upon the widespread reliance on fermented and salted preserved vegetables in rural areas.Lu decided to keep and publish a diary both as a way of confronting death and to leave behind a memorial for his wife and daughter. After five years of cancer treatment, including two operations, a malignant tumour appeared on Lu's neck which grew rapidly. In February he was told he had only three months left to live: he decided to give up taking medicine and start writing instead. "People should choose their own way ..." he wrote. "This is my way of defying death and keeping my dignity."He neither dwelt on his illness nor avoided it, but wove it naturally into the narrative. When the tumour on his neck bled, he recorded the event calmly, noting that it seemed to cause him difficulty in breathing. "Blood and oxygen which   healthy people take for granted," he noted, "are matters of life and death for the sick."But enough of that, I don't want to send my spirits down like the falling Shanghai stock exchange. That is why I prefer to write in my diary about tranquil scenes."Hundreds wrote on the bulletin board ofrongshu.comwhere extracts from Lu's diary were published for three months until he was too ill to continue. Most applauded his courage and some came from fellow sufferers. Several appealed for help on behalf of other   incurable patients. He was delighted to see a copy of the book several weeks before he died, commenting that he had "snatched it from death". It was instantly pirated although his wife, Shi Muyan, did not tell him in case it would "break his heart".Messages flooded in when his   death was announced on the site; they showed that Lu had touched many people's lives. "Mr Lu, you will always be in our hearts," wrote one, "but we should remember how many unfortunate people without names are still alive.""Those who do not honour death   cannot understand the meaning of existence," wrote another.A small number of critical voices also wrote to the site while Lu was alive. Some accused him of seeking fame, others of dramatising his illness. "One day your child would like to read a unpublished diary by you, rather than this book published so neatly - if it can be called a book," wrote one of the most wounding. After he died, a message appeared criticising Lu's literary style and advising him to "go peacefully without making such a stupid noise". Infuriated supporters quickly rallied to denounce the anonymous carper - who had not even seen the notice of Lu's death.Lu and Shi impressed all who came to know them with their dignity and humour. As the tumours grew, he would dictate his diary entries which she then transcribed. Later she posted her own bulletins. "This morning he could hardly swallow so we fed him some congee," she reported. "After lying on the sofa he went back to bed but I could tell he really didn't want to."She continued to record her husband's thoughts on life and death when he became to ill to compose. "Human existence is splendid because it has an end," he told a visitor not long before he died. His website obituary began with this quotation and concluded with another remark he had made at the start of the diary. "Others may think that death is an important affair, but for me it has already lost its meaning."
This will be remembered as the year Microsoft abandoned its PC-centric view of the world. Having successfully turned to confront the threat of the internet in December 1995, the surprisingly agile software maker pirouetted again last summer, proclaiming it would build a computer operating system directly into the fabric of the internet.Creating a network operating system - an idea Microsoft once opposed - is a particularly daring shift in strategy because it goes to the heart of the bitterly contested federal antitrust lawsuit that Microsoft is now appealing. Success in this venture would mean Microsoft completing the internet-centered vision of the shift from the PC desktop first articulated by the Netscape half a decade ago. Over the next five years, the strategy, known as .Net, will transform Microsoft from a purveyor of packaged software increasingly into a supplier of information-age services such as digital wallets, software subscriptions and e-commerce portals.Still, .Net today is merely a statement of direction and a piece of a much bigger picture. Behind the hoopla that has surrounded the .Net proclamation is a more remarkable transformation of Microsoft.The new millennium story for the company that once had a laser focus on the personal computer desktop is that it has decided to place ambitious bets across the whole computer industry. It is a strategy that has not been seen in the computer industry since IBM's domination in the late 1970s to the early 1980s, when it explored technologies ranging through laser videodiscs, satellite communications and home computers. It also puts Microsoft at great risk of overreaching. The question is whether the company will end up on the course charted some years ago by Robert Allen at AT&amp;T, when he tried to create a synergy among many moving parts and failed, or whether it will succeed as John F Welch did with his conglomerate strategy at General Electric."They're practically building the casino and setting the odds at each table," said Richard Doherty, president of Envisioneering, a computer industry consulting firm in Seaford, New York.Consider just these recently announced initiatives:&#149; The Xbox video game player will become the company's first big foray into computer hardware and consumer electronics next autumn.&#149; Ultimate TV is Microsoft's effort to push into the cable set-top box and satellite television market, building on WebTV, its Internet TV service.&#149; At the high end of the computer industry, the Windows 2000 server edition, introduced during the summer, gave Microsoft an entry into the big-systems software market dominated by IBM., Sun Microsystems, Hewlett-Packard and Compaq. The database initiative, the SQL Server 2000, introduced last summer, competes against Oracle and IBM.&#149; At the annual Comdex computer show last month, Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman and co-founder, showed off the company's version of the tablet computer, an effort to recharge the personal computer industry with a new package for mobile office and home computing.&#149; A move into cellular phones is emerging, and Microsoft has publicly outlined its strategy for a cell phone based on Windows CE, a consumer operating system intended for hand-held devices, that will place the software maker in a head-to-head confrontation with the Symbian joint venture backed by Ericsson, Motorola and Nokia. Microsoft this year embarked on its third- generation challenge to Palm with the Pocket PC, operated by a specially tailored version of Windows CE.&#149; In October, the company refocused on MSN, the Microsoft Internet service provider, in its continuing effort to catch up with America Online.&#149; This summer, the company brought out a revamped Windows Media Player version to take on RealNetworks players and Apple's Quicktime Media Player.&#149; Finally, the company's Reader publishing software is an attempt to take on Adobe's Acrobat electronic publishing software and to redefine the publishing market around electronic books.There is a widely held industry view that Microsoft has no choice but to gamble on renewing its growth by entering a wide array of new businesses. The Microsoft stock market miracle clearly ended this year, with the company's stock falling more than 50%, largely - on the surface at least - because of the blow dealt to the software publisher by Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who ruled in the federal antitrust lawsuit that Microsoft be broken into two companies. The ruling has been stayed pending an appeal scheduled for February.Microsoft has doggedly resisted giving any ground in the case, arguing that its software integration approach serves its customers well. Indeed, for almost 15 years, the company's stock has reflected its success, creating in the process a flock of new millionaires. This year, with the stock price down, there has been an exodus of managerial and technical talent -   something Microsoft cannot afford if it is to continue to match its internet-era competitors. Moreover, there is concern that there is a saturation point in the growth of the personal computer market that has fuelled Microsoft's growth for 25 years. Microsoft underscored that concern when it said last week that it was facing profit and sales erosion in the quarter that will end on December 31.That point is driven home most clearly by a close look at the company's performance in its last two quarters. While revenue and net income grew and Microsoft was generally given positive marks on Wall Street, operating income in the first quarter, ended September 30, actually fell to $2.78bn (&#163;1.88bn), from $2.79bn a year earlier. And that decline followed an even bigger drop in the fourth quarter, to $2.55bn from $2.93bn in the previous year. Those represent the first quarterly declines in operating income in Microsoft's history as a public company.Even given its strong product cycle dependence and its huge cash reserves, it is clear that the company must quickly find new markets to grow in - hence the decision to attack markets in which it has little experience.It is tempting to acknowledge that the company's most effective tactic - software integration - will give it the same edge in these other industries that it has acquired against its PC industry competitors. The tactic is indeed being employed in other areas, as witnessed by the company's demonstration of the next version of Office, code-named Office 10, at Comdex.The program integrates such previously independent features as the company's Messenger program directly into its Office program. Although the integration strategy was one that led directly to the antitrust verdict against the company this year, Microsoft has continued to insist that integration is pro-customer, if not pro-competitive. At the same time, the new strategy raises challenges that the software publisher has not faced.One is suggested by a technical analysis buried deep in the October issue of the industry journal Microprocessor Report that presents serious implications for the world's most powerful software company.A group of engineers performed a "teardown analysis" on Sony's consumer hit PlayStation 2, the video game player with sales of nearly 5m since its introduction in March.It estimates the manufacturing cost of each PlayStation at $441 - or $41 more than the machine's retail price in Japan and $142 more than its $299 retail price in the United States. The numbers could be sobering for the team that is completing the design of Xbox, Microsoft's first entry into the computer hardware business and a frontal assault on the competitive video game world.While Sony is reportedly losing money on each machine it sold this year - money it hopes to recapture with software sales - Microsoft is planning a computer so powerful that it will dwarf not only the power of the PlayStation 2, but also many of the most powerful desktop computers selling for many times the price. The Xbox will have a faster Intel processing chip, a faster graphics chip from Nvidia, more memory and the addition of a hard disk capable of storing eight gigabytes or more.Some analysts believe Microsoft would run less of a risk than Sony because the software maker has apparently struck sweetheart deals with its main suppliers.There is no escaping the fact that Microsoft has finally crossed the Rubicon. Its plans for the Xbox, as well as other moves put it decisively in the consumer electronics business with its low margins and notoriously fickle consumers.Although Microsoft has enjoyed a relatively warm reception from the mass market, it does not have a great record of producing hit consumer hardware.One has only to remember its most embarrassing venture into consumer computing when, in 1995, it introduced "Bob," a family software agent intended to help users but ending up the object of ridicule. In consumer electronics, Microsoft is definitely in a world where it no longer has any guarantee of success.
The South Korean police are investigating a spate of web-assisted suicides which has raised disturbing questions about the internet in one of the most wired countries in the world.Yesterday they arrested a man of 26 for his alleged part in a double suicide at a motel in Kangnung, on the east coast.The suspect, named only as Mr Kim, is reported to have met the two victims through a website which offers advice on how to commit suicide. The police say he may have provided the poison they used.Detectives said the man also used the internet to take out a contract on himself and a suicidal woman friend. Their would-be killer, a Mr Yoon, was unable to fulfil the contract because he was arrested on Friday for a separate and "successful" contract suicide arranged over the net.For about &#163;560, it is alleged, Mr Yoon stabbed his victim in the stomach in a Seoul station car park on December 12. He told the police that he thought he was helping the victim.The revelation that people are using the internet to help themselves - and others - to commit suicide has shocked many in South Korea, where about one in three people in a population of 47m are on line.Local reports say there are about 30 South Korean websites on suicide. The one used by Mr Kim and Mr Yoon, which contains adverts for "suicide partners", is reported to have had more than 50,000 hits.Since the police began investigating the suicides, most of them have been closed down, although the authorities are unsure whether the law is on their side."It's unclear whether the operation of such sites is illegal," a prosecution official said. "So we're examining related laws and scrutinising suicide sites, as well as collecting information on similar cases overseas."Similar sites have been operating in Japan for some time. In October last year a man and a woman killed themselves after making a suicide pact over the web. The previous year the operator of a website selling cyanide killed himself after the police questioned him about a customer's suicide.
Cars by Mercedes have never exactly blended into the background. The vast S-class - the biggest ship in the company's fleet, which has a bonnet marginally shorter than the average street - is generally about as close as we get to seeing Russian Zils on British roads. But even the less massive Mercs hardly seem shy and retiring. They don't actually go about with a price tag hanging off the bumper, but something about their unguardedly opulent shapes seems determined to account noisily for every last penny the driver has spent.The new C-class, like its older brothers, still says "wad", but it says so a little more decorously. No one will be in any doubt that you pull down some fairly serious annual K, which, I take it, is most of the point of owning one. But at the same time, the famous Mercedes twin headlamps now come in a single, moulded unit that is roughly the shape of a Los Angeles   swimming pool and, overall, the car has a softer, more fluid look than the legendary wallets-on-wheels of old.Even now, though, the argument about the tastefulness of purchasing a Mercedes could be thought to begin and end with the hood ornament. The company refers to the new C-class as "the most aerodynamic saloon in its market segment". An army of alarmingly qualified technicians has probably spent whole years studying computer-simulated airflow patterns and worrying about turbulence around the boot-catch. Yet at the end of it all, the car still comes out with a wind-resistant cake-decoration slapped onto its bonnet.Once, perhaps, a hood ornament was the height of style and elegance. Now, nothing shouts "naff" louder or longer. However pleasing that triple-pointed Mercedes-Benz symbol looks in printed form or in relief along the rim of the boot, as a lump of silver rising out of the bonnet of a car it might as well be a model of a charging horse or a representation of the head of Po from the Teletubbies. There is no Mercedes that would not look immediately classier without one - which is useful consolation when a bored or aggrieved pedestrian eventually snaps yours off, or hits it with a cricket bat.In other respects, the car makes vital advances on the departing C-class (the new one has, for instance, a six-speed fan where the old one had only a measly four-speed). And it scoops up some features that previously you wouldn't have got without shelling out for an S-class. Among no fewer than 20 technical features which the cars share are lamps that light themselves in the dark, sensors that regulate the climate control, and what Mercedes describes, arrestingly, as "intelligent airbags" (they gauge the seriousness of the impact, apparently, and fluff up accordingly).Key-janglers beware, however: the C-class is a keyless zone. The nubby end of the plastic remote fob simply plugs into a socket on the dashboard. Clearly, when it comes to turning over an engine, we are now as far from the crank-handle as we ever will be. When you plug in, the car remembers you from last time: it recalls the way you had the seat   before and where the steering wheel and the mirrors were. It can probably be set up to comb your hair the way you like it, if you're prepared to spend long enough with the computer and the manual. And when you want to get out, you remove the key - or rather, the fob - and the seat slips back and the steering wheel column retracts to smooth your way.I was bitterly disappointed to discover that my Mercedes (the "Classic" version, as opposed to the fancier "Elegance" and "AvantGarde" versions) did not come fitted with the Linguatronic control system: it is available as an optional extra, but sounds pretty much compulsory to me. This voice-activation device, pioneered by Mercedes, originally operated only the phone, but now extends miraculously to the   audio system, including the CD player and the radio.Herein one of the great motoring pleasures - shouting at the radio - graduates from being merely therapeutic to being importantly functional. Just a word from you and the stereo changes tracks or shifts stations, courtesy of some canny software which responds to a number of spoken commands and, who knows, maybe even a range of other commonly used, in-car listener responses such as "Oh, for goodness sake, leave it, Humphrys" and "Don't make me laugh, Hucknall".By rights, driving the car ought to be entertainment enough. In first gear, the Classic is deceptively sluggish, but it turns out that it's just giving you an opportunity to straighten your tie and ready yourself for the engine's startling power and pace in higher gears. The C-class has, incidentally, a six-speed gearbox, which is at least three more than you really need in a place like London, but its sensitive gradations will come in handy pretty much everywhere else. The gearstick responds to the merest pressure - a motion so dreamy that I almost forgot the bauble on the bonnet. The most astonishing refinements in the C-class are the ones beneath its skin.The lowdownMercedes-Benz C180 ClassicPrice:&#163;20,740Top speed:130mphAcceleration:0-62 in 11 secondsConsumption:29.7 mpgAt the wheel:Nasser HussainOn the stereo:Craig DavidEn route for:Derby Novotel
A search for a buyer for high-profile internet access company Breathe.com will begin this morning after its collapse with debts of &#163;50m at the end of last week.Administrator PricewaterhouseCoopers said last night it was confident the company could be sold as a going concern. No redundancies among its 140-strong staff were planned at present."We are actively looking for interested parties to maximise realisations and secure the future for Breathe.com," a statement read. PwC was appointed   administrator to the company late on Friday night at a High Court hearing in Manchester.But analysts believe that Breathe's 500,000 customers are unlikely to be of significant value to rival operators because they are heavy users of a very cheap and now defunct service, and would be unlikely to stay online as long if they were forced to pay more."I can't see any real value in the ISP side," said one analyst, who declined to be named. "There may be some scavengers out there who see value in the technology but I don't think much money is going to be raised from the sale process."   Breathe's collapse is the biggest dot.com failure since Boo.com combusted in the spring and comes a fortnight after Freeserve, Britain's leading internet service provider, was sold to a French rival for a fraction of its former value.It will also be a blow to United News &amp; Media, which is in the process of auctioning its own internet access joint venture, LineOne. The UN&amp;M service has seen its estimated value fall from &#163;1bn to around &#163;400m over the last year. Analysts believe the price tag could now drop below &#163;200m.Reports say that Breathe spent around &#163;50m in two   years as it attempted to build a branded company that would allow people to access the internet, call their friends and send emails from a hand-held device wherever they were in the world.The company was the brainchild of mobile phone entrepreneur Martin Dawes, who is thought to have sunk around &#163;30m of his own money into the venture. Last year he made &#163;70m by selling his mobile phones company, Martin Dawes Communications, to BT Cellnet for &#163;130m.He also runs an eponymous chain of television shops and owns a software company   called MDS. His total wealth, prior to the collapse of Breathe, has been estimated at &#163;110m.Some 140 people were taken on to build the company. One of the biggest investments was in a trendy advertising campaign which encouraged viewers to "breathe", although many potential customers were unaware what product the adverts were trying to sell.The promise of unlimited internet access for a one-off payment of &#163;50 also proved to be unviable.First evidence of Breathe's trading difficulties emerged two weeks ago when it joined   the growing band of internet access providers to have withdrawn unmetered surfing. A band of investors, led by venture capital group Chase Capital Partners, then started searching for a buyer for the company.Emergency fundraising attempts failed, forcing Breathe to call in Pricewaterhouse-Coopers at the end of last week.An estimated 50,000 Breathe customers paid &#163;50 each to sign up for the unmetered service but the appointment of administrators makes it unlikely that they will have their money refunded.
What began with the extraordinary jolt to traditional thinking of the &#163;86bn America Online   takeover of Time Warner ended on a surreal note with the foulmouthed soft-porn baron buying the already crumbling Daily Express. A Christmas panto of a deal with everything but a fairy godmother for the hapless hacks.It was also in many ways a satisfyingly circular year. The AOL/Time Warner deal announced in the first week of 2000 finally gained approval from regulators at the end of the year.The prospect of a single company owning ITV began in earnest when Granada forced the issue in January - becoming a real possibility when the communications white paper, published last week, removed the last legal obstacles to single ownership.Websites were launched, including financial news sitethestreet.co.ukin January, and websites closed - thestreet.co.uk went under last month. The year began with an offer for EMI by Warner Music and ended with another from Bertelsmann.The search for an ITV chief executive rumbled on for the entire year and has yet to be resolved; Mirror editor Piers Morgan meanwhile is still in situ against the odds.For most it was a year which started with both intense ambition and the feeling that the industry was on the cusp of a period of big change.Rupert Murdoch took fright and announced the formation of Sky Global Networks, the merger of his satellite businesses to build a worldwide platform for internet access. In June, the French media conglomerate Vivendi announced a deal to acquire the Universal music and movie businesses from Seagram to provide content for its TV and mobile phone businesses.The world didn't turn upside down for long, however. The ever-fickle stock markets started getting jittery in March and internet became a dirty word. In February, Reuters announced plans to spend &#163;500m and saw its shares rise 23%. A month later, Emap said it would invest &#163;250m in the internet and its shares slid 12%. The rest of the year was spent in retrenchment. Emap decided it would spend just &#163;120m over the next three years while last week United News &amp; Media said it would be cutting its spend on new media in half next year to &#163;60m.Britain's biggest internet business, Freeserve, will end up in foreign hands by year's end after a torrid 12 months. To suggest, though, that the faith in new technology which fired the early optimism has been abandoned would be churlish. Some of the underlying changes thunder on, such as the rapid take-up of digital TV with   all its possibilities of interactive services. Significantly too, Bertelsmann, which owns the BMG music business, made peace with the rogue internet music website Napster.But probably the most signficant domestic event was the wrestling over control of ITV. Granada kept everyone guessing for the first half of the year, demerging from its hotels business in May. By July, Carlton and United News &amp; Media's plans to merge had collapsed and Granada became the dominant force by taking United's ITV franchises for &#163;1.75bn.If Granada's Charles Allen was perhaps the winner of the year, Lord Hollick, whose strategy fell apart before his eyes, was the loser - an accusation that he would vehemently deny.Of those signing off (at least for now) were Elisabeth Murdoch, who quit the family firm, Tony Illsley who walked away from Telewest with &#163;6m, and David Elstein from Channel 5. Border Television was acquired by Capital Radio, and Saatchi &amp; Saatchi, the symbol of 1980s hubris, was bought by Publicis. Births included RTL, a pan-European TV and radio business formed from the merger of CLT ufa and the TV interests of Pearson. Marjorie Scardino at Pearson continues to impress the City.As the year draws to a close, share prices are still struggling to find form and there have been worrying signs of a softer advertising market. News Corp recently imposed a company-wide freeze on hiring and said it was "tightening the screws" in anticipation of tougher times.Key moments in 2001 will be the expected flotations of ITN, ONdigital and Sky Global Networks, but the communications white paper published last week is also likely to spark a new round of corporate activity. In many ways the biggest let-down of the year, the white paper, merely put the key cross-media ownership rules out for further consultation. As the ITV companies have demonstrated before, it doesn't do to wait until the rules are spelled out. The year's most disappointing document may lead to some excitement at the start of 2001.Oh, and a seasonal message to Rosie Boycott at the Express: "He's behind you."
Barbara Kempf is a highly qualified computer indexer with one of the world's most successful companies. Yet, once a year, she expects to lose her relatively well-paid job and to find herself unable to pay her health insurance premiums.Kempf is one of thousands of temporary workers at Microsoft, the software group which has created three of the world's four richest men. Earlier this year, Microsoft introduced a new employment policy under which all temporary staff had to leave after a year. The plan followed criticism of the company's use of "permatemps", employees kept on contract for years without benefits.The new policy has done little to stop complaints from Kempf and others. "There's a very unrealistic view held by people outside about what it's   like to work at Microsoft," she says. "They don't realise that, while those at the top are making lots of money, those at the bottom are barely surviving, with very insecure jobs."Several employees launched a legal crusade against Microsoft, which resulted in a $97m settlement from the company last week. But many others, including Kempf, took a more unusual step: they joined a trade union.Unions, as outdated as spats and prohibition for decades, are enjoying something of a renaissance in America, in some of the most unlikely industries. Organised labour, with its notions of collective bargaining and standard work hours, has long been anathema to the entrepreneurial hi-tech industry. Yet there are signs that this attitude may be softening.In recent weeks, organisers at Amazon.com, the world's   largest online retailer, have launched campaigns against mandatory overtime and the high cost of benefits. Customer service representatives at eTown, an online electronics retailer, have meanwhile filed what is thought to be the first application to hold a workplace union ballot at a dot.com company. The unionisation drive came days before the company decided to sack 25% of its workforce.Marcus Courtney, co-founder of the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers, says these campaigns "end the myth that unions are irrelevant in the 21st century".Official figures collected by the US labour department suggest that unions have managed to salvage a semblance of relevance over the past two years. Membership rose by 265,000 last year, the biggest net increase in 20 years. While this was partly a   result of a bigger workforce - with unemployment at record lows - the actual percentage of workers in a union remained steady at 13.9%, reversing years of decline. In the first six months of this year, the number of workplace ballots won by unions rose to more than half.These limited successes are not a result of increasing organisation at hi-tech firms. What the latest developments at hi-tech firms have done is raised awareness about and added confidence to American trade unions. Workers not traditionally associated with unions - including janitors, doctors and university teaching assistants - have all taken industrial action in the past year.John Budd, associate professor at the University of Minnesota's industrial relations centre, describes unionisation efforts at hi-tech firms as "cannon balls being fired over the bows" of corporate America. Lance Compa, a labour law professor at Cornell University, sees the history of industrial organisation as cyclical , with the mid-1990s as rock bottom. "I think we are starting to see the turn of the cycle again," he says.The question remains why the cycle is turning now. The unprecedented economic prosperity of the past decade has helped in part as low unemployment has given   workers greater confidence in their ability to push for higher wages and benefits. However, recent signs of a downturn have prompted the hi-tech campaigns as workers object to job cuts. Employees at Amazon and other once-mighty internet companies were happier contemplating arduous hours and no holiday entitlement when their share options were worth more than the paper they were printed on.Other reasons given by academics for the increased union activity range from the widening disparity between the haves and the have-not-as-muches to a sense of unease and uncertainty in the age of big business. Professor Compa believes that there is also a "fundamental need among people involved in a common purpose to associate with each other and come together to assert their rights".Others point to the new leadership at the AFL-CIO, the trade union umbrella group. Under the presidency of John Sweeney, elected five years ago, it has launched aggressive recruitment drives in an attempt to become more relevant to today's workforce.It remains to be seen whether the gains prove sustainable if the US economy takes a turn for the worse. Optimists such as Marcus Courtney at Washtech believe that it will, if only because of the injustices of today's America. "It seemed ridiculous to me to work in the most successful, profitable industry on the planet and not have healthcare," he says. His view is winning more and more converts in America.Jane Martinson is the Guardian's Wall Street correspondentcomment@guardian.co.uk
A year ago the airwaves were full of gerbils being shot from a cannon, a hammy actor crooning a song woefully off key, a college student who burps the alphabet. Now the media is almost free of the bizarre and often annoying efforts of advertisers attempting to build brand identities for thousands of over-funded   dotcoms that believed, along with much of the rest of the business world, that the basics of profit and loss had been superseded by a consensual mass hallucination known as 'the new economy'.The spectacle of, say, five online companies competing to sell dog food was always tinged with a sense of lunacy.   When the funds dried up in about the middle of this year the dotcom casualties began, first as a trickle and now as a flood. The procession of closures and lay-offs has become so routine they are now barely reported.Last week, some of the biggest dotcom names that haven't collapsed altogether   were fighting to remain listed on the Nasdaq which has lost 45 per cent of its value since March, with many dotcoms now selling at a tenth of their top prices. The shares of media companies such as iVillage, women.com and Salon.com, as well as web retailers such as barnesandnoble.com and Drkoop.com, had dipped dangerously close to $1 from once astronomic values. If a company's stock closes under $1 for 30 days, the exchange begins a process that leads to de-enlistment.The routing of the dotcoms and slowing of the US retail economy has taken its toll on the media. Once happy fattening itself on the dotcom and technology advertising bonanza, a barrage of bad news from marketers and the media has been described as the gloomiest since the recession of the early 1990s.Media giants such as Knight Ridder have already announced layoffs, and hiring freezes have been imposed by News Corp. and   NBC, which has also asked its divisions to reconsider throwing Christmas parties. Opinion is divided as to whether the unusually prosperous times for the media are coming to an abrupt end or merely slowing like the rest of the US economy. 'We're at the precipice, looking a little scared,' says Jon Mandel, director of the media services firm MediaCom.Don Logan, chief executive at the magazine giant Time Inc., says the disappearance of the estimated $200 million per month on dotcom advertising is the major reason for the squeeze. 'We've had extraordinary increases for the last couple of years. Some of it was fuelled by dotcoms, whose spending we hadn't seen before, and it showed up   in television and advertising especially.'Last year the showcase of the advertising market - the Superbowl in January - was crowded with dozens of unknown dotcoms eager to build brand at a cost of $3m for a single 30-second slot. Next year, just a handful of online firms - mostly brokerage companies - are expected to take the plunge.To many in advertising the loss of the dotcom dollars was to be expected. They 'spent like drunk monkeys trying to build their brands', said one TV executive. They were unsophisticated and in a hurry.' Gene DeWitt, a longtime sceptic of the dotcom rush and chairman of the ad buying company Optimedia, says 'dotcom money was like   a fool's gold rush. The fools may still be around, but the gold is gone'.What has surprised the media and ad industries is not so much that the bonanza is over but that it disappeared so quickly. An advertising slowdown usually happens slowly but as sales of the mainstays of the consumer economy - cars, appliances, personal computers and clothing - have dropped gently, advertising has plummeted. 'It's like the market fell off a cliff,' said Bill Cella, a director of Universal McCann, a unit of advertising giant McCann-Erickson.Ironically, the slowdown has occurred just as e-commerce sales are picking up. A recent Goldman Sachs report showed that e-sales are up 50 per cent over last year as US consumers spent $1.34 billion online in the week ending 3 December. But overall the study is not good news for e-tailers desperate to show their investors they can reach profitability. Compared with November, which registered a 169 per cent e-sales increase over the previous year, this month has been a dud.E-tailers are concerned that the newness of buying online may have given way to frustration after widespread reports of consumer dissatisfaction. eToys, often regarded as one of the best hopes, has actually experienced a drop in visitors from 2.54 million in October 1999 to 2.29m in the same month this year.Many dotcom e-tailers simply failed to factor in that customers would require a high degree of hand-holding when buying online. Internet analysts the Gartner Group estimates that it costs a web retailer about $20 every time a customer picks up the phone and dials for help. But perhaps the biggest problem for the sector - one that is behind the collapse of the dotcom boom - is that Wall Street has changed the rules of the game: last year, investors wanted growth at any price. 'Get big fast' was the mantra. Now they want profitability. And that's making for a chilly season.
The online world may be filled with doom and gloom, but that suits Robert Kaplan fine. Known as Pud to 6 million visitors to his website, fuckedcompany.com, and 45,000 recipients of his email newsletters, Kaplan has made going bust, if not a virtue, at least a source for his considerable humour.Kaplan, 24, started the site for himself and his friends. Visitors choose five dotcoms. If the chosen company starts having problems - layoffs, funding problems, or total collapse - the player gets points.There are now more than 20,000 players and more than 2,400 internet companies are listed as heading for the scrap heap. Moreover, the site has become a valued place for anyone involved in the internet, since dotcom insiders are invited to list new f***s there first. As a measure of its importance the site was recently named Yahoo Site of the Year and made  Time magazine's 'Best of 2000' list.As hundreds of dotcoms collapse or struggle for survival - an estimated 31,000 workers have lost their jobs this year - Kaplan is not short of ammuni tion. Every f*** gets a brief synopsis of why it was such a bad business idea in the first place.Last week, for instance, RealNames.com laid off 20 employees. 'Good job!' wrote Kaplan. 'The funny part is that they say it has nothing to do with the current state of the dotcom business - rather, it's a "sign of success" because it has to do with a "restructuring" and a change of business model. So what makes that different than any other dotcom these days?'Kaplan insists: 'It started out just for fun and it's still just for fun.'fuckedcompany.com
One night onlyAt this festive time of year, @large feels the need to back up its contrived pub spiel with hard facts and invent as many potential conversation starters as possible. The Office for National Statistics' website is a goldmine of fantastic facts to inject into mundane chats with your cousin from Letchworth.Imagine our horror, therefore, when attempting to reach the said website, at coming across a free service 'dedicated to those individuals who wish only to fulfil the physical side of a relationship'. ONS, you see, also stands for 'one night stand', so best stick towww.nationalstatistics.gov.ukfrom now on.@ a boyOur effort to formalise a text message language for the sake of global peace has got off to a stunning start. Reader Donald MacKay came up with the superb name of 'L@-in' for our attempts to codify grammatical rules for this burgeoning form of communication.Mackay says: 'The progenitor of modern languages begets a child for the networked generation.' We are inclined to agree.Before we get into the details of the present subjunctive, we want to hear views on the new language's base. Do we invent rules that will be applicable across languages or that work just around English?Please send suggestions to at.large@observer.co.ukClean breastEidos, the embattled British games designer, has succumbed to the obvious and admitted to augmenting the size of Lara Croft's breasts in the latest Tomb Raider game. The pneumatic Ms Croft's figure is more 'defined and smoothed' according to the Eidos website. The company, which sponsors Manchester City Football Club, denied that it was getting obsessed with a bunch of big girl's blouses.
The thing about great ideas is that they are usually blindingly obvious - afterwards. A little more than two years ago, a New Zealand-based philosophy professor named Denis Dutton had the idea of creating an intelligent sieve for the web. He assembled a small team (one suspects they were his graduate students) who trawled the web every day for intellectually demanding and interesting content and publishing pointers to what they found. The result was Arts and Letters Daily (www.cybereditions.com/aldaily/) an indispensable guide which has long been the default home page for every browser I use.In a world increasingly dominated by overdesigned flash-clutter and graphics-intensive pages, Dutton's guide has a quaint, old-fashioned simplicity. It's basically just a long, scrolling page of text, topped by an antique masthead complete with Latin inscription and engraving of comely maiden. New   entries come at the top and eventually ageing entries fall off the bottom (but are given a dignified resting-place in an archive). There is very little advertising, and what there is is restrained and tasteful.The whole thing is modelled, Dutton says, on eighteenth century broadsheets - publications that tried to pack the maximum amount of news and comment onto the minimum amount of paper, regardless of the strain this might impose on readers' eyesight.Arts and Letters Daily  works for several reasons. One is that it triumphantly confirms its founder's original hypothesis - that there is a cornucopia of wonderful writing out there on the web and all that was needed was a mechanism for finding it and   bringing it to the attention of people who are too busy to do the kind of intensive browsing serious web-reading requires. But its success is mainly due to the way it met the needs of the large group of internet users who are turned off by the frenetic 'hot picks' and 'cool links' of the brain-dead surfing community.Dutton's target audience is what Alabama Governor George Wallace used to call 'pointy- headed intellectuals' - subscribers to the  New York Review of Books, readers of newspapers such as  The Observer and online magazines such as  Salon.They are people who will follow any link that points to the writing of Frank Kermode, Robert Hughes, Bill Joy or Daniel Dennett. People like you and me, in fact.Twelve months ago, Dutton sold  Arts and Letters Daily to the owners of Lingua Franca, but seems to have retained editorial control over it. The change of ownership has given him the space to return to what one suspects was his original subver sive notion - Cybereditions, an online book publisher focusing on high-quality non-fiction and scholarly writing rendered uneconomic by the philistinic book-keeping of the print publishing business.Cybereditions makes out-of-print books available in new editions as downloadable e-books, and as paperbacks produced by print-on-demand technology. And the economies of online delivery mean that Dutton can offer substantial royalties - up to 40 per cent - to authors.In a world where thousands of worthwhile books become unavailable every year after their print runs are exhausted, Cybereditions is a truly great idea. It recognises that books need never again go 'out of print', even if the global market for them is only a few thousand copies.It also offers the prospect of changing the whole concept of an 'edition'. 'An electronic book can be continually revised,' Dutton told a  Salon interviewer recently, 'more like a computer program than a printed book. You can have an initial edition, then make some corrections - that's edition 1.01. Some more and you have edition 1.02 right up to a really new edition, and that's version 2.0.'Blindingly obvious - now.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
Late last summer, the popularity of a music-sharing phenomenon called Napster sent cold shivers down the collective spines of music publishers everywhere. If you had read the story of Napster's battle with 'Big Music', you may have thought it had more to do with the future of publishing and the protection of intellectual property, than with the next step in the evolution of the internet.A 'civilisation-altering' event for the digital-media industry but still a primitive example of an emerging technology, Napster's shadow extends far beyond questions of copyright and the pirating of popular music. A new Pandora's box has been opened, a paradigm shift in technology, which suggests that a globally distributed framework of personal computers, now called the Grid, can compete with or even replace the powerful network of centralised servers that we recognise as the world wide web.Grid computing, more usually described as 'peer to peer' (P2P) or distributed computing, may change the way in which we interact with the growing mountain of information that surrounds us. It will influence the way software is designed, and its touch is already being felt through the arrival of products such as Sony's PlayStation 2 and the vision behind Microsoft's 'Dot Net' strategy.Indeed this vision may pull the PC back from the brink of redundancy. On Thursday Microsoft issued its first prof its warning in 10 years. Analysts inferred an irreversible decline in the PC software market and Microsoft shares lost a third of their value.But P2P offers the technology to use the spare capacity of home computers.In fundamental terms, the Grid represents a devolution of the internet's own form of central government, a redistribution of power among millions of connected devices, creating what is effectively a global supercomputer from the network itself.In a flash of genius, the scientific research institute Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (Seti) enlisted the help of 2 million PC users to analyse daily radio spectrum searches, having found the cost of using supercomputers prohibitively expensive. Interested PC owners downloaded Seti's analysis software from the internet and installed it as a screen saver. When the user wasn't working on the PC, the Seti@home program accepted a proportion of the organisation's workload from the internet and processed the data, passing results back to Seti's main system in California. In practice, Seti created a huge supercomputer by using its volunteers' idle processor time.Napster, which claims 25 million users, has a similar service, Aimster, which uses AOL to access a network of 120 million people. The files they share are most commonly compressed (MP3) music, exchanged on a 'person to person' basis rather   than through access to a central internet server; although the existence of a centralised directory on a Napster server was the excuse the music industry needed to take Napster to court. Like Seti@home, this is a P2P network.With millions of people using the internet every day, and the wider availability of high-bandwidth connections, many types of device can conceivably work together as a single distributed system. The whole becomes greater than the sum of its parts, much like bees in a hive, capable of contributing all or part of their resources to a much greater purpose.This prompted Intel chief technology officer Pat Gelsinger to comment: 'Peer-to-peer computing could be as important to the internet's future as the web browser was to its past.' Indeed, the company, according to a report in  Red Herring  magazine, claims to have saved $500m 'by leveraging the power of its own worldwide network of personal computers'.Intel views the PC-centric nature of the Grid as an opportunity for the company to maintain its dominance. Other server manufacturers, whose businesses are based on very large and powerful servers, may not be so happy at the idea of a network of millions of PCs replacing larger computers.The appeal of P2P networking is that as the Grid expands, the number of connections between users grows exponentially, creating a vast and almost brain-like shared network.But P2P, which really involves two young technologies, the sharing of digital content and the sharing of computers, has still to reach the point where it can leap from being an untidy commercial threat to old-econ omy interests to a sound economic proposition for a networked society.As an investment prospect, P2P offers two emergent market opportunities: resource allocation, where companies may rent network bandwidth or processor time on the public's PCs, and shared media, digital audio and multimedia distribution. But the challenges are great, the returns uncertain and overall investment in the sector remains modest - reportedly below $100m. Grid computing requires that special software and intelligent agents be installed on participating devices, allowing it to act as both client and server, and making it capable of initiating and responding to search requests that can swiftly ripple through all other shared devices linked to it.Internet search engines can be notoriously ambivalent when it comes to refined data searches: in most cases, the information retrieved is not real-time and only as good as the last data cache on the web search engine. Activity from start-up companies is now being focused on creating software that can work in and manage transactions on the   scale of a P2P network of thousands, if not millions, of PCs. This relies on these PCs being connected to the Grid, sharing their local processors and their 'public' files and directories. As an example, each PC in one school could be connected to the PCs in every school in the country, creating an enormously powerful educational supercomputer in the process. In this way, any information on the network becomes a real-time shared resource.Before the Grid can make even a modest assault on the infrastructure of the Internet, two distinct problems have to be overcome: privacy and bandwidth. With cybercrime now a rampant problem, the internet's more centralised model does at least offer some protection from a direct assault on a PC. However, unless security can be guaranteed, people will be reluctant to adopt an 'open-house' approach to the future of personal computing.With the internet becoming the delivery mechanism for every conceivable form of digital media and entertainment content, bandwidth is constantly playing catch-up with demand. Grid computing over   a P2P network of tens of thousands, if not millions of computing devices, all passing data between themselves will demand huge amounts of reliable bandwidth.Just as we were becoming comfortable with one view of technology and the evolution of the internet, another, larger wave of more radical change may be about to wash over society. The Grid's commercial potential still remains unclear and a host of issues need resolving.A universal micro-payment system is also required, so that should a large research company wish to hire the number-crunching power of 10,000 volunteer PCs overnight, a route for the owner to receive a tiny transactional amount in return becomes available.As the network becomes the computer, the principles of the Grid, as expressed by one analyst, Alan Zeichick, may point to a radically different future: 'Millions of participants, no central servers, no search engines, no registration, no index, no database, no identification - and nobody for the lawyers or governments to sue or negotiate with.'
An unknown 26-year-old yesterday acquired notoriety in a scandal hatched by the all-pervasive power of email. When Claire Swire tapped out a saucy compliment to her lover on Thursday she had no inkling it would end up in newspapers, on TV and with a press pack laying siege to her family home.Its recipient, 27-year-old City lawyer Bradley Chait, was so flattered that he sent it to six male colleagues. In his email Mr Chait referred to what sounded like an oral sex session adding: "Now that's a nice compliment from a lass, isn't it ?"Minutes later, one had sent it on to 11 colleagues. In a testament to the whirlwind speed of email, the message - now headed "Do you know Claire Swire ?" - had left solicitors firm Norton Rose in an hour and was all around the City. It was chortled over by friends at corporate lawyers Allen Overy, investment bank J P Morgan and the Arts Council.Reporters tracked Miss Swire down to her family home in Uckfield, East Sussex. where her parents said they believed the email was a prank that had got out of hand.Although she was not talking Miss Swire had returned to sending emails. In a message to some of the people who had forwarded the message, she said: "What do you care about my social life? Shouldn't you all be working?" She told the female readers not to judge her, and the men that: "all you're going to get is a fantasy".Mr Chait now faces disciplinary proceedings along with four colleagues involved in forwarding the emails.
For a lawyer working in a top international firm, recognition can be hard to achieve.But the testimony of a former girlfriend to Bradley Chait's sexual powers soon brought him to the attention of his employers - and millions of envious email users worldwide.When Mr Chait received an email from a female friend, Claire Swire, containing graphic details of her enjoyment of a sexual encounter between them, he couldn't resist forwarding their correspondence to a select group of friends with the comment: "Now that's a nice compliment from a lass isn't it?"Unfortunately for Mr Chait, one of them, Edward Drummond, decided it was too good to stop there. The correspondence, about oral sex, "beggars belief", he wrote, forwarding it to a dozen more people with the comment: "I feel honour bound to circulate this."Another responded: "What a top lass! Let's start a campaign to find her."The hunt expanded swiftly. The message was estimated by internet experts to have passed through the inboxes of a million readers, via City firms and such institutions as the Guardian, the BBC and the Science Museum.Mr Chait's law firm Norton Rose reportedly had "no recollection" of her, and internet searches proved fruitless. One promising lead proved fruitless as the Optician X company added a press release to its website, above a photo of its customer relations manager Claire Swire, stating: "Sorry Folks, this is not the Claire Swire you are searching for."The Daily Mail finally tracked Ms Swire down to her parents' home in Uckbridge, East Sussex. The young woman, dark-haired and wearing glasses, refused to comment on her new-found fame.Online newspaper the Register printed two - probably spoof - responses from a purported Claire Swire, saying she did indeed exist, was an ex-Norton Rose employee and "was not ashamed"."I can't believe this," one message ran. "First of all, I don't know any of you!! What do you care about my social life? Don't you sad bastards have anything better to do with your time?"The Register initially speculated that the whole exchange was a hoax - a view given some credence when Mr Chait told the paper: "It's a hoax. A very good one though, I have to admit."However, Norton Rose is taking the incident seriously. The company claims to have "a robust approach to email abuse", and Mr Chait and several other staff at the firm are reportedly facing disciplinary action over the forwarding of the email. It appears he has learnt the hard way that in some circumstances it is important to keep your mouth shut.Related storiesNovember 16 1999: Rash of hoax emailsAugust 10 2000: How information spreads across the internetI kiss you: the Mahir phenomononUseful linksThe RegisterClaire Swire's purported responses on the RegisterThe Register: is this the greatest ever email hoax?Optician X
Richard Desmond's fierce attack on costs at Express Newspapers continued yesterday when he sold the internet assets for a nominal sum.Mr Desmond is understood to have been shocked at the rate the four websites were burning cash and had put their 50 staff on notice of redundancy. The sites were said to be costing &#163;7m to &#163;8m a year to run.The sites have been sold for &#163;1 to stockbroker Seymour Pierce which acts as an adviser to Mr Desmond. The company will attempt to sell them as going concerns but otherwise will put the online operations into "hibernation" for sale at a later stage.Whether some staff will keep their jobs depends upon the ability to make a quick sale. "Seymour Pierce sees some value in the sites," said one source.The four websites included in the deal are ieExpress.co.uk,Sportlive.co.uk,Companyleader.comandAllaboutparents.com- a favoured project of Daily Express editor Rosie Boycott.Seymour Pierce has reached a content supply agreement with Mr Desmond for Express.co.uk, essentially an online version of the newspaper.Mr Desmond's Northern &amp;   Shell acquired the newspaper group for &#163;125m last month and has since subjected the titles to rigorous examination.Meanwhile United News and Media, which sold Express Newspapers to Mr Desmond, yesterday underlined the dramatic change in sentiment towards the dot.com sector.United announced that it was to cut back its internet investment plans to &#163;180m. In February it said it would pour &#163;370m into new media.United's decision to slash the resources it had planned to sink into online activities follows a similar move last month by magazine publisher Emap, which is halving its planned investment to &#163;120m.United also announced it is to return &#163;1.25bn to share holders in one of the biggest ever share buy-back programmes.As expected, United has opted to take cash rather than shares from Granada Media in payment for the TV business it sold to them in July. At the time of the deal, United took &#163;500m in cash and had the option to take the rest of the &#163;1.75bn purchase price in shares. Granada's shares have tumbled from 585p to 438p since then. The buy-back will start in February, after United publishes its full-year results, which the group said would be in line with expectations.United has done an about turn in strategy this year. Chief executive Lord Hollick had intended to dominate commercial terrestrial TV by merging with Carlton, but his plans were scuppered by the competition authorities and United decided instead to abandon the TV business altogether.Last month it sold the Express, and also plans to dispose of its internet service provider and portal business, LineOne, a joint venture with BT. Yesterday the group said discussions were under way with a number of interested parties and hinted that it would soon ditch its remaining business-to-consumer internet operations - which include the Megastar and Dotmusic sites as well as youth broadcaster Rapture.
It has been an awfully long time since there were four videogame consoles vying for consumers' cash at Christmas.Your choice of hardware will always be partly determined by what you want to play on it - the best games are usually exclusive to a certain machine. But this is also a transitional time for the videogame industry, with older machines reaching the end of their natural lifespan and two major new consoles arriving next year.So buyers must also consider how much juice is likely to be left in the box they choose. The Nintendo 64 (&#163;74.99) is a case in point. Though technically superior to its rival PlayStation, it has always suffered from a lack of software support.Even now, it can boast no top-flight beat-'em-ups or driving games. Yet if its back catalogue is small, it is also glorious: Goldeneye, Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Super Mario 64, Wave Race.Like its predecessor the SNES, the N64 has been bowing out in style this year, with the flawed but impressive Perfect Dark, the wonderful Mario Tennis, and now the latest masterpiece from Japanese legend Shigeru Miyamoto, Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask.Those who already own the machine will be more than happy, but only die-hard Pok&eacute;mon nuts - Pok&eacute;mon Stadium and Pok&eacute;mon Snap aren't available for any other console - will actually go out and buy one for the first time now.What of Nintendo's old rival? Sony's PSone (&#163;79.99) is a repackaged version of the original PlayStation, in a smaller, rounded white box, and with a snap-on LCD screen promised for next year. The PlayStation is now cheap enough to be a toy. But the technology inside it is still five years old, and showing its age with warped textures and coughing framerates.There is of course a new Lara Croft vehicle out this Christmas (Tomb Raider Chronicles), but there will be no more ground-breaking games on this format. The back catalogue, even so, is wide and impressive, with such benchmarks as Gran   Turismo, Metal Gear Solid, Tekken 3, Time Crisis et al available at reduced prices.Since PSone's technology is now so well understood and relatively cheap to develop for, the console might yet enjoy an Indian summer as the medium for inexpensive, experimental videogames, such as this autumn's bizarrely fascinating Vib Ribbon, or the new Incredible Crisis.Gamers looking for the cutting edge, however, will know it is time to move on. I only hope there are not too many tearful children on Christmas morning unwrapping one of these when they wanted a PlayStation 2. Beware of tragic parental confusion.So should you go for a PlayStation 2 (&#163;299)? It's kind of a moot point, since Sony managed to ship only 165,000 of the beasts to the UK. If you haven't already got one, you won't officially be able to buy one until well into the new year - but there are some enterprising companies out there offering to sell mysteriously acquired machines at a premium.The PS2 is certainly a sleek and sexy beast: ribbed black, with understated highlights, it resembles a serious slab of hi-fi entertainment gear. It also plays back DVD movies, although the quality is not stunning.Connectivity-wise, it's pretty future-proof: USB and i.Link ports, a promised broadband internet adapter, a promised slot-in hard drive. But it's criminal that Sony has provided only two controller ports, forcing you to spend an extra &#163;30 on a multitap to play three-way or four-way games.So what can you play on it? There's the rub. Of all the games available from now until the new year, the only "must-have" product is Timesplitters (Eidos). Programmed by Free Radical Design, who were part of the original Goldeneye design team, it's an uproarious first-person shooter with a beautifully fast and smooth four-player mode.Because PS2 is backward-compatible with original PlayStation software, it has a ready-made library of old   games, but it will take a while before developers exploit the full potential of its idiosyncratic computing architecture. That might not happen, in fact, before next autumn's Metal Gear Solid 2, a game already so desirable that a five-minute DVD trailer for it has been selling like hot sak&eacute; in Japan.But by that time, Sony will   have to fend off the twin challenges of Microsoft's Xbox (currently selling itself on unproven polygon numbers) and Nintendo's Gamecube (wisely not claiming any numbers at all).My guess is that it will do just fine, once the price is cut to something more sensible, but for now only gadget freaks really need one.And so we come to Sega's Dreamcast (&#163;149). It had some teething troubles when it launched a year ago: notably, the slipping of high-profile games and the failure of its internet service. But   since then, things have started to go right.It is still the only console to ship with a built-in modem, albeit a slow 33.3kbps model (a 56k unit is promised next year), and so out of the box it can function as a basic email and web-browsing unit. Owners of the excellent Dreamcast port of Quake III: Arena can participate in multiplayer fragging contests online as well.Despite the PS2 hype, the Dreamcast has always been a very capable 128-bit machine itself, and its software catalogue is now superb. The evergreen Soul Calibur is still eye-searingly beautiful; there are perfect conversions of Sega arcade games such as House of the Dead 2 and Crazy Taxi; and recent major launches such as Metropolis Street Racer, Jet Set Radio and Shenmue, as well as the delicious maraca-shaking party game Samba de Amigo, have consolidated its position.Dreamcast is by no means certain to be blown out of the water by the new boys next Christmas either. Consider also that current high-street bundles around the &#163;149 mark offer the console with two or three free games, and that for &#163;299 or less you can also get it with an excellent multi-region DVD player (the Encore DV-450S), and there is really no contest. Sega is the undisputed champion for videogamers this Christmas.&#149;  Steve Poole is the author of Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames (Fourth Estate, &#163;12)
Lloyds TSB has abandoned the launch of internet bank Evolvebank.com in Britain and will instead create a bank for Goldfish, Centrica's quirky credit card brand.The announcement was immediately embroiled in controversy when Centrica's 50-50 partner in Goldfish, HFC, pointed out its contract was still in place and it could not be assumed that Goldfish's 1m customers belonged to Centrica. Centrica wants to transfer them to the new venture, to be known as Goldfish Holdings, next year.The venture is intended to break even by 2003 and have 2m customers by 2005 when cheque books and current accounts will be available.Evolvebank.com was scheduled to open in the coming weeks after launching in Spain last month. Lloyds TSB said it was unlikely to reconsider taking it live until at least May.Centrica is retaining control of Goldfish, with a 70% stake and Lloyds TSB is taking 30%. The ownership structure prompted speculation that the new bank will eventually be spun off.
In a classroom in the National University of Rwanda in Butare, students sit at computer screens, typing in records for a government project.From piles of green plastic bags, they take long sheets of paper and record the names of those dead or missing from their communities in the genocide of 1994. The students get paid &#163;5 a week for six mornings' work, logging in names such as Anatalie Mukasirire. A subsistence farmer aged 34, and the head of a family, she was killed with a machete in April 1994, in her home because of her ethnic group. In the row below her is the name of her daughter Nyirama, aged four, who died the same way, in the same place, for the same reason.In the next room, one of the NUR's three internet cafes is humming and crowded. Final year students, who pay about 80p a month for a card which gives them an hour's use a day, are writing emails to friends, looking at chess problems, and researching.Computers in Rwanda are used, as in the other room, for assessing the tragedy which   struck the country, but also for reconstruction, education, looking forward. The university, along with the Kigali Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) in the Rwandan capital, has the cheapest, fastest internet access in the country, thanks to help from the Leland Initiative, a US scheme to extend internet connections to more than 20 African countries, which has given them a year's free internet access through the VSAT (very small aperture terminal) system.The university has 160 computers now, of which 54 have internet access, and should soon have 250. Most NUR students had never seen the internet before they got here.The new 31-student computer studies department is thriving and looking to   expand and the department is planning to rent out the internet access to others in the city, to schools and foreign businessmen and NGO (non-governmental organisation) staff.KIST is doing the same, and even offered free internet access to a cybercafe for six months to help it get on its feet.The Rwandan government has latched on to information and communications technology (ICT) as an engine to deliver what would be a stunning transformation of its economy. "ICT are offering Rwanda a window of opportunity to leapfrog the key stages of industrialisation and transform her subsistence agriculture dominated economy into a service-sector driven, high value information and knowledge economy that can compete on the global market," said the government in February. "The vision for Rwanda - to be transformed into an information-rich knowledge based society and economy within 20 years."Rwanda wants to become what it describes as the Dubai of east Africa, providing low-cost offshore banking, data   entry and insurance services for small and medium sized businesses in Europe at a third of the cost, and exploiting the rarity of having both English and French as official languages by offering cheap simultaneous translation services.The vision is born of an assessment as much of Rwanda's weaknesses as its strengths. "Rwanda has no natural resources. The only resources we have are human beings," says Albert Nsengiyumva, the head of NUR's computing centre. "The only way to promote the country is to provide skills for   our people. We need to figure out how Rwanda, without natural resources, can provide some services so that we can improve our economy."Landlocked, and with more than 90% of the population working on subsistence   farms, Rwanda has hardly any geographic advantages. But if the internet can make geography irrelevant, that gives Rwanda a chance.Claver Gatete, a senior adviser to president Paul Kagame, thinks ICT can also link the country's agrarian base to export markets. Whereas there is no competitive advantage in trying to export low-cost, high-bulk potatoes and bananas, Rwanda could find a market for cheap roses and carnations, for instance. The web can give the country more clout in tourism, by tempting visitors to Dar es Salaam   and Mombasa to travel on through to Rwanda.But in a country where six years ago a high proportion of educated and skilled people were killed or exiled, the digital divide is an ocean wide. So education is at the core of the government's ICT strategy.Whereas in the development of the internet in many other countries education has often had to play catch-up with commerce, here it is in at the beginning. The government wants people to be both edu cated to use IT, and educated through IT. The potential shortcuts can be liberating, enabling students to access learning material, even top-quality lecturers, without them having to be imported at great expense."The internet means sharing, it means the cheapest way to communicate," says Nsengiyumva. "We need to train people, to sensitise people, how the internet can be useful in a country like Rwanda."Britain is doing its bit, with Rwanda one of two lead pilots for the Imfundo project, which will be launched by   Tony Blair next year, a government public/private scheme to help developing countries with IT.Imfundo plans to support the development of the Rwanda Education Network (Rednet), linking education institutions with each other and to government offices. But its most ambitious scheme is to help launch an in-service training scheme for the country's 30,000 teachers, 25,000 of whom are untrained. It will develop courses through the Kigali Institute of Education, the main teacher training institution, which will be connected to 10 regional centres."We have got far apart from identifying the centres we are going to use," says Beatrice Mukabaranga, vice-rector of KIE . "We feel that if it succeeds it's going to bring dramatic changes."The education minister, Emmanuel Mudidi, an enthusiast for decentralisation, sees it as a way of keeping people working within their regions, improving their skills and their earning power without having to rush to the cities. At NUR and KIST, there are already distance learning courses being conducted through the African Virtual University, a World Bank-inspired scheme, mainly delivered through video in Rwanda but with some internet links. But though the radio is the most effective form of communication in Rwanda, and will remain so for years, probably decades, the universities are not interested in running courses that way.But the critical issue for the burgeoning IT industry in Rwanda is how to train people to run it, and how to keep them in the country once they are trained. NUR, KIST and Rwandatel, the state-owned telecommunications company   which provides most of the internet access, each sent two people to the University of Maryland in the US recently. NUR also has links with Michigan State University. NUR's lead technician, Clemintine Nsanzineza, is going to Koblenz, Germany, to complete her training.But this is expensive. Just as with the shortage of teachers, Nsengiyumva is looking towards the time when the stabilisers provided by foreign experts are gone. When he came here in 1997 to open the computer centre, he says, "people were never thinking about training technicians - they were all looking at just equipment. They now see that is a big mistake".The scale of the vision can seem unlikely. The computers kept crashing at NUR in the summer because the dam producing electricity for the site was hit by a three-month drought. The government has very few computers, and many schools have none.Merithe Nzaramba, head of the FAWE girls school, is very pleased with the four computers they were given by president Paul Kagame and is supportive of the ICT vision. But her first priority is more immediate: "You can't enjoy the internet if you don't have enough food for the students."Some sympathetic British officials privately regard Rwanda's IT vision as worthwhile, but for less straightforward reasons. They reckon the Rwandan government has tapped into the worldwide craze for IT buzzwords; that it has calculated the most effective way to attract investment from abroad, from foreign governments and dot.coms with a conscience. Maybe - but does that matter? And Rwandans are far from pretending that IT is all the answer."When I am speaking with NGOs and so on, they say 'what are the government's priorities?'," says Claver Gatete. "And then you find that everything is a priority."The Imfundo projectwww.imfundo.orgThe Leland initativewww.info.usaid.gov/regions/afr/leland
An e-business consultancy singled out by the CBI last year as Britain's most promising young business yesterday laid off a quarter of its staff.Rubus, which advises firms on how to make the most of commercial opportunities presented by technologies such as mobile phones and interactive television, said 70 staff would be cut from its 300 workers owing to "rapidly changing market conditions"."It is a painful decision to make but we have anticipated the changing direction of the market and this is a prudent measure to put the company in good shape for the future," founder and chief executive Michael Walton said.Mr Walton explained that the declining fortunes of business-to-consumer internet firms meant Rubus was getting less work from dot.coms and would focus more on helping large corporations adapt to the opportunities of new technology. It would increasingly compete with big consultancy firms such as IBM and PricewaterhouseCoopers.Rubus clients include Waterstones and Thomas Cook, television firms Granada Media and ONdigital and investment banks Nomura and Cazenove.Mr Walton emphasised that Rubus's two main investors, private equity firms Schroder Ventures and Warburg Pincus, were committed to the business's long-term future and that it had enough cash to see it through to profitability.Rubus this year considered floating on the stock market but volatile conditions that also affected US e-business consultancies had put paid to the plans for now, Mr Walton said.
David Montgomery's reinvention as an internet entrepreneur moved closer yesterday when his new employer struck a deal that places it in position to become the dominant internet service provider in Africa.African Lakes, a former colonial trading company founded in the late 19th century by some associates of the explorer David Livingstone, said it would set up a joint venture company with a South African technology firm to develop internet services across 14 countries in Africa.Mr Montgomery, the group's recently appointed executive chairman and former Mirror boss, said that the link with Uunet SA, a subsidiary of telecoms group WorldCom, was consistent with African Lakes' strategy of moving away from its traditional business of rubber plantations and transportation towards a new focus on communications.The deal will combine the corporate subscriber base and brand of African Lakes' Africa Online internet service provider subsidiary with Uunet's infrastructure. The venture is targeting 150,000 subscribers by the end of next year.A mixture of fixed line will be made available because phone cables have not been laid in large parts of Africa and mobile phones are expected to become the prime way of accessing the internet in those regions. Satellite systems will also be used to transmit information to particularly remote areas. Shares rose 13% to 34.5p.Africa is seen as a potentiallly huge internet market but the roll-out of web access across a vast continent, blighted in parts by war, political unrest, famine and disease, will be difficult.Africa Online has a presence in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Swaziland, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Ghana and Cte d'Ivoire. It intends to expand into Senegal, Cameroon, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Malawi and Mozambique soon.It has opened e-touch centres - effectively internet cafes - in several of its existing territories and has plans to develop country specific content sites.Mr Montgomery's other internet interests include Yava, a project that aims to take the internet into pubs across Britain, while he recently attempted to mount a private equity backed bid for Express Newspapers. "I've always been much more interested in mediums that access a mass market rather than top end products that focus more on the middle classes," he said.
While I yield to no one in my admiration of Bill Gates, I totally disagree with his recent assertions about the Third World. He believes that the PC is the last thing that the developing world needs; the priority is for drugs and food. I beg to differ, unpopular though that view might be.The affluent West has been doling out drugs and food to the less fortunate countries for decades. How can it be, then, that the plight of the people is immeasurably worse than it was before we started? I've worked on the ground for UN agencies in India and Africa and I beg to propose an alternative view.Throwing drugs and food, from a distance, at starving   millions does nothing to solve the endemic problems of a developing nation. It keeps people alive, but if they have no way to earn money, it merely exacerbates the problem.For example, in Sri Lanka after the second world war the malarial swamps were doused with DDT, thus removing one of the biggest killers. This coincided with a political promise of universal education without a corresponding commitment to employment. The result was a sharp increase in a young and educated population, but with nothing for them to do.Our image of the Third World is conditioned by harrowing television images. But go to any capital city or large town in Africa and you   will see affluence in large measure.Government officials will all have their cars and their servants. The markets will be teeming with food. Most families will have a television. Go into the country and the situation may be very different. But in the rural areas you will still see the early morning lines of neatly dressed children heading for the local school.As in Britain, the parents   know that the first three priorities are education, education, education. But education alone is not enough. There has to be something for them to do. Money is is the only solution to the endemic problems of the Third World.Ask yourself what will happen in 20 years if all the West can offer are drugs and food? When night falls in a remote village without electricity, what do you think the people do? The most cynical but accurate observation I ever heard was: "The best thing that could happen to India is electric light." Yes, television is the ultimate contraceptive.Poverty makes babies. These are the brutal realities of life. Compare Palestine and Israel, if proof be needed. The   problems of the Third World are merely exacerbated by well-meaning charity. A solution is needed which attacks the root of the problem; that solution could well be the PC.Theodore Levitt, a marketing sage, said: "Nothing happens till you sell something." Sell something and a whole chain of benefit oozes through an economy, rich or poor. To sell something you first have to find a buyer with some money.The cycle of deprivation can never be broken if the seller cannot find a buyer. This is where the PC scores, because it can be the television, the radio, the typewriter, the telephone, the teacher. It can be any of the things that you need to reach out and find a   buyer beyond the local market. It is the supreme hope for adding value to what you have to sell.I well remember a late dinner in an affluent African city. As we entered the hotel, we passed an African momma on a street corner with a dozen eggs, neatly stacked on a soapbox. Many hours later when we emerged ,she was still there with 10 eggs, waiting patiently for a buyer. This is the real tragedy of the Third World - the sheer waste of human effort.Bill Gates' big mistake is to think in terms of a Western model of one person, one PC. Start thinking of one PC, one village (or small business or classroom) and some real benefits start to emerge.Adam Clayton Powell III of the Freedom Forum recently wrote about his experiences in South Africa in the early 1990s.'South Africa's black majority was watching television, in every township and village I visited. Even poor people living in shacks made of cardboard and corrugated metal were watching. Even in villages without electricity, people were tuning in. How? The TV receivers were often shared among several families. And where there was no electric service, some villages had solar-powered sets, donated by Europeans, or people were watching on units powered by batteries, which were picked up each morning, recharged   and returned to viewers' homes in time for that afternoon's episode of The Young And The Restless."This was not the conventional wisdom; poor people were not supposed to be watching television. He goes on to say that today: "From South Asia to South America, one hears tales of isolated rural poverty yielding to connected economic development, courtesy of internet   connections. Poor families in India and subsidence-level villages in Africa may get online with used 386s and marginal connections - the net reaches parts of the Congo via shortwave radio - but once online, they are connected to information about clean water and health, to global markets and income.In Latin America, the internet cafes are spreading to every street corner. They are spreading not so much for email but because they allow people to communicate in countries where telephone and mail systems are either unaffordable or unavailable. They are used most often to reach relatives in far-off places. But imagine the economic impact if they were   being used to reach buyers in the affluent West.Imagine the impact if they were used in education. Here again our image is clouded by the thought of 30 kids, 30 PCs. Imagine a classroom which had merely a television set, a teacher and a modified DVD player with an internet connection. Thatis revolutionary in its significance. The reliable delivery of rich video images, bolstered by internet connectivity to the outside world (however unreliable) could bring untold benefit to the rural education scene. That same classroom could be used in the evening to open entrepreneurial eyes to business opportunities.Bill Gates is selling himself   short. He has been viewing the Third World from a distance, conditioned by gut-wrenching pictures on television screens. By deepening the divide between the West and the rest we are merely stoking up trouble for the future.What people need is hope for the future of their children and the PC (or more precisely its successor) can give that hope.The clockwork radio has given Africa new hope. A similar innovation may bring an interactive multimedia solution so that money can start to flow. Without that, the future for us all is bleak.&#149;  John Barker is the former editor in chief of Inside Multimedia.
It was difficult to avoid the irony: a computer security conference being hosted by Microsoft, the company accused by many of forsaking users' privacy and security in the pursuit of profit.But a high-powered list of attendees chose to ignore the jeers of some commentators and attend last week's SafeNet 2000 conference in Redmond, where remarkably frank discussions on some of the most sensitive issues facing the computer industry took place.They included a senior US government official, who warned of a "digital Pearl Harbor" if greater precautions were not taken against sneak attacks in cyberspace.Richard Clark, who coordinates security and infrastructure protection at the White House National Security Council, said the new US president would have to shield the economy from foreign cyber warriors."Several nations... have created information warfare squadrons, battalions. These organisations are developing techniques to bring down computer networks," he said.He added that those organisations were already performing reconnaissance work on US networks, and said that in the face of "criminals, crackers &#91;and&#93; foreign governments" the new president "had better move pretty fast.Microsoft, of course, has been fiercely criticised in recent years for the security flaws in its software, including its Windows operating system and Office software suites.In an embarrassing incident in October, the company's own computers at Redmond were broken into by an as-yet-unknown intruder.Bill Gates, the company's chairman, acknowledged to the audience that the internet was bringing new dangers to personal privacy. Privacy and security "are tied together in a very deep way," he said.Announcing a Microsoft initiative on consumer privacy, Gates said the next version of the company's   Internet Explorer software would incorporate a technology that could make it easier to ascertain the privacy policies on websites.The conversation at the conference was sometimes quarrelsome. In a discussion of privacy issues, Nick Mansfield of Shell Services International, a computer services subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, praised consumer privacy rules passed by the European Union and said that in contrast, "I don't see anything intelligent in the privacy field in North America."The comment elicited a murmur of irritation in the packed meeting room, but a few minutes later, Microsoft's   own chief privacy officer, Richard Purcell, said much the same thing.Consumers, he said, merely see an industry that is squabbling over position in the market, not one that is moving forward with any coherence on privacy issues."How do we get to that vocabulary, that purpose and that channel of communication," he asked, "that assures consumers we aren't a lot of evil-headed monsters?"Despite Microsoft's well-publicised problems with security, few delegates remarked on their host's problems. Others who did not attend Redmond were not so kind, however."The irony of it is amazing,"   said Jeff Bates, editor of the online technology news site, Slashdot. He accused Microsoft of being "a company that leaves me vulnerable to security holes so that it can make my screen look prettier."Others at the conference noted that one of the meeting's goals - to come up with standard procedures for reporting software flaws - would serve Microsoft well, since it has long been the victim of embarrassing "gotcha" announcements that describe bugs before the company has had a chance to fix them.Compiled from New York Times/Reuters
Many people, and I'm one of them, think location-based services (LBS) will be central to the future mobile proposition and essential to mobile commerce. The magnitude of the LBS revolution that's about to hit is impossible to understate.As Michael Specter recently put it in The New Yorker: "Our children may never fully understand the word 'lost', just as few people under the age of 10 have any idea what it means to 'dial' a phone number."LBS has immediate implications for business. It could well be, for example, that the most important factor in established mobile operators' positions in the m-commerce value chain will come from their control over the location information that merchants and others will need to provide effective mobile services.Strategy Analytics predicts that annual revenue from location-based services in Western Europe will reach $9bn in 2005 (and another $7bn in North America) but   the m-commerce revenues dependent on these services may be significantly higher. For mobile service providers, LBS enables products and services that simply cannot be emulated on the fixed internet.The implementation of mass-market location-based services is imminent. In the UK, for example, BT's Genie mobile ISP plans to launch LBS (using cell ID data to locate subscribers to within around 100m) early next year. In addition to the technological and business pressures, there are good reasons why law enforcement and government agencies want to see LBS introduced.In the US, federal law will require mobile operators to be able to identify the position of anyone making a call to the emergency services by the end of 2002. This "E911"   initiative will create an instant mass market for LBS in the US.The US operators originally saw E911 as a bit of a nuisance, but this year it began to dawn on them that it might be the platform for an entirely new range of services.Location might be established through a GPS unit built in to (for example) a laptop or it might be through the mobile networks. In the case of mobile LBS, there are two ways to establish location: the handset can work out where it is by triangulating from base stations (which requires hardware in the handset) or the network can work out where the handset is.There is a natural temptation for mobile operators to implement LBS using network services rather than deploying new handsets or "add on" GPS devices and, in fact, this is exactly how the first deployments work (eg the TimesThree service already live in Canada).Things are moving along smartly. There is already a proposed IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force)   protocol for location information-the Spatial Location Protocol, SloP-that gives a standard format (basically a location-time-accuracy triple) for communicating location from a device and the usual suspects (Motorola, Ericsson and Nokia) have formed the Location Interoperability Forum (LIF).What is not covered by current protocols or initiatives is the really big issue: who is allowed to access LBS and under what circumstances. Here, there is a vast difference between using GPS and using mobile networks because the GPS satellites do not know where you are but the mobile networks do.In other words, my device can obtain its location from GPS and then communicate this under my control. With a mobile, however, the network can figure out where I am and   pass it on to other people without having me in the loop. If I call in sick, should my boss be able to call up a web page to see where I am?Will the UK paparazzi be able to get Tom Cruise's mobile phone number and then track him wherever he goes? In South Korea there is already a mobile service that gives subscribers a list of celebrities, prioritised by their distance from the subscriber (eg, "No 1: Gwyneth Paltrow").Will the police be able to check whether my phone got from the M1/M25 to M4/M25 junctions at more than 70 miles per hour?More importantly, how am I going to be able to delegate authority for the school to track my children's whereabouts at certain times during the day but not others?These issues, unlike the technical issues, seem some way from being resolved. So in the short term, it is likely that the major beneficiaries will not be mobile operators or mobile consumers but lawyers.
Spyro: Year of the DragonSony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Insomniac/Sony	****Can't think what to give friends for Christmas? Problem solved. Insomniac's third and last Spyro game will appeal to players of all ages and sexes, and all skill levels. The only essentials are a PlayStation and a sense of humour.And YOTD is not just a cute platform game, it's a compendium of great mini-games, ranging from a superb skateboard park - and a dragon pulling stunts is well worth seeing - to a pastiche of Quake. (Not so strange: Insomniac's first game was a shooter called Disruptor.)It doesn't get five stars because the basic game is the same as it was in the first two Spyro titles. You play a small purple fire-breathing dragon, and you run, fly and swim around well-drawn 3D cartoon worlds collecting jewels and bashing bad guys.Your task is to save about 150 eggs, each of which gives birth to a small Pok&eacute;mon-type animated creature, which promptly disappears.But you're not stuck with being Spyro forever. In one   level in each world you play a different character such as Sheila (a kangaroo), Sergeant Byrd (a flying penguin), Bently (a yeti), and Agent 9 (a space monkey).Although YOTD does not have the rich inventiveness of the Sonic and Super Mario series, the different characters and the wide range of mini-games provide a lot of variety.Insomniac has also done a good job of making YOTD accessible to all-comers.The opening level is instantly playable, and there are characters standing around to tell you which buttons to push if you get stuck.The game also features an "auto challenge tuning" (ACT) system that is said to adjust the difficulty level to the player's expertise. The company says it means the game can provide a challenge for hardcore gamers without becoming unplayable by the rest of us. However, as a solo player, you can't tell whether ACT is doing anything or not.The gameplay is great, the graphics are superb, the voice acting better than average, and the background tunes don't seem to get too annoying, which all adds up to an outstanding game.The first Spyro title has now shifted about 4 million copies world wide, and YOTD deserves to do even better.  (JS)Tom &amp; Jerry in House TrapSony PlayStation	&#163;19.99 Ubisoft	***In the red corner: you know them, you love them, they are arguably the perfect videogame material - the ultra-violent cartoon cat and mouse, Tom and Jerry. In the blue corner: the depressing, time-honoured videogames dictum that All Merchandising Licences Are Dire.So who wins? Boringly, neither. Things sure could have been worse: for a start, the delinquent duo have not been spuriously transplanted into a new milieu (although Tom &amp; Jerry Racer and Kat &amp; Mouse Kombat are doubtless in the pipeline). No, in House Trap, Tom and Jerry are firmly where they belong - in their house, using household implements to beat seven bells out of each other.What's more, the game does a decent job of capturing the essence of the 40s toon (we do not, ah, mention the   60s remake). The visuals, the sound effects, even the chirpy music are within forgiving distance of the real deal.Even better, the game itself is fun, frenetic and, blow me, mildly original. Playing on a split screen, you take the part of Jerry against the computer's Tom (in two-player mode, a friend takes Tom). The object is simple: use everything at your disposal (lawnmower, drawing pins,   ironing board) to set traps for your opponent. If the traps fail, you can always pick up the nearest domestic item (bowling ball, goldfish bowl) and beat him over the head.So much for the cheese. Now for the trap: sorely limited gameplay. The action stretches over just 15 rooms, most of which offer similarly superficial slapstick (face flattened by frying pan, face flattened by shovel, yada   yada). The single-player campaign becomes repetitive long before the end, and even EastEnders fans will tire of the two-player option eventually. (A four-player option with Spike and the cute little duck on the other hand...)All in all, House Trap is a good laugh, which, with just a little more inventiveness and variety, could have been a great one. Still, it's only &#163;20. (AB)TimesplittersSony PlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Eidos	***The PlayStation 2, then. A new dawn of interactive entertainment, or just an overpriced DVD player?Despite the machine's undoubted potential, the PS2's launch games haven't exactly set the world alight. Hasty franchise makeovers and cliched racing games do not a revolution make.Perhaps the most interesting of the nascent titles is Timesplitters, a first-person shooter produced by some of the team responsible for the seminal Goldeneye on the Nintendo 64.But unlike the Bond classic, Timesplitters is a straightforward arcade blaster that   dispatches any notion of storyline with a quick blast from its blunderbuss.The plot, such as it is, merely sets the scene for some    furious strafing, as you battle across some fast, if rather barren, landscapes. But, while the computer opponents display a devious   amount of artificial intelligence (AI), Timesplitters is best played against humans, especially when showing signs of IS (inebriated stupidity).Indeed, the multiplayer game, in all its guises - from deathmatch to capture the flag - is where the lack of plotline makes sense. Kill or be killed, move or die, Timesplitters is gaming in its most (im)pure form.As you would expect from the developer's history, there are lots of extra bits to discover as you play through the game, with immense satisfaction gained from finding a new character or weapon.So, plot or not, there is plenty to do. Of course, you could criticise the game for not taking itself too seriously, but that would be churlish. Timesplitters is cracking post-pub entertainment that is more likely to trouble your neighbours than your brain cells.  (GH)
On boardInfogrames, France's biggest games company, failed to take over Eidos Interactive, but is acquiring Hasbro Interactive and Games.com instead. The deal is worth $100 million, but only $95 million is in   cash. Infogrames has also signed a 15-year licensing agreement to publish games based on Hasbro properties, which include Monopoly and Scrabble, as well as the Atari games range. Its important PC titles include Civilization II and Roller Coaster Tycoon. The takeover has to be approved by Infogrames' shareholders, which is expected to happen in March.Santa's helperEve, "the world's first virtual game shop assistant", is helping out with the Christmas rush on theGameplay website. She's remarkably useless even   for a talkbot. Ask who created her and she replies: "Y'know making a bot is a lot like making love to a beautiful woman. You've got to take your time, build her up gradually... ahem, I dunno to be honest, some gameplay jokers I think."Xboxing cleverMicrosoft is also on the acquisition trail, picking up development studios to create games for PCs and its forthcoming Xbox games console. Last week, it bought Digital Anvil, in which it already had   a shareholding. The company was set up by Chris Roberts (Wing Commander), his brother Erin (StarLancer), and Tony Zurovec (Loose Cannon) in Austin, Texas. They have been developing a space game, FreeLancer, that has already won awards. Two of the three will leave the company: Zurovec is looking for a new publisher for Loose Cannon and Conquest, and Chris Roberts will work as a consultant on FreeLancer.Tasty dishHigh-speed satellite links have been around for years    without attracting many UK users, partly because you need a dish and partly because you still need to occupy a phone line: the phone provides the "back channel" so you can ask for data to be sent by satellite. But Media Co UK is having a go at marketing the idea with Activator, a service that will initially be limited to 5,000 PC gamers. The service costs &#163;14.99 and works with your existing internet service. However, there are extra charges if you want more than 128kbps downloads. Seewww.activator.co.uk/htm/hsi.htm.
For all the talk of rapid internet growth, it is when football players start up their own websites that you know the internet has truly arrived. Forget Tony Blair getting online, it's the idea of the Neville brothers forming a dot.com that shows how accepted the internet really is - and in the current new-media meltdown, they're the only kind of people earning the sort of money to keep a site afloat.While Posh and Becks haven't quite got round to their own site yet, plenty of other football players have decided to get in on the act.www.icons.comhosts and designs sites for a raft of Premiership players. The sites, while a goldmine for footy satirists, are another example of growing player power, echoing the clubs' attempts to control their own TV rights.Arsenal fans, for example, realised that Overmars was off to Barcelona last season from the player's website rather than the club. Talking of which, narrowly beating shy, self-effacing "daveed"Ginolainto second place in the ponce stakes (sample quote: "Although he is adored by female football fans the world over, David is a family man")    is the awesomely self-involvedEmmanuel Petit, now of Barcelona FC. "Emmanuel is fascinated by fashion and more particularly leather. Discover the reason for this passion".Browsing Petit's site is a treat, with Emmanuel dispensing wisdom on music and literature. "Aerosmith", we learn, "is capable of writing ballads as well as giving American rock the pride and splendour it has been missing for so long." Wonderful stuff, all of it, and well worth a look.If you want to see how the pros do it, try the officialwww.uefa.comandwww.fifa.comsites. Boring as only large institutions can be, they are nonetheless both worth a visit for info such as the official rules, or to see a wealth of audio and video of goals around the world. Footballing "stattos" will love them.The Fifa site is particularly good for titibits such as the winner of the African Player of the Year (Patrick Mboma), and to generally keep up with the world game. On the whole though, the internet is perfect for people like me - fans who live hundreds of miles away from their team, but are, thanks to the strange power of football, wholly unable to change allegiances simply because of geography.The fan sites maintained by fans who basically live at the ground are the best kind - as you get a feel for what's going on at grassroots level. As an ex-brummy who still supports his hometown team of Aston Villa (no laughter at the back there, please), a daily visit to the excellentwww.heroesandvillains.netis a requirement. Here I can read about Villa on the training ground, the state of the new stand, and of course, moan about the chairman in discussion forums.www.totalfootball.comis particularly good at linking you to fan sites for your team, or alternatively the official team site (never as much fun - rather like going for a drink with the chairman of your club after the game).The ideal combination of the fanzine's irreverence and the resources of a major site is probably the irrepressiblewww.football365.com, a site that is part of the larger 365.com empire. You can check the tables, discuss your team's fortunes in the discussion area, or get wound up by the site's provocateur-in-chief Danny Baker.The audio and video section is worth a visit too, particularly if you have a stupidly fast connection at work. There are blooper reels of Zinedine Zidane's less inspired   moments, as well as regular internet radio bulletins.If it is great sports journalism you're after, you should try out the Guardian's ownwww.footballunlimited.co.uksite, and its daily satire, The Fiver. And if your team isn't quite up with the big boys yet, you can check outwww.confguide.com, a great site for fans of Nationwide Conference teams, with the following straight-faced disclaimer at the bottom of the page: "It is not intentionally biased towards (or against) any particular Conference club, though the author of this site is a Yeovil Town fan." Otherwise try outwww.fsa.org.ukfor a bit of solidarity - the official site of the Football Supporters Association.In the old days, when you wanted to find out what was happening with your club, you had to rely on a premium rate phone line for the odd scrap of info. Nowadays you can simply log on, at home or work, and find out as much as you like. Your team playing an afternoon European match? Keep up with the score via an online scoreboard, or even get news of every goal your team score delivered to your mobile phone via a site calledwww.giveusthescore.com, or bet online at sites such aswww.sportingbet.co.ukor thewww.flutter.comsite.And, like the TV, for all the new technology at your fingertips, it means you feel even less need to actually go to the game. When you can sit practically watching a game online, getting stats, reading up on your fave player's views on life, the universe and everything, why bother leaving the house?
Govern meantThe government is finally starting to deliver bits of the "one stop shop" portal strategy. Now Cabinet Office minister Ian McCartney is keen to    get responses to the trial version atwww.ukonline.gov.ukbecause, he says, "the way people use the site and the feedback we receive will drive how we develop and improve it". The portal is intended to provide a searchable front end to the government's thousands of specialised websites, and can be personalised. The ability to use it for transactions, such as submitting VAT or tax returns, will follow next year.Like a VirginVirgin Radio is adding four new stations to its website,    starting with Virgin Radio Classic, for people who like "classic" rock (Pink Floyd, Police, U2 etc). The others are: Virgin Radio Lite for pop fans; Virgin Radio Modern, offering new rock and pop; and Virgin Radio Wheels of Steel, for disco and 1980s rock. All will be linked fromwww.virginradio.co.uk. That still leaves room for a couple of dozen stations, but ska/ reggae fans can always tryTrojanand everybody else can dip intoSpinner.Human wrongsHuman Rights Watch has just published its annual report on the sad state of human rights in the world atwww.hrw.org/wr2k1/, with special sections covering women and children. There's far too much to read online but you can download it in rich text format (rtf).Some like it BotIf you like the Gameplay chatbot, then you could create something similar. Kiwilogic has produced a dumbed-down version of its commercial Linguabot software and made it available on the web atwww.mybot.kiwilogic.com. MyBots are programmed simply by typing in your answers to 48 frequently asked questions, and these are trotted out to anyone who asks. Transcripts of conversations with visitors are sent to your mailbox. Later, users will be able to upload their own graphics for the bots.Real thingCoco-Cola has given its archives to the American Library of Congress, which has started putting its historic collection of more than 20,000 TV commercials online. Go tohttp://memory.loc.gov/ammem/ccmphtml/colahome.htmlnow and relive those epic moments, such as "I'd Like to Buy the world a Coke" (1971), filmed on an Italian hilltop. Unfortunately, the clips are in RealVideo (.ram) format, but one day there might be high-quality downloadable versions.What's leftMost people go to shops to buy CDs, but The Droplift Project is doing the reverse: sneaking CDs into US shops and leaving them behind. It must be art. However, you don't have to track down a Droplift CD. Just download the audio fromwww.droplift.organd make your own.DotcomguyThe end is nigh for Mr Dotcomguy. This former student shut himself away at the start of the year to prove he could survive using only the internet. He looks certain to make it, but you only have a few weeks to visit him atwww.dotcomguy.com.You scan do itHewlett Packard is bundling Share-to-Web software with its ScanJet scanners to automate the process of uploading photos to the web. Users with older ScanJets can download the software free from www. scanjet.hp.com/products/share_to_web/ . The software works with three photo album sites - HP'swww.cartogra.com,www.zing.comandwww.myfamily.com- but more are expected later.BloomerThe new Bloomsbury Magazine site athttp://bloomsburymagazine.comis an example of bad design. It is supposed to look cool, of course, but what happens when people use their browsers to make the type bigger? You're right: nothing. And what happens when they change the shape of the window? This site is far from alone in stupidly recreating the limitations of the printed page, but it is one of the best-looking examples.iWomenWomen will make up 60% of the web's audience by 2005, according to iVillage, which is dedicated to providing suitable content. The new UK site atwww.iVillage.co.ukis very similar to the long-running US site atwww.iVillage.com.New &amp; noted&#149;  Help the Great Ormond Street Hospital by sending an e-card fromwww.allaboutparents.com&#149;  Action for Blind People has launched a site for everyone connected with the visually impaired atwww.afbp.org&#149;  Disney's 102 Dalmatians now has a UK-specific site atwww.disney.co.uk/102&#149; Spark Island is an educational site for children up to 12, and their parents and teachers. It is free for a month, then costs parents &#163;49 per year. Seewww.sparkisland.com&#149;  Time-wasters may be able to consume a few seconds atwww.urban75.com/Mag/bubble.htmlSix of the bestShopsSuperstorewww.tesco.comNot just bookswww.amazon.co.ukNot just PCswww.jungle.co.ukPrice competitionwww.unbeatable.co.ukToy heavenwww.etoys.co.ukImported indulgenceswww.cybercandy.co.uk
He is the self-appointed champion of the homeless, a former rough sleeper who found fame as founder of the Big Issue. Now, John Bird MBE says the next front in the fight against homelessness is cyberspace - and he's going to launch a raft of websites to prove it.It's 10am, Tuesday morning at a famous black cab caf&eacute; near Euston Station. An unlikely time and place for a press conference, maybe. But a huddle of photographers, reporters and supportive friends have gathered for the launch ofABCtales.com, Bird's new storytelling website and literary magazine. There is no champagne, but a fair bit of backslapping as Bird swaps quips with the cabbies. They tell the tallest tales in London, he says with a wink."The reason I'm doing all this is because the Big Issue has only had one product for nine years," explains Bird. "We need to find a way of creating wealth and opportunity for homeless people as there are   few big providers of work for the homeless out there."To do this, Bird explains that he has formed a new company with chair of the Body Shop Gordon Roddick and Red Pepper supremo Tony Cook. The trio have raised nearly &#163;500,000 of venture capital to create Burgeon Creative Ideas (BCI). Half will go on ABCtales and the rest will be distributed between a number of other sites.Bird says ABCtales will make money through a combination of advertising, sponsorship and e-tailing. It is a storytelling site that asks its users to upload stories. Even before its official launch, the site has attracted nearly 10,000 visits a week. It has 300 stories ready for publication and has received stories from as far away as Hanoi and San Francisco. The best stories on the site will be published in a monthly magazine, to be given away free on the tube and in the Body Shop.The site also plans to publish anthologies of the best writing from the website. Bird anticipates that it will   take two to three years to see any profits.Bird claims BCI will help the homeless in two ways. First, 20% of post-investment profits will be poured back into the Big Issue.Second, the company will act as an incubator for a number of new media sites. Initially, the sites will be commissioned and built in-house, but if profitable, Bird claims pitches from the homeless will be actively encouraged. The other 80% of potential profits will be shared among the staff of each site. At the moment Bird gets a wage from the Big Issue, but no dividends.ABCtales is the second website launch in a month for Bird. Two weeks ago saw the launch ofGet Ethical- a kind of virtual Arndale Centre   that aims to "promote and advance ethical capitalism." The Big Issue (ie not BCI) bought a 28% stake in the site, which is owned by the left/green political magazine Red Pepper. The site has been live for two weeks."Everybody's always banging on about giving people things. But if you are a giver then you create takers, if you create takers then you create dependency," says Bird. "I'm not saying that business is the answer to all things, but I don't think charity is either. We can come up with a hybrid that uses business acumen and skills to create work and social transformation and at the same time have charitable intentions."The conversion from old-style social entrepreneur to new media wannabe started when Bird was in Los Angeles, struggling to establish a LA version of the Big Issue. "I found that I couldn't get anyone to sell the paper because homeless people didn't warm to this neon sign above them saying 'failure'," he admits.So Bird began employing homeless workers (in the UK   vendors work freelance), starting them as distributors, then training them up to work in an office. This was when Bird began to see the internet, in particular some of the wealth creation schemes of the new economy, as a potential source of employment for homeless people.Ideas for other sites are in the pipeline. In February the company will launch a site with the working title of Dr Checkoff. A bright idea that will attempt to collect the 101 most useful checklists (buying a house, coping with the menopause, questions to ask your insurance broker, and so on). The site will be launched in the US first, and in the UK in April. Bird says he will then launch another website and magazine based around reviews provided by the general public.Beyond that, Bird wants to move into investment banking and he is currently under consideration by the Financial Services Authority. He has already formed another company - Social Brokers Limited - that he intends to   grow into an investment bank, to fund entrepreneurial projects that will benefit homeless people. Also, the Big Issue will be expanding its website. The magazine will not be going online, but Bird says he wants to turn it into "a powerful campaigning website".True, Bird wants to make some money for himself and, true, it will take more than a few websites to get tens of thousands off the streets of our towns and cities. But there is no doubt that the down and outs' current champion caught more than a bit of sunshine while he was out in California.So with Christmas around the corner and a government campaign urging people not to give to beggars, what should we do? Give to charity or give spare change in the street? Consider another solution, says Bird. If you can, why not give an opportunity instead?
Plug 'n' sniffDigiScents, the US-based company that hopes that its i-smell technology will get up the nose of PC users, has taken a major step towards a worldwide launch. It has signed up two global fragrance giants, Givaudan of Switzerland and Quest of Holland, as minority equity shareholders. With their backing, Digiscents is confident that its i-smell box will be available across the world by the middle of 2001.I-smell is a scent cartridge that hooks up to the PC and enables the user to release aromas to enhance games and advertising websites. Clicking on a Starbucks page, for example, could offer PC users the chance to enjoy a whiff of coffee, while the odour of bad burgers could add a touch of realism to football games.The cartridge, which looks like a small horn sitting on a PC mouse, contains 128 smells that can be mixed together to create many more aromas. It is expected to retail for around &#163;200.Nokia gets toughJust in time for the skiing season, Nokia has released what it is billing as its hardest, most rugged GSM mobile to date. Nokia claims that the dual band 6250's water, shock and dust proof features make it ideal for outdoor sports enthusiasts and professionals. Its toughness is courtesy of thick, sealed covers, shock absorbers and cushioned circuit boards,The phone also sports a   Wap browser, which could prove invaluable to skiers and sailors who want the latest information on upcoming weather conditions.Other facilities include a currency converter - perfect for those apr&egrave;s-ski bar bills - a stopwatch and a system that adjusts the volume of the phone in relation to the level of background noise.The phone has a talktime of 2.5 to 4.5 hours and a stand-by time of 55 to 260 hours. It is available via most networks priced at around &#163;150.Telly surfersFrench TV viewers will soon be able to surf the net and send emails using Microsoft software. The company has teamed up with set manufacturer Thomson to launch 12 new televisions in France that sport an interactive   facility called TAK.The service, a joint venture between Microsoft and Thomson, also gives the user access to a range of interactive facilities, including an on-screen TV guide.The duo intends to roll out televisions featuring TAK technology across Europe in the next 12 months. A UK launch is expected in 2001.In addition to full net access via the set's on-board modem, the service enables each family member to have an individual mailbox and has the ability to view different types of attachments.  (AN)Toys are youWeb company Toybuilders has come up with what it believes is the most origianl present you can buy - a doll-sized replica of yourself.Toybuilderstakes pictures of customers and then converts that image into plastic and makes a 12-inch doll, dressed in similar clothing to the owner. Toybuilders began when owner Karl Denton's daughter Shelby told him she wanted a sceptre and crown, just like one she had seen on television. However, she could not remember the name of the show. On a computer, Karl and his daughter started to draw a new sceptre.  "We used a computer-aided design program that let us make the three-dimensional model," recalls Denton. "We then picked colours for it, and I sent it away to a company that had machinery capable of taking the image and making it into something physical."Toybuilders now builds all kinds of toys, as well as action dolls, with each new model priced individually. The toys range in price from $25 to $25,000. "Having set up Toybuilders, the aim was that people would send in    their children's drawings and we could make them into three-dimensional objects," says Denton. "I knew the idea would be limited by what ideas people came up with, but even I was surprised by what people started asking me to do." Particularly popular are new pieces for Monopoly sets - from replicas of the owners' houses to game pieces that look like items of furniture,    or even members of the family.There were also requests for chess sets made up of family mementoes, as well as pieces for role-playing games and Cluedo. "It was only a matter of time before someone requested an action doll with their likeness," says Denton. "That has started to happen with loved ones getting dolls made of their partners, artists getting dolls made of their own creations and so on. "We make them, then add specific details, and then make clothing as requested. It can be normal clothes, job specific clothes or soccer strips, as long as we have pictures for reference."   (CM)
Motor safetyJack Schofield's article (My Other Car is a Computer, Online, December 7) ignores one key area: what impact will telematic developments have on safety, not just for the car occupant but for those outside the vehicle?We already know that 3,500 people are killed on our roads every year: 25% of these are pedestrians, often going about their lawful business and knocked down by drivers.We need technology to help the driver to avoid the crash in the first place, not technology to distract him or her from the important task of driving. Work by Leeds University Institute for Transport Studies and theMotor Industry Research Associationshows that control of the speed of vehicles will reduce crashes substantially.Robert GiffordParliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safetyrobert.gifford@pacts.org.ukJack Schofield's article exposes the utter irresponsibility of the motor manufacturers in their pursuit of profit. Almost all of their proposed "enhancements" to the motor car serve to distract the driver or passengers, apart from the one designed to pack more cars on to the road. Given the millions who have been killed by cars, one might think that some computer-aided measures designed to reduce car speeds, pollution and violations of traffic regulations might be in prospect. The fact that they are not shows that the manufacturers do not want to remind us that cars and their rising numbers are a social menace.All we can do is call on the government to force safety measures on the manufacturers, starting with a Global Positioning System speed control system, to prevent the breaking of speed limits and to impose lower limits in towns. With such a system could be incorporated a device to cut out the engine for five minutes (after a suit able warning) if the driver makes an illegal manoeuvre. Such measures will cut pollution as well as accidents and make drivers see more clearly that cars are lethal weapons.Philip Wardballandward@netscape online.co.ukChoice of chipsI felt that Jack Schofield's recent guide to buying a new PC was lacking in one regard; while he mentioned Pentium IIIs, Celerons and Athlons, he failed to note that extremely good budget PCs could be found based upon AMD's Duron processor. Unfortunately, people may not be as familiar with these as with Intel processors, so may be deterred from buying them. They're usually cheaper than Celerons, and give superior performance, hence ideal for the budget conscious buyer. No, I don't have commercial interests in AMD, by the way...Nick Palmernickp@ericwright.co.ukVinyl is best"Discerning" - having or showing good insight or judgement (Shorter OED) - is surely an inappropriate adjective to describe music fans who opt for MP3 replay. Ashley Norris (Online, December 7) must know that MP3 lies at the bottom of the digital hierarchy, below MiniDisc, and CD. If he cannot hear the difference, ear syringing would seem to be required! Of course, none of these technologies can match vinyl if the criterion is "the closest approach to the original sound". Super Audio CD and DVD-Audio would like to be seen as the digital equal of analogue, but so far both lack a wide-enough range of software.Roger Perryroger.perry@tesco.netThe system wars debateHow dare D Hill (Online, December 12) assume that all Mac users are ignorant. I use Windows-based software for work related material but for personal use I much prefer my Mac PowerBook.Mac overrated? Never. Overpriced? Yes, but originality and innovation always have a price.Martin JessettMartinjessett@aol.comThis may be distressing to both sides of the camp, but I   use both Macs and PCs and I'm perfectly happy with both! There. I've said it.The differences between the two platforms are negligible and I'm sure that most antagonism is fear of the unknown. I spent a decade working on Macs before being (forcibly) introduced to PCs, and suffered the mild Luddite reaction one expects, before discovering that they both crash at the most inconvenient times and both go funny if you dare to install new software. I don't think Microsoft is any worse than Apple when it comes to releasing system software that's still riddled with bugs, or making wild promises for future revisions that are never delivered.I prefer to do the bulk of my print design work on Macs because the majority of our industry uses the same platform and it saves causing cross-platform problems further along the line. I use the PC for all my web design work because the vast majority of my audience will be using Internet Explorer on a PC to browse.Computers are tools, and I choose the best tool for the task at hand.Kevin Hardymail@kevhardy.fsnet.co.ukIn the run up to Christmas, readers may like to consider the following comment on the great "system wars" debate.If your main use for a computer is word processing, email and the internet, then before shelling out a thousand pounds plus, serious consideration should be given to the Psion hand-held devices, which use the Epoc operating system. I have used PCs, Macs and Psions, both for work and home use. I have never known an Epoc OS device to crash or give me any serious problems. They are cheap, British and you can take them anywhere. Add one of the feather light travel modems and the world (or the web) is your oyster.Julian Rossjulian.ross@newport.gov.ukWhat's a postbox?Reading Online, I thought I would enter your Psion Revo competition. Apparently, I need to "write" on a "postcard" and "send" (which seems to mean walking down the road to find a "postbox".  Why?Paul Appleyardpaul.appleyard@translation.demon.co.uk
The single pervasive theme of the 21st century has already been decided. It is the Digital Divide and whether it can be bridged. Seldom has a potential social malaise engaged so many minds everywhere at the same time. It is as if concerned people around the world have simultaneously decided not only that the problem should be solved but that it actually can be.Every one is getting in on the act, from the United Nations and the Group of Eight at the top, to university departments and community groups at the other end of the scale. In Britain, Tony Blair has promised "universal access" (whatever that means) by 2005 and is putting plenty of money where his mouth is - including &#163;250m for disadvantaged communities to go online, &#163;250m to train teachers, and increased pressure on BT to deliver broadband.But what medium is best suited to deliver universal access? The PC may peak at around 60% penetration and digital television is unlikely to cover more than 70% of the population, leaving 30% disenfranchised.Most social problems of this magnitude are only debated after the event. It is only when global developments have produced social chasms - whether involving health, wealth, gender or ethnicity - that the conscience of the world is stirred and remedies explored. The digital divide is unusual in   that a solution is being sought in real time - while the revolution itself is being unrolled.The initial success is mildly encouraging, at least in the industrialised world, even though it has been triggered by the driving force of the technology rather than human endeavour. The speed at which people in richer countries have adopted the net is far faster than adoption rates for previous technologies such as telegraph, radio, television, fax and video.Fast adoption has been driven by rapidly improving technology in all the key areas - computers, telecommunications, storage, bandwidth, digital cameras etc - accompanied by an equally rapid fall in real prices.Within some subsections of the IT revolution the adoption rates, particularly among youngsters, has been phenomenal. Sending text messages by mobile phone, unheard of 18 months ago, has now reached 10bn, overtaking email in popularity.Since mobile phone penetration has already reached 90% among some categories of young people, the problem of digital disadvantage has been solved even before companies and governments have   started to work out what role phones should have in the digital revolution.That is exceptional but it underlines the fact that there is no single digital divide but lots of overlapping ones: between old and young, men and women, rich and poor, blacks and whites, northern hemisphere and southern hemisphere and, above all, between developed and developing nations.This is the area where the creation of a vast new underprivileged digitariat, even more dispossessed than now seems inevitable unless dramatic action is taken.The bald statistics are depressingly familiar: barely 2% of the world's population of more than 6bn are linked to the internet; most people on the planet have not even made a telephone call, let alone accessed the web; there are more telephone lines in a big city like Tokyo than in the whole of sub-Saharan Africa. In the US, internet access costs a user only 1% of average monthly income, whereas in Uganda it costs more than a month's average (per capita) income.Most of the new business opportunities in the next few decades will either be the creation of digital goods (such as music, audio and films) or the application of digital and internet techniques to old economy products (such as mapping and monitoring systems in cars or intelligent fridges). Those developing countries whom the internet has passed by, will be doubly hit by all this. They will not be    making any of the new economy goods that people increasingly want to buy, while at the same time their traditional markets (such as commodities) will be squeezed by the price deflation brought about by the creation of giant electronic marketplaces on the internet. Meanwhile, what little international investment has been going their way will be diverted to the more exciting   prospects (even after the experience of the past year) of internet-related projects generated by the information-rich countries.The US provides a strong contrast with the prospects for the Third World. According to the organisation monitoring thedigital divide, the share of households with internet access has soared from 26.2% in December    1998 to 41.5% in August this year. More than half of all households now have computers. But the interesting thing is that while net access is still disproportionately the prerogative of richer people, the digital divide is being tackled. During the most recently recorded 20 months, the number of black households with internet access at home has more than doubled from 11.2% to 23.5%.   Hispanic households have experienced similar growth (from 12.6% to 23.6%). This is still way behind the access of white households and also Asian and Pacific Islanders, who have the highest access rates of all (56.8%), but it is moving in the right direction.In Britain, a Guardian/ICM poll earlier this year predicted that almost half of all adults in the UK would be online early next year. But, whereas 59% of the most affluent AB social group would be online, only 14% of the poorest DE social class, which includes the unskilled, would be in a similar position. However, Professor Patrick Dunleavy of LSE reminds us, that all expensive new goods sell first to the wealthy classes. He points to figures from the British Market Research Bureau showing that in the year to mid-1999 the growth in internet access was 33% for the rich AB social group but 44% for C1s and 44% for C2s. Even among the retired and unemployed DE group access grew by 50% over that period. In August 2000 the proportion of ABs and C1s who used the net during the previous month rose by 33% compared with a year earlier, while C2s, Ds and Es rose by 70% to 80%.George Gilder, the US guru, argues that the wealthiest 20% are paying for all the false starts and glitches that plague any new technology, thus bringing it down the learning curve, where everyone else can get it a few years later at a quarter the price. He says:"That's the digital divide.   The rich provide the investment and the rest reap the rewards."David Elstein, former head of Channel Five, told a roundtable on the digital divide (reported in this week's New Statesman) that every new innovation, from radio to the Consumers' Association, divides society. Online evangelists, he claimed, had not yet proved what you needed to do for the net revolution that you did not for the others.The answer, maybe, is that not having electricity or a phone in an industrialising society is less of a handicap than net access because of the all- pervasive nature of the new revolution. Not to have access to information in an information-driven age, when most jobs require techie or keyboarding skills, is to risk total exclusion. Information moves so fast these days that sending an email has a definite advantage over a letter.In the information economy, knowledge is vital and most of it is locked inside peoples' heads. That is partly why the dot.com companies were so ludicrously overvalued this year. But once knowledge becomes a digital product - a document, a music file or a video - it can be transmitted instantly to millions of consumers at no extra cost.This offers a tantalising prospect for the Third World. Countries in Africa which, 150 years on, have not yet even experienced the effects of the industrial revolution,   have the potential to leapfrog into the information age. Some indeed are already starting to experiment (see Online, page 12). It is not necessary any longer to have an expensive network of copper wires because the wireless revolution can beam appropriate information to remote villages from some of the satellites that fly over Africa virtually unused. What is needed is a new generation of international social entrepreneurs to harness the unused technology of the multi-nationals to the needs of the poorest countries.Of course, as Bill Gates has pointed out, what deprived people need is not computers but basic things such as medicine. Jubilee 2000 has pointed out that you could vaccinate 2,000 children against six killer diseases for the price of a computer. That is true. Also, as Kevin Watkins of Oxfam points out, in much of sub-Saharan Africa more than half of primary-age children are denied the opportunity of even a rudimentary primary education and fewer than one third make it to secondary school.All of this puts technology transfer in a depressing context. But it is not irrelevant. Internet access raises the prospect of being able to disseminate vital medical information and to do remote diagnosing. It is potentially a "killer-app" for Africa for improving education if appropriate, and appropriately cheap, methods of delivery are found.Ultimately, the best way forward is by increasing economic growth. This involves a host of factors including debt relief, stable macro-economic policies that encourage enterprise and discourage monopolies. But education is at the core because of the long-run connection between improving education and economic growth. The point is that improving health, food, education and net access should not be seen as being in opposition to each other. They are all part of the solution.And they must be applied quickly. Otherwise the praiseworthy progress being made to narrow the digital divide in industrialised countries will be swamped by the opening up of an even bigger divide between developed and developing countries. It is already happening.If nothing is done it will create a digital sore that industrialised nations will have on their consciences for ever. Their culpability is all the greater because they know they have the means to tackle it but have so far chosen to do very little to solve it. Soon, the talking will have to stop.
Can the net challenge the traditional news media?What's happened is that the more traditional news media became involved quite aggressively very early on. The BBC and the Guardian are examples. I'll be interested to know in 10 years' time whether newspaper sales have registered a significant drop because of the net. My impression is that they're feeding off each other rather nicely at the moment. From Newsnight's point of view, we feel we're still in a position where people also want the background to the news.How long have you been using computers?I got an IBM G50 in 1994. I do remember thinking I would never buy a newpaper again. Then you end up with 20 different windows open and everything crashes. I realised that the best way was to go to the newsagents, hand over 45p and you can even read it on the move.Does anything irritate you about the net?I got very frustrated about a year ago when trying to find out the date of the US election. I was logging on to every site conceivable and I just couldn't find it. With the net I think you tend to stumble on things by accident. When you want to search for a fact, it's phenomenally difficult. It's like the story of an infinite number of monkeys eventually typing the complete works of Shakespeare. Well, we now know they don't - they surf the internet.Will unmetered access open everything up?I was always really conscious of paying for the time I was online at home. At the BBC I can keep a page open all day if I need to. When that comes into being for home use then I imagine that will be very exciting.Have you ever been taken in by fake content on the net?No. I think mainly because one regards net content in the same way one regards everything else floating around. If it comes with a masthead that says the Times, the Guardian or the BBC you trust it, whereas if it's coming from an unknown source you do not necessarily take it on board. I did once get the Happy 99 virus sent in an email from one of Nelson Mandela's chief press officers. He hadn't realised that it had gone out to 200 of the world's press.Any favourite sites?Your Mobilelets you choose a new tune then transmits it to your phone. So I now have Bat Out Of Hell on my mobile in rather unconvincing bleeps. I log on to theChelsea websitea lot  but I feel they could do a bit more with it. I just logged into theRailtrack siteand it says all the trains are running on time so I won't use that one again! I also really likeHotmail.Any preferred gadgets?MiniDisc is great. You can now record on MiniDisc, play it into your laptop then cut it using a program called Cool Edit Pro. Ten years ago I was literally sitting with a reel-to-reel tape recorder, a white pencil and a razor blade until three in the morning every night.&#149;  For further information visit:www.bbc.co.uk/newsnight
Workers in the dot.com world who feel they have nothing to lose but their stock options are rising up, according to union organisers in the field. But the surge of union activity has provoked an angry response from the employers.This week sees the latest attempt to unionise one of the world's best-known dot.com companies, Amazon.com, and at another leading firm, Etown. Employers and industry workers are watching to see what happens in moves that could change the way the industry operates as the long honeymoon of the new commerce comes to an end."It is a new trend," said Barbara Judd of the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers, which is trying to unionise Amazon.com. "We're getting inquiries every day. There was this myth of a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow so a lot of people are watching this   to see what will happen."WashTech was formed two years ago as part of the 750,000-strong Communications Workers of America. It says workers have complained about mandatory overtime and poor wages at Amazon, which employs 8,500 people worldwide, around 5,500 of them in the US, and has an annual turnover of $2bn (&#163;1.25bn).Ms Judd said that since the recruiting drive started there has been interest from workers in other dot.com companies."Belonging to a union has declined over the last few decades and a lot of people have not grown up in union households," she said. "But once people see how we can help they say 'this is what I want.' "To have a union recognised, 30% of the workforce have to sign a petition to the national labour relations board so that a vote can take place; a union is recognised if 50% plus one of the workforce vote for it.Erin Tyson-Poh of the Northern California Media Guild which has been recruiting dot.com workers in San Francisco and Silicon Valley, said: "People are joining unions for the exact same reasons they always have: for dignity, a voice in the workforce, job security."Today there is a hearing on the guild's attempt to unionise Etown, the San Francisco-based dot.com. The company sacked a number of workers last month while the union was trying to recruit them. Ms Tyson-Poh said that interest in unions had increased greatly after the downturn in the dot.com economy this year and the loss of many jobs.She said they had been approached both by people who had been in media unions before and by people who were new to the union movement. "We're seeing the younger workers, the group of people they said could never be organised," she said. "It's very encouraging."The dot.com companies respond that there is no need for their employees to have unions.Patty Smith of Amazon.com said the company's workforce was well treated. "We take great pride in having people who are passionate about delivering excellent service to the customer and are intelligent ...We pride ourselves on being progessive."She said that the company operated an "open door" policy and four times a year had an "all hands" meetings when any grievances could be aired.Amazon's internal website gives supervisors advice on how to spot union activity and on how to combat it.The website suggests that "hushed conversations when you approach which have not occurred before" and "small group huddles breaking up in silence on the approach of the supervisor" are possible clues.Steve Ramirez of Etown, which has 99 employees and was formed in 1995, said the company had devoted a lot of time and energy to ensuring that employees' complaints could be aired."We have open door access," said Mr Ramirez. He added that the firm's director of human resources acts as an ombudsperson in disputes."The genesis of this goes back to a couple of disgruntled   former employees looking to incite current employees.He added: "In my opinion, we work side by side and a more efficient process would be a one on one discussion. Introducing a third party contributes very little and could be more of a hindrance than a help."Mr Ramirez said the recent decision to get rid of workers as the union started organising was a cost-cutting measure and coincidental.Pat Dillon, a senior editor at Forbes ASAP magazine, which covers the dot.com industry, and a former dot.com worker himself, said the realisation that people were not going to get rich with their stock options had been a major factor in prompting interest in unions."It's a case of the chickens not coming home to roost," Mr Dillon said. "People were living in their own special bubbles and at the end of the 17-hour days, when the vision did not bear fruit, the natural evolutionary behaviour patterns took place."He said that the new economy had taken advantage of a redefinition of the rules of work and what was happening now was inevitable."There is a sense of betrayal," he said.
A Briton who admitted setting up two websites offering 75,000 to kill his American internet penfriend and her husband was acquitted today of trying to arrange her murder.Paul Clark, 33, was cleared of one count of soliciting the murder of Brandy Arnett, of El Paso, Texas, and two counts of attempting to solicit the murder of Ms Arnett and her husband Rick between May and October last year.But after deliberating for seven hours, the jury at Winchester crown court found Clark guilty on two charges of making threats to kill Brandy Arnett. He will remain in custody until sentencing on December 21.The prosecution said Clark, of Portsmouth, set up the sites after discovering Brandy Arnett was married."Are you looking to make some easy money?" one of the sites asked. "Then you have come to the right place." It included a picture and an address of Brandy Arnett with a proposition to "terminate" her.But prosecutors failed to prove that anyone other than Clark or Brandy Arnett could have found the sites, which did not appear on any index pages of websites.Clark testified that Ms Arnett lied to him about her marital status and her business affairs, and said the two sites were a hoax that was part of a cyber-war between the pair.Clark said he developed "genuine feelings" for Ms Arnett after the two struck up a friendship by email. He admitted setting up the websites, but said no one could have gained access to them without the exact address. He added that his threats were not serious and, in any case, he did not have the money to pay any contract killer.But the jury was shown threatening emails Clark had sent to Ms Arnett. One claimed, "There are plenty of gun-crazed headcases out there - someone will do it." Others insisted the threat was no joke.In her evidence, Ms Arnett said that after Clark had appeared to become infatuated with her, she had sent him a wedding photograph, newspaper cuttings and a copy of her marriage certificate in an effort to persuade him that she was married.Clark was remanded in custody for sentencing on December 21. A further charge of attempting to pervert the course of justice was left to lie on file.Other articlesNovember 14: 25m cybercop squad to tackle internet crimeOctober 24: Buckinghamshire man convicted of stalking girl on netJuly 12: Boys boast of murder plot on internetJune 18: Comment: 'Doing nothing is just not an option'
At any given moment, one billion paper messages are circulating around the NHS.If that number - an estimate by the NHS Executive - looks suspiciously round it is because no one has ever counted.We do, however, know two things for certain. First, most of this paper mountain consists of routine forms and invoices needed to order supplies, equipment and staff.Second, it costs a lot of money. For every pound the NHS spends on pills, bandages and bedpans, 25p goes into the paperwork."Research shows that supply chain costs make up 25% of invoice value," says Sean Flanagan, chief executive of Medex Online, a new "e-health" company. He says that electronic messages could cut this cost in half.Although the dot.com crash has taken most of the shine off electronic commerce in the consumer market, there is no doubt that, when large organisations do their shopping, e-commerce makes sense: car-makers and supermarkets have been ordering, invoicing and paying for their supplies electronically for years.Healthcare, too, is getting into e-commerce - in the US at least. Research in the US shows that a 10% cut from supply chain costs adds 1% to an organisation's profits.As most American hospitals operate on profit margins of only 2% or 3%, the US healthcare industry is taking it seriously.Now it's the NHS's turn. The NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency, set up in April this year to help the NHS do its shopping more efficiently, is about to publish an e-commerce strategy for the health service.The agency is also developing an e-commerce system, SupplyStream, that will allow trusts and other NHS organisations to order supplies electronically from private firms.The scheme is part of a government-wide race to get into the e-commerce age. The Department of Health has already published an internal e-business strategy laying out its plans to hook its internal systems up to the NHS's network, NHSnet, as well as the wider internet.Like other government departments, it is trying to meet the prime minister's deadline for all public services to be delivered electronically by 2005.Under this timetable, 90% of routine government purchases are to be made electronically by next April.Barring a miracle (or, more likely, some creative statistical juggling) this target will be missed.Although the Office of Government Commerce, set up by the Treasury in April this year, says the government could save 1bn from its shopping bill by catching up with the rest of the world, e-business in the public sector is happening only in patches.One example is a scheme to issue civil servants with government Visa cards, to cut the 300m the government spends a year on low-value, high-volume goods.So far, however, only 14% of such purchases are handled by the government procurement card, according to its annual report published last week.Predictably, the biggest use of the government procurement card was in buying stationery. Last year, civil servants used their flexible friends 37,756 times to buy paper clips, pads and other stationery worth 2.7m from supplier Guilbert.Yet there is still hope. At Medex Online, Flanagan says the NHS' tardiness at getting into e-commerce could become an advantage. "Healthcare in Europe has a much bigger opportunity than the US."Because the NHS and other European health systems have more primitive IT systems, they have the chance to skip the 1980s generation of custom-built electronic trading systems and leap straight into the internet age. Thanks to new web technologies, hospitals no longer need to replace their old systems.Medex Online plans to announce its first NHS trust customer in January.There are still technical and cultural barriers to e-procurement. Graham Newall, chief executive of Earthport, a company specialising in internet payment systems, says SupplyStream has to overcome substantial challenges to help the government reach its targets. Issues of security and usability are high on the list of priorities."We believe that the NHS e-procurement system will be a great success if it's easy to use, light on infrastructure, and scalable in order to cope with huge volumes of data and transactions. It also needs to be secure and able to authenticate the user and process real time cash and secure credit card payments."And there's the human factor. Jill Turner, owner of The Health Store, a small firm which supplies bed aids to the NHS and the public via the web and traditional channels, says personal contact is important to NHS professionals. "I see no evidence that the NHS is interested in ordering online. They seem to prefer post and fax and purchase orders in triplicate."&#149; Michael Cross is news editor of www.kablenet.com
A powerful consumers' panel is to be placed at the centre of a proposed giant single media regulator covering television, radio, advertising, the internet, telephones and the press.The new regulator, dubbed Ofcom, will be outlined in today's communications white paper as the government's main response to the blurring of boundaries between media technologies.The independently appointed consumers' panel will have powers to commission research, canvass public opinion and publish advice to the regulator, as well as its views on issues of taste, programme content and quality.It will also advise Ofcom on its regulatory powers, including decisions on media ownership rules. The panel could for instance argue against Rupert Murdoch being allowed to extend his media empire into terrestial television.The government accepts that economic regulation decisions directly affect consumer concerns such as price, choice, and programme content.Some ministers privately hope the panel may also act as a powerful popular restraint on media magnates, allowing government to step back from the front line of the battle to control media quality.A government source said the move would put consumers "at the heart of regulation".He added: "This is a world where some of the most powerful companies in the world operate and lobby bloody hard."The source added that the consumers' panel could also consult through citizens' juries and the internet.The white paper will also strip the BBC board of governors of some of its self-regulatory powers, but leave the board as chief defenders of the BBC's political impartiality.The white paper, prepared jointly by the departments of culture and industry, is intended to liberalise the regulatory regime whilst protecting programme quality.Ministerial sources also promise the white paper will ensure that as digital television takes over consumers retain free access to many programmes.The new giant regulator will take over the roles of the broadcasting standards council, the independent television commission, the radio authority, the British board of film classification, Oftel and the advertising standards authority.A government source said: "We have to recognise we now live in a world in which you can watch TV on your mobile phone, or listen to music on the internet."Technology is bringing the media together and to continue to have separate regulators is mad."
Very few cars these days seem entirely happy to be themselves. Manufacturers - looking to play the market as broadly as they can - confront you with vehicles that appear to be in the middle of an identity crisis, which those vehicles endure with varying degrees of fortitude and cheerfulness: an all-terrain estate car miserably imprisoned in the body of a hatchback; an executive saloon that yearns to free the sports car within; a people carrier that knows it should have been a bread van and will become one as soon as the surgery is possible.Even the Vauxhall Corsa - a   phenomenally popular car with good reason to be content with itself - is, in its latest form, partly hassled by anxieties about what it isn't, and in a way that will be familiar to children: it's a small car that wishes it were big.You may have seen some of Vauxhall's extensive advertising for the   Corsa, which pursues this theme, and in which Griff Rhys Jones, as some sort of alarmingly bearded &uuml;ber-nerd, attempts to convince himself - and us - that, although the Corsa doesn't share the stretch limo's capacity for a Jacuzzi and a cocktail bar, it is actually roomy enough for the kind of life you are likely to lead in it, if only you would stop dreaming.Translated into bare terms, the message of the campaign is that the new Corsa is perfectly adequate. But you can see how "The Vauxhall Corsa: it'll do" wouldn't necessarily have heated public enthusiasm to the kind of levels that Vauxhall probably has in mind. Hence Rhys Jones and the babe-strewn Jacuzzi, working comic overtime.It will probably, however, take more than a comedian in a ginger beard to imbue the Corsa with animal magnetism. It's just not that kind of vehicle - as quick as its high- powered, light body might fly, and as coolly grooved as its front bonnet might be. It's the car your parents might buy you, when what you really wanted was a Renault Clio. Or a moped.And you would understand their logic. It's not necessarily going to be the first target for hot-wirers. It's packed full of safety furniture, including that canny Vauxhall mechanism that disengages the pedals to spare your feet and legs in a crunch. It doesn't have the kind of features or profile that are likely to make its drivers feel that they are either Jenson Button at Imola or Dan Aykroyd in The Blues Brothers. You'll be home by midnight. It's a sensible option.And hats off to Vauxhall for producing what I believe to be the first car to turn to television for influence in a key aspect of its design. Not to programmes seen on television, you understand, but to the set itself. Vauxhall claims that the rear window of the car has "something of a modern TV-screen look". Part Vauxhall, part 48-inch Panasonic: now, there's a hybrid worth thinking about.The back view offers by far the car's most handsome angle. The rear lights bracket the window, which means that the brake lights are hoisted up high, like flags of surrender. By rights, buses and lorries should see you brake and thus   fail to run into you. But on those occasions when people don't see you stopping, the design remains a smart idea: you won't be spending money replacing cracked lights because these are well removed from the likely biffing zone.Seen from almost any other angle, however, the car's shape is unlikely to leap out at you screaming: "Adore me!" It's one of those quiet everycars, a bubble of European steel - for which, of course, there is a substantial market, most people having little or no ambition to own a car that turns heads. The three-door model is more pleasant to look at than the five-door, on which they have squeezed in a third side-window that is roughly the shape of the badge denoting crew membership on the SS Enterprise. So much does it resemble an afterthought that people may well think you put it in yourself, post-purchase, in an unguarded act of DIY.It is true, as Rhys Jones intimates, that the car feels roomy. It is slightly wider and taller than previous versions and you won't need to arm wrestle your passenger for possession of the gearstick. There seems to be a little more light and air around than there is in the regular hatchback. However, whether this necessarily justifies the installation of big-car gimmicks, such as the satellite navigation system that was blinking away in the model I drove, is not entirely clear. Given the kind of jobs one is likely to use the Corsa for, I'm not sure how often one would need to be in touch with a satellite for guidance. When was the last time you got lost coming home from the supermarket?Other cars, of course, manage to be small without minding. Consider the sunny disposition of the Fiat Punto. The dependable Corsa has little of the Punto's affable spark. But purchasers who share Rhys Jones's utilitarian disposition may readily sacrifice that for a few extra centimetres of elbow room.The lowdownVauxhall Corsa 1.2iPrice:&#163;8,495Top speed:106.2 mphAcceleration:0-60 in 12 secondsConsumption:44.8 mpg (combined)At the wheel:Jack Straw's sonOn the stereo:EminemEn route for:Marks &amp; Spencer
OK! magazine's injunction on Hello! in the  Douglas/Zeta Jones pictures row could become an  anachronism if the hunger for showbiz gossip starts to  creep into cyberspace. If your rival has beaten you to  the big picture exclusive, all you have to do is publish  online. At least that's the hope that Trinity Mirror  executives are pinning on their new showbiz website,icShowbiz.icShowbiz.com is the second of Trinity Mirror's portals  within the ic network, and the first major marketing  splash for any of the websites within the network. For  Rebecca St Johnston, managing director of content,  it's a case of filling a "gaping hole" in the UK market.  "Sites such asEonlineandMr Showbizare immensely  popular in the US. Some sites here focus exhaustively  on film or music and others take the view that celebrity  means the upper-crust celebrity gossip column circuit.  But there hasn't been a compelling celebrity gossip  site in the UK until now."icShowbiz.com apes the successful stateside gossip  sites rather than Trinity Mirror's newspaper brands. The  3AM column is there, with a Daily Record gossip  section called Off The Record and Charlie Catchpole's  TV reviews. There are bespoke columns from Jonathan  Ross, therapist to the stars Susan Quilliam, and extra  content from Mirror writers such as Jessica Mellor and  Ian Hyland, and the People's Sean O'Brien. But,  stylistically, icShowbiz.com borrows more from OK!  and Hello! than the newspapers.Jane Procter, managing director of gossip websitePeoplenews, and Tatler editor for nine years, has also  staked her livelihood on the belief that the desire for  celebrity gossip in magazines and newspapers will  translate to cyberspace. Procter is something of a  celebrity gossip evangelist. "Research shows that 40%  of people between 20 and 30 would postpone their own  wedding to go to a celebrity party. They say because  we haven't got a cold war on, all people care about is  Catherine Zeta-Jones."Procter says the "epiphany" that brought home the  importance of the internet in the showbiz wars was the  announcement of Madonna's pregnancy earlier this  year. "I remember thinking 'If the Sun has got it and  they're putting it on the web at 2.40 in the afternoon  then they've obviously taken a calculated decision that  it's not going to damage sales'".St Johnston and Trinity Mirror Digital's managing  director, David Clarke, feel that the ability to update the  site 24 hours a day gives them a unique ability to  capitalise on readers' interest in the day's breaking  celebrity news."There's no limit to the amount of space we use," says  St Johnston. "So if the Mirror is running a picture  exclusive on a 12-page feature, they may only be able  to run two pages of pictures - in which case we can run  the rest." She adds that icShowbiz.com is prepared to  fight for the right to break big showbiz exclusives on  the site, at the risk of scooping the Trinity Mirror  national papers.It's worth noting that in spite of Procter's optimism  about the market for celebrity gossip, Peoplenews  axed its chief executive, Kelly Moulton, two editorial  staff and several technical staff in November. Although  she claims the venture is on target to make profit very  soon, there is speculation that funding may have dried  up.Johnston also believes developments in mobile  services will dovetail nicely with the growing appetite  for gossip. "People waiting for the bus want something  to fill in the time. Mobile is the ultimate time killer."Trinity Mirror's huge regional newspaper network, with  access to the archives of papers including the Daily  Record and Scottish Mail, the Birmingham Post and  Mail, and Liverpool Echo, adds opportunities not just  for compelling local content but for e-commerce  partnerships. "If you want to find out where your  nearest ATM is, or you want to book a table at a  Chinese restaurant, mobile is excellent, and we can  provide really compelling local content."ic24has excellent mapping and directory facilities,  allowing users, for example, to look for cinema listings  for their area, then search for an online map and  directions for how to get there from their home  address.But whether this strategy will translate itself into online  audiences, and more importantly, online revenues,  remains to be seen. Ben Hedges, former head of sales  for what was Trinity Mirror New Media and now  managing director for new media training consultancy It Counts, adds that although celebrity is a big audience  pull, it doesn't necessarily translate into cash."I can see there's a good argument for having 24-hour,  constantly updated information about showbiz online.  But at the end of the day, if I've got an update on what  Posh and Becks are calling their next baby - so what?  How are you going to make money from that? OK! and  Hello! have built their success on appealing to very  aspirational, lifestyle advertisers who aren't interested  in online at the moment."In the wake of high-profile dot.com failures many  newspaper groups have retreated from previously  bullish internet strategies, cutting back online  operations to the point where many have little more  than an online marketing presence.And with the exception ofMega Star, now floating in a  no-man's land in United Business Media amid  speculation that it may be sold off, there's little  competition from Trinity Mirror's tabloid rivals.Trinity Mirror was the last of the big newspaper groups  to jump into the digital fray. Earlier this year, it  trumpeted a 150m investment into ic24, an ISP which  aims to be the "people's doorway to the internet", a  friendly, handholding service with a one-size-fits-all  brand.Last month Trinity Mirror unveiled the first of its  long-touted portals,icScotland. The 16 promised when  the investment was announced have dwindled to four,  with icSports, icChoice and icRegional to follow next  year.But after the spectacular rise and fall of  Currantbun.com and the ensuing chaos of News  International's digital strategy, the logic of launching  another "welcome to the internet" portal is being  questioned. Clarke defends the strategy. "We have to  be able to provide everything we want in one set of  sites," he says.The silence from Trinity Mirror's key competitors in this  space, News International and Express Newspapers,  is deafening. No one from News International would  speak to the Guardian about the company's online  operations.But one anonymous News International  executive is sceptical about Trinity Mirror's strategy.  "I'd question the viability of any content-driven website  relying on advertising revenue," he says. "News  International's online presence is purely a marketing  tool - we want to encourage people to buy the papers.  The Trinity Mirror strategy is to create a new online  brand and generate revenue."Given News International's failure to capitalise on its  early lead in online plus rumours that auction siteFired upand recruitment serviceRevolverare  facing the axe, this could be seen as sour grapes. But  people who know how advertisers behave online are  also dubious about Trinity Mirror's approach.Nick Suckley, managing director of digital media  agency Beyond Interactive (formerly Media21) believes  Trinity Mirror is missing a trick by failing to use its best  asset - its newspaper brands. "You have to ask 'What  does the Daily Mirror stand for?' and everyone will have  a view on that. Instead they're saying 'Let's launch into  a very competitive market with a product no one's  heard of.' There's a lot of consumer goodwill towards  the Mirror but they're not capitalising on it."Clarke is adamant that Trinity Mirror has to look at the  longer haul and invest in a coherent online brand. "If we  went down the road of having newspaper branded sites  all the sites would look different to the different sets of  users," he says. "The demographics of the Mirror -  which is our best-known brand - don't fit the  demographics of online users. At the moment most  users are ABC1, although that is going to change. The  Mirror's audience is largely C2."He adds that for Trinity Mirror's business model - split  revenues from advertising and e-commerce but with  advertising initially accounting for over 90% - it's  important to be able to sell across a network of  identically-branded sites. "We have seen from  examples in the US that the bigger advertising and  e-commerce deals migrate to the people with the  biggest volume of traffic. Independent sites tend to  struggle if you take them out of the larger mix."He concludes that only when the network of sites is up  and running will Trinity Mirror be able to make a  decision on whether the approach has been  successful, although he is adamant that the business  will be in profit when the funding runs out at the end of  2002.
OK! magazine's injunction on Hello! in the Douglas/Zeta Jones pictures row could become an anachronism if the hunger for showbiz gossip starts to creep into cyberspace. If your rival has beaten you to the big picture exclusive, all you have to do is publish online. At least that's the hope that Trinity Mirror executives are pinning on their new showbiz website,icShowbiz.com.icShowbiz.com is the second of Trinity Mirror's portals within the ic network, and the first major marketing splash for any of the websites within the network. For Rebecca St Johnston, managing director of content, it's a case of filling a "gaping hole" in the UK market. "Sites such as Eonline and Mr Showbiz are immensely popular in the US. Some sites here focus exhaustively on film or music and others take the view that celebrity means the upper-crust celebrity gossip column circuit. But there hasn't been a compelling celebrity gossip site in the UK until now."icShowbiz.com apes the successful stateside gossip sites rather than Trinity Mirror's newspaper brands. The 3AM column is there, with a Daily Record gossip section called Off The Record and Charlie Catchpole's TV reviews. There are bespoke columns from Jonathan Ross, therapist to the stars Susan Quilliam, and extra content from Mirror writers such as Jessica Mellor and Ian Hyland, and the People's Sean O'Brien. But, stylistically, icShowbiz.com borrows more from OK! and Hello! than the newspapers.Jane Procter, managing director of gossip website Peoplenews, and Tatler editor for nine years, has also staked her livelihood on the belief that the desire for celebrity gossip in magazines and newspapers will translate to cyberspace. Procter is something of a celebrity gossip evangelist. "Research shows that 40% of people between 20 and 30 would postpone their own wedding to go to a celebrity party. They say because we haven't got a cold war on, all people care about is Catherine Zeta-Jones."Procter says the "epiphany" that brought home the importance of the internet in the showbiz wars was the announcement of Madonna's pregnancy earlier this year. "I remember thinking 'If the Sun has got it and they're putting it on the web at 2.40 in the afternoon then they've obviously taken a calculated decision that it's not going to damage sales'".St Johnston and Trinity Mirror Digital's managing director, David   Clarke, feel that the ability to update the site 24 hours a day gives them a unique ability to capitalise on readers' interest in the day's breaking celebrity news."There's no limit to the amount of space we use," says St Johnston. "So if the Mirror is running a picture exclusive on a 12-page feature, they may only be able to run two pages of pictures - in which case we can run the rest." She adds that icShowbiz.com is prepared to fight for the right to break big showbiz exclusives on the site, at the risk of scooping the Trinity Mirror national papers.It's worth noting that in spite of Procter's optimism about the market for celebrity gossip, Peoplenews axed its chief executive, Kelly Moulton, two editorial staff and several technical staff in November. Although she claims the venture is on target to make profit very soon, there is speculation that funding may have dried up.Johnston also believes developments in mobile services will dovetail nicely with the growing appetite for gossip. "People waiting for the bus want something to fill in the time. Mobile is the ultimate time killer." Trinity Mirror's huge regional newspaper network, with access to the archives of papers including the Daily Record and Scottish Mail, the Birmingham Post and Mail, and Liverpool Echo, adds opportunities not just for compelling local content but for e-commerce partnerships. "If you want to find out where your nearest ATM is, or you want to book a table at a Chinese restaurant, mobile is excellent, and we can provide really compelling local content."ic24 has excellent mapping and directory facilities, allowing users, for example, to look for cinema listings for their area, then search for an online map and directions for how to get there from their home address.But whether this strategy will translate itself into online audiences, and more importantly, online revenues, remains to be seen. Ben Hedges, former head of sales for what was Trinity Mirror New Media and now managing director for new media training consultancy It Counts, adds that although celebrity   is a big audience pull, it doesn't necessarily translate into cash."I can see there's a good argument for having 24-hour, constantly updated information about showbiz online. But at the end of the day, if I've got an update on what Posh and Becks are calling their next baby - so what? How are you going to make money from that? OK! and Hello! have built their success on appealing to very aspirational, lifestyle advertisers who aren't interested in online at the moment."In the wake of high-profile dot.com failures many newspaper groups have retreated from previously bullish internet strategies, cutting back online operations to the point where many have little more than an online marketing presence.And with the exception of Mega Star, now floating in a no-man's land in United Business Media amid speculation that it may be sold off, there's little competition from Trinity Mirror's tabloid rivals.Trinity Mirror was the last of the big newspaper groups to jump into the digital fray. Earlier this year, it trumpeted a &#163;150m investment into ic24, an ISP which aims to be the "people's doorway to the internet", a friendly, handholding service with a one-size-fits-all brand.Last month Trinity Mirror unveiled the first of its long-touted portals, icScotland. The 16 promised when the investment was announced have dwindled to four, with icSports, icChoice and icRegional to follow next year. But after the spectacular rise and fall of Currantbun.com and the ensuing chaos of News International's digital strategy, the logic of launching another "welcome to the internet" portal is being questioned. Clarke defends the strategy. "We have to be able to provide everything we want in one set of sites," he says.The silence from Trinity Mirror's key competitors in this space, News International and Express Newspapers, is deafening. No one from News International would speak to the Guardian about the company's online operations. But one anonymous News International executive is sceptical about Trinity Mirror's strategy. "I'd question the viability of any content-driven website relying on advertising revenue," he says. "News International's online presence is purely a marketing tool - we want to encourage people to buy the papers. The Trinity Mirror strategy is to create a new online brand and generate revenue."Given News International's failure to capitalise on its early lead in online plus rumours that auction site   Firedup.com and recruitment service Revolver.com are facing the axe, this could be seen as sour grapes. But people who know how advertisers behave online are also dubious about Trinity Mirror's approach.Nick Suckley, managing director of digital media agency Beyond Interactive (formerly Media21) believes Trinity Mirror is missing a trick by failing to use its best asset - its newspaper brands. "You have to ask 'What does the Daily Mirror stand for?' and everyone will have a view on that. Instead they're saying 'Let's launch into a very competitive market with a product no one's heard of.' There's a lot of consumer goodwill   towards the Mirror but they're not capitalising on it."Clarke is adamant that Trinity Mirror has to look at the longer haul and invest in a coherent online brand. "If we went down the road of having newspaper branded sites all the sites would look different to the different sets of users," he says. "The demographics of the Mirror - which is our best-known brand - don't fit the demographics of online users. At the moment most users are ABC1, although that is going to change. The Mirror's audience is largely C2."He adds that for Trinity Mirror's business model - split revenues from advertising and e-commerce but   with advertising initially accounting for over 90% - it's important to be able to sell across a network of identically-branded sites. "We have seen from examples in the US that the bigger advertising and e-commerce deals migrate to the people with the biggest volume of traffic. Independent sites tend to struggle if you take them out of the larger mix."He concludes that only when the network of sites is up and running will Trinity Mirror be able to make a decision on whether the approach has been successful, although he is adamant that the business will be in profit when the funding runs out at the end of 2002.
Favourite sites?ebay.comwhich I liken to a giant worldwide flea market. It's the world's biggest auction site. The items range in price from 10 cents up to 10m dollars and it has more than one and a half million items for auction. You can search for anything. As a joke my wife searched for antique Argentinian barbed wire and they had it. It's a phenomenal site, albeit that 99% is rubbish.Last online purchase?I buy quite a lot online. The last thing was a vintage movie poster of Rasputin which I bought from a gallery in New York. Everything arrived perfectly.Most recent technological faux pas?I needed to make a small change to the site but I couldn't get hold of our programmers. So I thought I'd try my HTML skills. The result was that I took our site off the air for three days for netscape users, until someone pointed out that the site wasn't available on that browser.Main news sources on the web?The news feed I use most often is Yahoo and Altavista. It delivers the sort of news I need, such as developments in legal services and changes in the law.Most persistent spam emailer?I don't get spam. I've got 2,500    emails in my outlook at the moment and not one is spam.Time spent on the web?It's on from the moment I arrive at work until the moment I leave.Next boo.com?I think it's going to be any site that places heavy reliance on WAP technology. Unless the information being delivered by WAP is simple, such as share prices or football scores, I can't see how WAP can deliver information in a manageable form.Least useful site on web?Any site that asks you to fill in a form before you go any further. I immediately log off. Nobody asks you to fill in a questionnaire in a shop before you can go further. It's absurd.Most useful site?Google - it's difficult to beat as a research tool.Which screensaver do you use?I'm having a bespoke screensaver built at the moment. It's a little monk walking around the screen with a bag of posters. He pastes them on the screen like billboards - they are adverts for our website.Most irritating things about the web?The noise of the modem when you dial up from home.Do you bother with old media?Yes - I'm a media junkie. I buy the Times and the London Evening Standard every day, the Guardian and Sunday Business at the weekend.Leon de Costa is chief executive ofwww.freelawyer.co.uk.
For the 40 employees still trooping in each day to work for Express Digital Media's remaining four websites, the future is bleak. Following last month's 125m takeover of the newspaper group by Richard Desmond, publisher of OK! and various adult magazines, staff have been put on 30 day's notice.In letters delivered to them last week the closure of the sites was described as "likely", and although there are still three weeks of the "consultation period" left, some staff expect the axe to fall before then.Ian Monk, a spokesman for Desmond, says the sites are "desperately unprofitable", heading for a loss this year of 8m. Refusing to say whether there had been approaches to buy any of the sites, he says: "There are options which have been put forward, which include redevelopment or closure as we seek ways of making them more profitable. Should the sites be closed, every attempt will be made to find staff new roles within the group."The new owners, Northern and Shell, publisher of porn magazines including Asian Babes, has its own "major internet strategy" under new media director Matthew Bugden, says Monk, and the OK! site will be "considerably redeveloped"."Newspapers in general are examining again what the internet can do for them. The Guardian and Associated Newspapers are very keen, but if you look at the Sun and News International, you will see they are scaling down their interest," Monk says.Tony Cuthbertson, director of Express Digital Media, rejects the claim that high costs and advertising revenues of only around 240,000 a year meant the websites - except for lads' siteMegaStar, which Lord Hollick's United News &amp; Media has retained - were already dead ducks. "All the sites had business plans in place, and all the funding had been agreed," he says, stressing that advertising revenue would increase.Of Express Digital Media's four sites, the Express website,SportLive,All about parentsandCompany-Leader, the last two have been up and running for less than four months.Reflecting relative optimism before the takeover, SportLive was in the process of hiring a new journalist as the surprise arrival of Desmond was being played out. "They offered me the job knowing the Express was going to be sold, but they thought they were all going to stay with United," says the journalist. "They were completely shocked - they had been given budgets and were looking to expand. They were planning for the future, and aiming to do more of their own content."Similarly, Neil Harley-Rudd, of design consultancy UK Media, had been invited to redesign the Express websites just before the takeover speculation reached its zenith late last month. "I had a message from the internet editor asking me to do it, but then, from emails I received, it seemed to get less of a sure thing and I've not heard anything since," he says.While Cuthbertson stresses that "all the sites are still up and running, with all their features, and they are being updated as normal", one former Express employee is less positive. "There is a lot of fear and morale has gone through the floor," he says. "The root cause is that United got online very late into a crowded market and didn't invest enough."There is also the theory that the Express was not a big enough brand for the internet market. It had a low internet conversion of its readers. The main site has not been going two years and the two which are less than four months old have never had a chance. But the foundations of the whole operation were wrong, and always seemed muddled. The Express site began underLineOne, the internet service provider that United owned with BT, and now has up for sale."A former employee of Express Digital Media says: "At first, the Express site was within LineOne and really just provided it with news content until this spring. Only later did it start to become a proper site in its own right, although it looks like those plans will not come to fruition."It was only quite late this year that SportLive and MegaStar were given any significant funding. They were a tremendous team doing a very good job, but with no resources. Allaboutparents and Company-Leader were vertical sites, modelled on Guardian Unlimited, with the idea being to put the various strengths of the paper onto the net, but they have just not had a chance. You can't justifiably shut them down on the question of profitability."I can't believe the Express is going to be the only newspaper without an internet site, which is now such an important part of the brand development of a paper."Hugo Drayton, the Telegraph's new media managing director, agrees that the muddle of the framework behind the sites did not help. "They had too many disparate things going on," he says. "Other, more successful sites had better strategies. Websites are an easy target because they are usually nobody's fiefdom. They do not offer any short-term return. The owners are doing what anyone new does - looking at where they can trim and cut down duplication. That said, from what I have read and heard they were not operating as viable propositions anyway."But I will be very surprised if they did not reopen something in the next six months, an online and newspaper strategy which complement one another."That Desmond is taking a cost-minimising approach to the internet is perhaps reflected in his response to a request to find a replacement for the outgoing health editor. "Why do we need a health reporter? Get it off the internet, it's free," he is reported to have said.Within the newspaper stable, it is the Star which is more profitable than the Express, and on the internet, MegaStar emerged as the strongest Express site. Some may argue that glamour and the lower end of the market are what Desmond knows best, but Lord Hollick kept MegaStar, which has just benefited from a 3m advertising campaign. Since the start of that campaign, the number of individual users has grown by 40,000 to 330,000 and monthly page impressions now average 18.7m.Drayton says he would not be surprised if the group's internet future was more downmarket. "Pornography and gambling are two things which often lead new technology, and did so with audio text phoneline services and then the internet as forerunners for more acceptable sites," he says. "Desmond will no doubt have learnt from the experience of the adult sites".A recent survey claims that 36% of home internet users are more interested in porn than sports or news - something that will not be news to Richard Desmond.
