It&apos;s the standard file format for nearly every academic paper, political briefing and research note. But a new report by the World Bank suggests that the venerable pdf is keeping valuable information buried in servers, unread and unloved.The working paper –released, naturally, as a pdf– examines which reports released by the organisation are widely read, or even read at all. Of the 1611 reports the study looked at, only 25 were downloaded more than 1000 times in the five-year period between 2008 and 2012.At the other end of the scale, over 31% of the reports the group looked at – 517 separate research papers – were not downloaded a single time.&quot;It is, however, important to keep in mind that many policy reports were not intended to reach a large audience,&quot; note the report&apos;s authors, Doerte Doemeland and James Trevino, &quot;but prepared to assess very specific technical questions or inform the design of lending operations.&quot;As for which reports were actually read, the pair state that &quot;more expensive, complex, multi-sector, core diagnostics reports on middle-income countries with larger populations tend to be downloaded more frequently.&quot;The portable document format, or &quot;pdf&quot;, was invented by Adobe in 1993 as a way of rendering documents with rich text formatting and inline images in a consistent way across multiple computing platforms and various software packages. A document saved as a pdf should always look the same, no matter where it is being viewed, a fact which has made it popular for the digital release of complex reports.But owing to the way such documents are rendered, pdfs often give up machine readability in favour of human readability. The basic format doesn&apos;t include any requirement that text be selectable or searchable, while data presented as charts and tables is often impossible to export in any useable way.That then makes it impossible to mine the documents for the data they contain and so create databases of new information pulling together disparate sources. Despite efforts to create &quot;pdf to html&quot; converters, they still need human oversight to check for errors of interpretation.Nathanial Manning, a fellow for the White House&apos;s open data project,argued in the Guardianthat it&apos;s understandable that the format is used. &quot;There are often numerous different documents used to make a single project report, including Excel models, GIS shapefiles, and Photoshop charts.&quot;The ease of taking screenshots and putting it all into a pdf report, and sending it along via email is completely understandable. But this is like funding James Cameron to make Avatar, and then releasing it in a black and white flipbook. We are missing all the good stuff. This has to change.&quot;•MPs and open-data advocates slam postcode selloff
If you&apos;ve been following the surveillance debate, you may have noticed that it is actually two debates: first, it is a debate about whether mass surveillance works; and second, it is a debate about whether mass surveillance is a good idea, whether or not it works.I&apos;ve made arguments in both of these debates. On the question of whether it works, I&apos;m among those who point out that the spies who have spent billions putting whole populations under surveillance can&apos;t point to any dividends from that massive investment. Since the debate over mass spying began in2006(with the whistleblower Mark Klein&apos;s disclosure that the NSA had gotten access to AT&amp;T&apos;s main fibre-optic trunks), American spies have made a lot of grandiose claims about the plots they&apos;ve foiled through mass surveillance. But when pressed, even their top officials admit thatthe entire mass-spying regimehas caught exactly one &quot;bad guy&quot; – and that was an American who was thinking of wiring some money to al-Shabaab in Somalia.So the argument that mass spying isn&apos;t worth it because it just doesn&apos;t work very well is an attractive one. When the official National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States tabledits report on the 9/11 attacks, it was clear on the relationship of surveillance to the 9/11 attacks. Specifically, the 9/11 commission concluded that the problem wasn&apos;t a shortage of intelligence, but rather a lack of coherence and coordination among spy agencies, so that the warning signs were missed. In other words, the comparatively minuscule surveillance regime pre-9/11 was more than sufficient to catch the 9/11 plotters, and the drops of useful intel were lost in the the pre-9/11 trickle. What hope do we have of finding the next drops, now that the trickle is a neverending flood?Even if surveillance worked…But the more I think about this, the more I realise it&apos;s not the argument I want to make. The longer the surveillance debate goes on, the more I realise that even if mass, total, continuous surveillance worked to catch terrorists, I would still oppose it.The Washington Post journalist Barton Gellman and I presented an introductory session at SXSW before Edward Snowden&apos;s appearance, and he made a thought-provoking comparison between surveillance and torture. Some of the opponents of torture argue against it on the ground that torture produces low-quality intelligence. If you torture someone long enough, you can probably get him to admit to anything, but that&apos;s exactly why evidence from torture isn&apos;t useful.But Gellman pointed out that there are circumstances in which torture almost certainly would work. If you have a locked safe – or a locked phone – and you want to get the combination out of someone, all you need is some wire-cutters, a branding iron, some pliers, and a howling void where your conscience should be.The &quot;instrumental&quot; argument against torture – that it doesn&apos;t work – invites the conclusion that on those occasions where torture would work, there&apos;s nothing wrong with using it. But the primary reason not to torture isn&apos;t its efficacy or lack thereof: it&apos;s that torture is barbaric. It is immoral. It is wrong. It rots societies from the inside out.And so it is with mass surveillance. As the exiled WikiLeaks volunteer Jacob Appelbaum said to me this week in Berlin, &quot;Surveillance makes you say &apos;yes&apos; when your conscience says &apos;no.&apos;&quot;The space to think things throughThat is, when you are continuously surveilled, when your every word – even your private conversations, even your personal journals – are subject to continuous monitoring, you never have the space in which to think things through. If you doubt a piece of popular wisdom and want to hash it out, your ability to carry on that discussion is limited the knowledge that your testing of the day&apos;s received ideas is on the record forever and may be held against you.One thing that parenting has taught me is that surveillance and experimentation are hard to reconcile. My daughter is learning, and learning often consists of making mistakes constructively. There are times when she is working right at the limits of her abilities – drawing or dancing or writing or singing or building – and she catches me watching her and gets this look of mingled embarrassment and exasperation, and then she changes back to some task where she has more mastery. No one – not even a small child – likes to look foolish in front of other people.Putting whole populations – the whole human species – under continuous, total surveillance is a profoundly immoral act, no matter whether it works or not. There no longer is a meaningful distinction between the digital world and the physical world. Your public transit rides, your love notes, your working notes and your letters home from your journeys are now part of the global mesh of electronic communications. The inability to live and love, to experiment and err, without oversight, is wrong because it&apos;s wrong, not because it doesn&apos;t catch bad guys.Everyone from Orwell to Trotsky recognised that control over information means control over society. On the eve of the November Revolution, Trotsky ordered the Red Guard to seize control over the post and telegraph offices. I mentioned this to Jacob Appelbaum, who also works on many spy-resistant information security tools, like Tor (The Onion Router, a privacy and anonymity tool for browsing the web), and he said, &quot;A revolutionary act today is making sure that no one can ever seize control over the network.&quot;If the NSA and GCHQ want to effect &quot;cybersecurity&quot;, then let them help us with the project of building a network that allows us to maintain the integrity of our private lives. Cybersecurity should be about securing the people of the United Kingdom, not making the state securefromus.
UK internet service providers and the entertainment industry are near to agreeing a deal to combat piracy.After four years of negotiations, BT, Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media have said they will send "educational" letters to people who illegally download copyrighted music, television or films.Under the voluntary copyright alert programme (Vcap), the music and movie industry bodies will monitor file-sharing networks for copyright infringements, recording the IP addresses of downloaders.The IP addresses, which identify individual broadband connections, will be given to UK ISPs who in turn will send out a warning letter about the alleged infringement to the registered subscriber of that broadband connection. The first letters will be sent out in 2015.The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) is understood to be looking at the deal, but told the Guardian it did not rubber-stamp agreements.BT, Sky and Virgin Media said they were in talks with the BPI, which represents the British music industry, and the Motion Picture Association (MPA) over Vcap, but that an agreement had not yet been made.The media industry originally intended for Vcap to target alleged repeat copyright infringers with letters informing them of possible punitive measures. Access to a database of known infringers was also requested, which could have led to legal action against internet subscribers.Instead, the draft agreement, seen by the BBC, suggests that no more than 2.5m letters will be sent out each year and that they will have an "educational" tone.Those who download illegal material can expect to receive up to four alerts. The cost of the system will be shared between the rights holders, who will contribute £750,000 or 75% of the cost for each ISP, with a further £75,000 or 75% of the costs a year to cover the running of the service.Vcap was proposed as an alternative to the 2010 Digital Economy Act, which envisioned repeat copyright infringers having their internet connections terminated.
Call of Duty – same every year, right? A bunch of savage looking eastern Europeans attack America with nuclear weapons or computer viruses, and then you join a crack squad of spec-ops hard men traveling the world trying to shoot everything that isn&apos;t physically nailed down. Eventually you get to the terrorist leader, who turns out to have a complicated backstory, but you stab him in the neck anyway; then you spend the next six months complaining that the multiplayer servers are full of 12-year-old racists.Thankfully, Sledgehammer Games is promising to mix things up with its forthcoming take on the series, Advanced Warfare, which features Kevin Spacey as the lunatic head of a private military contractor. But is making Keyser Soze the lead antagonist going far enough? Could Activision really not turn the formula on its head? What would happen if the franchise was handed over to the indie community?Ihadto find out, so I asked a collection of indie developers to come up with their own ideas for the next Call of Duty title. Here&apos;s what they handed in…I’d take some of the millions and billions of dollars it makes each year and hire a decent writer to craft something that isn’t all &apos;hoo-ah dudebros&apos;, and invest in some tech that makes it a more open, engaging experience rather than just a corridor shooting gallery. There’s great scope for Call of Duty to do some real good for games with its popularity, it’d be nice to see them capitalise on that. Knowing me, I’d turn it into a point and click adventure.Dan Marshall, Size Five GamesWith an unlimited budget? Go open-world, non-linear, incredibly empty with long periods of tense nothingness punctuated by insanely frenetic, chaotic and confusing action where you don&apos;t really know what the hell is going on and you are mainly screaming and panicking and nuking everything that moves and then it suddenly goes utterly quiet again and you are back to being cut adrift in a big unfriendly world that&apos;s really difficult to predict. Rinse and repeat until post-traumatic stress disorder kicks in.Dan Pinchbeck, The Chinese RoomI&apos;d do a first person war game from the perspective of a civilian, swept up in events, who doesn&apos;t pick up a gun. Protecting your family, avoiding forces on both sides. It&apos;d be an interesting and under-represented perspective on a conflict.Mike Bithell (Thomas Was Alone, Volume)Call of Duty: Peacekeeper. I&apos;d dump the campaign and focus on creating a much deeper multiplayer, with more opportunities for non-combat play. I&apos;d introduce a third AI team of civilians to muddy the waters and make combat have a more chaotic and stressful feel. I&apos;d also add a fourth class – journalists – who would be playable on your death and who get to document the fights with video, audio and still images…The &quot;good guys&quot; would essentially play peacekeepers, and have similar tools like sniffer dogs to find bombs, riot gear, barricades to &apos;contain&apos; a panicked populace. But I&apos;d be very keen to make sure it all depends on the player&apos;s deployment of the tools they&apos;re given.Riffing on that, I&apos;d encourage the &quot;baddy&quot; team to try to disrupt things for the civilians as well as the good guys – bombs, sabotage, etc. The idea being that the bad guys want as much media attention as possible, while the good guys are always trying to bend the rules without being caught on camera so as to cut off the terrorist threat and deny them the attention. This could all make for some amazing emergent gameplay and truly memorable scenarios.Andrew Smith, Spilt-Milk StudiosUkip has not only won the election but has thrown the UK into a xenophobic state – turning the country into a closed dictatorship. All is not well, however, and civil war has broken out across the nation. The jack-booted Farage stazi start clamping down hard on the insurgents using lethal force. You play as an an ex-SAS fighter, now part of the super elite FreeUK freedom fighters tasked with breaking into the highly fortified war fortress that used to be Whitehall and assassinating the Ukip overlord. Will that do?Byron Atkinson-Jones, XiotexMy version would draw on competitive puzzlers such as Super Puzzle Fighter. Two participants play in separate stages. Enemy soldiers wear either red, yellow or blue jumpsuits, and if you shoot three of the same colour in a row you get a chain. Getting bigger chains sends more enemies to your opponent, but if they chain them right back they can send even more to you. Ka-pow! It would be called Call of Duty: Combo-Bustin&apos; Chaos.Alistair Aitcheson (Greedy Bankers, Slamjet Stadium)With the impending First World War Centenary, I&apos;d return the series to the trenches of Northern France in WW1. The game would revolve around life between battles: making a decent cup of tea, using rats for target practice, burning lice out of blankets with candles, reinforcing the trench walls to keep out the mud, playing cards and writing letters home... all under heavy bombardment (lots of camera shake and deafening audio design).Each level would end with you and your pals climbing the trench ladders to charge at the enemy, then everything would fade to white and the next level would start, only with some of your fellow soliders gone.Ricky Haggett, HoneyslugGeorge and I are waiting to board a plane to Iceland so we&apos;ve both decided to give hurried responses.George: If I designed the new Call of Duty, it would be a Doom WAD.Mitu: Mine would be a complex social simulation in which you must juggle your duty to your country with the growing romantic feelings for, and catty struggles between, your squad mates.Mitu (and George) Khandaker-Kokoris, Tiniest SharkI have the unfashionable post-Gone Home viewpoint that I quite like the unfettered face shooting that the Call of Duty games provide. Admittedly the single-player is an increasingly pointless, diversionary, and bombastic spectacle and has never again reached the genuinely groundbreaking and interesting narrative highs that Modern Warfare managed. But Call of Duty has always been about multiplayer and it&apos;s still a taut, precise, and largely flawless shooter in that regard. The corporate answer would of course be to suggest a real-time second-screen tactical experience to run alongside the main game allowing you to control a whole squad rather than a single player (*cough* like Salvaged - Kickstart it now!), but actually I&apos;m tempted to go the Billy Joel route and say, &quot;I love you just the way you are.&quot;James Parker, Opposable GamesThe player is a military contractor working as a remote operator of an unmanned drone aircraft. You begin your day by driving to work and sitting in a server room, watching a video screen and pressing buttons to send commands to the drone. You get 10,000 points for blowing up an enemy militant or military hardware, but be careful because you lose one point if you hit a civilian.Bennett Foddy (Girp, Qwop)Call of Duty: War Photographer. Players step into the shoes of veteran conflict documentarian Angela Espinoza, entering hot zones armed only with a mechanical film camera. Adjust the F-stop on the fly and swap lenses with the analog triggers and d-pad. Develop photos after each battle, selling them to player-run galleries and news agencies.Adam Saltsman (Canabalt, Hundreds)Cold open through the sight of a sniper scope. Fast zoom on to typically arid landscape, sand-blasted rubble, long shadows and crumbling stone huts. Your red dot dances across a doorway. Suddenly: movement. You track your dot back – but it&apos;s just a scrawny cat, chasing the laser. The cat stops in its tracks, narrows its eyes, ears flatten, and slowly turns to face the scope. Has it seen something? Then it happens: the cat reaches, with a paw that behaves unnaturally human, behind her tail and pulls out a Desert Eagle. Everything slows down as she shoots and your POV reels backwards. Before you fade to black you catch a glimpse of your falling body in a cracked mirror behind you. You, too, are a cat. Call of Duty Logo. You&apos;re welcome, Activision. I know what the internet wants. Call me for more on the Grumpy Cat Season Pass.Ste Curran, game consultantCall of Duty: Fallen. The player takes the role of soldiers injured or incapacitated in battle, in a series of set-pieces covering the course of war in human history from the Peloponnesian War through contemporary remotely-operated &apos;surgical&apos; drone warfare. In each case, after a struggle, death overtakes him—differently in each scenario. The soldier’s ultimate duty is not to liberate nor to defend nor even to kill, but to die, and the game strips warfare down to this singular principle.Ian Bogost (Cow Clicker, Simony)Clearly the next CoD should be set near Bournemouth and feature a retired colonel whose lawn has been trampled. Having spoken about this to his second wife, Miriam, he sets out for bloody revenge.Jim Rossignol, Big RobotAn Oculus Rift game set in Blitz-era London. It&apos;s blackout, no lighting of cigarettes, no switching on of lights. You play a pregnant woman going into labour. You have to get across London to a hospital or a midwife before the baby is born. The idea is to navigate by sound and shadow, by the voices of strangers to get help, and avoid being blown the heck up. Your move, Sledgehammer Games.Cara Ellison(Sweatshop,Sacrilege)So what&apos;s your idea for the future of Call of Duty? Let us know in the comments section.• Kevin Spacey to star in Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare•Call of Duty v the planet: inside the world of competitive gaming
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.Progress of the exceptions to copyright regulations &gt;&gt;&gt; GOV.UKThe Committee has some questions about the private copying and parody exceptions that they would like to discuss with us. It is not unusual for the Committee to want to spend more time considering SIs, but it will have implications for the timetable given where we are in the parliamentary cycle. It is likely to mean these two SIs are implemented later than 1 June 2014.Slightly concerning that the private copying and parody exceptions are being delayed.DDoS attacks costing UK companies £240,000 per day &gt;&gt;&gt; TechRadarAttacks are lasting longer, with 28 per cent lasting as much as two days.The study also found that there is a 69 per cent chance of repeat attacks, with 48 per cent hit between two and ten times. Some attacks required more than six specialists to mitigate them.These accounted for 39 per cent of attacks in 2013, compared to 25 per cent in 2012, an increase of 56 per cent. Some were even larger, requiring 10 people to mitigate, and this figure doubled from 12 per cent in 2012 to 24 per cent in 2013.DDoS used to be the equivalent of a protest outside a building, now it&apos;s becoming a legitimately damaging tool in the hacker&apos;s arsenal.LG G3 5.5-inch QHD display panel confirmed by LG Display &gt;&gt;&gt; Pocket-lint&quot;The certification comes shortly before the new Quad HD LCD panel will be unveiled with the forthcoming LG&apos;s flagship smartphone to be launched in the first half of the year.&quot; (sic)The new panel will have a resolution of 2560 x 1440 pixels, which across the 5.5-inches will equate to 534ppi. That will make it sharper and more detailed than the other flagship rival smartphones from HTC, Samsung and Sony.PPI is the new megapixel. Does it make a difference? Huawei doesn&apos;t think so...Huawei: QHD screens are &apos;nonsense&apos; &gt;&gt;&gt; TechRadarRichard Yu from Huawei:&quot;We can [put a QHD display on a smartphone], but it&apos;s very bad for power consumption and it doesn&apos;t offer anything in return.&quot; &quot;You eyes cannot see the difference, so why should we do that? I think it&apos;s a stupid thing.&quot;Quite.London black taxis plan congestion chaos to block Uber &gt;&gt;&gt; BBC NewsLTDA now plans to force the issue by holding the action in early June.&quot;Transport for London not enforcing the Private Hire Vehicles Act is dangerous for Londoners,&quot; Steve McNamara, LTDA&apos;s general secretary, told the BBC.&quot;I anticipate that the demonstration against TfL&apos;s handling of Uber will attract many many thousands of cabs and cause severe chaos, congestion and confusion across the metropolis.&quot;TfL told the association last month that it believed Uber&apos;s vehicles were not strictly &quot;equipped&quot; with taximeters since there was not &quot;some sort of connection between the device and the vehicle&quot;.From tube strike to taxi strike. The issue here is a valid one. Uber is disrupting a market by skirting the market rules. Is that fair?France&apos;s Orange says client data stolen from website &gt;&gt;&gt; ReutersBut the intrusion at Orange is embarrassing for its Chief Executive Stephane Richard because he has cast the company as a guardian of its customers data after revelations of widespread spying by the U.S. National Security Agency last year.Ooops. Better get your house in order before promising things and making yourself a target.Chrome extension turns any website into video chatroom &gt;&gt;&gt; Wired UKa Chrome browser extension that turns any website into a live video chatroom for you and your friends, building a transparent layer of information that sits on top so you can see, hear and interact with friends during live videostreams or while reading static content.The logical step from bitching about X-Factor on Twitter.Why Eve Online&apos;s economist thinks bitcoin could be a scam &gt;&gt;&gt; PolygonDr. Eyjolfur Gudmundsson is the in-house economist at CCP Games, and part of his job is keeping Eve Online and its multiple currencies running smoothly. Eve Online and Dust 514 incorporate a series of virtual currencies, such as ISK, Auram and Plex, that are all interconnected and in some cases can be purchased, or sold for, actual currency.Some of Eyjolfur&apos;s arguments don&apos;t quite ring true – the point of bitcoin is that the trust is built into the code, and really is independently verifiable – but it&apos;s very interesting to hear someone outside of the mainstream economics world make the case for a central bank and government intervention.Indie Box: Let&apos;s Bring Our Data Home &gt;&gt;&gt; IndiegogoIndie Box One is the first ready-to-use personal server appliance for storing your personal data and running indie web applications at home. Made for humans, not just geeks.Pre-installed indie web applications provide functionality such as calendaring, address book management, publishing, sharing, bookmarking, photo and media management and more.On the plus side: moving the cloud back down to a more personal level restores control of our data, and ensures that the companies making the apps we&apos;ve come to reply on treat us as their customers, rather than advertisers.On the minus side: if you thought Heartbleed was bad, imagine dealing with that sort of security breach in a world where everyone has to patch their own personal server.The Great Smartphone War: Apple vs. Samsung &gt;&gt;&gt; Vanity FairKurt Eichenwald:According to various court records and people who have worked with Samsung, ignoring competitors&apos; patents is not uncommon for the Korean company. And once it&apos;s caught it launches into the same sort of tactics used in the Apple case: countersue, delay, lose, delay, appeal, and then, when defeat is approaching, settle.&quot;They never met a patent they didn&apos;t think they might like to use, no matter who it belongs to,&quot; says Sam Baxter, a patent lawyer who once handled a case for Samsung. &quot;I represented [the Swedish telecommunications company] Ericsson, and they couldn&apos;t lie if their lives depended on it, and I represented Samsung and they couldn&apos;t tell the truth if their lives depended on it.&quot;You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Does engineering have an image problem? I read that you said something like, "People think it's bearded men in bad jumpers."Or white coats, yes exactly, a terrible image problem. But they're creative people. They're creating all day long. That's the problem I've always had with people talking about the "creative industries", it implies that industry isn't creative. I loathe that. It degrades the whole idea of making things. There is still this snobbery in Britain about that sort of thing. It's "trade" or "new money". It's OK to make money as an artist, but not OK to make money by making things.Is that another legacy of the British class system?Yes. I think it's got worse if anything. We admire the media and celebrities and artistic performance much more than we do anything else.This year is the 10th anniversary of the £30,000 James Dyson awards you founded to encourage the next generation of engineers. Which have been your favourite winners?I really like thefish-saving SafetyNetdesign. You know the problem with overfishing? And how the nets catch fish large and small. Well, this solves that problem. You have escape holes in the net, lit by LEDs so the fish can swim out.Do you think there's a misconception in the way design is seen as being about making these look pretty, instead of doing amazing things that change lives?That's exactly the point. This is the misunderstanding about what an engineer is. People think engineers fix washing machines. It's not at all. It's about using your imagination to solve the world's problems. It's exciting!You have said that Silicon Roundabout has grabbed the headlines and the glamour, but in terms of money and jobs and success, British engineering has had far more impact than any Hoxton startup.Silicon Roundabout is great, and I'm sure there's money to be made. But industry is highly creative. It creates jobs and it's highly paid. Exports are a measure of wealth, and actually you can't just export anything that the rest of the world hasn't got. So, you've got to be creative in what you export. So actually, patents and the filing of patents is, I think, a measure of future wealth.And how is Britain doing in that?Very badly. We're filing fewer patents every year, and we're now 22nd in the world league. Yet, we're the fifth-largest economy in the world. And we need lots and lots of engineers and can't get them. If we could double it tomorrow, we would double it tomorrow. There are not enough British students reading engineering at university. Then very, very few stay on to do research. Around 88% of researchers in science and engineering in British universities are from outside the EU. And they are told they have to go home when they finish their degrees because they can't get a visa. The Dyson Foundation is also trying to get more children interested in engineering. It teaches you all the valuable life lessons you need. You have to analyse things. You watch failure and overcome failure because you don't get it right the first time. You go back, you analyse it, you change it, you get it right. That's what life's about.James Dyson with his the Air Multiplier bladeless fan. Photograph: Jonathan Player/Rex FeaturesYou recently donated £8m to Cambridge University. Isn't a bit ridiculous that it's left to a private company to fill gaps the state isn't filling?Well, yes. But we're doing all sorts of things. And it's our free choice. So £6m of that is going into a new postgraduate engineering building, and £2m into an area where graduates and undergraduates can build prototypes, which is so important. We also fund undergraduate bursaries, postgraduate bursaries, because I think the government should subsidise the fees of UK engineering undergraduates. Since there are so few, it wouldn't cost them very much.You have also just given £6m to Imperial College in London for robotics research. It's interesting that you seem to be pursuing the same strategy as Google.We are developing our own robots rather than buying other people's. We've been developing one for 15 years. We've been a bit slow about it, but are very ambitious in what we're doing so it's taken us much longer to get there.This is about having a robot army to clean your house, rather than invading Afghanistan?Yes, it's interesting because it's slightly difficult to see at this stage where robotic technology is going. We've been developing vision systems.You're teaching robots to see?Yes, and interpret what they see. What our robot is doing is behaving like a human. When you vacuum a room, you look and interpret and that's what they're doing.Google is investing heavily in robotics and one of their directors of engineering, Ray Kurzweil, says he believes machine intelligence will surpass human intelligence by 2029. Do you think that's when vacuum cleaners will rise up and take over the house?Yes, they probably will. They're already cleverer than humans in the sense that they remember things. So, when artificial intelligence truly kicks in, then yes, that might well happen. We use robots on our assembly lines because the motor is assembled perfectly every time, every measure is assembled perfectly. We used to batch test; we stopped because there were no failures.Ready to take over the world? Dyson's vacuum cleaners are hugely popular.I read that if a couple buy a Dyson vacuum cleaner, statistically more than half of men will then take over the vacuuming. Is that right?Yes.That's pretty revolutionary, isn't it?What attracted me [to vacuum cleaners] was that they were an unloved object. Manufacturers made them. They didn't really care what they were making. They were just copying each other. It had become a commodity. I got really excited  about that.When I went to try to sell my technology to them, they wanted to see what I was doing, but weren't interested in changing. So, rejection after rejection from these big companies suddenly made me realise there was a wonderful opportunity here. They're not advancing, they're not changing things for people at home every day.That's a particular mindset to get excited by rejection. I would get rejected and then give up.But that's the point about analysis and failure. Failure is so much more interesting because you learn from it. That's what we should be teaching children at school, that being successful the first time, there's nothing in it. There's no interest, you learn nothing actually.Is that why you tend to trust your intuition over market research?Yes, a trite example is the clear bin on the Dyson.As engineers, we got really excited about that, we enjoyed seeing our dirt, and watching it come in. But, when we started selling it, the shops were appalled, retailers were appalled, "You'll never sell that. People don't want to see the dirt." We said no, we like it, and did some research and they were absolutely right. People said they didn't want to see the dirt, but now every single vacuum cleaner has a see-through bin. I couldn't prove that people would buy it. The research showed the opposite. But, you have to be brave, you have to risk a lot of money, you have to go into the unknown.  It's risky.And you've done that while keeping Dyson a private company. That's very unusual these days, isn't it?Yes. It seems that most entrepreneurs just want to make money as quickly as possible, but I didn't do it for that. We double our investment in research every two years, and couldn't do that as a public company. They wouldn't put up with that. We can take a very long-term view. We're doing lots of research in lots of British universities, and some of it is 20 years old. It won't happen until I am long retired, and you couldn't do that if you were a public company.I read that you have a rather big yacht and a Gulfstream jet, and I imagine it was just purely the design of those that attracted you, was it?The design, entirely the design. I travel a lot.
Apple is closing in on a deal to buy headphone manufacturer Beats Electronics for $3.2bn (£1.88bn), it has been reported. It would be the California company's largest ever acquisition.The deal could be announced as early as next week and would include Beats' streaming music service and its audio equipment business.Beats has developed a strong brand since its launch by rapper Dr Dre and music producer Jimmy Iovine in 2008.In 2012 50.1% of the company cost HTC $309m. Last September a $500m investment from Carlyle valued the company at more than $1bn.The Apple deal, news of which was first reported by the FT on Thursday night, would mark a change in the California firm's approach under the leadership of chief executive Tim Cook following the reluctance of Steve Jobs to make large acquisitions. Reporting the company's second-quarter earnings last month, Cook said he was "on the prowl" for companies to buy. He told journalists: "We are not in a race to spend the most or acquire the most. We're in a race to make the best products that enrich people's lives." He added that Apple has purchased 24 companies over the past 18 months.He said the company does not have a rule on the price it will pay: "We'll spend what we think is a fair price.""In terms of acquisitions, Apple has been very, very light in their activity," Richard Lane, an analyst at Moody's, told the FT. He added: "I don't think they've spent $1bn in any of the last four years."The news follows major acquisitions – and attempted purchases –by Apple's tech rivals. Google bought smart home developer Nest Labs for $3.2bn and Facebook bought the WhatsApp Messenger service for $19bn.Beats recently launched a streaming music service, which may have proven particularly attractive to Apple, the popularity of whose iTunes service appears to be falling. In contrast, subscription services are growing fast, with revenues increasing 50% to $1.1bn in 2013, according to a report by the the global music industry association IFPI. Downloads, however, fell 2% to $3.93bn.
Almost half of all 14- and 15-year-olds feel they are addicted to the internet, with more than three-quarters of similarly aged pupils taking a web-enabled laptop, phone or tablet to bed at night, according to a survey.Of those who take a device to bed, the bulk are communicating with friends using social media or watching videos or films, the study of more than 2,200 students in nine schools across England and Scotland found. More than four out 10 girls felt they used the internet on a compulsive basis for socialising, the survey found.The poll was carried out on behalf ofTablets for Schools, a charity led by technology industry groups such as Carphone Warehouse and Dixons that campaigns for the increased use of iPad-like devices in education. Despite its remit the group has now publishedan advice guidefor pupils and schools about internet devices, advising they be switched off before bed and during study times, with set times allocated for online activity.The study said fewer than a third of students who used web devices in bed said this was connected to homework, with those more likely to use a computer, phone or laptop in bed also more likely to report feeling addicted to the internet. There were some gender distinctions, with 46% of girls saying they sometimes felt addicted to the internet, as against 36% of boys, but significantly more boys saying they felt a compulsion towards computer games.The peak age for feelings of addiction was year 10, where pupils are aged 14 or 15, with 49% of those pupils reporting this. The greatest use of devices in bed comes a year later, with 77% of year-11 pupils. Aside from email the most commonly used sites at home were social networks like Facebook, Twitter and Snapchat.While most students told researchers they were positive about the internet, a number expressed alarm at their apparent inability to disengage. "It's the first thing I look at in the morning and the last thing at night. It seems I'm constantly on it," a year-10 boy said. Another boy, a year older, said: "When I'm on YouTube one video leads to another and I cannot stop myself from watching loads of videos and sometimes I'm up till about 2 o'clock in the morning just because I've been watching YouTube videos."The issue of internet addiction is much debated, with some researchers questioning whether it can be classified as a formal addiction. There is evidence that British children spend more time online than many of their European peers. A2012 EU-wide study of children aged 11-16by the London School of Economics found the UK was among the worst nations for indicators of apparently excessive internet use, with more than a quarter saying they spent less time with family, friends or on schoolwork because of being on the web.
US regulators have slapped Snapchat, the mobile messaging service, for falsely promising its users that their messages “disappear forever”.The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) said on Thursday that the fast-growingservice had deceived peopleabout the privacy of the messages sent through its service and secretly collected sensitive information about its users.Services promising users greater privacy have become increasingly popular in the wake of National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden’s revelations. According to Snapchat, this month users are sending 700m photos and videos per day. Snapchat messages, known as snaps, are timed to delete after they have been viewed.The FTC said that, in marketing its service, Snapchat failed to disclose the ease with which users can save a message by taking an undetectable screenshot or by using a third-party program. Apps allowing snap recipients to copy and store messages indefinitely have been downloaded “millions of times”, said the FTC. Despite a security researcher warning the company about this possibility, the FTC said, “Snapchat continued to misrepresent that the sender controls how long a recipient can view a snap.”Christopher Olsen, assistant director in the division of privacy and identity protection at the FTC, said: “The agency certainly supports the development of privacy protected apps, but if there is one message we want to make clear, it’s that if you make promises about privacy, you must honor them.”The FTC alleged that Snapchat deceived consumers over the amount of personal data it collected and the security measures taken to protect that data. The commission said the company collected location details unbeknownst to users. It also criticised Snapchat’s failure to secure its “Find Friends” feature, which looks through someone’s phone contacts to see if they are on the service. That failure led to a security breach that allowed attackers to compile a database of 4.6m Snapchat usernames and phone numbers.Snapchat did not verify users&apos; phone numbers on its Find Friends feature. As a result, people could register someone else’s phone number as their own, leading users to send to complete strangers snaps they had assumed were going to a friend.The investigation followed acomplaintfrom Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) to the FTC which charged Snapchat with using “unfair and deceptive acts and practices”.“If a company markets privacy and security as key selling points in pitching its service to consumers, it is critical that it keep those promises,” said the FTC chairwoman, Edith Ramirez. “Any company that makes misrepresentations to consumers about its privacy and security practices risks FTC action.”A number of “anonymous” apps including Whisper and Secret have been launched recently promising the ability to post unidentified messages. Olsen said the FTC was increasingly focussing on mobile apps but declined to comment on whether others were under investigation.“There is a demand out there that apps are moving to fill,” said Olsen. “We think that sort of competition is a good thing, but again, we are very focussed on making sure that the companies that make these promises stand ready to meet them.”In ablogpost Snapchat said: “When we started building Snapchat, we were focused on developing a unique, fast and fun way to communicate with photos. We learned a lot during those early days. One of the ways we learned was by making mistakes, acknowledging them, and fixing them.“While we were focused on building, some things didn’t get the attention they could have. One of those was being more precise with how we communicated with the Snapchat community.”The company has entered into a consent decree with the FTC that prohibits it misrepresenting the extent to which it maintains the privacy, security or confidentiality of users’ information. Snapchat will be required to implement a comprehensive privacy programme that will be monitored by an independent privacy professional for the next 20 years.“Even before today’s consent decree was announced, we had resolved most of those concerns over the past year by improving the wording of our privacy policy, app description, and in-app just-in-time notifications. And we continue to invest heavily in security and countermeasures to prevent abuse,” said Snapchat.“We are devoted to promoting user privacy and giving Snapchatters control over how and with whom they communicate. That’s something we’ve always taken seriously, and always will.”
America’s top media and telecoms regulator is coming under intense pressure to delay the release of new rules critics say will create a tiered internet controlled by the cable companies.Two members of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) five-member board have come out for a delay ahead of a scheduled release of new rules on 15 May. Their move comes amid lobbying from some of the US’s largest internet companies against the rules and a widespread and growing online protest.On the FCC’s website, Democrat commissioner Mignon Clyburnwrotethat “during the past few weeks, tens of thousands of consumers, companies, entrepreneurs, investors, schools, educators, healthcare providers and others have reached out to ask me to keep the internet free and open”.Clyburn said she would prefer to prohibit pay-for-priority arrangements altogether and would like to see cable companies reclassified so the FCC would have greater regulatory powers over them.Ina speechon Wednesday, fellow Democrat commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel also called for a delay following the “torrent of public response” to leaked proposals from the FCC that suggest it is considering enshrining cable firms’ ability to create fast lanes for high-paying customers.The third Democrat on the five-person commission, chairman Tom Wheeler, has said the new rules will protect the “open internet”.“We need to respect that input and we need time for that input,” said Rosenworcel. “So while I recognise the urgency to move ahead and develop rules with dispatch, I think the greater urgency comes in giving the American public opportunity to speak right now, before we head down this road.”Wheeler, a former top cable and wireless industry lobbyist, has called suggestions that the new rules will create a inaccessible fast lane “flat-out wrong”. He has also said any deals would have to be &quot;commercially reasonable”.The FCC was forced to draw up new rules after Verizon successfully challenged its power to bar broadband providers from slowing or blocking selected web traffic.Since that January ruling, Comcast hasstruck a dealwith Netflix that will give it access to a faster connection for its service. That deal came after Netflix had accused Comcast of “throttling” its service in order to promote its own video-on-demand offering.The agreement, the terms of which were not disclosed, has sparked fears among consumer groups and Democrats that cable firms will create fast lanes for high-paying, established players that will effectively stifle competition and create a tiered internet. Such a system would effectively end “net neutrality” – the concept that all traffic should be treated equally online.Craig Aaron, president of the lobby group Free Press, said pressure was mounting on the FCC as more people began to see what was at stake in the net neutrality debate. He said it was highly unusual for FCC commissioners to dissent so publicly.“The cracks are showing,” he said. “It’s very clear that the commissioners are feeling a lot of public pressure. The fact that both Wheeler’s colleagues from his own party are raising serious doubts about his proposal definitely puts things in flux.“That said, the chairman did put out a statement Wednesday night saying they were moving forward.”Wheeler’s statement came as some 150 of the world’s top tech companies, including Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft,weighed in, calling for the FCC to protect net neutrality.The tech firms’ move comes as politicians including three Democratic senators – Ron Wyden, Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker – have also called for the FCC to protect net neutrality.In a Facebook post, Wyden called net neutrality “an essential principle to the protection of consumers online”.“When Americans purchase access to the internet,” he wrote, “we purchase access to the entire internet, not just our providers&apos; network. By dividing up the internet into fast and slow lanes – with the fast only accessible by sites who pay the premium, Verizon and Comcast are playing bait and switch with every American consumer.”Internet and civil-rights groupsincluding the American Civil Liberties Union, Free Press and Reddit have collected a million signatures calling on Wheeler to tighten rules protecting the open internet.On Wednesday, protesters from groups including Fight for the Future, Popular Resistance and others announcedthey would camp outside the FCC’s officesin protest, ahead of planned 15 May meeting.
Adult performers have launched a campaign to encourage fans to pay for the porn they watch, rather than pirating videos on the internet.The Pay For Your Porn campaign, backed by publishers Adult Empire, argues that piracy is hurting the industry, and that porn fans need to take responsibility for that if they want the industry to remain sustainable.&quot;Purchasing content ensures it’s better produced, delivered in higher quality formats, more secure, and fosters the creation of new adult content,&quot; the campaign argues. &quot;Porn piracy hurts everyone, from the creators behind the scenes to the porn stars fans love to watch.&quot;Everybody needs to make a living – theft only helps take away the ability of the tens of thousands of people in the adult industry,&quot; it adds.The campaign was launched just as the actor Samuel L Jackson sparked outrage among porn performers by naming porn sharing site RedTube as one of the best pop culture achievements of the past 50 years. Jackson&apos;s comments led the adult star Catalina Cruz tocall for a boycott of his movies,telling the Avengers actorthat &quot;these sites are stealing whole members&apos; areas and have to potential to kill an industry.&quot;The adult performer and sex educator Jessica Drake is one of the actors launching the campaign. &quot;I can speak first hand about the very real effects of piracy on the entertainment industry and the economy. Piracy is a very serious criminal activity,&quot; she says. &quot;Theft is also a violation of personal consent and ethics.&quot;Megan Wozniak, who works for Adult Empire, argues that porn is in a trickier position than most media industries. &quot;Unfortunately, porn still has a stigma attached to it, so we know that we won’t ever receive help or support from legislatures, that’s why we decided to rally together this grassroots campaign on our own and spread the word.&quot;But some &quot;tube&quot;-style sites, which mimic YouTube&apos;s model of user uploads and free streaming, are attempting to build their own sustainable business model. Porn.com&apos;s David Kay, who says he is &quot;100% behind the campaign&quot;, argues that his site&apos;s pay-per-view scheme &quot;keeps a lot of content owners in business,&quot; by offering a cut of the ad revenue to studios which upload their own videos and clips to the site&apos;s system.Just as the movie and music industries were forced to adapt in the face of piracy, becoming more user-friendly to win back customers who were used to getting what they wanted for free, Kay says the porn industry needs to change as well. &quot;The industry needs to adopt &quot;Netflix&quot; pricing,&quot; he says, &quot;of $7-$10 per month as opposed to the standard $39.95 monthly that you commonly see. We switched to this pricing years ago and are one of the few companies still flourishing.&quot;•Will buying porn turn out to be bitcoin&apos;s killer app?
Nintendo often seems like the rarest kind of corporate entity: one that only inspires feelings of goodwill from its customers both past and present. Even as the company continues to flounder in its current state of financial insecurity, much of the criticism from fans, detractors and industry analysts is delivered as if from a concerned friend, rather than a dispassionate onlooker.That changed on Wednesday, when Nintendo of America (NOA) responded toa social media campaignasking the company to allow players to enter into gay relationships in its game Tomodachi Lifewith a flat denialissued to the Associated Press.The company &quot;never intended to make any form of social commentary with the launch of Tomodachi Life&quot;, the statement reasoned. &quot;The relationship options in the game represent a playful alternate world rather than a real-life simulation. We hope that all of our fans will see that Tomodachi Life was intended to be a whimsical and quirky game, and that we were absolutely not trying to provide social commentary.&quot;It repeated the phrase &quot;social commentary&quot; twice in just three sentences. NOA was trying to avoid rocking the boat and ended up doing the exact opposite. Fans responded passionately with anger and disappointment.There&apos;s a lot to be angry about here, and a lot to be disappointed by, too. But more than anything else, I&apos;m confused by Nintendo&apos;s logic, because none of this makes sense.For starters, look at the game itself. Tomodachi Life belongs in a hyper-specific genre of games called &quot;life simulators&quot;. It has often been described as the Japanese gaming giant&apos;s take on The Sims, that enormously popular Electronic Arts game that lets players indulge in seemingly mundane activities – picking out outfits, going to work, coming home, going on dates, getting married.'Your life', but not if you're gay. Photograph: APThere are tons of games that owe no debt to realism. Those that do, like Madden or Call of Duty, aspire to such a narrow vision of what realism means that a degree of exclusion is understandable. I don&apos;t expect to see myself cast as a quarterback for the Giants any more than I feel entitled to be represented as burly meathead who runs around hunting for terrorists. But if you make a game that&apos;s meant to simulate life – even a &quot;whimsical and quirky version&quot; of life – and then tell a portion of your players that they&apos;re simply not allowed to make an authentic simulation of their lives, something isn&apos;t adding up.But the weirdest part of Nintendo&apos;s justification for effectively banning gay marriage in the precious little virtual universe of Tomodachi Life is yet to come. In its statement, NOA went on to say: &quot;The ability for same-sex relationships to occur in the game was not part of the original game that launched in Japan, and that game is made up of the same code that was used to localize it for other regions outside of Japan.&quot;The implication here seems to be that there are value-neutral lines of code at the heart of this game. Devoid of &quot;social commentary&quot;, the code was simply copy-pasted from its birthplace in Japan, where the game was first released in April 2013. Tomodachi Life sold 1.83m copies in its first nine months on the market there, so people must have loved this non-&quot;social commentary&quot; version. Why bother tampering with a tried and true formula?The problem is, that&apos;s not true. People did love Tomodachi Life when it launched in Japan. But part of what they loved about it, according to areportby my Kotaku colleague Brian Ashcraft, is that there was initially a bug in the software that allowed players to indulge in gay relationships – or at least male ones. Japanese players were &quot;thrilled by the bug, posting photos of their gay couples online&quot;. When Nintendo got wind of the game letting players do things they couldn&apos;t legally do in their own country, it quickly issued an update to eliminate the glitch. Dissenting players responded on social media by vowing not to download it.Nintendo never publicly responded to this story. And given its tight-lipped reputation, the closest we may ever get to hearing anyone from Nintendo speak candidly about LGBT representation is this week&apos;s opaque conclusion that it is using its sudden anti-gay marriage stance as &quot;an opportunity to better understand [its] consumers and their expectations&quot; and is &quot;looking to broaden [its] approach to development whenever possible&quot;.Did Nintendo – the world&apos;s largest video game company by revenue – really never think about the sexual identity of its customers before 2014? Late last month, one of the developers of the latest Kirby video gamementionedthat Nintendo figured out early in the life of that franchise that American audiences preferred an angry-looking version of Kirby over the &quot;cute&quot; one that appealed to Japanese gamers. If the company&apos;s market research delves into the minutiae of the expression worn by an innocuous blob, ignoring something like the demographic makeup of that blob&apos;s fanbase would appear to be a massive oversight.KIrby: 'Best known for his superhuman ability to fit large objects into his mouth.'Photograph: flickrThen again, Kirby is a nominally male figure who&apos;s naked, bright pink, and best known for his superhuman ability to fit large objects in his mouth. Maybe Nintendo&apos;s market research team didn&apos;t want to ask the question because they were scared of what they&apos;d hear back.Whenever the video game industry does ask itself why it continues to drag its feet on introducing gay characters, however, the answers aren&apos;t encouraging. Earlier this year, Assassin&apos;s Creed developer Ubisoft let one of its openly gay writers explain that even he couldnot write a queer protagonist into his own work&quot;because of fears that it&apos;ll impact sales&quot;.It&apos;s hard to accept that logic since it&apos;s rarely backed up (at least openly) with actual data. Plus, it runs opposite to the recent history of every other area in the entertainment industry that comes to mind.But whether or not you buy Ubisoft&apos;s reasoning, such market-oriented thinking hasn&apos;t been doing a company like Nintendo any favors lately. The same day that Nintendo explained why it didn&apos;t feel the need to include gay marriage in its popular sim game, the company alsoreportedthat its earnings for the 2013 fiscal year were even lower than the level it hadpre-emptively lowered themto back in January. And that comes after two years of similarly staggering losses.The company&apos;s Wii U console isn&apos;t selling well. And the 3DS, that beloved mobile system on which Tomodachi Life will soon appear for gay and straight gamers alike in America, isn&apos;t doing so hot either.I didn&apos;t cover any of this financial news, however, because I was too busy playing the amazing new Mario Kart that&apos;s coming out later this month. Which gets to the real source of my confusion here: how is a company that consistently produces phenomenal work so thoughtless at the same time?I don&apos;t have an answer to that. So just let me play the part of a concerned friend once more and say: come on, Nintendo. You&apos;re better than this. And it doesn&apos;t seem like you have much more to lose anyway.
Danish design specialist Bang &amp; Olufsen (B&amp;O) thinks the TV is far from dead and is betting on a screen that moves to suit the watcher, rather than the other way around, as the future of home entertainment.The new B&amp;O BeoVision Avant, the company’s brand new ultra-high-definition 4K television, rotates, slides, extends and even moves towards the watcher wherever they happen to be sitting in the room.“The way people live has changed. The main space in the home is no longer just a living room, it is also a dining room, a kitchen, a place of work all merged into one space,” said Marie Schmidt, vice president of product design and marketing for B&amp;O, talking to the Guardian.“At the same time, the TV is getting bigger, stealing more and more space and attention away from living. We believe technology shouldn’t dominate,” said Schmidt.Hidden when not in use, attention-grabbing when switched onThe BeoVision Avant looks much like any other modern slim-bezel television when off, but when switched on speakers drop from underneath the screen and extend out in one smooth motion horizontally to become a soundbar mounted to the bottom of the screen.At the same time the “orbit” stand swivels around, bringing the television closer to the viewer.The television swivels on its motorised stand to face the viewer no matter where in the room they are. Photograph: B&amp;OThe idea is that the TV and all the entertainment technology in the room is as compact and hidden in the background as possible when not in use, which extends to the components normally connected to a television like a Sky, Virgin Media or YouView box, or a PlayStation, Blu-ray player or Apple TV.The set-top boxes can all be hidden away in a cupboard, but controlled using the BeoVision Avant’s sleek aluminium remote, which is pre-programmed to allow full control of thousands of devices. There are other third-party systems that do a very similar thing, like Logitech’s Harmony universal remote system, but the difference is that the TV picks up the controls and beams them to the Sky box or Apple TV hidden away out of sight.The motorised Orbit stand allows the BeoVision Avant to adapt and face the person who is watching the TV. Watching positions around the room can be programmed into the TV, so if the watcher is on the sofa the TV can rotate to face it, but if watching TV from the dining table, or the kitchen the TV can automatically rotate to give the best viewing angle.&apos;Everyone can get what they want with one click&apos;B&amp;O’s room adjustments go beyond the TV too, as long as everything else you own is made by B&amp;O. Moving the TV’s orientation will change the pattern of the speakers around the room, for instance, adjusting the left and right channels to always be on the left and right of the screen, even if that means using one of the speakers at the back of the room.The remote supplied with the BeoVision Avant is manufactured out of a solid block of aluminium and can control a plethora of other entertainment devices. Photograph: B&amp;OThree personalised buttons on the remote can also automatically adjust the TV, switch channels, media sources and sound levels with one touch.“There are three buttons on the remote which can control and adjust everything. One for Mum, one for Dad and one for the kids. Everyone can get what they want with one click,” said Steve Devonshire, a product training manager for B&amp;O.While B&amp;O states that its products aren’t about technology, statistics and numbers, the BeoVision Avant is certainly future-proofed and packed with ports, connections and specifications.&apos;People change their televisions every six to seven years on average&apos;The 55in LCD screen is 4K, with four-times the resolution of current high-definition televisions and local backlight dimming for enhanced contrast – something only high-end televisions currently feature. At the back it has five HDMI slots for connecting everything from games consoles to a Chromecast, it is smart with upgradable software, something B&amp;O says it is committed to keeping up to date, and has built-in video recording functions.“People change their televisions every six to seven years on average, and we do not know how technology is going to change over that period, so we have put as much technology into the TV as possible to future-proof it, while being able to upgrade the software like adding Spotify and Deezer music services,” explained Schmidt.Eight speakers are hidden in behind the screen and in the drop-down soundbar that smoothly appears and extends when the screen is switched on. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianPowerful, integrated speakers are one the biggest differentiators for the BeoVision Avant over its competition. The TV has eight separate speakers, which create three channels of sound – centre, left and right – which B&amp;O calls three-channel stereo. The idea is that speech and dialogue is much clearer when projected out of a single speaker in the centre of the screen rather than through both left and right stereo speakers, which results in interference and a muddying of vocals.The BeoVision Avant goes beyond just built-in speakers and into the domain of multi-channel home theatre, connecting to up to eight more wireless B&amp;O speakers as well as 10 additional wired speakers, making a grand total of a 21-speaker surround-sound set-up possible for those with deep pockets.Bought by few but coveted by manyThe 55in BeoVision Avant costs £5,995 and will be available in B&amp;O stores today, however that only includes the television itself. The stands, like the floor-standing rotating Orbit stand, have to be bought separately, costing upwards of £695.A tabletop motorised stand is also available that moves towards the viewer, hunching back down when not in use. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianBuyers have always paid a premium for B&amp;O equipment, but the BeoVision Avant is almost competitively priced for an ultra high-definition 4K television, which generally start at around £4,000.The BeoVision Avant introduces some interesting concepts around motion, automatic adjustment and attempting to stop technology dominating modern living spaces. This is a very high-end television that will be bought by few but coveted by many.•Are curved TVs just a marketing gimmick? Definitely
Reddit has overhauled its front page, adding 26 new subreddits, including r/futurology, r/jokes and r/nottheonion to the list of forums that can be seen by a user who is not logged in.The change is the largest to the Reddit front page since the site was created, and with only one subreddit being removed, it doubles the number of front-page members from 25 to 50. The unlucky relegation goes to r/AdviceAnimals, home to the &quot;Advice Animals&quot; meme which has become strongly associated with the social news site.Awkward Seal, one of many advice animals, tells a story. Photograph: Imgur&quot;In the past we&apos;ve just swapped out one subreddit for another, but this time we&apos;re going to try something different,&quot;says the Reddit community manager Alex Angel in a blogpost on the site. &quot;Instead of 25 default subreddits, we&apos;re going to bump it up to 50. You can look forward to a wider variety of topics and a frontpage that is much more fluid than today&apos;s frontpage.&quot;Any user on Reddit can create a subreddit devoted to one particular topic, and any other user can then subscribe to it. The site&apos;s administrator team are extremely hands-off when it comes to what goes on in those user-made forums, which cover nearly every topic imaginable, fromcannabistobaking.This hands-off attitude has got Reddit in trouble in the past, thanks to users creating subreddits such as &quot;jailbait&quot;, devoted to sexualised photos of under-18s, and &quot;creepshots&quot;, which featured sexualised photos of women taken without their knowledge or consent. Both of thosewere eventually closed, but only after a widespread campaign forced the site&apos;s administrators to drop their normally laissez-faire stance.The Reddit staff do have to make some decisions, however, and the default subreddits are one such example. These are the subforums shown to logged-out users, and the ones to which new members are automatically subscribed. Originally, they were picked from the most popular subreddits, but now the site&apos;s administrators exert more influence, promoting good subreddits and demoting flawed or over-played ones.&quot;Most of the old default set was selected based on user activity and interest from years ago,&quot; says Angel. &quot;Reddit has grown and changed so much over the years that it&apos;s only fair to increase the number of subreddits so we can showcase newer subreddits that reflect the interests of the current userbase. This is sort of an experiment… we plan on changing the defaults more often, and we are always looking for great subreddits to potentially add to the list.&quot;The best of the new subredditsr/MildlyInterestingNot for this subreddit is the typical hyperbole of the internet, swearing that every individual link is &quot;the best thing you&apos;ll see all day&quot;. Instead, it&apos;s a place where people post &quot;mildly interesting stuff. Stuff that interests you. Mildly. It&apos;s in the name, ffs.&quot;What&apos;s on it today?Someone who found some 3, 4, 5 and 6 leafed clovers in their garden,a bee sitting on the B string of a guitar, anda girl with a half-open bag that looks like her shirt.What are its all-time greatest posts?Someone who &quot;buried a friend knee deep in sand. When he stepped out, the sand cracked, and made this.&quot; Someuniform bubbles. Aperfectly hand-drawn curly bracket.r/ShowerthoughtsYou know how, when you&apos;re in the shower, you have the most profound ideas? Finally, a place to share them! &quot;Showerthought is a loose term that applies to any thought you might have while carrying out a routine task like showering, driving, or daydreaming.&quot;What&apos;s on it today?&quot;I&apos;m still it from a game of tag eight years ago,&quot;realises Dreamcast3.Flap_Jack24 wonders&quot;if I&apos;ve ever drank out of something made of recycled material, that was made out of something that was originally owned by me.&quot; Andbetraythelaw89 explainsthat &quot;lizards are homeless turtles&quot;.What are its all time greatest posts?&quot;When you drink alcohol you are just borrowing happiness from tomorrow.&quot; &quot;If Obama was the president of Kenya, he would be their first white president..&quot; &quot;Trying to get rich by playing the lottery is like trying to commit suicide by flying on commercial airlines.&quot;r/TwoXChromosomesTwoXChromosomes is the heart of Reddit&apos;s feminist community – although many of its members wouldn&apos;t choose that definition. It describes itself as a home for &quot;thoughtful content - serious or silly – related to gender, and intended for women&apos;s perspectives.&quot;What&apos;s on it today?TwoXChromosomes is the only new default subreddit expressing misgivings about that new status.Faydre asks&quot;How can we get this wonderful community taken off default?&quot; She expresses her concern that the change &quot;exposes us, heavily, to the cruel and worthless ones, who make their entertainment at the expense of others.&quot; But elsewhere, life goes on, with some asking for advice (&quot;Does sex often hurt?&quot;), some sharing relevant news stories (&quot;Pastor claims wearing Yoga pants means you &quot;deserve rape.&quot;&quot;) and others just sharing personal stories &quot;Today was my boyfriend&apos;s birthday and my Dad got him a gift :-)&quot;).What are its all-time greatest posts?&quot;Boyfriend and I made a pretty neat sign to march in the Pride parade :).&quot; &quot;As a guy, I wanted to know what it was like to be a woman on a dating site, so I set up a fake profile and the end result was not something I was expecting.&quot; &quot;No one is talking about this, but Maryland just became the first state to legalize same sex marriage by popular vote!&quot;r/CreepyA place for pictures and stories designed to unsettle. &quot;Possible topics include the haunted faces of the dying and the damned, unsolved murders, and biological anomalies.&quot;What&apos;s on it today?&quot;walk away very slowly&quot;. &quot;This wasn&apos;t like this yesterday.&quot; &quot;I found the sound Potoos make... it sounds like someone crying for mom..&quot;What are its all time greatest posts?&quot;Heaven&apos;s Gate still answering emails, 16 years after mass suicide.&quot; &quot;Was watching tv when it started glitching and then it froze.It stayed like this until I turned it off.&quot; &quot;But dad…&quot;r/nottheonion&quot;For true stories that are so mind-blowingly ridiculous, that you could have sworn it was an Onion story.&quot;What&apos;s on it today?Mexican cartel earns more from mining and logging than drugs.Rob Ford: &apos;Rehab is amazing. It reminds me of football camp&apos;Monkeys Protect Air Base from Bird StrikesWhat are its all time greatest posts?School Shut Down and Kids Hospitalized After 6th Grade Boys Spray Too Much Axe.McGruff The Crime Dog gets 16 years for having 1,000 pot plants and a grenade launcher.Screening of Noah Cancelled After Theater FloodsWhat are your favourite subreddits? Which hidden gems should the admins have promoted to the front page? Tell us in the comments below
Satoru Iwata has said it can&apos;t happen again. Speaking ata financial briefingon Wednesday, the day after Nintendo posted a third year of losses, the company&apos;s president took responsibility and promised change. &quot;Posting an operating loss for the fourth fiscal year running is unacceptable,&quot; he stated. And then he set out his short-term vision on how to turn things around.So what are Nintendo&apos;s plans to win back its once huge mainstream user-base? Is there life in the beleaguered Wii U console yet? Here are the five key concepts detailed this week.&apos;Mario Kart TV&apos; and video sharingThe Mario Kart TV application running on a smartphone. Gamers will be able to view videos and compare rankings with their friends.Nintendo has clearly looked at the content-sharing capabilities of the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles, which both allow gamers to easily upload gameplay videos, and has realised this is a vital modern feature. Hence, the release of Mario Kart 8 this year will be accompanied by a web-based service, currently named &quot;Mario Kart TV&quot; which will allow gamers to upload videos of their best races to the internet, as well as watch hints and tips videos produced by Nintendo itself.The web TV service will be viewable on a range of platforms, including PCs and smartphones. Furthermore, if players sign in with their Nintendo Network IDs, they&apos;ll be able to view global rankings as well as quickly access videos and race times submitted by friends.This is basically Nintendo catching up with where &quot;live&quot; console servives are going, and it&apos;s likely the features will be rolled out to other major titles after Mario Kart 8.Encourage digital and indie developmentA chart showing the rise in digital sales on Nintendo platforms.Nintendo platforms have featured online stores, or eShops, for several years, but these have been fiddly and complicated to use, and the choice of games limited. In the financial briefing on Wednesday, Iwata directly addressed this aspect, pointing out that digital sales on Nintendo consoles had tripled in the past two years, and that digital distribution was a source of growth for the company.Again, this is Nintendo catching up with its rivals Sony and Microsoft, both of which provide comparatively robust online stores where gamers can purchase a huge range of mainstream titles as well as indie games. And its indie studios that the company is now courting. In March, the eShop got anew section dedicated to indie titlesand later that month the company&apos;s digital gaming chief, Dan Adelman, gave a talk at GDC, eulogising theNintendo Web Framework, an accessible ecosystem for independent developers to create and distribute games for the Wii U. Employing the low-cost games engine Unity, a popular choice with indies, the service provides tools and assistance for smaller studios – much like Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4 development programme or Microsoft&apos;s ID@Xbox initiative.With the larger western publishers such as Activision and Ubisoft treating Wii U development with extreme caution, bordering on indifference, highlighting the indie-friendliness of the Wii U is a sensible move. Nintendo has been slow in realising the growth of digital platforms like Steam and the smartphone App Stores, but it has surely noted the break-out success of indie titles such as Fez, DayZ and Minecraft – or, of course, the brilliant World of Goo, which premiered on the Wii in 2008.Mario meets Skylanders: NFC and the &quot;toy to life&quot; phenomenonNintendo is proposing a range of figurines that interact with games via an NFC reader.A big problem with Wii U is that some of its interesting technical properties have been under-used in currently available games. One of these is the near field communication (NFC) capacity of the GamePad, which allows it to read data from a compatible object placed near or on the controller. We&apos;ve seen this technology used to blisteringly successful effect in Activision&apos;s Skylanders series, which allows users to place action figures on a NFC &quot;portal&quot; so that they then appear in the game world on screen.So far, only one major title, Pokemon Rumble U, employs a similar approach on the Wii U. However, on Wednesday, Iwata announced that from this autumn, Nintendo will be releasing NFC-compatible character figurines, which will be able to interact with a range of game titles. Furthermore, the figures will be able to read and store data, so players will be able to &quot;train&quot; and customise their figures.More intriguingly, the company is looking into the cross-platform possibilities of its NFC games, announcing an NFC reader/writer for the Nintendo 3DS. The small circular infrared device will mean that data and gameplay elements can be shared between the 3DS and the Wii, via the collectible figurines.Nintendo has always explored links between its home console and handheld devices, allowing the two to be connected and to exchange data. But the addition of Skylander-esque figures could make this even more appealing to merchandise-hungry fans. The &quot;toys to life&quot; sector is currently dominate by Skylanders and Disney Infinity, both of which are pumping the market with updates and new figures, so its arguable whether there&apos;s any growth left in the sector. But if there is, cute Mario, Zelda and Metroid figures are going to be the way to find it.New consoles for emerging markets, new ideas for homeSpeaking to Bloomberg on Wednesday, Iwata stated his surprising intention to develop new consoles for emerging markets. These will be entirely unique platforms rather than modified versions of the Wii U or 3DS. “We want to make new things, with new thinking rather than a cheaper version of what we currently have,” Iwata said. “The product and price balance must be made from scratch.”The exact markets haven&apos;t been confirmed, but it&apos;s likely Nintendo is thinking of countries such as Brazil and India where there&apos;s a growing middle-class that is interested in games technology, but is not as experienced with previous consoles and conventions. This is not an entirely new concept for the company – in 2003, it released theiQue Player, a games machine designed for and released exclusively in China. And again, it&apos;s about finding new ways to diversify its potential market without making the dramatic leap toward developing games for other platforms such as smartphones.Meanwhile for its domestic market, Nintendo is also looking at using the NFC capabilities of its consoles as a payment system for online shopping. Japanese consumers are wary of giving out credit card information over the net, so instead they&apos;ll be able to use pre-paid e-money cards, tapping them on the GamePad to buy stuff. Iwata said this should be possible right after a hardware update in the summer.The move into fitness and healthA chart "explaining" Nintendo's plans for some sort of health and fitness platform.During a financial briefing in January, Iwata announced that Nintendo would be diversifying into personal health and fitness. The new &quot;Quality of Life&quot; business will involve some sort of combined hardware-software platform, and will not be based around games like Wii Fit, which was a huge hit on the Wii console, or technology like FitBit or Nike&apos;s Fuel Band. Instead, Iwata said, the new sector, &quot;will be characterized by a new area of what we like to call &apos;non-wearable&apos; technology.&quot;So what is it? Well Nintendo&apos;s diagram doesn&apos;t really tell us much apart from the fact that its Quality of Life platform will make health care accessible and fun. Alongside Wii Fit and the Brain Training series of DS games, Nintendo has also dabbled in specialist health hardware in the past, including its Wii Vitality Sensor, which was revealed at E3 in 2009. The device was designed to measure the player&apos;s pulse rate by clipping on to a finger, but it was canned because,according to Iwata, &quot;it did not work as expected&quot;.But we shouldn&apos;t be too cynical. Nintendo sees in its health concept a &quot;blue ocean&quot; of market potential, and let&apos;s face it, fitness applications and devices are an exploding sector right now. Almost a decade ago, everyone laughed at the concept of the Wii, which was technically far inferior to its rival consoles and came with a ridiculous wand that you had to waft around to make stuff happen on screen. It was totally ridiculous and utterly out of step with where mainstream games industry thought was going.It sold 100m units.• Nintendo reports annual loss as Wii U stalls• Nintendo launches &apos;games for health&apos; strategy
It's Thursday.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Return of Upcoming.org by Andy Baio -- KickstarterUpcoming was a collaborative event calendar focused on interesting arts and tech events around the world. Entirely curated by the community, Upcoming surfaced weird and wonderful events that usually fell under the radar of traditional event listings from newspapers and local weeklies.Most importantly, it surfaced what your friends were interested in attending. Upcoming was among the first generation of web apps to use the social network for anything beyond Friendster-like connections, helping to define Web 2.0.Andy Baio is a much-loved figure in the tech community, and Upcoming.org is fondly remembered. Just hours in, the Kickstarter to bring it back is already half-complete, with 300 backers; but while nostalgia can earn a one-off cash injection, it remains to be seen if it&apos;s the basis for founding a website. Unless it&apos;s nostalgia for the 90s, and you&apos;re Buzzfeed.Code/red: Apple PR Impresario Katie Cotton to Retire | Re/codeKatie Cotton, who as VP of worldwide corporate communications at Apple has helped steward some of tech&apos;s most transformative product announcements, is retiring.Cotton has been at Apple for 18 years, shaping its story from behind the scenes just as much as Jobs and Cook did from out front. It&apos;s too much to expect that the notoriously tight-lipped firm might change its approach in her absence, but whoever her replacement is has big shoes to fill.Evernote + LinkedIn: Powering Professional Relationships | Official LinkedIn BlogSo today LinkedIn is deepening our partnership with Evernote. LinkedIn members can scan a business card using Evernote&apos;s mobile app and then directly connect with this contact on LinkedIn to maintain the new relationship. Evernote&apos;s card scanning service is fast, reliable, and literally world-class, with support for seven languages.Yet more quiet expansion from Evernote, the company everyone seems happy to partner with.Samsung Gear 2 Solo with SIM card leaked &gt;&gt;&gt; RecombuThe Koreans aren&apos;t done just yet, with the latest Samsung Gear 2 Solo smartwatch spotted touching down in India. And unlike previous Gear watches, the Gear 2 Solo has its very own SIM card slot.LG&apos;s tried a full phone-in-a-watch before without much luck. Samsung&apos;s Tizen-powered Gear 2 is almost a full phone. Still not convinced people want a full phone in a watch.Huawei Ascend P7 is a flagship smartphone for a different league &gt;&gt;&gt; TechRadarThe Ascend P7 is closer to the original HTC One rather than this year&apos;s onslaught of flagships, but it does trump the HTC phone when it comes to photography.Promising moves from Huawei, but lack of brand recognition can almost guarantee low sales in the UK. Still, you have to start somewhere.Your Android phone viewed illegal porn. To unlock it, pay a $300 fine &gt;&gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaTo stoke maximum fear, Android-Trojan.Koler.A uses geolocation functions to tailor the warnings to whatever country a victim happens to reside in. The screenshot to the right invoking the FBI, for instance, is the notice that&apos;s displayed on infected phones connecting from a US-based IP address. People in Romania and other countries will see slightly different warnings.Sneaky scammers. I wonder how many cough up to bring back their precious phones and Flappy Bird scores.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The rustle of trees may be the soundtrack of the great outdoors, but Philadelphia-based arts collective Data Garden aim to harness the power of technology to produce music using plants. Data Garden have created a nifty device called the "MIDI Sprout" that they say allows anybody with a computer or synthesizer to attach probes to their leafy housemates and produce cosmic soundscapes. The result is reminiscent of a Dr Who soundtrack.According to Sam Cusumano, the team's engineer, the MIDI Sprout works as part of an electrical circuit in which two probes are attached to a form of vegetation. The current passing across the probes is measured and the tiny fluctuations in conductivity, detected on a millisecond-by-millisecond basis, are artistically translated within the MIDI Sprout into Musical Instrument Digital Interface signals which are converted into sounds by another piece of kit. If there is no recorded fluctuation there is no sound produced.The team believe these tiny fluctuations are a result of biological processes within plants themselves. "The MIDI Sprout is telling you something about the environment that the plant's in and about changes going on around it. We're almost using the plant as a probe to explore its environment," says Cusumano.The creators claim the technology can also be applied to "sonify" humans. By clasping two apples hooked up to a MIDI Sprout, changes in your skin conductance – aka galvanic skin response – are detected. However, while Data Garden's Kickstarter campaign, completed last month, offered supporters the chance to get their hands on a MIDI Sprout kit, the team say there are no plans to mass produce the device any time soon.
More than 100 technology companies including Google, Facebook, Twitter and Amazon have written to US regulators to warn that proposed net neutrality rules pose a &quot;grave threat to the internet&quot;.The intervention comes against a backdrop of protest at Federal Communications Commission plans that opponents say willcreate a two-tier internetwhere big corporations are able to transmit their content to recipients at much higher speed, disadvantaging smaller competitors and other users.The internet companies&apos; letter to the FCC chairman, Tom Wheeler, and the agency&apos;s four commissioners comes amid calls for a delay in a vote on the plan that is scheduled for 15 May. The letter says FCC rules should not permit &quot;individualised bargaining and discrimination,&quot; the companies said.&quot;[The FCC must] take the necessary steps to ensure that the internet remains an open platform for speech and commerce,&quot; the letter says.One of the FCC commissioners, Jessica Rosenworcel, has called for a delay of &quot;at least a month&quot; on Wheeler&apos;s plan. &quot;Rushing headlong into a rulemaking next week fails to respect the public response to his (Wheeler&apos;s) proposal,&quot; she said.With two Republican commissioners broadly opposed to regulation of Internet traffic, the support of two Democrats on the panel – Rosenworcel and Mignon Clyburn – is critical.Critics argue the plan, rather than enshrining net neutrality, simply formalise plans for higher speed internet for those able to pay for it.Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said Wheeler still intended to put forward his proposals for public comment next week, as planned, as part of a &quot;robust public debate&quot; on the internet. &quot;Moving forward will allow the American people to review and comment on the proposed plan without delay, and bring us one step closer to putting rules on the books to protect consumers and entrepreneurs online,&quot; Grace said.Tens of thousands of public comments have been received by the FCC on Wheeler&apos;s plan over the past two weeks and commission staff have met with nearly 100 stakeholders including public interest groups and iInternet content providers.Engine Advocacy and New America&apos;s Open Technology Institute, longtime supporters of &quot;open internet&quot; policies, helped organise the effort.Reuters contributed to this report
These are difficult times for Mario and co. After decades of profit, video game giant Nintendo has announced a third annual loss in as many years, its net income $229m in the red.Unsurprisingly, the failing Wii U console has taken the brunt of the blame – although the 3DS handheld has fallen short too. In January, the company slashed Wii U sales estimates for the year from 9m to 2.8m, while 3DS was revised from 18m to 13.5m. In fact, Wii U sold 2.72 million and 3DS managed 12.24 million.Wii U sales now stand at 6.17m units, over a year after launch. In contrast, Sony has reported sales of 7m for the rival PlayStation 4 machine after barely five months on sale.Although some analysts have suggested that Nintendo may be ready to ditch its troubled machine, the company&apos;sfinancial report for the fiscal year ending 31 Marchsuggests that it sees some life in the platform yet. In the outlook for the year to March 2015, the document mentions better utilising the unique capabilities of the Wii U including its touchscreen GamePad controller, which also has a near field communication reader allowing the device to interact with compatible toys – a similar concept to Activision&apos;s Skylanders range. Last year&apos;s Pokémon Rumble U was one of the first titles to take advantage of the technology.Other major titles are coming to the machine this year including Mario Kart 8 and Super Smash Bros. And although Nintendo will not be hosting a press conference at this year&apos;s E3 games conference in Los Angeles next month, there are likely to be at least a few announcements. The company is predicting sales of 3.6 million Wii Us and 12m 3DS consoles for the fiscal year, and expects to return to profit.While these are certainly trying times for a company that ruled the console industry with its gigantically successful Wii console, there is no sense of panic just yet. Nintendo still has $15bn in assets. And Mario isn&apos;t going anywhere.
Protesters set up camp outside the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) on Wednesday to fight plans they say will create a two-tier internet and hand control of the web to major corporations.The rally – reminiscent of the Occupy-style rallies that started in 2011 – started outside the FCC’s Washington headquarters at noon with protesters from Fight For the Future, Popular Resistance and others unfurling banners reading “Save the Internet”.Protesters then announced they intend to camp out outside the FCC until 15 May when the regulator is expected to announce new rules for the internet that will formalise plans for higher speed internet for those able to pay for it. On Wednesday Google, Facebook and Amazon joined around 100 other technology companies insigning a letter to the FCC rejecting &quot;individualised bargaining and discrimination&quot;for internet traffic.&quot;[The FCC must] take the necessary steps to ensure that the internet remains an open platform for speech and commerce,&quot; the letter says.Public interest groups have become increasingly concerned that the new rules will end “net neutrality” – the concept that all internet traffic should be treated equally on the web. FCC chairman Tom Wheeler has defended his plans for what he calls the “open internet”.The future of net neutrality has effectively been in limbo since a federal courtstruck downmost of the FCC’s open internet order in January in a case brought by Verizon. The loss paved the way for fast lanes that have the major broadband providers have lobbied hard for, and for which they plan to charge extra to their biggest users.&quot;We don’t have armies of paid lobbyists at our disposal but we can not let the freedom of the internet be hijacked by giant monopolies,” said Evan Greer of Fight For The Future.More than a million people have now signed petitions to the FCC calling for them to enshrine net neutrality rules and prevent a tiered system.A group of 86 organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union, Free Press and Reddit, are asking the FCC to reclassify broadband companies as &quot;telecommunication services&quot;, which would give the commission the authority to impose net neutrality rules on them.Wheeler has said the FCC’s new rules will protect net neutrality.“The Internet will remain like it is today, an open pathway,” Wheeler wrote in a FCCblogpostin April. “If a broadband provider (ISP) acts in a manner that keeps users from effectively taking advantage of that pathway then it should be a violation of the Open Internet rules.”Critics charge, however, that cable firms will successfully challenge any new rules to tie their hands unless the FCC’s regulatory control over them is increased and point out cable firms have already effectively created a two-tier system. After the FCC lost to Verizon in January, a tiered system has already started to emerge with Netflix and others striking deals for a faster service with cable firms.“The internet is as necessary to our society as shelter and water, people should have equal access to it,” said Greer. “We have seen an unbelievable amount of support from people since these new rules emerged. It may seem technical but it affects everyone’s life and people are not going to just stand by and let this happen.”
Most of the time, game protagonists occupy worlds that are utterly fantastical, bearing little resemblance to our own reality. From the space marines of Halo to the artifact-grabbing archeologists of Tomb Raider and Uncharted, our exploits in games are as relatable as blockbuster popcorn cinema. It is all about escapism.But when a game’s world and the activities of its protagonist start to look like something out of everyday life, it can be unnerving. Owing to the agency conferred on us in this interactive medium, blurring the lines between fantasy and reality can make us feel complicit in the acts we carry out on screen. After all, in video games we often operate by a moral code that we would never replicate in real life. We do questionable things in games.And this is part of their power, of course. Video games are the only mainstream medium where audience members are active participants; in titles such as Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto it&apos;s up to you who dies and who doesn&apos;t – and we all respond to that power in different ways.We like to watchIt&apos;s a notion that gamers are likely to become extremely conscious of while playing Watch Dogs. Ubisoft’s open-world tech-noir thriller, set in an alternative version of modern Chicago, instills a sense of responsibility that many similar action adventures don&apos;t – and this is probably because its paranoia-inducing premise is closer to reality than most of us would like it to be.The game&apos;s masked protagonist, Aiden Pearce, is a hacker able to gain access to everything from the personal records of a passing smartphone users to government computer infrastructures. Something terrible has happened in his past and now he&apos;s seeking revenge on the shadowy corpration that run&apos;s the city&apos;s Central Operating System – a vast all-powerful computer. Pearce is able to scramble the traffic lights at intersections or deploy retractable roadblockers in the paths of speeding cars turning them into piles of shattered glass and twisted metal. He can also take control of security cameras and use them to spy on the civilians wandering about around him.All of this is accomplished though Aiden’s smartphone and players can access it at anytime; simply choose a passer-by, hack their phone and the life of this computer generated person is open to you. Wandering through the city, you can read the text messages of love-struck teenagers; you can listen in on the conversation between two sisters as one berates the other for being a lousy mother to her four-year-old daughter. It&apos;s even possible to lift the bank details off someone’s phone and later access their account at an ATM. In short, hacking systems in Watch Dogs, is one of the most intoxicating power trips players are likely to experience all year.The lead character can gain access to the city's infrastructure as well as mobile phones. Doing the latter can often instigate side-questsThere’s just one aspect that players should be conscious of when they sit down at the game’s controls: every single hack in Watch Dogs is based on real-world examples. Every single one. This sounds absurd when one considers that the list of items Pearce is able to crack includes cars, fork-lifts and public utilities. However, according to Alastair Paterson, CEO of Digital Shadows – a company that works to secure the digital footprints of corporations and individuals – the only discrepancy here is one of convenience. “Pretty much all of those [hacks] would be possible,” he says. “The timeliness and the convenience of performing them with one click on a smartphone is not there yet. But in some cases it could be.”So, a hacker could be listening in to your smartphone chat? “Almost anything connected to the internet can be hacked,” says Paterson. “The latest reports from security researchers show you can even hack cars. Cars are now just really computers with wheels so when someone comes to repair your vehicle they usually bring a laptop these days. They’re very much vulnerable. It’s gone as far as pacemakers, which can also be hacked.”Jonathan Morin, Creative Director on Watch Dogs says that the development team in Montreal studied real-world hacking and learned how it&apos;s done and where the latest threats are coming from, but he also took the decision to make every hack as easy as possible – just to keep the game’s pace running steadily. “It’s impossible to do all of that hacking with just the press of a button on your phone,” he says, “but it’s possible to hack every target in the game. Tapping into someone else’s phone is easy enough to do from a smartphone – once you have the right system.”Everything&apos;s connected all the timeWhat makes all of this possible? According to Paterson it has a lot to do with the fact that Western society has become wholly dependent on internet-connected devices – there are now more of them than there are people on the planet. By 2020 there could be around 50bn connected devices in use, which equate to nearly every technological convenience one interacts with on a day-to-day basis in the developed world. We&apos;ve all heard about the internet of things – the idea that everything from your washing machine to your central heating system could be online and accessible from wherever you are. But with the convenience, comesthe potential of abuse.“Your phone, your house, all of your appliances, all the transport methods that you use to get to work – all of those become a potential security risk,” says Paterson. “And absolutely – without disconnecting them fundamentally from the internet – they can be hacked.”There’s also the small matter of the interconnectivity; the way each individual’s digital footprint is aligned with others, and how frighteningly unaware many of us are of this. Almost every online interaction one has is recorded digitally in some way and as we use new technologies such as social media and cloud storage and mobile devices – even though we get a lot of benefit from it – unconsciously we’re leaving a trail of data behind us on the Internet. And that data can be sold, swapped between corporations or, as we have seen from the Edward Snowden revelations, requisitioned by government agencies. Or it can just be stolen. The annual cost of cyber-crime issaid to be around $100bnand it&apos;s on the rise.Car chases are a little easier when you can hack the traffic lights or even raise bridges to strand your pursuers.So what does Watch Dogs tell us about protecting ourselves from hackers? Is that even possible anymore, given the game&apos;s rather apocalyptic scenario? Paterson says that protection usually revolves around one’s identity and employment. “For the man in the street, I think it’s good to have a digital footprint and to have a presence online,” he says. “But I think we all really need to be conscious that once we’ve posted something it’s there for good – it will never disappear completely.&quot;Due to the number of unprotected digital footprints in play – from Twitter updates to those photos you put on Facebook the other day – there is a wealth of information available to unscruplous individuals; it just needs to be connected – and the phrase &quot;Connection is power&quot; just happens to be the first tagline used to tease Watch Dogs. Earlier this year, the developer launched a promotional website for the game,We Are Data, which showed how it was possible to build 3D maps from information on public utilities, social networks and other readily available data. In light of the fact it was launched around the same time the Guardian published Edward Snowden’s leaks about the US National Security Agency’s PRISM data-mining program, We Are Data took on an almost Orwellian tone.From exaggeration to realityIn fact, in recent months, Watch Dogs has begun to look positively prescient. In light of the revelations from the PRISM scandal, which has essentially put paid to the notion that online privacy is a possibility, awareness concerning one’s digital footprint has become more vital than ever before. Hacking is now a highly commoditised business, with everything from day-one-exploits to crimeware tools up for sale in an ever-growing market.To hear Paterson tell it, while the skills of Aiden Pearce are, at present, more of a game mechanic than a reflection of reality, it behooves the game’s audience to sit up and take notice. “I think [Watch Dogs] is more of an interesting thought-experiment as to what could happen and, obviously, it’s set up as entertainment,” he says. “But there’s a very real premise behind and I think there’s a very positive aspect to it that it could raise the awareness of this in the mind of the public.&quot;Morin says that while that’s not something Ubisoft wants to ram down the throat of its audience, it certainly wants Watch Dogs to prompt a discussion. “At the very least, you want people talking about their online behavior,” he says. “The game exploits one fundamental aspect of what I think we all have – curiosity.&quot;“What is that person across the road talking about on their phone? Who is that person texting? What’s going on behind that door across the road? If you get sucked into that aspect of the game, it’ll tell you something about yourself in how you react to what you see.”Unlike most other games where your engagement in the world is direct – someone hits you, you hit back – Watch Dogs offers players a more passive way of invading the lives of others. It’s a power trip, but one that multitudes of people engage in every day. However the game works when it&apos;s released, it should encourage players to take stock and cogitate on the reality they’ve glimpsed. Because the world of Watch Dogs may not be some wild vision of the distant future. It isn’t science fiction or cyberpunk. It’s the reality we inhabit right now, just viewed through a very purposeful lens. So look around.• Watch Dogs is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox One and Xbox 360 on 27 May. A Wii U version is set to follow in the autumn.The two basic rules of personal safety onlineThe absolute foundations of how to protect yourself online according to Alastair Paterson, CEO of Digital Shadows:Control what you share“As you look to the future, this will only become a bigger and bigger issue. There’s no silver bullet and I certainly wouldn’t recommend disengaging from all of this technology, but I think you should look at your privacy settings, be conscious of what you’re sharing and remember that when you share details it’s a public broadcast.”Know what is already out there“Googling yourself is actually very worthwhile just to see what comes back in the top results. There are services like data aggregators – 192.com for example – they will join together a lot of your personal information. It’s worth checking if your home address is available online.”• The Guardian&apos;s coverage of the Edward Snowden affair can all be found in thededicated online section• Internet security: 10 ways to keep your personal data safe from online snoopers• Facebook users inadvertently hack themselves while trying to hack friends
Microsoft is working on a smartwatch focused on fitness, heart rate and health to rival Samsung’s Gear, a recently published patent reveals.The“Wearable Personal Information System” patent applicationfiled in 2012 describes a small device with a screen that clips into a band for use as a smartwatch, but that can also be detached and inserted into other fitness equipment becoming a personal fitness recorder.The smartwatch will track a user’s position and route via GPS, measure movement with motion sensors and measure heart rate using optical sensors, similar to those found on other fitness trackers and smartphones capable of measuring heart rate.&apos;With Nokia&apos;s device business it makes perfect sense&apos;“Microsoft’s been in the watch space for a while, the Spot platform from 2004 was innovative and quite exciting at the time, and now it owns Nokia’s mobile device business, it makes perfect sense that Microsoft would have a team working on wearables,” explained Ben Wood, chief of research at CCS Insight talking to the Guardian. “With smart wearables, the wrist is the path of least resistance because it is the most widely accepted place to wear technology at the moment, due to the position of the watch being there.”Other applications beyond fitness functions including a music player, alarm clock, messaging and phone call apps are also described. Microsoft would likely include other more recently developed applications, including its Bing search, Cortana voice assistant and Skype too.A dock for the smartwatch. Photograph: USPTOThe patent details special docks into which the smart module could plug into, like a stand that turns the watch into a bedside alarm clock while charging it overnight.&apos;Smartwatches will be essential for Christmas&apos;“Smartwatches will be essential for mobile phone companies, particularly as we move towards Christmas. Manufacturers will have to have a wearable that can be bundled with their flagship smartphones,” predicted Wood. “The challenge is that we’re now seeing a market that is completely swamped with smartwatches, so what can Microsoft offer that others can’t?”Microsoft will have to combat Google’supcoming Android wear platform, that offers a customised version of Android for smartwatches and other smart wearable devices, as well asSamsung’s Tizen-powered Gear 2 smartwatchand the long-standingSony Smartwatchline of devices.Apple has also long been expected to enter the smartwatch market, although that has yet to happen.“Microsoft has three options here. It could create something completely standalone, something that could work cross-platform with Android but optimised for Windows Phone, or something just for Windows Phone, but that would require something so disruptive it would entice users to switch platforms for the smartwatch which is a very, very tall order,” explained Wood.Discarded within six monthsSmartwatches and smart wearableshave yet to become mainstream devices, with many being bought butdiscarded within six monthsbecause they do not offer a compelling reason to consistently use them. Many are put off because of the added maintenance a smart wearable requires as yet another device to charge at night, along with their smartphones.Some, like theMisfit Shine, have combated poor battery life by using non-rechargeable batteries, offering a usable life of around four to six months per battery, although their functionality is limited.Samsung’s recently releasedGear 2 and Gear Fit smartwatchesoffer battery lives of around three to four days, and while they are improved still do not offer a compelling use case to justify their £250 and £170 cost.&apos;This is the next battleground&apos;Likesmartphones, smart wearables and smartwatch patents could play a major role in the future, of which Microsoft undoubtedly has a library associated with its Spot work from the early 2000s. Others“This is the next battleground; if wearables take off and we start talking about 10s to 100s of millions of devices sold, then patents are going to matter as it starts to become high-stakes like we are currently witnessing withpatent rows over smartphones,” concluded Wood.•2014 is the year of the smartwatch, even if no one is buying them
Google has updated its apps for iOS and Android, adding integration with luxury minicab service Uber to the public transit options.Users of the company&apos;s Maps app will now be presented with the option of taking an Uber car to their destination whenever they look up public transit or walking directions, provided they have the Uber app installed.&quot;Frequent Uber rider?&quot;,the company asks on its Maps blog. &quot;If you have the Uber app installed, you can now compare your ride with transit and walking directions right from Google Maps in some cities. And if you choose the Uber option, you’ll jump right into the Uber app with just one click.&quot;San Francisco-based Uber is backed by Google Ventures, the search firm&apos;s venture capital arm, although Google insists that its investments are made independently of the firm&apos;s main business. The Guardian understands that Uber isn&apos;t paying Google for the placement, nor is Google taking a cut of the proceeds.The integration is currently rough around the edges. Although it tells users the rough time their Uber journey will take once they are in the car, Google Maps does not provide information about how long they will have to wait to be picked up, nor how much the journey will cost.As well as adding in Uber, the Maps update also offers offline maps, letting users save particular areas to their phone for use when they aren&apos;t connected to the internet.Uber now operates in 35 countries, but despite its popularity, the company has had no shortage of difficulties to overcome in its expansion. Rather than contracting directly with drivers, Uber technically allows passengers to contact drivers, with Uber merely acting as a middleman. The practice allows for rapid expansion, but has also brought legal trouble in several cities whose transit regulations don&apos;t allow for unlicensed taxis.•Sharing economy drives into trouble with ride-sharing arrests
The two largest third-party publishers in the games industry posted better-than-expected financial results on Tuesday.Electronic Arts announced revenues of $914m for its fiscal fourth quarter ending 31 March, down 12% on last year, but way above the $800m forecast. The value of the company&apos;s shares on Nasdaq rose 15% in response to the news. Activision Blizzard meanwhile posted adjusted revenues of $772m for its financial first quarter, down 4% from last year&apos;s $804m, but again, higher than analyst expectations of $686m.Both publishers highlighted digital sales, rather than boxed games, as a key driver. For EA, downloadable titles as well as &quot;live&quot; services for major games like Fifa and Madden, now make up 45% of its sales. &quot;We delivered on our plan to grow digital, powered by the extraordinary depth of play offered through our live services, mobile games and full game downloads,&quot; said CEO Andrew Wilson during an investor call. &quot;Our Ultimate Team game modes generated more than $380m in FY14, including a breakout year for Madden Ultimate Team, which grew 90% year-over-year. In all, our full-year digital non-GAAP revenue of approximately $1.8bn exceeded our guidance by almost $100m.&quot;EA also benefited from strong sales of FIFA 14 and Battlefield 4 over both legacy consoles and the incoming PlayStation 4 and Xbox One machines. During its conference call, the company claimed to be the world&apos;s biggest publisher on next-gen machines. However, Titanfall, the sci-fi shooter exclusive to Microsoft platforms, has perhaps underperformed considering the hype behind it,selling under a million copieswithin its opening three weeks – although that data is based on numbers from market research firm NPD Group andnot from EA.Activision cited the continued success of its Skylanders and Call of Duty brands, but also highlighted two new releases – the Diablo III: Reaper of Souls expansion and the free-to-play card trading title Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft. The former sold 2.7m copies worldwide in its first week, while the latter has 10m PC players as well as becoming &quot;a Top 10 grossing iPad game in numerous countries around the world&quot;, according to the company&apos;s conference call. Although a shadow of its former self with 7.6m subscribers (down from a peak of around 12m), World of Warcraft is still performing for the publisher, which claims to have had 1 million pre-orders for the latest expansion pack, Warlords of Draenor.&quot;While on the face of it, both EA and Activision Blizzard posted similar positive results against a backdrop of heavy industry change, each company has a very distinct strategy to deal with the ongoing challenges of a games sector in transition&quot; said Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at industry analyst IHS Technology. &quot;EA has been far more aggressive in its digital strategy, more willing to test out new channels and content types to drive its transition forward, while Activision takes a more measured and cautious approach, in part enabled by the huge amounts of revenue generated from its incumbent subscription games title World of Warcraft.&quot;One segment of the market that Activision has failed to address in any significant way is mobile and tablet games, whereas EA now generates almost $500m in revenue from its hundreds of games apps across smartphones and tablets. However, Activision Blizzard&apos;s release of Hearthstone on iPad is a watershed moment for the company and is expected to reverse this position in the upcoming quarters.&quot;As for the coming year, EA pointed toward forthcoming sequel Sims 4 and fighting game UFC, while Activsion pinned hopes on the latest Skylanders title, Trap Team, and Destiny, the sci-fi epic releasing in September, which looks set to become the industry&apos;s first $500m budget development. &quot;We believe [it] could become our next billion dollar franchise and the largest new videogame IP launch in history,&quot; said CEO Bobby Kotick.Activison is forecasting revenues of $600m for the current quarter, higher than the $580m analysts expect. EA revenues are forecast at around $1.20bn with adjusted revenue at $700m.• Destiny – how the makers of Halo plan to change the future of shooters• Skylanders Trap Team – the billion dollar series gets a new generation
Facebook has clarified alterations to the privacy policy of its newly acquired activity tracker, Moves, explaining the difference between &quot;sharing&quot; and &quot;commingling&quot; of data.A Facebook spokesman told the Guardian that the reason the terms and conditions were updated to allow the app to share data was to allow Facebook employees to work on improving the app.The Moves team is small, and since the acquisition, Facebook has been ploughing resources into the company, providing support and services to the app.While many users questioned the change in the privacy policy, coming just 11 days after Moves had promised that it had no plans to &quot;commingle data with Facebook&quot;, the Facebook spokesman argued that &quot;commingling&quot; data is different from simply &quot;sharing&quot; it.The former specifically refers to merging data from Moves accounts into Facebook accounts, which would enable Facebook to identify people using Moves who also use Facebook. Moves user data and Facebook user data are separate, and Facebook says there remain no plans to change that fact.But Facebook&apos;s clarification may have come too late, with a surge of users taking to Twitter to announce that they were deleting Moves following the announcement. While some were angry, with one user calling it a &quot;sleazy dishonest backtrack&quot;, many more expressed sadness. &quot;I love Moves, but Facebook doesn&apos;t respect my privacy,&quot;said another former user.Competitors seized on the announcement to try and win some of the ex-users over. Activity tracker Human ispromotingthe fact that Moves users can import all of their data and begin using the new app immediately. &quot;We&apos;re not Moves,&quot;the company explains. &quot;Human makes it fun to move more.&quot;•Moves app changes policy to allow data sharing with new owner Facebook
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear from early web pioneer and open web advocateDaniel Appelquiston why net protocols need updating and why web security should to be taken seriously. Daniel is anopen web advocate for Telefonica Digital.Aleks is also joined by tech reportersSamuel GibbsandAlex Hernto discuss trouble in the Facebook camp. As well as IP wrangles over Facebook's recent purchase of the virtual reality headset the Occulus Rift, its hackers have been hacked.And the team discuss the mystery ofWebdriver Torsoand Alex Hern's sleuth-like hunt for the source of this baffling YouTube channel.
Oculus Rift and Facebook have ambitious aims for their virtual-reality headset – the two companies want to put 1 billion people into a massive virtual world.The virtual reality startup, leveraging the $2bn investment gained from Facebook’s recent surprise acquisition, is working on a new massively multiplayer online (MMO) world that aims to go beyond gaming to create a new communication network, said Oculus&apos;s chief executive, Brendan Iribe.&quot;This is going to be an MMO where we want to put 1 billion people in VR,” Iribe told attendees of theTechCrunch Disrupt conference in New York on Tuesday.More than all of the gaming consoles sold since 1982To achieve this goal, it would require Facebook to shift more Oculus Rift headsets thanall of the gaming consoles sold globally since 1982combined. Iribe explained that the only way to reach those heights is to expand beyond gaming, taking heed from smartphones, whichcollectively sold over 1bn devices globally in 2013, accounting for 55% of all mobile phone sales.&quot;Do you want to build a platform that has 1 billion users on it, or only 10, 20, or 50 million?&quot; asked Iribe.The challenge of building a 1 billion person-strong MMO is not lost on Iribe. World of Warcraft, the biggest traditional MMO game, peaked at 12 million monthly active users in 2010. Other, less virtual world-style MMOs have found greater user numbers, primarily powered by Facebook, including Zynga’s farming community game FarmVille which topped 80 million users in 2010.&apos;A bigger network than exists in the world today&apos;Iribe admitted that building a 1 billion-user community world was &quot;going to take a bigger network than exists in the world today.” He said that Facebook,with its 1.23 billion monthly active userswas certainly a good start, suggesting that the Oculus Rift could be used to represent an interconnected virtual world similar to Facebook’s social network.Convincing even 10% of Facebook users to buy a virtual reality headset is going to be difficult, however.The Oculus chief said that while the 1 billion person MMO was the endgame, the company would still be committed to more traditional games as well as leveraging the headset as a way to have virtual conversations with real people.&quot;If you let go, you can have a real conversation with a person. That&apos;s the holy grail we&apos;re trying to get to,” said Iribe.•Facebook gets in a row with games firm Zenimax over who actually owns key parts of technology behind Oculus Rift, with Doom-creator John Carmack at its heart
Most of us have an internal soundtrack - we may not always notice it, but it is there. It could be a song we heard on the radio that haunts us for the rest of the day, or it may be something that swells up unaccountably from memory, some favourite tune brought to the surface by a waft of perfume, or familiar place. Consciously or unconsciously, we assign motion picture scores to our lives – a first kiss, a break-up, a re-union – all can be brought back by the right melody.This is something that Maxis, the developer behind the hugely successful Sims series, has always appreciated. Ever since the original title arrived in 2000, revolutionalising the whole concept of the life simulation, music has been an important part of the experience. On the screen, virtual humans go about their lives, falling in and out of love with each other, developing their careers, having families. And for players, all of that fascinating stuff, as well as building new houses and designing fresh sims character, is accompanied by music. Sims are even able to switch on the radio, often hearing amusing versions of real-life pop songs, rerecorded in &quot;simlish&quot;, the game&apos;s gibberish language.Several well-known composers have worked on the game&apos;s background scores, providing short stabs of music to accompany key onscreen events. That process is happening again with Sims 4, the latest addition to the series, due out this autumn. Except this time, changes in the gameplay have encouraged the studio to put even more emphasis on the impact of the soundtrack.All about the feelsThe big theme of Sims 4 is emotion. Using a new AI technology the company is calling &quot;smart sim&quot;, your onscreen characters will react to the world and its inhabitants in new ways, becoming angry, falling in love, or breaking down in tears, in response to what happens. &quot;Emotions are really a launching point into having really believable, very intelligent sims,&quot; says producer Graham Nardone. &quot;You look at past sims games and we bring that out in artificial ways, but this is our opportunity to really capitalise on how lifelike they can be and let you tell new stories based on that. Emotions are now a really impactful part of gameplay that unlock new situations. Whether you&apos;re interacting and socialising with other sims or playing with the various objects that are out there - it all lets you do new cool things.&quot;So to enhance this evolved area of the game, the team brought in film soundtrack composer Ilan Eshkeri, who has previously worked on movies like Young Victoria, Layer Cake and KickAss. He has composed the background music for the house and sim creation screens, but also wrote over 140 short musical stings which accompany key emotional moments in the gameplay – a fight, a kiss, a major realisation. All require a miniature musical moment.&quot;I grew up in that first generation of home computer users, &quot; explains Eshkeri on his decision to take the project. &quot;I had a Vic 20 and a C64 and I&apos;ve played computer games throughout my life. But being the person that&apos;s consuming the entertainment is very different form being the person who&apos;s creating it, in any situation. I don&apos;t think any amount of game playing would have really prepared me for what is essentially a whole new concept.&quot;&quot;In film, there&apos;s a fixed narrative – and actually most computer games have some sort of a narrative within them. But The Sims doesn&apos;t have any fixed narrative whatsoever – mentally, that was the first hurdle to get over. I&apos;ve got to write all this music, but it doesn&apos;t have any kind of framework - it&apos;s purely there to set an emotion, a tone; to give the player a feeling in a moment. Conceptually, that was quite different – and difficult. It was a big gear shift.&quot;Collaboration and emotionSo he began working closely with Maxis, conversing with the studio&apos;s audio director, Robi Kauker, an experienced musician in his own right. And eventully Eshkeri developed a sort of systematic approach. &quot;I really wanted to try and unify the style,&quot; he says. &quot;I didn&apos;t want the stings to be these random pieces of music, I wanted them to relate back to the music you get when you build a character or home. I invented my own set of rules.&quot;So if something emotional happens, like doing a set of stings around getting married or having a baby, I&apos;d try to relate all of those to a few notes or a riff or a chord sequence that appeared in one of the longer pieces of background music. For example, if character is doing something in the house or if something breaks in the house, I&apos;d try to relate that to the music you heard when you were building the house. It doesn&apos;t always work - if you&apos;re getting married, for example, you want to hear the Wedding March or some version of that, so some bits of the stings have this very obvious musical impetus.&quot;We&apos;re talking at the famed Abbey Road recording studios, where Eshkeri has been working with the London Metropolitan Orchestra and Maxis for several days. I sit in the control room for one session, as the composer leafs through a vast wad of papers, and calmly speaks directions to the assembled musicians on the other side of a glass divide. Around him sound engineers tap into computers and twiddle nobs on a vast mixing board. The piece they&apos;re recording is about six seconds long and has the working title &quot;first kiss... shy&quot;. It&apos;s pretty clear what it will accompany in the finished game.It is a lovely wilting piece of romantic music, but through the first few plays, Eshkeri thinks it sounds too strident. He experiments with removing certain instruments from the sound and tries again; then adds a momentary pause, perhaps a few beats, just before the final notes. Suddenly, there is an element of uncertaintly and self-consciousness to it. &quot;I think that&apos;s it… next one,&quot; he says to the recording engineer. And outside in the vast studio, the musicians turn the pages of their score accordingly.This does not look like ashykiss...It feels like a pretty natural process for Eshkeri and the players. &quot;I know the orchestra very well, I know the individual players very well – I have them in my head while I&apos;m writing,&quot; he says. &quot;I have a very clear sense that if I do this or write this, this is how it&apos;s going to come out in this room.&quot;But with some of the stings, they start playing them and I&apos;m like, no, that could be more shy, how could I do that - I&apos;m thinking of stuff in the moment. And if we need to be more shy, more angry or whatever, the musicians really engage with that as well - they&apos;re not just playing the notes. The reason why I love the London Metropolitan Orchestra is that they do really engage on a conceptual and emotional level with not just the notes on the page but what the purpose of us recording this music is.&quot;Music and the messageAlso present in the recording studio is Rachel Franklin, exececutive producer on The Sims. She sees a direct correlation between this emerging score and the addition of emotional AI and gameplay into the series. &quot;Ilan is known for these theatrical sweeping, wonderful compositions,&quot; she says. &quot;Its a way for the Sim to respond back to the player, explaining, &apos;hey, I&apos;m feelingthis&apos;… You can really feel that in the audio.&quot;Combining that with animation technology and facial emotional overlays – all of these things work together in a really cool way to make you feel more related to your sim. Because ultimately you&apos;re caring for them – whether you torture them or not – you&apos;re still responsible for them.&quot;The music brings your relationship really to a height.&quot;Music to change games bySims 4 has a lot of work to do to expand the series beyond its core base of invested fans. Too many add-ons and expansions have confused casual observers and some feel the concept has strayed too far away from creator Will Wright&apos;s original vision of a sandbox life simulation. But the AI and emergent emotion stuff is interesting, especially in how it promises to guide sim activities – if they&apos;re depressed for example, they may paint an amazing picture; if they&apos;re angry, they may put all that tension into an amazing work-out that boosts their fitness stats.Apparently, sims will also be more naturally sociable. &quot;Just having a group conversation, being able to interact realistically and allow new sims into a conversation, to acknowledge them and respond... it sounds like a small thing but it&apos;s never happened in the sims game,&quot; enthuses Nardone. &quot;The sims were kind of robotic, so bringing in an AI where we can be very reactive in group situations, it changes fundamental aspects of the game - that&apos;s the coolest thing in there.&quot;It&apos;ll be interesting to see if Maxis can work in the nostalgic and evocative elements of music. If a sim switches on the radio during a romantic encounter, will that song always trigger a certain response? It should do. Eshkeri and his orchestra have seemingly brought a sweeping sense of romance to the audio, now the sims have to run with it.• Sims 4 is due out on PC and Mac in autumn or winter 2014.• Sims 4 announced as single-player offline title• Q&amp;A: Will Wright, creator of the Sims
It's Wednesday.
In 2012, engineer Raghav Gajula moved to an east Delhi slum to work as a teacher at a private school for low-income families. Most of his students’ parents are labourers in local factories but have paid 300 Indian rupees a month, about £3, for their kids to attend a school with busy staff and no computer resources. Gajula, who found the teaching position through a Teach For India fellowship, spotted an opportunity. He lent the kids his laptop and started setting up mentoring sessions for them with his friends, via Skype.Many of the slum kids come from the Bhagwanpur Khera neighborhood where one of the main landmarks is a toxic sewage drain. Yet Gajula&apos;s idea meant they were soon scheduling their own Skype sessions with their mentors, and talking about their ambitions in the arts and sports. Gajula now works with two activists on setting up a local after-school centre with the aim of expanding the mentoring programme. They have 25 students and five donated laptops, though they aren’t sure how the nonprofit centre is going to survive financially.Gajula’s innovation could be transformative for India&apos;s fragmented education system, but there is no overarching strategy for how to incorporate these kinds of projects into the sprawling Indian school system. According to government estimates, there are about 254 million pupils in primary and secondary schools both in the private and public sector, but there’s no overall technology policy for schools. Internet penetration is around 12%, and average connection speeds are slow.Schools aren&apos;t using equipmentRecognising the increasing importance of technology in education and employment, the Indian government has a scheme that grants every public school district, regardless of the number of schools it contains, of Rs. 5m [£49,700] every year to invest in educational technology. Districts have to submit a proposal in order to be granted the funds. The government estimates that 22% of primary schools have a computer, but the reality is that many schools aren&apos;t using the equipment they have.“Of the schools I visited, maybe 10% of the computers were working,” says Swati Sahni, a consultant who worked for the Indian government on education from 2010 to 2012. Five of Gajula’s students at a local government school know their school has a computer centre, but none of them can remember using it.In India&apos;s booming private education sector, technology is being adopted much more quickly. As many as 400 educational technology firms have launched in the past 10 years, yet the quality and longevity of their products is far from uniform.In August 2013, India’s most prominent educational technology company, Educomp Solutions, laid off 3,500 workers. Educomp had done a great job selling digital learning materials and a multimedia whiteboard to as many as 14,500 schools, according to a company brochure. But some schools were unsure what to do with the technology, and critics say the firm failed to train teachers to use the equipment. Some cancelled orders, and in other schools the equipment went unused, according to an investigation by Forbes India. The company’s value dropped by nearly two-thirds between May 2013 and April 2014.Personalised educational content“Now, the customer is very sceptical,” says Neil D’Souza, founder and CEO of Zaya Learning Labs, a three-year-old ed tech company based in Mumbai. “You have many schools which have bought solutions or been donated solutions which don’t add any value to their learning.” Zaya has 15 in-school learning labs, where students share tablets and computers that stream personalised educational content.Companies has previously focused on delivering services to India&apos;s high-end private schools, says D’Souza, where teachers were more technologically literate and where the revenue model was proven. But Zaya focuses on the growing number of low-income private schools, where many teachers aren’t regular technology users. “The teacher is the key person to deliver,” says D’Souza, who says Zaya offers teaching assistants and spends hours on training.But Zaya faces challenges when it comes to profits. Affordable private schools charge fees between Rs. 300 and 1,500 [£3-£15] per student per month. In order for an ed tech solution to be viable in this space, it should ideally be priced at less than Rs. 50 [50p] per student per month, says Shabnam Aggarwal, founder of the ed tech advisory Perspectful. She says that’s a very difficult target for most companies to meet.Educational philanthropies and nonprofits may be able to provide a bridge, finding ways to make technology interventions affordable and scalable for lower-income students. One such philanthropy is the Central Square Foundation (CSF). It has been developing a library of free and open-source educational content in Indian languages, something that founder and CEO Ashish Dhawan says private companies have little incentive to do.A product for the low-income segmentA former private equity investor, Dhawan says India is now at an inflection point with educational technology, as internet and hardware penetration are set to explode in the next few years. Inspired by this belief, CSF has also invested money and time in trying to find revenue models for ed tech in the low-income space. “We thought: why don’t we give a grant to create a product for the low-income segment?” says Dhawan.A year and a half ago, CSF tied up with MindSpark, a company that already provides adaptive learning tools in elite private schools, to test the company’s software on low-income and government school students. The students come to the centres for an hour a day, six days a week, to learn Hindi, maths and English. They spend half their time working with a personalised adaptive computer program, and half working with a teacher.When the pilot started, the students were about two years behind their age group, says Dhawan. Although they’ve now improved, it’s still a struggle to get them to the point where they’ll perform well on tests. Dropouts are common and the pilot still hasn’t proven a revenue model, Dhawan says. The parents, who pay 200 to 250 [£2-£2.50] hard-earned rupees a month for the program, want results in grades, viewing education as a path out of a life of hard manual labour for their children.But for the students, technology offers a window on a different world. The students in Gajula’s class type messages and paint pictures, dreaming of the day they will start using the internet. Twelve-year-old Parsunath Sahoo describes his father&apos;s long days working in a factory that makes pots and pans, but Parsunath dreams of joining the police. “On the internet, you can do anything,” he says.
The use of drones has generally been synonymous with controversial globalised warfare, but falling costs and higher performance are now making them increasingly useful for conservation and environmental organisations.In the US, a non-profit group calledConservation Dronesis working with manufacturers to scale up production, making drones more affordable for environmental groups and conservation scientists, with results that have already benefited Australian research groups.The founding director of Conservation Drones, Lian Pin Koh, told Guardian Australia the drones were a “game changer” that would “soon become a standard item in the toolbox”.Until now the effective use of drones for conservation purposes has been limited largely by their range and high cost.A Conservation Drone in action in Aceh, Indonesia.The Australian founder of the International Anti-Poaching Foundation (IAPF), Damien Mander, has applied drone technology to the fight against elephant poachers in Africa. The former military man, who told the story of his journey from the Iraq war to conservation in a recent SydneyTEDx talk, describes his work as direct action law enforcement.“With drone technology … we are battling each day to bring military solutions to conservation’s thin green line,” he said.But the IAPF’s managing director, Ian Mackenzie-Ross, told Guardian Australia that impediments, mostly financial, had so far prevented the technology realising its huge potential.“Right now many groups are trying to put drones to use in conservation. Our focus is very much anti-poaching and direct action. With the drone capability to be cost-effective it has to perform more than one role,” he said.“What we find, though, is that the type of small-scale drones they are using are not that useful in such large areas. Really to be effective you need drones with about three hours of endurance that can carry sensors, so you’re getting useful pictures back. These vehicles can do mapping and wildlife counts, so it becomes a multipurpose vehicle. Only then does it become more effective than using light planes.”James Brook, ship manager of theSea Shepherd Australiavessel Steve Irwin, tells a similar story. He said Sea Shepherd had used drones to attempt to monitor whaling vessels, but “we&apos;ve found they are more on the periphery of the wide variety of tactics we use”.“The more effective techniques have been using ships, radars, tracking devices that we put on whaling vessels, and camera people in helicopters. But if the technology improves and we get given extra funding, we would certainly be open to further use of drones,” Brook said.Conservation Drones has focused on gathering high resolution data to monitor the distribution of species in their habitats.“These are low-cost, autonomous and operator-friendly unmanned aerial vehicles that are used for surveying and mapping forests and biodiversity,” Koh said. “These drones are able to fly pre-programmed missions autonomously over a distance of up to 40km, and acquire high quality videos and photographs of up to three-centimetre pixel resolution.”The group says it has provided demonstrations, training and assembled drones to many conservation groups, including severalworking on critically endangered species in Asia, such as the Sumatran orangutan.A research team from Monash university recently worked with Conservation Drones tomonitor seabed nestingon a remote island off the West Australian coast. Flying at an altitude of 75 metres, they were able to detect crested terns and lesser frigate birds without disturbing their nesting.Mackenzie-Ross said he could see the potential for drones in Australia if the price continued to come down and the technology improved.“There are a lot of trials going on of low-cost units, but they are not really effective to cover large areas, or measure environmental degradation on a large scale or over a long period,” he said. “Certainly here in Australia we are not immune to poaching. It’s not poaching of endangered species, it’s more illegal incursions into national parks,” he said.Koh acknowledges such concerns, but is more optimistic about the future of drones in conservation work internationally.“Costs have already been coming down over the last five years, largely driven by a rapidly growing community of remote control aircraft hobbyists,” he said. “The main mission of Conservation Drones ... is to help speed up the transfer of this technology to the conservation community.”
Not so long ago, we used to hear the phrase &apos;digital natives&apos; fairly regularly. For many of parents, that phrase beautifully described the fluency which with our children inhabit the online world, and the ease with which they seem to master anything from a touchscreen to the TV remote - even if it also described a far less flattering inarticulacy of an older generation in adapting to the digital influx.This generation is not only fluent in communicating through digital, but in creating with it as well. So now, the brilliantly inventive children&apos;s marketing platformSuperAwesomeis announcing a new competition, in association with the Guardian, to help promote and showcase some of the incredible new talent.The Future 8 Awardsare open to individuals or groups in the UK and Ireland aged between 7 and 17, and span eight categories of games, video, music, writing, animation, web development, mobile development, and for makers of both hardware and software. We are inviting entries from late May, and the finalists will be celebrated in an exclusive awards ceremony in London on 11 October.Most excitingly, we hope the prizes we have lined up will help change the lives of these talented young creatives, and inspire them to keep developing their tech skills. We&apos;ll announce the prizes in due course, but these will include exclusive internships, mentoring and the chance to work with major names across the creatives industries.Judges include Alice Taylor of 3D printing firm Makie Lab, Conde Nast UK digital head Wil Harris, Cathal Gaffney of Brown Bag Films, and CoderDojo founder James Wheldon. Triperna founder Paul Kenny is also judging, as well as Niall Harbison of PR Slides, Eric Huang of BD Made In Me and angel investor James Bromley.SuperAwesome founder Dylan Collins says that their own research shows that 26% of 8-14s have written their own code, 33% have used a design programme such as Photoshop and more than 33% have uploaded videos to YouTube.&quot;There have never been more kids engaged with technology in a meaningful way… developing their own games and apps and creating their own videos,&quot; he said. &quot;We&apos;ve created the Future 8 Awards to highlight just how much talent is there… and we want to do everything possible to open up doors for their development.&quot;Enterprise Ireland is supporting the scheme, and sponsors include the electronics firm Belkin. More prizes will be announced over the next few weeks - but start warming up the digital talent in your families and your schools. Future 8 wants YOU!•Read more about the Future 8 Awards
It is synonymous with narcissism and vapidity but Mark Zuckerberg hopes to turn the selfie into a tool for immigration reform.The Facebook founder&apos;s political advocacy group, FWD.us, has launched an app to let celebrities, millennials and others lobby Congress with self-portraits and messages in favour of reform.The actor Jared Leto and the model Alessandra Ambrosio are among those who have tweeted selfies, using the hashtag #Selfies4Reform, which FWD.us will print and mail as postcards to congressional representatives.The group saidin a statementit wanted to make advocacy “fun and engaging” by letting people show support for immigration reform “in one of the most popular ways in the digital age”.The group&apos;s president, Joe Green, said in a blog post the campaign could make a difference. “We’ve spoken to staff on Capitol Hill and even members of Congress about it, and they said a selfie postcard would definitely stand out. Every Congressional office receives letters, but how many receive selfie postcards from constituents?”Recent recruits include California&apos;s governor Jerry Brown and the actor Chris Tucker, as well as a stream of non-famous, mostly young people, all appealing for an end to a Washington stalemate which both President Barack Obama and John Boehner, the Republican House speaker, have blamed on House Republicans.“We must make #immigration reform a reality. My #selfie for a cause,” said a typical tweet from a Leto follower.Some sceptics in the technology sector scorned the initiative, calling it another misstep by an advocacy group which has triggered controversy since Zuckerberg launched it last year with backing from Silicon Valley.&quot;This letter-writing campaign probably won&apos;t accomplish very much. But it&apos;ll make FWD.us feel like it&apos;s more than a cynical lobbying machine,”said Valleywag.The site Pando Daily was equally blunt. “All FWD.us is doing is wasting a few trees and making young people feel like they’ve made a real difference even though all they did was take yet another picture of their own goddamn faces.”The conservative siteBreitbart accused the campaign of promoting amnesty for illegal immigrants in order to open the nation&apos;s doors to foreign high-tech workers who would work for cheap wages.Immigrant advocacy groups, in contrast, welcomed the campaign as a useful if limited contribution. “I don’t see how something like this could hurt,” said Matt Adams, of the Seattle-based Northwest Immigrant Rights Projects. “If nothing else, it again helps to try to expand the image of who and what comprehensive immigration reform covers.”A Washington DC-based group, which declined to be named, said the effort to lobby congress could only benefit if a young demographic made its voice heard.FWD.us said the celebrity involvement was intended as a light-hearted add-on and that the goal was for members of Congress to see the real faces of constituents supporting reform.The group has backed other initiatives, such as forging a common front between farmers and technology companies,to pressure Congress.Its strategy of seeking bipartisan supportbackfiredhowever when environmental allies quit the group over its funding for members of congress who backed immigration reform as well as oil drilling.
Amazon and Twitter are joining forces to let users of the social network add items directly to their online shopping cart just by sending a tweet.The service, called#AmazonBasket(or #AmazonCart in the US), requires the user to first connect their Twitter account to their Amazon account.Then, when they see a tweet with a link to the Amazon page of a product they want to buy, they can reply with the hashtag, and the item will be added to their basket automatically.It might take some of the friction out of making an impulse buy, but the concept has a few raising their eyebrows. The fact that users need to pre-register, while a logistical inevitability, creates a barrier to entry. Moreover, users still need to go to the Amazon website to actually finish the transaction. From the company which patented the concept of a &quot;one-click&quot; purchase, the effect is oddly arduous.But Amazon itself had 1.01 million followers on Twitter as of March 31, according to data compiled by research firm eMarketer, and many more users than simply Amazon tweet links to products on the site by way of recommendation. There&apos;s big money at play either way.•My week as an Amazon insider
As mass entertainment continues on its path away from physical goods and towards digitisation, a new high-end market is opening for purists who still desire actualthings. We&apos;ve seen the revival of vinyl amid the wholesale adoption of MP3s, and we&apos;re still seeing box-set DVD special editions loaded with extras. Now we&apos;re getting beautifully crafted retro consoles, aimed at veteran gamers who love their old machines.Now available for pre-order, theAnalogue Ntis a lovingly produced replica of the Nintendo Entertainment System, the console that effectively saved the games industry after the crash of 1983. Built by the retro hardware specialist Analogue Interactive, each model is fabricated from a single block of aluminium and features all the inputs and technical features of the original machine. Unlike cheaper reproduction units, which often just jam an emulator in a cheap plastic box, this piece of kit contains the same Ricoh 20A3 and Ricoh 2C02 processors as the authentic consoles. So if you still own some old NES carts, they&apos;ll plug right in and play as they were always meant to.But of course, this being a specialist modern intepretation of the original hardware, it is not just about the fetishistic reappropriation of a classic form; it is also about performance. The Analogue Nt is region-free so it&apos;ll play UK, US and Japanese games, and it outputs in RGB via composite, component or S-Video cables, meaning the display should be incredibly crisp and precise. There are also four built-in controller ports so teary-eyed veterans will be able to enjoy multiplayer favourites like Bomberman 2 straight out of the box. That&apos;s if they can find three friends willing to sit down and play a 23-year-old maze puzzler.Even better (or weirder depending on your level of fandom), there&apos;s a separate HDMI adaptor that will upscale the image to 720p or 1080p HD. For older games, designed to run on CRT television sets, playing on a modern HD TV can produce a hideously distorted picture because the two technologies generate the image in a different way. However, the Analogue Nt even comes with a scanline generator, so the games are reproduced absolutely correctly on modern progressive scan screens. There&apos;s also a switch to select between classic, modern and arcade-style colour palettes.Analogue is shipping the console from Summer 2014 for $499 (about £295) each, in five colour varieties. Sensibly, the company is also offering a variety of leads and controllers, both new and refurbished.The history machineThe Nintendo Entertainment System was originally launched in Japan in 1983 and went on to become the best-selling console of its era, shifting around 60m units. Arriving after the fall of US gaming giant Atari, it kickstarted interest in the medium once again, introducing gamers all over the world to classics like Castlevania, Metroid, Zelda and Super Mario Bros.This is not the first attempt to produce an upmarket retro console reproduction for collectors. 2012 saw the release of the Neo Geo X, a handheld version of the cult 90s machine from the Japanese arcade giant SNK. The hardware design was rather cheap, however, and reviews were poor (although the system has enjoyed a new lease of lifethanks to hackers). Indeed, Analogue Interactive produced its own walnut-chassis version of the Neo Geothree years ago.So what next, a gold-plated PlayStation? Actually,that has already happened, thanks to the hardware customising specialist Computer Choppers. Whatever the case, we&apos;re entering an era of specialist high-end products, designed to exploit both nostalgia and the desires of audio-visual purists who object to the perceived low quality of digitally delivered media. While video game emulation is rife, and it&apos;s possible to play just about any old classic on your PC nowadays, there is usually a certain amount of compromise – a graphical glitch here, a lack of support for certain peripherals there. But in theory, buying a retro machine scrupulously based on the innards of the original means you&apos;re getting the experience you recall, only better, thanks to visual upscaling.Old games, like vinyl records, carry with them not only the content but the rituals of the physical objects: blowing the dust out of carts, putting something heavy on your Commodore 64 Datasette to make it run... Remade hardware brings all that back; and as with the latest vinyl record players, the Analogue Nt seeks to enhance the performance, to ensure purchasers don&apos;t suffer the familiar retro culture shock of, &quot;Oh my God, this looksawfulnow.&quot;Whether or not this intriguing product succeeds is another thing, especially as Nintendo has been efficient in bringing its classic titles back to modern machines via the Virtual Console store. And of course, there&apos;s a thriving market in old games hardware on eBay. Nothing gets you closer to the original experience than plugging a discoloured old NES into a humming CRT television. In the end, imperfection may be a more important part of the appeal than we realise.
People who illegally download movies also love going to the cinema and do not mind paying to watch films, research has shown.Those who illegally download movies are more likely to be wealthier and less worried about being caught than their music counterparts, concluded the study, thought to be the first to examine the differences between movie and music pirates.Dr Joe Cox, one of the University of Portsmouth economists involved in the study, said: &quot;It is interesting to see that people who illegally download large quantities of movie files continue to pay for legal movie consumption to a far greater extent than music downloaders.&quot;Movie pirates are also more likely to cut down their piracy if they feel they are harming the industry compared with people who illegally download music, according to Cox and fellow Portsmouth University economist Professor Alan Collins.Movie pirates are &apos;early adopters&apos;The researchers analysed results from a survey of more than 6,000 people aged seven to 84 in Finland to examine the attitudes of those who illegally download movies and music from the internet.Movie pirates are more likely to live in large cities and be &quot;early adopters&quot; of new technology, according to the study, published in the Journal of Behavioural and Experimental Economics.&quot;One of the reasons movie pirates are a different breed is downloading and filesharing films is much more technologically demanding,&quot; said Cox. &quot;It requires faster internet speeds, greater digital storage capabilities and access to a wider range of devices for playback than pirating music, which has now become relatively simple, fast and cheap.&quot;However, it came as no surprise to find that the most prolific pirates of either movies or music tend to be younger men,&quot; Cox adds. &quot;They have the skills, the motivation and the equipment between them to steal large volumes of music tracks and movies every month.&quot;Pirates have an average 2,900 music files and 90 filmsOn average, each person involved in the survey had illegally downloaded about 2,900 music files and 90 movie files.Previous studies have found that people who pirate content are alsomuch more likely to purchase content legallythan those who do not illegally download music and movies, often being greater consumers of media.Illegal filesharers from the US and Germany were found tobuy 30% more musicthan people who did not pirate music, for instance.Among the reasons given for downloading files illegally were that it saved money, allowed access to material not on general release or before it was released, and that in doing so people could help artists bypass record companies or movie studios. Reasons given for not downloading or for limiting piracy included fear of downloading viruses or malware, that the content did not match the description, or that it was difficult to find and was of poor quality.Cox said: &quot;These findings are important from a policy perspective, because they suggest campaigns that emphasise the harmful effects on the movie industry of piracy are much more likely to be effective than similar campaigns focusing on the music industry.&quot;Experts say the cost of piracy in the US alone is $12.5bn (£7.4bn) to the music industry and $20.5bn to the movie industry.• Forget going after filesharers,in 2014 you should follow the money
Twitter shares fell more than 10% as Wall Street opened for business on Tuesday, marking the end of the lockup period that prevented executives, early investors and other insiders selling up to $20bn (£12bn) in stock following the social network's flotation last year.Although owners representing a large proportion of the newly tradeable shares have promised to hold on to them for now, the lockup expiry is likely to put further pressure on a stock already battered by fears of a technology valuation bubble.Twitter's shares are under pressure, trading at nearly half the $75 peak reached at Christmas and below the closing price on the first day of the flotation six months ago."This is clearly lockup related," said the new-media analyst Brian Wieser at Pivotal Research Group. "Not every investor will refrain from selling, many of which include early employees of the company who may well want to take money off the table. Even if they don't sell, the fear among investors will cause selling. The market is either experiencing heightened selling or anticipating it."Tuesday marks 181 days since Twitter's initial public offering on 7 November, with more than 560m shares becoming eligible for sale. Investors fear that Twitter employees and early investors could flood the market with shares and crash the price by swamping demand.In the first few hours after the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, shares fell by 11.6% to just below $35.Twitter sold 70m shares during its initial public offering, but as of Tuesday many times that number were freely tradeable.Wieser estimates there are 646m shares currently outstanding, including those sold at IPO. An earlier deadline in February allowed the release for sale of nearly 10m shares by Twitter staff below board level who needed cash to cover tax bills.But some of the company's biggest backers, who between them own more than 200m shares, have vowed to hold on for the time being.Founders Evan Williams and Jack Dorsey, and the chief executive, Dick Costolo, who between them hold about 88m shares, said in April they had "no current plans to sell" once the lockup expired.In the sameregulatory filing, investment fund Benchmark, which holds 26m shares, said it would not sell "immediately after" the expiration. Rizvi Traverse Management, which has an estimated 85m, would not dump its stock immediately either, unnamed sourcestold Bloomberg.Lowercase Capital, run by the former Google executive Chris Sacca, has also declared its intention to stay on board. "We have no plans to sell or distribute our Twitter shares upon the lockup expiration,"Sacca saidin April. To ensure against sudden upsets, Twitter's executives have all undertaken to follow share release plans, which last for at least one year and determine the quantities and timings of any stock exits.These assurances should help calm investor nerves, but they cover less than half the Twitter shares released on Tuesday. There are parallels with August 2012, when Facebook shares plunged to new lows as its early backers were released from their obligations, and a total of 271m shares became available to trade.Twitter investors were spooked last week when the company beat revenue and profit expectations but its number of users and page views grew more slowly than Wall Street forecasts."One of the key investor concerns on Twitter has been its ability to attract new users and to keep them engaged," said Arvind Bhatia, analyst at the research firm Sterne Agee. "Engagement did improve sequentially but investors were looking for more."Twitter's quarterly revenues reached $250m, while monthly active users reached 255 million. But year-on-year growth slowed to 25% from 30% in the previous period. Timeline views were a lower than expected 157bn for the quarter.Twitter's share price fell to just below $39 on Monday. The firm sold its shares at $26 apiece in the November IPO, but the stock soared during the first day's trading, closing at $44.90."Many of our largest insiders and early investors have indicated that they have a long-term belief in the company and are taking a long-term view of the stock," Twitter's chief financial officer, Mike Gupta, said last week.
Antivirus software only catches 45% of malware attacks and is &quot;dead&quot;, according to a senior manager at Symantec.Remarks by Brian Dye, senior vice-president for information security at the company, which invented commercial antivirus software in the 1980s and now develops and sells Norton Antivirus, suggest that such software leaves users vulnerable.Dyetold the Wall Street Journalthat hackers increasingly use novel methods and bugs in the software of computers to perform attacks, resulting in about 55% cyberattacks going unnoticed by commercial antivirus software.Malware has become increasingly complex ina post-Stuxnet world. Computer viruses range from relatively simple criminal attacks, where credit card information is targeted, to espionage programs that spy on users and data but can easily be upgraded into cyberweapons at the touch of a button, according to security expert Eugene Kaspersky, founder of Kaspersky Lab, which also sells antivirus software.From protect to &apos;detect and respond&apos;That failure to detect issues is forcing Symantec, which has a turnover of about $1.6bn (£590m) and an 8% global antivirus marketshare –according to data from the enterprise software company Opswat– to diversify its products, moving into the “detect and respond” sector rather than the simple &quot;protect&quot; segment.The switch to the detect and respond paradigm means tracking data leaks, hacks and other intrusions and preventing further repercussions from stolen data. For users, that means changing passwords, but for businesses that often means stopping access to accounts and services that have been subject to data loss or infiltration, as well as tracking the source of the intrusion and shoring up cyberdefences – something governments have been doing with new cyber response teams.Antivirus still accounts for 40% of the company’s revenue, however, and while other security companies such as Kasperky and Intel’s McAfee have already moved in that direction, Symantec lags the movement.• Eugene Kaspersky: it’s no longer a case of whether amajor cyberterrorist attack on the scale of that portrayed in Die Hard 4will occur but when
Eleven days after being purchased by Facebook, the activity tracking app Moves has changed its privacy policy to allow it to share user data with its parent company.The new version of the app&apos;s privacy policy allows it to &quot;share information, including personally identifying information, with our affiliates (companies that are part of our corporate groups of companies, including but not limited to Facebook)&quot;.Moves uses motion sensors inside Apple and Android phones, as well as GPS information, to track a user&apos;s location and activity throughout the day. Not only does its information include someone&apos;s whereabouts, down to which building they were in when they started using the service, it even knows if they travelled between locations on foot, bike or bus.On the day of its acquisition, the company promised users that &quot;the Moves experience will continue to operate as a standalone app, and there are no plans to change that or commingle data with Facebook&quot;. A Facebook spokeswomantold the Wall Street Journalthat that remained the case, but that the companies would share data.The Guardian has asked Facebook to clarify the difference between &quot;share&quot; and &quot;commingle&quot;, but has received no reply at press time.Under its old privacy policy, Moves was committed to notifying users of any change to the policy &quot;through the service, by email, via our Twitter account or otherwise&quot;. While a banner at the top of the Moves app does warn users of changes, no emails or tweets have been sent out.Previously, the Moves privacy policy allowed it to disclose an individual user&apos;s data to third parties if &quot;our business or assets, or parts of them, are acquired by a third party&quot;.The change comes after Facebook&apos;s F8 developer conference,where the company promoted a new, privacy-friendly version of itself. Users will now be able to log in to apps anonymously, letting them try them out before they need to provide them with personal information.•What do regular Facebook users need to know about the F8 conference?
Tesco is to launch its own Android smartphone by the end of the year to compete with the Samsung Galaxy S5.The smartphone will come with Tesco services pre-installed, similar to theTesco Hudl tabletthat the supermarketlaunched in September last year, Tesco&apos;s chief executive, Philip Clarke,told BBC Radio 5 live.The Tesco smartphone will run Android and will be designed to compete with &quot;the best smartphones available&quot;. Top-of-the-line Android smartphones currently include the recently releasedSamsung Galaxy S5,Sony Xperia Z2andHTC One M8. Clarke said the phone would be aggressively priced, putting it in direct competition withGoogle’s Nexus 5, whichalso undercuts competitionat about £200 less than other premium Android smartphones.Tesco also plans to launch a smartphone-based banking service in the near future, likely to use the incoming smartphone and the company’s Android tablets. Other details of the smartphone were not revealed.Hudl mark twoClarke said thesecond iterationof Tesco’s successful budget-Android tablet, the Hudl, whichsold 400,000 unitsin its first three months and had subsequently sold a total of 550,000, would be released this September.The budget tablet follow-up is expected to be similarly successful, fuelled by a low price and Tesco’s products and services such as its Blinkbox video and music services, as well as its Tesco Direct and online grocery shopping.Battle of the own-brand, budget smartphonesAmazon is alsoexpected to release an own-brand smartphone, after the success of the online retailer&apos;sKindle Fire Android tabletrange. The Amazon phone is expected to be aggressively priced and to compete with higher-end smartphones from Samsung, Google and Apple.The mobile phone operator EE recently launched the UK’s cheapest 4G smartphone,the £99 EE Kestrel, which is the first in a range own-brand smartphones – all named after British birds – due to be released by the network.Motorola, now part of China’s Lenovo, launched theMoto Glast year, which undercut competition andreignited the budget smartphone marketwith mid-range performance and a quality, frustration-free user experience but at a lower price. The Moto G is available for under £100, but lacks 4G capability.• Motorola&apos;sMoto G grabs chunk of UK smartphone market, propelling Motorola from effectively zero to 6% marketsharein less than three months• This article was amended at 13.45 to correct the statement that the Tesco phone would compete with high-end phones, instead it will compete with the &quot;best smartphones&quot; available.
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows 8 explained with smiley faces and Venn diagrams. | PraxtimeNathan Taylor:For some reason I've always visualized the debacle of Microsoft Windows 8 with smiley faces and Venn diagrams. Who knows why. The visual just got stuck in my head. So for this post I wanted to try something a bit more whimsical than usual by capturing that image.It all waits to the last frame (and the third).Hi, I'm Joe Belfiore from the Windows Phone Team.. AMA! : windowsphone &gt;&gt; RedditWindows Phone chief Joe Belfiore did an AMA, and there was a question..Q Hi Mr joe...is there any plans for file managers on WPhone?A [–]joebelfioreVP, Lead Windows Phone Team[S]: WOO HOO! SOMEONE ASKED THIS QUESTION!! I've been waiting! in fact, I've avoided tweeting on this very topic just for all you redditors. Seriously.in fact-- you GET A CORTANA T-SHIRT FOR ASKING!! :) (PM me your size and we'll get it to you.)*** YES *** We are doing a File Manager for WP8.1! I know a LOT of you are looking for this (thanks for the tweets, I've read them all). In fact, I've been running a build of it on two of my phones for the last week or so and it's getting to pretty good shape.Here's what it looks like:http://imgur.com/a/hvqGD#nRuOFXpWe are expecting to get it into the store HOPEFULLY by the end of May.Close the EarPod doors please HAL &gt;&gt; TumblrThe anonymous author of the fake "Apple earpods will measure heart rate and blood pressure" 'secret':The worst part is that the story just came out of Apple hiring an expert in making products that are exactly like I described.I'd never seen the patents that Apple filed about the Earbuds.I just made it all up on the shitter…This might be a little paranoid. But one thing that worries me is with this timing, if I'm close enough to the mark with my guess, is that Apple might think someone they trust is leaking stuff, and someone might get in trouble for it. I made it all up. If I'm close. It's a lucky guess. I'm not vain enough to think that Apple hired someone based on my rumor. It was likely in the pipeline for ages. But it gave false verification to the fake rumor and made things even more complicated.Some rogue access points you just gotta live with &gt;&gt; wirednotAs I look in on the management console of my big Cisco WLAN, I see at the moment I have 711 detected rogues on my biggest campus. Detection in this case loosly equals:•Being heard by one or more APs that have been configured to take part in rogue detection•Breaking our threshold of concern (I have set to RSSI of -78)•Being heard within the last few daysBecause of where this WLAN sits geographically and the fact that we have thousands of APs (with hundreds participating in rogue detection), our rogue dashboard stays pretty busy. We're in a city, surrounded by hospitals, businesses, and residential neighborhoods.The reality of Wi-Fi.Smartsheet scores $35m, Google a big customer &gt;&gt; CITEWorldGoogle employees who wanted to use Smartsheet had to explain why before Google would allow it, Smartsheet CEO Mark Mader told us. "Users had to say why they couldn't use a Google app," he said. Those employees cited things like the way information is stored and structured in Smartsheets and that Smartsheet allows for date- and time-specific reminders, he said.Google is known to be reluctant to allow workers to use cloud services so asking employees to prove they need to use an app could be standard practice. Google didn't reply to a request for comment.The Great Unwatched &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comTrouble in video-ad land:Blue Chip hired a video verification company called BrandAds to track the campaign for the mom-related product and find out where the ads were placed. At that December meeting, BrandAds delivered its report, and Blue Chip finally got a peek behind a curtain."We looked at this data and my jaw dropped," Ms. VanHeirseele remembers. "And then I felt a little sick to my stomach."Many of the ads were running in tiny players, 3 inches by 2 inches, on the sites. Some were auto-playing. But disappointment turned to rage when she read the list of domain names where the ads were running; it included pornographic websites. The team opened one site with an especially lewd name and gaped in horror. "Oh my God," some shouted. Others cursed. Ms. VanHeirseele picked up her phone to call the media buyer in a fury.comScore reports March 2014 US smartphone subscriber market share &gt;&gt; comScore166m people in the US owned smartphones (68.8% mobile market penetration) during the three months ending in March, up 6% since December. Apple ranked as the top OEM with 41.4% of US smartphone subscribers. Samsung ranked second with 27% market share (up 0.9 percentage points from December), followed by LG with 6.7% (up 0.1 percentage points), Motorola with 6.4% and HTC with 5.4%.ComScore measures installed base, not the (often misunderstood) "market share". A few points. There are now more Android users than featurephone users (86.6m v 75.3m), though still just ahead of iPhone users (68.7m). About 3m people get a smartphone each month. Of the 1.6m who got an Android phone last month (comparing with the February data, not the data for December in the release) about 0.8m got a Samsung phone; 0.34m got a Motorola; 0.15m got an HTC. Apple increased its installed base from 65.2m to 68.7m between December and March 2014.The real sale numbers of Xiaomi: its opportunities and risks &gt;&gt; HuxiuConcealed by its halo is the query of "hunger marketing" that will follow Xiaomi and Lei Jun wherever they go. What are the real sale numbers of each version of Xiaomi phone? What will Lei Jun plot in 2014? With these questions, we explored the main mobile phone supply chains in mainland. By interviewing more than 20 employees and former employees of Xiaomi, we obtained some reliable information:There's an intense race to hit 60m phones per quarter because that means you're in the top five globally.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Steve Jobs once described Apple's biggest rival as "grand theft Android" because he believed the main alternative to the iPhone had stolen his company's ideas.This set the scenes for four years of costly legal battles, the latest of which played out in a California court at the end of last week, when the verdict may not have been what the late founder of Apple would have wanted to hear.Neither Apple nor Samsung – whose phones run on the Android system owned by Google – looked as if they would be able to declare an unambiguous win as the latest case in a California court came to a conclusion late today.Apple had wanted $2bn (£1.2bn) for what it claimed were infringements of its patents by Samsung's Galaxy S2, for instance the "slide to unlock" function on the original iPhone.But it now looks as if it will get just $120m and end up having to pay $158,000 to Samsung after the jury in a Californian court decided it had infringed one of the South Korean company's patents in the way photos and videos can be organised into folders. The jury was expected to rule on Monday the precise sums to be paid."It's hard to imagine Apple sees this as a real victory. It's a small fraction of what Apple sought, and probably wasn't substantially more than Apple spent on lawyers. Clearly these patents aren't worth what Apple thought," said Mark McKenna, a law professor who specialises in intellectual property, trademark, patent and copyright law at the University of Notre Dame.Those who have watched such patent lawsuits over the last four years reckon very little has been achieved by the companies bringing the actions. For the customer, too, the effect has been minimal. There have been no longstanding sales bans on phones or tablets and just the odd tweak to the way they work."There's been no effect on consumers," said Richard Windsor, who watched events develop while an analyst at stockbroker Nomura, and now runs the RadioFreeMobile consultancy. "It's been negative for the handset [profit] margins of both handset makers [Apple and Samsung], positive for margins of lawyers."There are suggestions, though, that companies hoping to build handsets or tablets using wireless standards such as  3G, 4G or Wi-Fi will be better protected in the future.Samsung may yet decide to appeal against the latest decision, and bring in Google, which owns the Android system on which its phones rely. Ilya Kazi, a partner at intellectual property advisers Mathys &amp; Squire, said: "The only way to reach a long-term settlement is if both parties negotiate a solution, and that is only possible if it includes Google. This is certainly not the end of the battle."The legal actions have thrown up some unusual winners and losers, and raised some interesting questions.Who is the biggest overall beneficiary?Probably not Apple, once it has paid its lawyers. Instead, it is Microsoft, which has persuaded dozens of Android device makers to sign licences to patents it owns and which Android uses. Jan Dawson, who runs Jackdaw Research, estimates that Microsoft collected around $1.2bn in 2013 (and probably at least half that in 2012) from such patent licences – substantially more than it did from sales of licences for its Windows Phone devices.The biggest single individual beneficiary?Sanjay Jha, former head of Motorola Mobility, for which Google bid $12.5bn in summer 2011 after losing out on a bidding war against Apple, Microsoft and others for a set of patents owned by the bankrupt Canadian telecoms company Nortel. Jha was able to push Google into raising its initial offer by a third, with a "golden parachute" of $65.7m – $13.2m in cash and a $52.5m payment for his stock options and shares.The biggest surprise?Google told Samsung it would pay some of its legal costs. Documents read out in the most recent court case in San Jose showed that Google had said it would help with legal fees and any damages that Samsung might face from using certain elements of Android. Samsung, for its part, said in the documents that it was not seeking help. Asked by the Guardian about the arrangement, Google declined to comment.The biggest loser?HTC, the Taiwanese company which in 2010 was briefly the biggest of the Android phone-makers. Apple sued, and HTC capitulated in 2012 and is now thought to be paying a per-handset fee.The biggest spender?Google, which laid out the $12.5bn on Motorola Mobility. At the end of 2011, before the purchase, Motorola put the collective value of its patents, "completed technology" and "licensed technology" at $718m. When Google bought it, it revalued those patents and technologies at $5.5bn – clearly reckoning it could get more value out of them.The most useful outcome?The European Union and the United States have clarified laws on the use of "standards-essential patents" (SEPs), which underpin the functions – such as 2G,3G, 4G and Wi-Fi – essential to any device seeking to be compatible with networks.The emptiest threat?That one by Jobs when he asserted that Android was "grand theft". "I will spend my last dying breath if I need to, and I will spend every penny of Apple's $40bn in the bank, to right this wrong. I'm going to destroy Android, because it's a stolen product. I'm willing to go thermonuclear war on this," Jobs said.A discussion with Eric Schmidt of Google came to nothing, and Apple then proceeded to sue Samsung, HTC and others, alleging that their implementations of Android infringed its patents. But Apple has never sued Google directly.It is possible that the latest verdict in the San Jose court will bring an end to the legal fights, although Apple is rumoured to be preparing lawsuits against more phone manufacturers. None, though, is expected to be as dramatic as those between the two giants of the phone business.
The Hebrides, Dear Esther:This unnamed island nestled in the Scottish archipelago is wild and barren, but strangely beautiful. Beginning on the wind-battered coast near the lighthouse, follow the winding dirt trails through the swaying heather and you’ll arrive at a hollow carved into the rocks; these caves are, incidentally, among the oldest dwellings in Europe. Here you’ll find strange markings on the walls, otherworldly glowing mushrooms and vast, sparkling fields of stalactites and stalagmites. Head north and you’ll discover the remains of an old bothy – the simple shelters used by islanders as a refuge while walking – and the rusting shell of a moored cargo ship, long since abandoned. This is a desolate, forgotten island that seems to echo with the memories of its past.Skyrim, The Elder Scrolls V:An unforgiving climate and rugged terrain make Skyrim the ideal home for the Nords, who were among the first to settle in Tamriel. Their oldest city, Windhelm, has endured thousands of years of ferocious weather and remains a bustling metropolis, with the towering palace of Ysgramor watching over all. From the city gates, heading south takes you out of the cold and into the natural hot springs of Eastmarch, where weary travellers bathe in the bubbling, sulphuric pools. Continue south and you’ll arrive in the Rift, an autumnal forest that’s home to the notorious city of Riften – and to the guild of thieves, so keep valuables safe. Head north-west to reach the tundra around Whiterun, where giants tend their mammoths and deer graze. Skyrim is a rich and varied landscape to explore, but danger lurks around every corner. Bring some good steel.Chernarus, DayZ:This post-Soviet eastern European state is made up of deep valleys and dense forests. It’s mostly rural, but with a few large cities resting on the southern and eastern coasts. Head north from the small coastal town of Kamyshovo and you’ll find the crumbling remains of an 11th century castle, and the twin towns of Stary Sobor and Novy Sobor, recognisable by the golden onion domes of their Orthodox churches. To the east is the Black Forest, a sweeping, untamed expanse of firs. South-west is Green Mountain, whose colossal radio mast is a local landmark and helpful for navigation. Several brutal wars and a mysterious viral outbreak have done little to dampen Chernarus’s natural beauty.The Rook Islands, Far Cry 3:Artifacts telling the history of this lush tropical island can be found everywhere, from second world war-era bunkers, old AA guns and crashed Japanese fighter planes to ancient Mayan temples littering its jungles. Wildlife is abundant, with tigers, monitor lizards and great white sharks among its more dangerous inhabitants. On the north island you’ll find the colourful, vibrant town of Amanaki; head east from here to discover an old temple buried in the trees that’s been turned into a makeshift settlement by a local militia group. The south island, which is made up mostly of large, grassy plains, is more dangerous, with privateers operating throughout the interior. Tourists should exercise caution on these islands at all times.New Austin, Red Dead Redemption:Resting on the Mexican border, separated by the twisting San Luis river, New Austin is a rugged, rural area of the American West. Farmers make their living around Hennigan’s Stead, raising cattle and breaking wild horses. Head west towards Cholla Springs and the grass gives way to prickly pears, cactuses and desert scrub. Travellers should be wary of the cougars that stalk the north of this area: they won’t hesitate to attack humans. Wander south and you’ll find the Rio Bravo, a desert on the banks of the San Luis. To the far east is Gaptooth Ridge, where joshua trees grow and wolf attacks are common. Bandits use these remote areas to hide from the law, so keep your revolver close.Empire Bay, Mafia II:Beginning at the southern end of Empire Bay, where enormous ships line the docks and workers carry cargo back and forth, head north through midtown and you’ll see the towering Art Deco-style Empire Bay Building dominating the skyline. Further north, approaching the East Side, is Lincoln Park, a leafy pocket of calm in the bustling city. Head north-west and cross the famous Grand Upper Bridge to reach the idyllic suburbs of Hunters Point. Follow the highway to the north-east and you’ll reach Riverside, home of the illustrious Empire Bay Yacht Club and the Culver Dam. Head back towards Midtown to find the cherry blossom trees of Chinatown, which bloom in summer.Altis and Stratis, Arma 3:The Mediterranean island of Altis is 270 square kilometres of hills, plains and forests. On the western coast you can climb the towers of Kastro Castle, which overlook the island’s biggest city, Kavala. Head further west to the Pyrgos Gulf and you’ll see the huge solar farm of the Anthrakia Power Plant, then keep going to see the Limni marshes on the banks of Thelos Bay. Its neighbour, the island of Stratis, is much smaller, but just as picturesque. The coastal town of Agia Marina sits next to shimmering blue water and golden beaches, while the centre of the island consists mainly of mountain terrain. When it’s not gripped by war, this is the perfect holiday destination.San Andreas, Grand Theft Auto V:The state of San Andreas is remarkably varied. The sprawling metropolis of Los Santos is the best place to start, where you’ll find the famous Vinewood sign, the palatial homes of Rockford Hills and the sun-kissed Vespucci Beach. Leave the city, heading north through the Vinewood Hills, and you’ll emerge in Los Santos County. Here you're free to explore the forests and rolling hills, either on foot or mountain bike, using the peak of Mount Chiliad far in the distance for navigation. Eventually the green will shift to sepia as you hit the Grand Senora Desert, which sits on the banks of the Alamo Sea. If you still have some energy, there are numerous trails winding up towards the top of Chiliad, where you can see all the way back to the skyscrapers of Los Santos.The Capital Wasteland, Fallout 3:Don’t let the nuclear devastation, psychotic bandits and mutated animals put you off: the Capital Wasteland, formerly Washington DC, and its surrounding area, is a fine place for a hike. To the south-east you’ll find the remains of the city, where locations like the Washington Monument and Lincoln Memorial have survived the Great War. East of the city limits you’ll see Tenpenny Tower, a luxury hotel poking incongruously out of the wasteland. North-east is Oasis, an area where plants mysteriously grow, despite the nuclear fallout making this impossible elsewhere. The apocalypse may be an unlikely place for a weekend break, but it's perfect for people who like to get off the beaten track.Los Angeles, LA Noire:Starting at the famous LA river, head north-west towards the 30-mile-long Figueroa Street and you’ll find yourself in the heart of the lovingly recreated 1940s city. Art Deco buildings glint in the sun as period music drifts through car windows on the traffic-clogged streets. Landmarks worth visiting include Pershing Square and the Great Wall of Babylon set, from DW Griffith's classic film Intolerance. Continue north-west and you’ll hit the wealthy area of Wilshire, which is one of the city’s main shopping districts. Lastly, still going north-west, is Hollywood. The ‘Hollywoodland’ sign is an ideal place to end your walk: it can be found at the most northern point of the map, and from here you can see the street lamps of the city spreading out into a vast firmament below you.
Sony’s Xperia Z2 tablet is a significant update to its first real iPad challenger, the Xperia Tablet Z. Now slimmer, lighter and much, much faster Sony has a true Android competitor to the iPad Air on its hands.While most Android tablet manufacturers stick to the smaller, roughly 7in screen sized tablets like Google’s Nexus 7, which are cheaper and do not attempt to directly compete with Apple’s bigger iPad, Sony is aiming at the premium end with its new tablet computer.The one drawback is that there aren’t a lot of Android apps available optimised for full-sized tablets when compared with the iPad - especially when it comes to apps that are exclusive to Android and not made by Google.It is a chicken-and-egg scenario. There aren’t many good, full-sized Android tablets available, so there&apos;s no draw for developers; so there isn’t the wealth of optimised apps on offer to draw consumers to buy full-sized tablets, so there&apos;s no draw for developers…Super slim and feather-lightSony Xperia Z2 Tablet review - 6.4mm thick Photograph: SonySony has clearly used its “omni-balance” design principle for the Xperia Z2 Tablet, mimicking the design of the company’s latest smartphones. But the rear of the tablet is not a slab of glass. Instead it&apos;s covered with a soft-touch texturised plastic, offering a reassuring amount of grip. It makes the tablet easy to hold, which its slimline 6.4mm thick and 426g frame certainly aid. For comparison, the iPad Air is 7.5mm thick and weighs 469g.Though light, the Z2 Tablet is solidly built, with minimal flex in the body when twisted.The rest of the tablet is essentially a slab of glass with metal edges. It is simple and understated, and has at least a passing resemblance to Sony’s line of premium televisions – and that is no bad thing.All of Sony’s high-end smartphones and tablets have been waterproof for the past couple of years; so is the Xperia Z2 Tablet. ItsIP58 ratingmeans it will resist a 1.5m submersion for up to 30 minutes, rather than simply immersion to 1m like its predecessor.The waterproofing comes with a few design compromises. While the headphones port is open (and awkwardly positioned in the bottom edge of the tablet), the micro-USB charging port and the microSD slots are protected by rubber-sealed doors.The gaskets fit snugly, but charging the device every night will inevitably lead to wear and a break of the seal over the lifetime of the tablet. Opening the door and plugging in the connector is also quite fiddly – but like theZ2 phonethe tablet has Sony’s magnetic charging port, for those that want to avoid having to hook up the phone via micro-USB each night. You can slot the tablet into a charging dock, removing the need to fiddle with the door – but you have to buy it separately.Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review - waterproofing doors hide the microUSB and microSD slots. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Xperia Z2 Tablet has a big, bold and bright 10.1in full high definition screen with great viewing angles. The screen is of lower resolution than the iPad Air’s (1920x1200 pixels v 2048x1536, 224ppi v 264ppi), although it is impossible to tell the difference in general use.The front-facing speakers are very directional, clear and quite loud. Unsurprisingly they lack bass. They bracket the screen, making sharing videos with others enjoyable. Most tablet speakers are quiet and placed on the back, so having them mounted on the front makes a real difference. They aren’t a patch on HTC’s BoomSound speakers like those mounted on theHTC One M8, though.SpecificationsScreen: 10.1in full HD IPS LCDProcessor: 2.3 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM: 3GB of RAMStorage: 16GB or 32GB (microSD slot also available)Operating system: Android 4.4 “KitKat”Camera: 8.1MP rear camera, 2.2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity: Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPS (LTE optional)Dimensions: 266 x 172 x 6.4mmWeight: 426gPowerful and it vibratesThe Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet uses the same chip from Qualcomm (the Snapdragon 801) as its smaller brother theXperia Z2 phone, as well as theSamsung Galaxy S5andHTC One M8, making it just as quick as the current crop of flagship smartphones.That means the Z2 Tablet is powerful, fast and lag-free. Graphically intensive games run smoothly on the large screen and apps launch almost instantly. It is also relatively easy on the battery, which is important because that&apos;s clearly where Sony has cut back to slim down. The battery capacity is 6,000 milliampere-hour (mAh) battery, compared to 8,827mAh for the iPad Air and 8,220 for Samsung’s 10.1in tablets.But looking past the numbers, I found the Xperia Z2 lasted a good day (about 15 hours) on a single charge under continual usage (continual push email, a few hours&apos; browsing, perhaps an hour of video) without activating any of the power-saving modes. Sony’s power saving “Stamina” modes work well to extend standby times, too, giving at least four days&apos; standby in my testing.Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review - waterproof to 1.5m deep, just in case you drop it in the bath. Photograph: SonyThe Z2 also has a microSD card slot for adding up to 64GB more storage for movies, photos and music, and comes with either 16 or 32GB of storage built-in, depending on model.There&apos;s a vibrating alert - rare for a tablet but incredibly useful for telling when the tablet has been switched on. It gives a short shake when the power button has been held down long enough to boot the tablet up – something that was left down to unnerving guesswork on the previous generation, and on many rivals.Android with useful tweaksSony makes some subtle customisations to the standard Android experience on all of its devices. While most are cosmetic, the small functional tweaks are almost uniformly useful. There aren&apos;t unnecessary lag-inducing animations, and the overall look of the interface is clean and understated.Sony has shoehorned &quot;theming&quot; into Android, so the look and feel of the device can be customised way beyond simply changing the background. Menu buttons, the status bar, lockscreen and lots of small interface elements can all be changed using downloadable themes that can make Android look really quite different.One of the most useful additions Sony makes has to be the Stamina mode mentioned above, which is twinned with a battery icon that can contain the battery remaining percentage within it. (Normally, the percentage figure sits beside the icon, crowding the status bar.) It is a very small thing and makes a big difference on a smartphone, but less so on a tablet with more screen real estate to play with.Users can also adjust the status bar contents to hide unnecessary icons, while the quick settings panel under the notifications pull-down menu adds a host of useful controls for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and NFC among other settings that can be configured and re-ordered.Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review - matt plastic back is a bit of a fingerprint magnet. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Xperia Z2 Tablet also has an added a very useful tap-to-wake gesture just like its smaller phone namesake – double-tap the screen to wake the tablet rather than having to hunt for the power button.A smart backlight control, which uses the front-facing camera to watch for your eyes, can also be useful to keep the backlight alive when reading a web page or watching a movie without having to touch the screen.Sony’s apps also come preinstalled on the Z2 Tablet, including the Walkman app and Sony’s music and movie subscription services. They’re generally decent, but can be safely ignored by anyone who already has a Spotify subscription or other preferred app or service.However one annoying add-on app that can’t be removed is the Sony “What’s New” app. It suggests content you might be interested in – which is fine – but Sony has insisted on sticking it under the &quot;swipe up for Google Now&quot; gesture that’s common to most Android smartphones and tablets. To get to Google Now, you have to swipe up and to the right; a swipe up from the home button and to the left launches the What’s New app.I frequently activated What’s New instead of Google Now by accident, but couldn&apos;t find any way to get rid of it.On the plus side there&apos;s Sony’s Smart Connect app, which automatically puts the Z2 Tablet on silent when plugged into the mains at night – or at any other time-, hardware- or event-defined quick settings. You can also define a whole host of custom actions to speed up everyday tasks such as switching from silent to a &quot;loud&quot; sound profile when you plug in headphones, or turning on Wi-Fi when you get to work or back home.CamerasSony’s Z2 phone has a very powerful 20.7-megapixel camera, and while the Z2 Tablet’s main camera isn’t quite as impressive at 8.1-megapixels, it still produces decent shots for a tablet. It can also use Sony’s fun photo apps, like its augmented reality dinosaurs, motion shot and other bits and pieces.I’m still not quite sure why you’d take photos and video with a 10.1in tablet, but you can if you must.The front-facing 2.2-megapixel camera mounted above the screen is good for video calling, but nothing to write home about for shooting selfies, and certainly not a patch on the front-facing 5-megapixel camera of the HTC One M8, for instance.IR emitterUsers can control their TVs and other home entertainment equipment using the IR emitter mounted in the top edge of the tablet and Sony’s remote app, turning the Z2 Tablet into a universal remote.Noise cancellingThe Xperia Z2 Tablet is the first to pack active noise-cancelling technology integrated into its body for use with a special headset. The headset, which must be bought separately but also works with the Z2 phone, contains microphones that monitor incoming noise and send it back to the tablet, which then blends in noise cancellation to whatever is being played.Active noise-cancelling is not a new thing, but normally it requires headsets with a bulky battery and electronics pack attached to the headphone wire. Sony has squeezed the components and software into the tablet, removing the bulk that normally makes noise-cancelling earphones bulky or heavy.Because the noise cancelling control system is built into the tablet, you can select from four noise profiles – planes, trains, buses and the office – which makes the technology much more effective. I found the office setting to be particularly effective at blocking out the hubbub of an open-plan office, much more so than most other noise-cancelling ear or headphones, while the train profile handled the daily commute well.The sound quality of the noise-cancelling earbuds has good dynamic range and solid bass. The only detractor is that they do not have an in-line music control remote, as is common on mobile headsets (because the auxiliary channel that would control it is used for the sound feedback); you&apos;ll have to control it on the tablet. If you use other headphones which do have a mic and/or music remote, they will work as on other tablets and phones.Pricing: like an iPadSony has priced the Xperia Z2 Tablet right in-line with the iPad Air and other premium full-sized tablets. The 16GB Wi-Fi-only Xperia Z2 Tablet costs £399 in black, while the 32GB storage model costs £449 in black or white. An LTE-variant with 16GB of storage costs £499. Apple’s iPad Air costs upwards from £399, with a 4G variant costing £499 and up.Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review - available in black or white. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianVerdict: the best full-sized Android tablet goingThe Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet is undoubtedly the best full-sized Android tablet out there, and the best competitor to the premium experience offered by the arguable king of tablets, the iPad Air.It’s built with premium materials, powerful enough to handle anything you can throw at it and will last all day on a single charge. It is slim and waterproof, which means you can watch Game of Thrones in the bath, and it’s a quantum leap over the Android tablets that were on offer just a couple of years ago. It’s also light enough to use as an ebook or digital comic reader, while watching video on the great-looking screen is delightful.The Xperia Z2 Tablet isn’t quite as rounded or ergonomic as the iPad Air, though, and it still needs more decent apps optimised properly for a 10.1in Android screen. You can’t blame Sony for that, and in the chicken-and-egg scenario, at least we have a decent full-sized Android tablet to entice developers to create those apps. Now it’s is up to the public to buy them and provide that enticing user base. Whether that’ll happen is unknown.If it makes any difference, it is the tablet I would buy with my own money, which is saying a lot.Pros:great screen, super thin and light, waterproof, decent battery life, built-in noise cancelling, premium materialsCons:fiddly doors for ports, shortage of optimised apps compared to iPad, irritating “What’s New” app•Apple&apos;s iPad Air is lighter, thinner and raises the bar for tablet software
Since the phenomenally successful World of Warcraft was released 10 years ago this November, Blizzard has only put out two full games: Starcraft II in 2010, and Diablo III in 2012. So the company&apos;s third project this decade comes with no small amount of baggage – which is why it&apos;s somewhat odd that the studio known for its epic fantasy adventures has decided to enter the genre of … digital card games.Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft is a collectible card game (CCG) set in the Warcraft universe. Players get cards depicting spells, characters and abilities, and then build them into decks of 30. Then they fight each other. The game itself owes a heavy debt to Richard Garfield&apos;s venerable Magic: the Gathering, the first and still the largest CCG, but differs just enough to offer something new to players of that game (and to get round the fact thatthe core mechanics of Magic are actually patented).Playing head-to-head over a Wi-Fi or 3G connection, participants take it in turns to play either minions or spells, building a small army on the table. Minions can attack each other or the enemy&apos;s hero, while spells have a variety of effects, ranging from dealing damage and drawing extra cards to spawning new minions or even destroying your character and replacing them with a lord of hell for the rest of the match. When your hero&apos;s health drops to zero, the game is over.A Warlock deals the killing blow. Photograph: BlizzardBehind the simple rules lies a pleasing dynamic. Some minions must be killed before the opponent can target anything else, while others can attack the moment they&apos;re placed, rather than having to wait a turn. The game itself is an exercise in crowd control, timing and resource management.But there&apos;s no getting away from the fact that, as a card game, Hearthstone is fairly simplistic. It ignores the fact that the world it&apos;s entering has moved on in the 20 years since Magic made its debut, and suffers as a result.Running netsTake the card game I play with friends, Android: Netrunner, a redesigned version of a game released by Garfield in 1996. Netrunner is an asymmetric game, where one player takes the role of a megacorporation intent on advancing nefarious agendas, and the other a plucky hacker, attempting to steal these plans before they can be brought to fruition.The asymmetry is interesting enough, offering essentially two games in one, as the corporation attempts to build up walls of defensive &quot;ice&quot; to defend their servers against the hacker, who has to pick and choose when to try to break in and when to sit back and install programs to aid future attacks.But the game also includes a bluffing mechanic which turns every decision into a fraught battle of wills. The corporation installs every card they play face down, and only has to pay for them when they flip them face-up to use them; that card sitting undefended with two advancement tokens on it could be a trap, which would kill the hacker if they hit it. Or it could be a double-bluff, with the corporation hoping no hacker would have the courage to check.On top of the game itself, it shows innovation in how a card game can be sold. Android: Netrunner dispenses with the booster-pack model of Magic and its ilk, instead offering a steady release of fixed-contents packs. There&apos;s no chance element in buying the cards, since every packs contents are known in advance, meaning that all players are on a level playing field.It&apos;s not just Netrunner innovating on the Magic model: Shadowfist offers a fluid game based on Hong Kong action movies which can be played by up to four players; the Lord of the Rings card game is played co-operatively between two people; and even Magic itself has gone further in its two decades, with two vs two battles and a digital version that includes a full campaign mode.I don&apos;t bring this up purely to tell you that you should be playing Netrunner (although, you should), but to point out the missed opportunities of Hearthstone. In designing a game that&apos;s totally digital, Blizzard could have ripped up the rulebook. Hex: Shards of Fate, an upcoming digital CCG, provides some ideas, with cards that gain experience points across multiple games, can permanently level up, and be &quot;socketed&quot; with other cards – a mechanic taken straight from World of Warcraft itself.Free to playInstead, Hearthstone is a game which could, with little hassle, be played in the physical world – it is not really a video game at all. But then, if it had been released as a physical card game, it would be unremarkable. The developer has been hit with a Catch 22 spell.The deckbuilding interface. Photograph: BlizzardBut then, for what it is, it functions very well. Wrapped around its core is a well-tuned free-to-play mechanic governing ranked matches, daily quests and the forthcoming single-player mode. You didn&apos;t think Blizzard would just give away the cards, did you? Users can buy extra packs for real money, with £2 getting them two booster packs of five cards, but they can also earn in-game gold and buy them that way. One pack costs 100 gold, and players get 40 gold for completing a daily quest; it&apos;s not difficult for a fairly active player to get three packs a week without spending a penny.Similarly, the Arena mode, where players build a deck of 30 cards out of a random selection of 90 (similar to the draft games Magic fans are familiar with), costs £1.50 or 150 gold to enter; players can use their drafted deck for as long as it takes them to lose three matches, whereupon it explodes and they have to pay again. Even if you lose all your matches straightaway, however, you still get a reward at the end of the Arena, which frequently nearly pays for the cost of entry itself.Pay to winAt this stage, it seems clear that the way Blizzard will make most of its money is through people paying to win. The game has no trading mechanic – perhaps due to Blizzard&apos;s caution following the disaster that was Diablo III&apos;s real money auction house – instead letting players craft new cards from the remnants of old ones, at a roughly five to one ratio. Put enough money in, in other words, and you can have any deck you desire.In-app purchases. Photograph: BlizzardThat&apos;s a problem for players relying on decks pieced together from the occasional booster packs they pick up, because the core of high-level play in Hearthstone is killer combos involving extremely rare cards. But then, the same is true of real-world CCGs; even ones, such as Netrunner, that avoid it by using a fixed-distribution model still involve a hefty outlay of cash to keep up to date.But despite these flaws, Hearthstone still appeals. Part of that is the genuinely slick way the game is presented: minions hit the table with a satisfying thud, more powerful attacks are presented with genuine force behind them, a gentle glow emanates from minions with an ongoing effect, and so on. Indeed, the only real problem with the client itself, as opposed to the card game specifically, is its stingy requirement to always be online; passable with for the PC/Mac version, but irritating on the iPad, where a quick match against the AI would be perfect for a dull commute.Video gamers may wonder why they would play a card game when their medium has moved beyond such limitations; tabletop gamers may bemoan the fact that people are getting excited about thewrongcard game. But if you fall awkwardly between those two groups, Hearthstone will keep you hooked for some time.
