The weekend marked the start of the most crucial three weeks for retailers, with some - like jewellers - generating half their annual profits in the Christmas shopping season.Tradition has it that the October half term school holiday kicks off the annual festive shopping spree, but in recent years the start date has slipped ever later. Department store John Lewis, for instance, has just reported that seasonal shopping has taken hold only in the past week.Sales of Christmas tableware in the past week through the store's outlets was 450% higher this past week than in the previous seven days. The mad dash for a quick domestic revamp is also finally underway, with orders for express curtain making have leaped 27% in the last week.But while traditional bricks and mortar retailers have the best part of a month left to haul in the shoppers, online retailers can now measure their Christmas season in days.Last year festive online shopping totalled some £400m - a fraction of what was expected by some forecasters. This year those same forecasters are predicting that £1bn will flash across the web. But that remains only a tiny proportion of total Christmas spending - and an increasing number of retailers are having second thoughts about the ultimate potential of e-commerce.Earlier this week supermarket group Safeway abandoned its online ambitions, closing down its internet ordering service, which allowed shoppers to send their shopping lists online and then collect their goods, picked and packed, from the store.Rival grocery chain Iceland, which was first into the market with an internet grocery service, also announced changes to its operation, which is racking up losses. New chief executive Bill Grimsey is redesigning the site and plans to offer wider ranges in a bid to attract cash rich, time poor shoppers.But Mr Grimsey admits it is a last roll of the dice and he remains unconvinced of its potential. He plans to review the entire concept in 18 months time. In fact, online grocery shopping - which accounts for 40% of web retail activity - has actually been a spectacular failure for almost all involved.Even Sainsburys, which runs the world's second biggest online grocery business after Tesco, makes losses - and won't divulge its customer numbers.At the same time GUS, which operates the Argos catalogue shop business, reported booming like-for-like sales, suggesting that old-fashioned paper catalogues are far from being history. An increasing proportion of Argos sales are made over the web - but they come from customers who have selected their goods after browsing through an old-fashioned catalogue.The group is so impressed with the Argos catalogue operation that it is now launching more paper catalogues for a new generation of shoppers.Clothing retailer Next - whose former chief executive David Jones once described web shoppers as "sad" - has had the same experience with its Next Directory. Mr Jones reckoned the net was just another sales channel, and basically just a method of placing orders, and spent just a fraction of the huge investments made by rivals on his website, but the Next site is one of then most successful in the fashion retail business.It is a view shared by Sir Stanley Kalms at Dixons. His group's websites, he admits, were a me-too reaction to rivals. But, like Next,  it is fully integrated with his store operation - so that web shoppers can return goods to stores and organise service and repairs through stores too, a service that web-only retailers cannot hope to offer.Earlier this week DTI minister Melanie Johnson did her governmental bit to help boost the online shopping business by stressing the security of shopping on the web. Many of those who have considered shopping on the web are thought to hold back because they are concerned about who might get access to their credit card details.Half of those who start a web shop abandon their trolley before they get to the checkout. Some of those deserters will inevitably have just got fed up with the interminable waits for some screens to download, but there is also evidence that many lose their nerve about spending on the web.This Christmas - and the coming days - is crunch time for web-only retailers, even for amazon.com, the granddaddy of them all, which sought to revolutionise the bookselling business. If this festive season doesn't deliver the results then the entire long term future of web retailing will have to be reassessed, at least in its current form.
Alan Milburn, the health secretary, has enlisted Bill Gates to help pull the health service out of the stone age in information technology.The Microsoft chairman will fly to Britain this week to tell chief executives of NHS trusts how to develop integrated systems to produce improvements in the speed and quality of patient care.During a three-day visit to the software company's British arm, Mr Gates will attend a Department of Health conference, sponsored by Microsoft, to set the direction for development of IT in the NHS.This follows criticism of the deficiency of IT in the health service in the longterm review of NHS funding produced last week for the Treasury by Derek Wanless, former chief executive of National Westminster bank. Mr Wanless said: "The UK health service has a poor record on the use of information and communications technology - the result of many years of serious under-investment." It spent less   per employee than other sectors of the economy - about 1.5% of its total budget, compared with 6% in the US health sector.The government is committing &#163;1bn by 2005 to create electronic patient record systems for all acute hospitals and 24-hour emergency care access to patient records.By the end of next year Mr Milburn wants hospitals and GPs to be routinely using electronic message systems to exchange information about referrals, discharge summaries, laboratory and radiology requests and results.The government wants GPs to be able to sit down with patients in front of a computer terminal to choose the best place for treatment from among the hospitals and surgeons with the best results and shortest waiting times.A Microsoft spokesman said the event followed a deal in October that will allow the NHS to save more than &#163;50m over three years by taking out a single annual subscription for software, instead of the 35,000 separate orders now placed by health service organisations.
Alan Milburn, the health secretary, has enlisted Bill Gates to help pull the health service out of the stone age in information technology.The Microsoft chairman will fly to Britain this week to tell chief executives of NHS trusts how to develop integrated systems to produce improvements in the speed and quality of patient care.During a three-day visit to the software company's British arm, Mr Gates will attend a Department of Health conference, sponsored by Microsoft, to set the direction for development of IT in the NHS.This follows criticism of the deficiency of IT in the health service in the longterm review of NHS funding produced last week for the Treasury by Derek Wanless, former chief executive of National Westminster bank. Mr Wanless said: "The UK health service has a poor record on the use of information and communications technology - the result of many years of serious under-investment." It spent less   per employee than other sectors of the economy - about 1.5% of its total budget, compared with 6% in the US health sector.The government is committing &#163;1bn by 2005 to create electronic patient record systems for all acute hospitals and 24-hour emergency care access to patient records.By the end of next year Mr Milburn wants hospitals and GPs to be routinely using electronic message systems to exchange information about referrals, discharge summaries, laboratory and radiology requests and results.The government wants GPs to be able to sit down with patients in front of a computer terminal to choose the best place for treatment from among the hospitals and surgeons with the best results and shortest waiting times.A Microsoft spokesman said the event followed a deal in October that will allow the NHS to save more than &#163;50m over three years by taking out a single annual subscription for software, instead of the 35,000 separate orders now placed by health service organisations.
Listening to the radio is about to get a fresh boost from an unexpected source - the mobile phone. Nokia's move to include FM radio as an extra facility on two of its newest phones (the 5510 and 8310) could prove a shrewd move. Most people won't buy a radio as a separate item - but when it is bundled into a phone they already have with them at hardly any extra weight (the 8310 only weighs 84g) they may suddenly discover a need they didn't realise existed. The 5510 even lets you to copy music on the radio to its MP3 player. (Remember, you didn't read that here) www.nokia.com
Free the airwaves!The future could be something called "open spectrum", according to Kevin Werbach, editor of Esther Dyson's Monthly Report, Release 1.0. This essay is one of CNet'sPerspectivesseries. Webach has also sent anopen letterto America's FCC.
Several million American broadband subscribers face the prospect of getting up one morning to find their umbilical Internet connection has been given the chop. In fact, the worst has just happened to more than 750,000 AT&amp;T users. They were getting their service from @Home, which is now in Chapter 11 (part of bankruptcy provisions that provides protection from creditors). @Home is renogiating its money-losing contracts, and has not been able to agree a new deal with AT&amp;T, which is now rushing to provide its subcribers with an alternative service. Morehereandhere.
Dean Kamen's Ginger was famous for a week at the start of this year, when millions of Web users wondered what it might be . . . apart from a follow-up to the wheelchair that climbs stairs. We may find out on Monday, according to an AP story run by a number of publications includingUSA Today.
Sony will have a broadband-capable version of the PlayStation 2 on the UK market next year, according to John Raczka, the senior vice president in charge of "consumer content" at BT Openworld. Didn't know BTO had any consumer content? It owns theGames Domainservice, which is claimed to be the biggest games site in Europe. Today, BTO announced that it would offer a subscription service for games content, and that it had a multi-platform strategy. The PC is the first platform. Sony is also a partner, and BT plans to offer a self-installation ADSL service for PS2 owners when there's a PS2 with an Ethernet adaptor.But this is not an exclusive arrangement, so expect similar announcements in the future. A broadband-attached Microsoft Xbox would seem to be a safe assumption.
It didn't take them long. Just hours after the collapse of the World Trade Centre on September 11, the internet's legion of pranksters got to work. First it was the stream of topical email "jokes" that follows every major news event. Then came the conspiracy websites blaming the attacks on everyone from the US federal government to Elvis. But two weeks in, an email started doing the rounds that seemed to grab the collective attention of bored office workers the world over. It contained the extraordinary image of a tourist posing on top of the twin towers, unaware of the plane looming behind him."This is just an astonishing picture," said the accompanying breathless message. "This was from a camera found in the wreckage of the WTC, developed by the FBI for evidence and released on the net today... The guy still has no name and is missing." After days of having their senses numbed by a flood of emotionally charged photographs, many people were momentarily tempted to believe that this was just another image of an innocent seconds away from death. However, even the most computer illiterate of us could soon work out that the picture   was a fake, the plane having been added to an older image.The evidence was overwhelming: why was he wearing a thick coat and hat on what was a glorious early September New York morning? How could he have been on the twin towers' observatory deck at the time of the first attack (8.45am) when its opening hours were 9.30am to 9.30pm? Why was the plane coming in from the wrong direction over Manhattan?Soon it was the turn of the obsessives: how come the plane in the picture was a Boeing 757, not a 767, as was American Airlines flight 11? Why were the angles of the shadows wrong for that time of day (always the first line of inquiry for any true sceptic)? Why was the date at the bottom of the photograph in a different font to the one normally used on date-stamping cameras? The debate became so fierce in the following days and weeks that dedicated websites soon sprang up. People even began to give the mysterious man nicknames, such as Tourist Guy, Tourist of Death and Waldo.Then began the digital manipulation of the digitally manipulated original: dozens of pictures appeared in which the tourist was placed at other historic events. Hey,   there's Tourist Guy behind Churchill at the Yalta conference. And there he is in the limo with JFK in Dallas. Is that really him in front of the burning Hindenburg zeppelin? (If Richard Dawkins is looking for a study aid to explain mimetics - his theory of cultural replicators - this would be ideal.) Another internet phenomenon had been born. But one fact remained stubbornly elusive: who was this man?Rumours abounded as the search turned global. Chatroom talk was of students in California. Or was it perhaps a gloating Osama bin Laden sympathiser? Then, earlier this month, as the "official" Tourist Guy website reported that it was now receiving 60,000 visitors a  week, came the first firm lead. A man in Brazil was saying he was Tourist Guy. Jos&#233; Roberto Penteado, a 41-year-old businessman from the city of Campinas in the state of Sao Paulo, claimed responsibility and, crucially, said he had the photographs to prove it.He appeared on Brazilian chatshows, gave interviews to local newspapers, handed out autographs to fans and was even, allegedly, contacted by Volkswagen, who wanted him to feature in a TV commercial. ("The first thing I'm going to do when I get the money from Volkswagen is to make a big donation for children in need here," he was reported as saying.) But when he finally posted the photographs of himself on the internet, most agreed that the required true likeness to Tourist Guy just wasn't apparent. His jawline was all wrong and he lacked Tourist Guy's prominent Adam's apple. The misinformation superhighway had claimed yet more gullible victims.All then went quiet. The spoof images still kept appearing - Tourist Guy aboard the bombed USS Cole, Tourist Guy driving the hijacked bus in the action film Speed - but the leads dried up.However, at the same time in Hungary, a set of friends had begun arguing   over whether to expose the real Tourist Guy after hearing of the Brazilian impostor who now stood to profit from his false claims. For two months they had known the identity of the infamous tourist on top of the twin towers, but had feared the repercussions for him if they went public.Finally, the group decided that he deserved his 15 megabytes of fame and passed on comprehensive proof - the accompanying set of photos from the same tourist trip to New York - to the Hungarian news websiteIndex.hulast week. Even though Tourist Guy only tentatively agreed to speak to the website via an email interview, his photographs are a compelling match to the original. The   "truth" was finally out.It can now be revealed that Tourist Guy is, according to Index.hu, Peter Guzli, a 25-year-old from Budapest. He claims that after watching the collapse of the twin towers his mind was inevitably drawn, like so many of us, to his own trip up to the observation deck of the north tower during a trip to New York in November 1997. Upon flicking through his snapshots, he found the now notorious photograph of himself posing for the camera with the long, thin island of Manhattan stretching back behind him. It is an image that must have been captured by millions of tourists before and since; when he used his computer to add an image of a plane coming towards him and emailed it to some friends as a "joke", he evidently didn't count on it becoming the catalyst for an truly global phenomenon.So does he now regret what was an admittedly misguided, but initially private, prank between friends? "I intended this joke for my friends only, not for people who did not know me. I know who the person is &#91;who betrayed him and sent the image on to a wider audience&#93;. I've had a discussion with them, and there's no hard feelings."Admirably forgiving, perhaps, but what did he think when he watched from Budapest as, albeit briefly, his face became one of the most famous in the world? "I did not have sleepless nights... but I certainly didn't want people to point their fingers at me on the street." Hence Guzli laid low, despite a clamour for his identity to be revealed, in the hope that the unwanted attention would melt away, but even today he doesn't feel any guilt for what he helped to create: "I don't think this thing has to do with empathy or the lack of it. The people I intended it for all said they had a great laugh. That's all."When asked whether he is now tempted to cash in on his notoriety, he offers a tentative, "Maybe," before adding, "VW, by the way, has cancelled its offer for an advertisement." He is doubtful that his life will ever be the same now that his identity has been exposed. "I'm not sure if there's a way back."
Supposing someone were to give you the chance to have a single phone number that would reach you wherever you were? So if someone wanted to fax you they'd dial it up and it would know it was receiving a fax; if they called you and you were in a meeting it would take a message, and if you were staying at your mother's place it would direct the call there without a problem?Actually, services like that are easy to come by on the internet, and many are free to the customer. The snag is that the freebies tend to cost your customers a lot of money, since this is how the companies providing the services make their money.The smaller business selling to similarly sized organisations, sole traders and consumers are unlikely to want to risk alienating customers by using premium rate numbers.   A useful service which costs only a few pounds per month, depending on the level of service required, is the former jFax - now calling itself j2 and found atwww.j2.com.   Customers send a fax to the j2 number or call it; it distinguishes between a fax and a voice message and forwards them to a pre-selected email address. For an additional cost there is also the option to call in for voicemails, and indeed to have faxes read out electronically so they can be received without the need for a computer.A useful option with j2 is the possibility of having more than one number, internationally, so if you opt for a New York number in addition to your local number in the UK, customers in the US won't have to pay for an international call.   The drawback is that although the numbers on offer look like and attract the same costs as an ordinary landline-based telephone number, not every local code is covered and this can lead to a little confusion.The author of this article had an 0181  telephone number and an 0171 fax number for several years as a result, and although the delivery of the faxes was faultless the number of customers who quite understandably assumed one of the numbers was a typing error and therefore failed to get through was high.Businesses who are less concerned with costing their clients a little extra per call might consider services from YAC or Hitoori. Both are free to the customer, and the caller will always pay as if they were calling a mobile phone. This won't suit everyone and there are those customers who will turn away from a high-rate phone call, but the advantages to the business are clear - zero overheads and maximum availability.YAC, which stands for You're Always Connected, is the longer-established of the two and it offers call forwarding as well as voicemail services. In other words when someone calls an 07092 YAC number, their call can be forwarded either to a mailbox where the caller leaves a message, which gets forwarded to an email account or which can be picked up from a mobile phone.The YAC customer chooses a few numbers for forwarding when setting up the service, usually home, work, mobile and "other", and then selects the order in which the service should try ringing them. These can be changed anytime. The same number is used for faxes, which can be forwarded to any email box - as before, the system distinguishes between voice and fax automatically.Hitoori has a similar charging structure to YAC: the Hitoori customer pays nothing and the caller pays as if they are dialling a mobile number. The difference in the case of Hitoori is that the customer can also have his or her emails delivered to a Hitoori web-based email page, so all messages really are held centrally.   The option to have voicemails delivered to a mobile phone and indeed to have faxes and emails read out automatically is in the Hitoori service, so it can be used comfortably by people without immediate access to a computer wherever they might be. They can also dictate a reply over the phone.Hitoori also boasts web paging, an agent that notifies the customer of messages when they have arrived, the prospect of integration with other telephony devices and SMS (short messaging services, the little text messages that arrive on a mobile phone).There are other people on the market as well; Virtual Plus offers unified messaging and Wap services as do Telepost, BT, Onebox, Vivao, Coms.com and Redstone. Others offer elements of the above; you might not want to trust all of your messaging to a single company from whom you can't even ask for a refund if things go wrong.Various companies offer a web email service, and there are various companies offering fax only - Efax offers similar services to the jFax system, and Easyfax delivers faxes to a web page rather than to an email address.  Only a few basics are needed to take full advantage of any of these services. People who haven't looked at the jFax system for a while might like to know you no longer need the company's own software to view and print out the faxes: standard imaging software will handle it. YAC also offers faxes in Adobe Acrobat form, which can lead to a higher quality image if that matters particularly.Of course, for the voicemails it's essential to have a sound-capable computer, which means any modern system but which might stump customers with systems five or more years old. For any application involving sound and images, the faster the internet connection the better.Selecting the right option is largely a matter of assessing whether a business wants to pay for its messages, what level of integration between phone calls, faxes and emails is required and whether the customer will be willing to chip in by paying for premium rate numbers.   But given a realistic assessment of the options on offer there's no reason a business operative shouldn't be reachable the whole time, regardless of geography.  Which may or may not be a good thing.Short Messaging Service (SMS)What is it? The capability to send and receive short text messages to and from your mobile phone.     Does every mobile have it? Yes, and these days it can also work across mobile networks, so that if, say, your phone is on the Orange network you can "text" phones on the Vodafone network. You can also send messages to mobiles from the web for free -LycosandSMSBoy.Is SMS used much? Quite a bit. According toGSM Worldthere were 12bn short messages sent last month alone. They expect 15bn to be sent in December. That is the equivalent of 30 SMS messages for every GSM mobile phone user in the world.Three companies, one in-trayWhen Tim Harris was looking for a messaging system he had some fairly complex criteria. The objective, to get all messages coming into the office into the one in-tray, was straightforward enough; the backdrop, in which Harris owns two businesses and works for a third as well, was less so. "We wanted a virtual office, with real staff, completely flexible, with the ability to respond to our customers." After checking out some of the alternative web-based offerings, he plumped for Hitoori's messaging service so that calls, emails and faxes could be routed as required.Hitoori offers the customer the chance to specify several numbers that will be called in the customer's chosen order before the voicemail system kicks in - so Harris selected his mobile number and two of his colleagues' numbers. "Customers always get a response now," he says. "There's never a message giving them another number to call or saying there's no one available, and we never have to worry about whether there's going to be someone in the office at 8.30 or whenever they're likely to call."Receiving messages in a timely manner is important in any business, but in Harris's debt collection service, Capital Collect Ltd, it is vital. His recycling organisation, Inkas (Remanufacturers) also requires a prompt response, although the third business, Redhouse Antiques, does more work through the web atwww.staffordshirefigures.co.ukthan by phone.   Redirecting messages to different people can be done easily when there's a change in circumstances, which can mean anything from staff absence to someone nipping into a meeting for half an hour: this is done by logging on to the website and choosing a new number or changing the order of the numbers to which calls should be forwarded. The changes take place immediately.The message service is also simple to operate; they all arrive in the Hitoori mailbox and it's clear at a glance whether they're emails, voice messages or a fax. "It all looks like just one in-tray as far as I'm concerned, so it's very easy to use," says Harris. He also uses the forwarding service for one of the companies to send to a fax machine. For time-sensitive faxes the idea that his mobile phone bleeps to inform him that a fax has arrived is a considerable help.  All of this and it's free - there has to be a catch somewhere and it's in the charge to the caller, who has to pay as if he or she were phoning or faxing a mobile phone every time. This hasn't been an issue yet, probably because of the profile of the customers: "People just need to get in touch, there hasn't been anyone asking us to call back or anything like you used to get with mobile phones," he says.Learning the system was simple: there was a learning curve to go through but Hitoori talked Harris through all of the procedures and went as far as setting up the first of the numbers for him. Support calls were answered so efficiently that Harris still remembers the support staff by name.The benefits to Harris's businesses are clear: every customer gets a response, while previously some had messages taken or had an engaged signal; the companies can create an "instant office" regardless of where the staff are at any given time since the calls can be forwarded to any number, and this means no time has to be spent on planning communications. "We are able to be completely flexible in the way we organise our movements. We no longer have to think about communications, using the time for other tasks."
The PDA - personal digital assistant, or "electronic organiser" to take the jargon out and shoot it - has been with us for almost a decade, and models range from the £15 or so glorified pocket calculator to the £400+ device that links to your mobile phone and sends emails all but unaided. They're all very impressive but the question of whether or not they add anything to a business is open to question.Deciding whether a particular model is suitable for your company is fairly straightforward and will probably involve writing off the £15 model to start with. The reason for this is that if a hand-held organiser is to be any use at all it needs to synchronise with your desktop system, to get around the need for retyping any appointments you might arrange while out of the office. So for any serious business use, the cheapest you're likely to find is around the £40 mark.   For this you can get the Touchman organiser from the Innovations catalogue; for your money you'll get a nice-looking organiser in its own docking station, and it'll happily synchronise with your PC using the software that comes with it. The touch-sensitive keyboard looks fiddly but manageable, and for a self-employed person this might be a good fit.Unless, of course, the self-employed individual wants access to his or her emails while not in the office, in which case it's a bit of a non-starter. For that sort of function you need to raise the game a little and start budgeting for something closer to £100; in fact you might be well advised to do so regardless if you inhabit an office that has any sort of networked diary system. The more expensive PDAs will allow you to synchronise your appointments and contacts not only with the software that comes supplied with them but also with whatever software you have in the office. Most of them, such as the Psion Revo and 3Com's Palm range, come with software that will link into Microsoft Outlook, while Lotus Organiser (current versions at least) have software to link to the Palm. Sidekick will also link to hand-helds, although Time and Chaos synchronisation programs cost extra.Once you're able to synchronise these programs, the benefits of having an organiser should become fairly apparent. It becomes impossible to lose track of an appointment or contact; an email confirming an engagement is always in your pocket alongside your records of that person's contact details. As long as you remember to take your organiser with you and keep the batteries topped up - an appallingly easy thing to neglect - you're always up to date without devoting any time to it.Whether this makes you any more productive is unclear, but it can remove a few headaches and save a lot of time printing messages or scrawling them into a diary. Some of the more expensive PDAs come with a modem attached (you can order a modem for most of them as an optional extra anyway); it's therefore simple to send and receive emails while on the road. Most ISPs will support PDAs as a medium by now; even AOL, which tends to use non-standard software for its communications and dial-up internet connection, is planning to expand into the Palm area very shortly.Not everything about a PDA will help initially, though. Operating the things is intended to be as painless as possible, but try telling that to someone struggling with Graffiti, the handwriting system used by the Palm. You don't actually use handwriting as such, you learn to write letters individually. Once you've got the hang of it, it's a pushover, but there's a learning experience to go through. Competing products prefer to offer a Qwerty keyboard; however, the size of these can also be a disadvantage unless you have extremely long and spindly fingers. There are foldaway keyboards available for the Palm and the Handspring, the most common handwriting-sensitive devices.The actual payback time for the money spent on a PDA will inevitably vary from customer to customer. If you're primarily office-based and don't need to get out much, then to be honest you might not get much out of the devices at all, and if you're often on the move but not in need of your contacts or email then you won't need one either. If you need to check your own availability often and want to update the office scheduling network with a single button, however - or even if you're a busy sole trader who doesn't want to go mucking about with copying stuff on to your PC for a couple of hours a week, let alone lose half of it in the process - you're likely to find the money very well spent.
Just over a decade ago, Mercury Communications (later to adopt its parent company's name of Cable &amp; Wireless) changed the world of BT and its customers forever.By purchasing a phone with a pre-programmed button that dialled a short prefix, together with a user ID number, or, in the case of businesses, simply reprogramming their PBX to dial the prefix and ID number, customers could get cheaper long distance and international calls.Although Mercury only had two exchanges when it was launched - in London and Manchester - it was able to offer a national service within England (Wales and Scotland followed later) because of an Oftel requirement on BT that it must carry a competitor's calls from the phone user to the competing carrier's exchange, free of charge.BT was, and continues to be, required to do this, in lieu of the fact of its near monopoly on the local loop that connects most businesses to the telephone network.  These days, of course, there are several hundred Alternative Telecommunication Carriers (ATCs) offering their services, both to residential and business BT subscribers.Some also offer their services to cable telephony subscribers, but this is usually via an 0800 freephone number, which can delay routing and also tends to be more expensive for them than allowing BT to route the calls to their network.Some ATCs offer discount rates above all other benefits, including convenience, by requiring users to prepay their accounts and watching those account balances reduce as calls are made.  Prepaid ATCs are rarely cost effective for even small businesses, so many ATCs that offer prepaid accounts also offer postpaid (ie billed) accounts to businesses both small and large, usually at higher rates than the prepaid users enjoy.Accessing these ATCs is a lot easier than in the days of Mercury, when BT's network did not support Caller ID. Just as your customers can tell you are calling them, if they subscribe to a Caller ID service, so the ATCs can tell who's calling by the Caller ID data generated by your local BT (or cable) exchange.Next year, Oftel has mandated that BT must offer its subscribers a technology known as carrier pre-selection. This allows customers to tell BT which ATC they require to switch their calls and BT must then reprogram its local switch to this for all calls.  This neatly does away with the need for call prefix codes, although BT has admitted that it may have problems with reprogramming some exchanges, for carrier pre-selection. In such instances, BT will be required to offer a smart box to do all the switching for the customer, without any PBX reprogramming being required.Enter the salesmanBecause these ATCs do not have access to the resources in the field that BT does, many of them rely on middlemen to sell their services into the business community.  These resellers, who often also sell contracts for alternative utility services and even mobile phone deals, make their living from commissions paid by the ATCs, both when the customer signs on the dotted line, then usually on each customer call.This makes an ATC dealer less interested in a small business customer than a large one. Whereas a large business customer may merit a site visit and ongoing contact, both by phone and in person, smaller companies usually deal with their ATC dealer by phone.  Selecting a reliable dealer is not easy, but, generally speaking, if an ATC dealer has been in business for a few years, the chances are they will be reliable.Remember, however, that profit margins in the ATC business are tight and some of the best contracts are only available by dealing with the ATC directly.  Despite the proliferation of dealers and the wide choice of ATCs for businesses, many SMEs seem to like staying with BT for their calls, despite the obvious price advantages available.  In fact, according to an independent survey recently commissioned byUnica, an integrated communications provider for firms, and carried out by MORI, most businesses are not exercising their freedom of choice when it comes ATCs.The survey of 301 senior managers responsible for telecoms - 100 in SMEs (less than 250 employees), 201 in large businesses (250+) across the UK - revealed that many companies find it hard to juggle between different fixed, mobile and internet network operators, and that many would prefer an impartial intermediary to shop around on their behalf.  The slightly bad news is that a third of all respondents to the survey said they are locked into contractual obligations that prevent them from switching operators.  On top of this, while 60% of large firms have changed network operator in the past five years, only one third of SMEs have changed.Some rates are fairer than othersWhile BT charges customers for calls by the second, subject to a 4.2p minimum, some ATCs offer quite stunning rates - as low as 2p for national calls at peak times and a shade more for calls to the US - but impose other call charge limitations.Vartec, for example, offers some good rates on international and national calls, but subject to a 10p  minimum: this is no good if the bulk of your calls are short.Others, such asWorld Xchange, formerly known as ACC Telecom, offer enticing small business and consumer calling plans, but impose a monthly subscription (£4.95 for WorldXchange's best small business plan) and/or a per-minute call charge.  This means that, for example, a 70 second call to Poland using WorldXchange's best small business rate, its Penny Plan, which costs £4,95 a month subscription, will cost just 15p per minute. Unfortunately, because calls are billed in 60 second increments, that 70 second call is rounded up to 120 seconds for billing purposes, then charged at 30p in total.Such contractual "quirks" are what nibble at the considerable savings that ATC users would appear to enjoy on paper, meaning that the best overall deals are often not those that appear to have the best discount rates.  Carriers such asFirst Telecom, as well asMCI World Com, offer rate tables and deals to business customers without any quirks such as per-minute billing.The larger and more well established an ATC is, the better its range of services available to businesses. First Telecom and MCI WorldCom, for example, offer discount inward 0800 (freephone) services, and 0845 or 0870 non-geographic codes to customers.  Turning this on its head, we find that the "better" ATCs, including those who do not have hidden billing issues in their terms and conditions, tend to offer a wider portfolio of services.  Vodafone, for example, also offers fixed line and discount calling services to businesses, thanks to a linkup with Energis, the telecoms spinoff from the former National Grid.In fact, the complexity of the call tariffs available from ATCs is such that, if your annual spend on telephone calls, excluding line rental, exceeds £1,000, then it would probably be worth talking to an ATC dealer.The dealer can then select the best carrier(s) for your calls, or even recommend the installation of a so-called "smart box" which routes calls across different carriers, the actual routing depending on the call destination and the time of day.One popular firm that offers smart box routing across several carriers isLCR Telecom. LCR stands for Least Cost Routing and allows the company to offer some of the best rates in the business.  Installing a smart box, however, may only save a company paying, say, £2,000 a year for its calls, an extra £100 a year, and there may be rental to pay on the hardware.BT fights backContrary to what many observers thing, BT is fighting back for its market share in the business calls arena.Unfortunately, as anyone who has ever grappled with BT's business deals, the sheer complexity of the discounts available from BT is enough to baffle even the most dedicated telecoms manager with a large corporate, let alone small business, manager.As a general rule of thumb, most of BT's business discounts - good though they are - are rarely as good a deal as those available through most ATCs. Furthermore, BT's discount calling plans usually entail some form of subscription charge.This means that, before you can take advantage of the discounted rates available, the subscription deal payable has to be clawed back. This produces some interesting tables, especially for those companies who make the bulk of their calls within the UK.  Such tables almost invariably show that businesses have to make up to £100 worth of calls per quarter before reaching a breakeven point on the subscription deals available.  Most ATCs, on the other hand, offer their discount rates for all calls, usually without any subscription being payable.And for those business users who make a lot of international calls, it is almost always the case that an ATC can beat BT's calling rates hands down.  This is clearly the case withOneTel, an Australian ATC with a UK subsidiary that offers some of the best international calls rates going and, despite its per-minute billing, is still a very good deal for small businesses.The bottom line to this is that almost every business customer of BT can save money by routing at least some of their national and international calls via an ATC.  Line rental, meanwhile, continues to be payable to BT, and local calls continue to be routed across BT's network. BT's sales staff will often argue that their calling plans are better than those of an ATC.Consider this, however: Cable &amp; Wireless, which offers only average ATC calling rates to its residential customers (ie those who make less calls than business users) offers a double moneyback guarantee to its customers if they find their bills would have been cheaper using BT for all their calls.To date, Cable &amp; Wireless has only paid out a few customers whose calling patterns are relatively unusual, and where its tariffs (for those calls) have proven to be not competitive enough. If Cable &amp; Wireless can do this for its residential customers, then BT business customers, who are entitled to better discounts on their BT call rates, must be a lot better off routing their calls via an ATC.  So what are you waiting for?Jargon busterATC:An alternative telecommunications carrier. In other words, a telephone company other than British Telecom.Carrier pre-selection:A technology which will allow you to tell BT which telecoms carrier you want to handle your calls. That means you will no longer need to prefix calls with any extra codes in order to use another carrier.The local loop:The much fought-over piece of wire that runs from the exchange to your business or home. At the moment, BT has a monopoly over this "last mile" of wire. This monopoly is due to end next year, when telecoms companies other than BT will be able to install equipment in local exchanges. This should allow more competition in telephone services, although just how much more is a matter of fierce debate.
Christmas, as we all know, is the season of stealing cars, shooting men in the face and wrestling with mucous-soaked demons. The wonder of videogames is that they allow you to indulge in such festive activities without getting stains on the carpet. This is the highest-selling season for the videogame industry, and developers rise to the challenge: the relative drought of summer and autumn suddenly turns into a flood of new games.Traditionally, Europe has to wait longer for games. Japan and the US already have two new consoles - Nintendo's GameCube and Microsoft's Xbox - as well as blockbuster titles such as Metal Gear Solid 2 that won't see the light of day over here until the new year. It is therefore a very important UK season for Sony, whose PlayStation2 has already sold more than 1m units here with little competition. Sega's plucky Dreamcast console, meanwhile, was discontinued by its manufacturers earlier this year, but there is still a last hurrah of quality software to comfort its owners this winter.Because it's peak season, stacks of appalling rubbish also gets published - presumably so that confused parents might accidentally buy the jerky educational game about bunny rabbits instead of the blood-drenched killfest that little Johnny really wants. Read on to avoid tear-streaked faces on Christmas morning.Grand Theft Auto 3Take 2PlayStation2, &#163;39.99Anarchic city-based crime simulation. Scurry around 3D urban environments, beating people to death with a baseball bat, shooting rival villains with a sniper rifle and stealing cars. As you work your way up the crime ladder, you get jobs from increasingly mad gangland bosses who want you to blow up a Triad fish factory or even bring down a helicopter. A grand illusion of amoral freedom.BurnoutAcclaimPlayStation2, &#163;39.99Driving cars around racetracks ad nauseam is all very well for the Gran Turismo 3 crowd, but sometimes you want a little more excitement. Burnout delivers, forcing you to drive like a maniac through huge city courses densely populated with civilian traffic. Fabulously moreish.HeadhunterSegaDreamcast, &#163;29.99Play a bounty hunter with a marvellously dodgy beard, hunting down criminals in a satirical Robocop-style future. Headhunter is like Metal Gear Solid transposed to sun-bleached Californian locations. There are pleasingly stealthy action sequences that require you to think out a strategy, and there's also a motorbike to zoom around on. Slick and fun, though frustrating in parts.Time Crisis 2NamcoPlayStation2, &#163;39.99Sick of having to curl your fingers around 10 different buttons in order to control some anally retentive elf? Fine: with this one, you use a gun. Unwrap the blue plastic firearm, point it at the TV and start blasting a swathe through hundreds of bad guys in a pulse-racing conversion of the arcade shooter. An ideal Boxing Day stress-reliever.Pro Evolution SoccerKonamiPlayStation2, &#163;39.99Probably the best football game ever made. The soundtrack is comically awful (the commentator has a surreal habit of insisting that "The sun's beating down" at night), and there are no authentic club teams yet. But the central gameplay mechanics are fluid and tactically deep, and the animation and player characters are superior to those of rival Fifa 2002.Virtua Tennis 2SegaDreamcast, &#163;29.99The sequel to Sega's near-perfect tennis game is a joy to play thanks to its wonderfully simple controls, which slowly reveal a huge depth of tactical strokeplay. Even Grandma will be able to pick it up and blast a few topspin winners past you. And now it has female players too. Don't ask where Anna Kournikova is, though: she's signed up to the competition.World Rally ChampionshipSonyPlayStation2, &#163;39.99Yes, another driving game. But this one's very muddy. And snowy. And rainy. Whether you like rallying games depends on whether you don't mind racing purely against the elements and the clock, rather than directly against other cars. But as rallying games go, this is superb - extraordinary lighting and weather effects, great throaty sound and slip-happy handling.Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2AcclaimGameboy Advance, &#163;34.99Baggy-trousered skateboard fiends will no doubt be buying Tony Hawk's 3 on the PlayStation2 this Christmas, but this version on Nintendo's new handheld is in many ways more impressive. It's a marvel of miniaturisation, and one of the few Gameboy Advance efforts that isn't a rehash of retro faves from the 1980s. One for the stocking.Civilization IIIInfogramesPC, &#163;29.99Sid Meier's series of history-of-human-civilisation sims receives a reworking that simplifies screen clutter and introduces "culture" as a new economy in the system. Civilization III is God gaming in excelsis: fiendishly complicated and, to some, life-changingly addictive. This puppy's for life, not just for Christmas.Devil May CryCapcomPlayStation2, &#163;39.99A very stylish horror game with amusing literary pretensions, Devil May Cry stars cloaked and sword-wielding hero Dante (geddit?) slicing demons through the circles of hell.A little repetitive, perhaps, but a fine aesthetic antidote to the po-faced, foggy clunkiness of rival horror contender Silent Hill 2. (The latter's sea of monsters spewing "toxic mucal phlegm", though, does have a certain post-Christmas-lunch aptness.) Very swish, sir.Steven Poole is the author of Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames (Fourth Estate)
If you are just hitting the Web, remember you can get to Guardian Online's URLs without typing by hitting the onlineOnlinefirst.
Is the PC market picking up? You'd expect sales to increase in the run up to Christmas, but you'd also expect Intel to make sure it had enough processors to meet demand. However, there does seem to have been a minor glitch, according to a story atPC World.com.Intel has had trouble keeping up with demand for Pentium 4 chips, but it turns out to be connected with a switch from 423-pin to 478-pin versions. Never mind: the chip industry has had a tough year, and at least now there's the first glimmer of a suggestion of an idea that things may getbetterinstead of worse.
The government today launched a campaign to reassure the public it is safe to shop using the internet, after research found that nearly half of UK consumers are concerned about credit card fraud online.In the run up to the lucrative Christmas retail period, the government is backing its commitment to e-commerce with a campaign to raise awareness of common-sense guidelines meant to prevent shoppers from becoming victims of internet fraud.A survey commissioned by the Department of Trade and Industry found that 26% of people in the UK have bought something online within the past 12 months. However, the poll - conducted by Mori - also found that 47% were concerned about credit card fraud and 32% were worried about giving personal information to websites.Their concerns are well founded: analysts predicted yesterday that internet fraud will cost at least £50m this Christmas. Credit rating and fraud prevention firm Experian said that criminals were increasingly turning to using card details to order items over the internet or the telephone, knowing they are virtually untraceable.The cost to retailers was £57m in the year to March 2001, an increase of 94% on the previous 12 months, according to their report. Experian said the problem could top £110m by next year, with a large part of the fraud taking place around Christmas.In light of those statistics, the government's campaign will seek to reassure potential online shoppers that in the EU, card companies must refund someone whose credit or debit card has been used fraudulently.The DTI is also encouraging consumers to shop on sites that have either been recommended or belong to a hallmark scheme, such as TrustUK Logo. To protect their interests, shoppers should also note the supplier's phone number and postal address and keep details of what was ordered and any confirmation message.The consumer minister, Melanie Johnson, said: "We know that some consumers are reluctant to use the internet, for example because of concerns about credit card security and their rights when buying online. This is why we have developed top tips to help consumers - and these should be particularly useful in the run-up to Christmas."
Tracked: the call recordMore than half the population of this country carries a tracking device. Its records can be accessed by police officers, intelligence authorities, customs officials and Inland Revenue inspectors. Crimes, unpaid taxes or government dues can be investigated using this information. The data is held for several months: in some cases, for several years.We carry these devices voluntarily. They are called mobile phones.Last March, the mobile network Orange said it kept location information for six months and passed it on   when obliged to by law, but wouldn't discuss details.Online can now reveal that the base station used by an Orange subscriber is retained at the beginning and end of every call, whether outbound or inbound, including calls to retrieve voicemail.The system also records the base station used by the other person, if they are part of the Orange network. A call to its answering service produces a destination code of 65535.This information was obtained under the Data Protection Act, which gives individuals rights to see data held on them. Orange staff repeatedly denied the existence of location data, then said it wasn't covered by   the Act. It took two months of inquiries, and countless telephone calls and letters, before the firm produced the document pictured opposite.Approached for comment this week, the company said it trains its staff in data protection and privacy, and "is continually looking at ways of adapting its customer service in order to meet the fresh challenges brought about by new legislation and regulation". But the firm refuses to provide the location of the base stations numbered in the document, saying this is not held against personal records and is "commercially sensitive".This is despite the provisions of the Data Protection Act 1998, which says: "An individual is entitled_ to have communicated to him in an intelligible form_ the information constituting any personal data of which that individual is the data subject." It adds that when data "expressed in terms which are not intelligible without explanation the copy must be accompanied by an explanation of those terms".The situation is now under consideration by the Office of the Information Commissioner, which polices data protection law.Each of the four UK mobile phone networks, Vodafone, Orange, BT Cellnet and One2One (also used by Virgin Mobile), controls several thousand base stations - BT Cellnet has more than 6,600 - through which subscribers' calls are connected.When a phone is switched on, and every few minutes when working, it sends out a signal, which you can hear on nearby sound equipment as a sequence of interference. All base stations of that network within range respond, and the firm allocates the phone to one station.BT Cellnet will, for legal purposes, state that a call using one of its base stations was made from a phone within 35 kilometres of that station. John Fletcher, a senior consultant for the telecoms consultancy Analysys, says 35km is the "practical maximum" range for base stations used by a GSM 900 network, the kind operated by Cellnet and Vodafone. Orange and One2One operate GSM 1800 networks, which use base stations within half this range.In practice, the base station is likely to be far closer. This can be because of hills shortening its range, but is usually because towns and cities have large numbers of stations to cater for the greater demand."You may find that the cell radius is collapsed to 500 or 600 metres," says Fletcher.   "Then there are picocells, 50 metres in radius, for office blocks or shopping centres." He adds that networks plan urban coverage for different kinds of users, so an urban motorway might feature a base station positioned to cover a long stretch of road, with other smaller cells positioned for pedestrians.So the base station provides a fairly accurate idea of a user's position, especially within cities. As a precise locator it is fallible, as a network may not allocate a phone to the nearest station, particularly if congested.However, the Orange data showed consistency for calls made from this reporter's home in central Bath: all went through base stations 39307 and 39308.It also shows how cells can change within a few hundred yards. Two calls made on separate days from Bath Spa railway station, less than half a mile to the south, used base station 20428.Even without the location of the base stations, a user could employ this data to prove his approximate location, if he had previously been witnessed connecting through the base station cited.Law enforcement authorities can obtain both the data and the location of the numbered base stations. Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act of last year, such an application has to pass a test of "necessity". "It is an invasion of someone's privacy, so proportionality is the key," says a home office spokesperson.But the reasons for application are wide: from national security, to crime, preventing   disorder, public health and safety, emergency protection of an individual's physical or mental health, through to assessing or collecting any tax or other charge due to a government department. Law enforcement authorities contacted by Online refused to discuss how applications work.Although the anti-terrorism bill which was rushed through parliament isn't going to change the conditions for access, it is set to allow communication providers to retain this data for longer. The provisional figure is a year (seewww.guardian.co.uk/online/story/0,3605,593343,00.htmland the home secretary can make retention compulsory through secondary legislation.This may affect Orange, which currently retains location data for six months. Vodafone already keeps it for a year, BT Cellnet for "at least a year", and Virgin Mobile has retained it since its foundation in November 1999. It plans to hold such data for six years, citing financial regulations. One2One refused to disclose its retention period. Other than this information, none of the networks would discuss location data further than to say they complied with the law.Location data can be useful in fighting crime. There have already been a number of high-profile cases where mobile phone records have been sought by police. However, savvy criminals are increasingly buying unregistered prepaid mobiles, or stealing other people's, in order to escape the tracking abilities of their mobile   phones. And there's a wider point. "The fundamental question is whether, in a democratic society, it is necessary to track everyone's movements and store them for long periods of time, to prevent and detect crime," says Caspar Bowden, director of the think-tank the Foundation for Information Policy Research."The police have no compunction about lobbying for these retention powers in secret, but there should be a wider debate about basic values needed to preserve liberty," he says, adding that judicially authorised retention of data on named individuals would be preferable.Location data is getting more accurate. BT Cellnet already offers traffic news based on which base station the caller uses, and the potential for such services would be greatly increased by tighter accuracy. One bright idea is that phone users could get text messages from shops as they passed them, with special offers enticing them inside.More usefully, accurate location data could save lives. A call to the emergency services from a mobile cannot be traced accurately, unlike one from a landline: if a mobile caller rings off without giving a location, little can usually be done. The US authorities recently told mobile makers to include technology to solve this problem. This could also help motorists who break down.To achieve this, phones could be fitted with GPS (global positioning satellite) technology, which can be accurate to within a few feet. However, this would increase   the cost of mobiles.Or networks could use triangulation, requiring no phone upgrades. This long-standing technique uses time-delays and strengths of radio signals between a transmitter and at least two base stations to calculate the user's position.Analysys's John Fletcher   says triangulation would be possible with existing network hardware, although it would require new software and procedures, and be less accurate and reliable than GPS, although far more accurate than the current system."This is under active investigation," he says. "The first   thing would be location-based tariffs. Vodafone introduced these in 1992, but withdrew them when it realised the phones didn't always use the cell nearest the home address."Networks charging by location, would presumably retain your exact location with your billing information - and if data is retained, the police can see it.Given everyone from MI5 to the tax man can check out where you have been, why are the networks reluctant to release it to you in an intelligible form, or even discuss its existence?Analysys's John Fletcher thinks this reticence dates from the networks' race to establish coverage. "It was advantageous to keep their locations quiet," he says. "Now, I think there are two reasons: physical security of assets from vandals or extortionists, and public concern over microwave radiation."Rupert Battcock, an IT lawyer at Nabarro Nathanson, adds another: "Telecoms providers may fear they will be flooded with requests: maybe that's why they are reluctant to do this."But if they have facilities to provide it to someone else, such as the police, and it can be shown to qualify as personal data, I'm hard-pressed to see how this request could be denied."
Since Richard Hollingsworthwebcasthis life with HIV for the world to see last year, the United Nations estimates that 5.3m people have been infected with the     virus.Not many have followed his webcasting first, but as World Aids Day approaches this Saturday,     the internet has now come of age in providing a wealth of resources, advice for friends and family,     and possibly even a crumb of comfort for those living with HIV/Aids.One area that the internet can     naturally target is young people who haven't been terrified into safer sex by images of tombstones     toppling over on TV public health ads during the 1980s.According to a report just published by theSchools Health Education Unitin Exeter, despite the inclusion of HIV and Aids on     the national curriculum 10 years ago, 40% of 11 year olds have not heard of the virus. Meanwhile,     16% of the 15-year-old boys surveyed in 3,600 schools still thought HIV could be caught from a     toilet seat. Yet 1,174 of 15- to 19-year-olds in the UK are HIV positive."The internet is very     motivating for young people," says Dr David Regis at the Schools Health Education Unit. "We need to     make safe sex education cool and the internet is good for diverting young people from the beardie     weirdies like me who do the research."Many initiatives have been set up to target young people,     such as the department of health'sMindbodysoul.gov,Health Initiatives for Young PeopleandWhatudo, which aim to put young people in touch with the     facts and each other.There are also touching personal accounts posted at theHIVe weblog. Anabel Kanabus of Avert, theUK's Aids Education Research Trust, points out that as with all things web, the rate of change has been enormous."When we set up our website in 1995, there was very little information. Now we get 1.4m hits a week     from 100 different countries."The Terrence Higgins Trust, the UK's largest HIV/Aids charity, has     not been slow to catch on either, and its website is now a one-stop shop for information   , ie helplines. But for more depth of information, theUN Aids siteis a solid resource for statistics, information and news: itsinteractive Aids Clockmakes chilling     viewing indeed.However, rather than being a     statistic,www.aegis.commay prove a useful source of support with links to alternative medicine     sites and chatrooms.The Body.comfor example, launched in 1995, now has 15     doctors dispensing advice online and 40,000 documents on HIV-related topics.There are always     tough personal choices to be made when living with HIV and some good advice can be found atwww.aliveandwell.org, which gives advice on starting a family, among other things.Living with the     virus with western standards of health care is one thing. Living with the virus in a developing     country, quite another. According to the UN, of the 36.1m people living with HIV/Aids, 25.3m are insub-saharan Africa, but this has not stopped South Africa's president, Thabo     Mbeki, from rocking received wisdom by saying that HIV and Aids are not related.He is not alone.     Those atwww.virusmyth.net/aidsalso believe that since April 23, 1984 whenDr Robert Gallo     announcedthat he had found "the probable cause of HIV", ( there has only been a correlation between the     HIV virus and the Aids infection.The general opinion, however, is thatanti-retroviral drugsare successful in suppressing the virus. These     drugs are expensive, especially for developing countries. But this year in a landmark case, the     Pharmaceuticals Manufacturers Association withdrew court action against the South African     government and theTreatment Action Campaign.The radio has helped spread     information about the virus in South Africa but the internet has a long way to go to penetrate the     developing world. Yet people in the developed world can also be excluded from online access. To     counter this, clinics in south London have provided free internet access since October this year in     conjunction with the Terrence Higgins Trust.World Aids Day, however, is not just about remembering     the 22m who have died fromHIV-related illnesses. It's about life, and more     specifically, the lives of the 36.1m people with the virus worldwide. To this end, there are positive     things everyone can do.Crusaidis the UK's largest fundraiser with a host of     money-making events (most of which are fun) throughout the year.If this is too tame, cause a stir     with some direct action withActUP, a group of activists who organise demos in     New York and whose website offers civil disobedience training. On the other hand, you may rather     cause a stir for World Aids Day down the disco while raising money for charitywww.absolutelyglittered.co.uk.
As the blindfold was removed, my eyes blurred, adjusting to the strip lighting. The room was small and didn't really ooze crime fighting. This was the kind of office you would expect to see in a US sitcom: neat desks, pictures of New York's Flat Iron building and rows of labelled lever arch files. This was no hardcore unit investigating drug trafficking or gun running. It was too corporate. This was an office full of software piracy investigators.I'd arrived at the office under a veil of secrecy, blindfolded and bound by countless terms and conditions. Death threats to staff have meant that the location of the office and the identity of investigators are strictly confidential. I had half expected to be in more bohemian surroundings, with technical whiz kids wearing ponytails, jeans and "I Love XP" T-shirts. Far from it. There were suits and handshakes, no high   fives and Kiss FM. Cyber policing is a sombre business.The office has been set up by Microsoft and the Business Software Alliance (BSA), an anti-piracy body, and contains three investigators whose sole remit is to bring down websites that contravene software piracy laws.Microsoft has lost billions of dollars to software pirates over the years - &#163;364m last year alone. It's no great secret that there is money in software piracy. The rewards are so great that the market for illegal software has attracted a mix of unscrupulous individuals and organised crime groups across the globe, at least according to Microsoft,   and the software giant blames the growth of the internet for fuelling this attraction.Microsoft claims there are more than 2m websites dedicated to software piracy offering a mix of pirated boxed software, illegal downloads and code cracking programs designed to bypass security features such as the recent Product Activation Key in Windows XP.In fact the launch of Windows XP last month triggered a new wave of interest in code cracking tools as Microsoft proudly trumpeted the arrival of its product activation key. For the team of investigators, it has been a busy period. During major product launches it embarks on special projects to search and destroy piracy websites."On one day we took down 800 sites," said the spokeswoman with the US accent and probable owner of the New York pictures.This is a phenomenal figure given that the unit's monthly average for "takedowns" is anything between 200 and 300 sites.One of the investigators was following up on some leads and browsing heavily. "Every lead is followed up," he said. "The unit gets between 600 and 1,000 leads a month from a mix of the BSA, law enforcement agencies and the general public."We check out every site and if there is an infringement we have to try and bring it down," he added.Bringing down sites is the ultimate goal of the unit, although it plays a major part in gathering evidence should an offender consistently resurface and then be liable for prosecution."Firstly we capture the entire site using a tool called Grab-a-Site," explained the investigator. "This captures everything - the code, email addresses, links - and gives us a date and time of capture so we can use it to prove the site existed."He also checks that the links and downloads work, constantly taking screenshots to pile on the evidence. For boxed software, the lead is passed to a network of test purchasers, who are "made up of private investigators and ex-policemen," said the spokeswoman, who will then follow up and buy software through bogus companies.It suddenly became very clear that while this office was small, it was part of a much   larger process. This becomes even more apparent when you hear that the unit has received threats from disgruntled pirates. Microsoft claims that organised crime is at large in the software piracy world so it's no surprise that the threats are taken very seriously.The investigator moves on. With the evidence bagged he pulls up a copy of Sam Spade, a readily available application for tracing IP addresses   across the internet."Anyone using the internet can be traced through their IP address," he said with a wry smile. Within minutes he had traced the ISP for the Back Ups site. "We'll send them a takedown notice requesting them to remove the site and replace it with a BSA holding page, saying the site had contravened the copyright law."Pulling sites down more quickly than the pirates can put them up is the challenge.   One persistent offender that refused to comply was sent a "We Know Where You Live" type email message after he had been located through another readily available application called NeoTrace. After receiving an email with a map and aerial photo of his street, he was singing like a baby.If only it was always that easy. As I was ushered away the investigator was already working on his next batch of leads. The growth of the internet and increasing sophistication of pirates suggests that the unit will soon be looking for bigger premises because this is undoubtedly a crime show that will keep on running.
Missing youThe National Missing Persons Helpline - a UK charity dedicated to helping missing people and supporting their families while they wait for news - has just launched its first website. If you wish to call home, have information about a missing person, or are concerned about a missing friend, this is a good place to start. The site joins the excellent Look4them.org that already provides support.www.missingpersons.orgwww.look4them.orgYahoo!A fortnight after it won in the US courts over the French government in its Nazi memorabilia court battle, Yahoo found itself mired in controversy again. Last week, news broke that it had been deleting messages from its talkboards such as those that say that the US deserved the attacks or had links to extremist sites. But some users even claimed messages were removed because of the use of heavy sarcasm.www.yahoo.comAvatar's backThe Guardian's former digital artist, Michael Avatar, is back with a new text-based piece.www.bbc.co.uk/arts/digital/guestartists/windowsKid NapsterThe record industry's long-awaited response to Napster and file-sharing is beginning to shape up. Both Aimster and Emusic.com have launched subscription services in the past month. Emusic is offering unlimited access to a catalogue of 200,000 MP3s. It is clearly going for the older end of the market, as its catalogue is full of Elvis Costello, Miles Davis and the like. How many   will be prepared to cough up $14.99 per month or $120 a year is a moot point. Aimster costs $4.95 a month. Join now to get the second month free.www.aimster.comwww.Emusic.comShelter meIhavemoved.com, the clever little site that helps you let people know you have moved house, has launched an initiative with Shelter, a homeless charity. Those logging on and using will automatically trigger a donation to the charity. The site hopes to raise &#163;100,000.www.ihavemoved.com/shelterOff the railsThe UK has the worst transport network in Europe. The Rail Passengers Council is the   official passenger watchdog for England, Scotland and Wales. Its site, Onthetrains.com aims to monitor to Britain's rail services and press for improvements. Members are encouraged to discuss issues with a network of people with similar concerns or requirements. The site is only a trial for use on Scotrail and Virgin Crosscountry services but should be expanded soon.www.onthetrains.comShokk moveShokk is a new personal fitness site for kids. It allows kids to log their activity - from homework to hockey - and calculate how much energy they have used. Shokk emails an update each week to encourage and motivate kids to be more active.www.shokk.co.ukFriends dividedWhat's gone wrong with Friends Reunited? This summer's surprise success website has come in for its fair share of flack lately. First, Pop Bitch reported that some of the posher schools were being invaded by bogus members. Then, threats of legal action emerged from disgruntled teachers sick of being slagged off on the site's memory board. Now the witty webzine Seethru.co.uk has brilliantly sent up the site with its Bullies Reunited. Of course, it's not all bad. The site is still one of the fastest growing in the UK and it's got lots of people willing to pay for its services.www.popbitch.comwww.seethru.co.uk/zine/features/bullies_reunitedwww.friendsreunited.co.ukNew &amp; noted&#183;Graduate dating service:www.IvoryTowers.net&#183;Christmas shopping:www.2020Christmas.com&#183;A tribute to the victims of September 11:http://cantcryhardenough.com&#183;Nominate the greatest Briton:www.bbc.co.uk/greatbritons&#183;The TUC 's website promoting life-long learning:www.learningservices.org.uk&#183;A pet for your mobile:www.jippii.co.uk/pumpui&#183;Personalised holiday planner:www.i-escape.com&#183;Technics' 30th birthday:www.technics1210.comSix of the bestLord of the RingsDownload new trailerwww.lordoftherings.netUnofficial sitewww.theonering.netTolkien Societywww.tolkiensociety.orgThe timelinehttp://gollum.usask.ca/tolkienThe tonguewww.dcs.ed.ac.uk/misc/local/TolkLangBored of the Ringswww.almac.co.uk/personal/timw/books/bored.htm
When you think of Elton John, what springs to mind? Heart-rending ballads or shopping sprees on a
   stupendous scale?Consignia seems to hope it is the latter, as it has roped in Sir Elton to promote
   its Parcelpost service. Its television ad shows Sir Elton gazing longingly at goods on the internet and
   then being swamped by parcels, including a poodle-shaped one. The aim of the ad is not to sell
   poodles, however.It is to encourage consumers to use Parcelpost this Christmas, and if they buy
   their gifts online, so much the better. For online retailers, it is more important than that.For them,
   the run-up to Christmas is make-or-break time. This holiday shopping season is particularly
   important as online retailers that want to stay in business must produce strong sales in the face of
   an economic downturn and plummeting consumer confidence. At first glance, the outlook for online
   retailers seems good.The Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG), the e-commerce industry body,
   estimates that UK consumers will spend £3.94bn online this year. A third of that will be spent in the
   Christmas shopping period. Furthermore, the Office of National Statistics says online consumer
   spending increased by 18.3% from September to October, while spending in traditional retail stores
   fell by 0.1%. The year-on-year increase is even more impressive. Online sales were up 145% this
   October on the same month last year.Despite this growth, online retail sales still account for only
   2% of all UK retail sales, even though a third of British consumers visit e-commerce sites more than
   twice a week.Online retailers can get the horses to water, but they need to figure out how to make
   them drink. The key to e-commerce success is to remember that selling on the net is pretty much
   like selling any other way.In the real world, retailing encompasses a range of vendors - from the
   shifty geezer flogging merchandise from a trestle table to the luxury goods stores where price tags
   are non-existent. The internet is no different. Unfortunately for online retailers, consumers find it
   difficult to trust e-commerce sites because they often cannot tell the difference between
   shiftygeezer.co.uk and genuine online retailers.Online retailers should make it as easy as possible
   for visitors to their website to see their address and phone numbers, their shipping costs, their
   policy on returns, and most importantly, their privacy policy. Many e-commerce sites fail to provide
   this information. Recent studies by both the Office for Fair Trading and the London Chamber of
   Commerce found that more than 40% of online retailers were flouting at least one consumer law. Are
   they crazy?It is difficult enough to entice consumers to buy online without sites blatantly
   disregarding consumer rights. In the real world, shoppers like stores that carry a wide range of
   goods at competitive prices. If they have a query, they want it answered promptly and competently,
   and once they have purchased, they want helpful and efficient after-sales service.It is just the
   same online, although e-commerce stores need to have even better customer service. Online
   consumers are more sceptical, and are more likely to have heard horror stories about Christmas
   gifts being ordered in early December and being delivered at the end of January.In the real world,
   women do most of the shopping, and this is increasingly the case online. NetValue says that 55% of
   new internet users in the UK this year have been women, while NOP research has found that women
   constitute the majority of shoppers at websites selling clothes, toys, groceries and domestic
   appliances.If e-commerce sites follow retailing best practice, it shouldn't be so difficult for them to
   persuade consumers to buy Christmas gifts online. Last year, the average UK consumer went
   shopping for gifts five times, spent 15 hours looking for presents, traipsed 20 miles and queued for
   two hours to pay. This is according to Amazon, which has a vested interest in pointing out the pain
   of real-world shopping, but the point is valid.Online retailers that wish to enjoy festive cheer this
   Christmas need to market their sites as convenient and safe places to shop. They also need to
   target more of their advertising towards women. Once they have garnered a corner of the market,
   they need to get to know customers and treat them like royalty. Those site owners have, of course,
   one alternative. Bag Sir Elton John as a customer, and they won't need anyone else's business,
   especially if they can ship him a poodle or two.
Foiled againDave Birch's column about smart use of the internet to fight crime reminded me of an     incident last week in Manchester (Second sight, November 22). A car drove through a pedestrian     crossing against the light and I wrote the registration number and the time on the corner of the     Guardian, thinking I would be able to email the information to the Manchester Police. I was     encouraged by the online crime reporting linkwww.online.police.ukbut this site only allows users     to report, theft, criminal damage/vandalism, theft from a motor vehicle and damage to a motor     vehicle. The final insult was the absence of an email address or even a feedback form on this site,     so I couldn't even suggest that they add traffic offences. I gave up.Adam Funkjfunk@co.umist.ac.ukReality bytesWith regard to Dave Birch (Second sight, November 22), I think     his contents are incorrect. Once again a reporter is assuming things are not happening because they     cannot see the secret reports on the real abuse of encryption and use of steganography across the     internet. His statement: "There has been no reported evidence that the terrorists actually used     encryption. Moreover, the use of encryption is still relatively rare. Fewer than 1% of the billions of     emails sent around the world each day are encrypted," is foolish. It only needs 10 encrypted emails     to kill 7,000.No one here appears to be saying the "internet is evil". No one can blame the internet.     Do we blame the gun, the bullet or the person who pulled the trigger after a shooting? Exactly! The     internet is only a tool of the hacker or terrorist. In the intelligence business it is best to assume     that it can or is being done, rather than it isn't.Geoff Guygeoffrey.guy@energis.comRISC assessedWith regard to Colin Matthews' lament over Acorn (Feedback, November 8) I have some good news -     the successes of Acorn's technologies are alive and well. Back in 1990, 12 engineers from Acorn     took the Acorn RISC (Reduced Instruction Set Computing) design, which at the time was the world's     first commercially used single-chip RISC processor, and founded ARM.This was funded by Apple and     VSLI, and was charged with developing a new RISC-based microprocessor standard. Over 10 years on,     ARM is the world's leading designer of RISC microprocessors. Its designs are inside mobile phones,     handheld computers, MP3 players - chances are, you have just used a device which has an ARM     designed microprocessor inside it. While Acorn as a single company has sadly become a part of     computing history, many of the technologies it pioneered live on, and have become part of the     success stories of a new generation of UK companies.John Williamssilicon_2@hotmail.comGo pottyIn his review of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (Games watch, November 22), Mike     Anderiesz says there are "no more than a few days of enjoyment" in the game - what an     understatement! As a great Harry Potter fan I walked into the shop with £30 hard-saved pocket     money in my hand thinking this had to be a great game. The gameplay is smooth and the graphics are     great but from start to finish it only took me five hours - that's five pounds an hour! I think that     kids should get to review kids games and as an experienced game player I would like to volunteer my     services.Owen Fenn (age 12)(email address withheld)Jack it inJack Schofield (Ask Jack, November     22) offers advice to an unlucky user unable to use Word, despite upgrading the memory to 384MB.     I've used large mainframe computers with less physical memory than that! And suggesting that the     user should "upgrade" to Windows XP, is like advising someone whose house is burning down to throw     petrol on it to douse the blaze.Dr David Harperadh@sanger.ac.uk
Silent Hill 2PlayStation 2	&#163;44.99 Konami 	****Think Resident Evil or Alone in the Dark were frightening? Think again, as Silent Hill 2   has arrived. Scarier than a trip to a drunken dentist and more worrying than Southampton FC's recent defending, Silent Hill 2 is the Twin Peaks of gaming.As before, the action is set in a mid-west town where the fog is thick and the inhabitants unfriendly. But this time the plot is even more twisted and the baddies even more disturbing as you set out to find your supposedly dead wife. From foggy graveyards to dingy hospitals this is a graphical treat with even the cut-scenes - a superfluous artistic vanity in most games - highly watchable.Perhaps most impressive of all, is the sense of place that SH2 engineers. You really feel part of the small town, with the thumping joypad mimicking your heartbeat. And    then there is the sound, so often undervalued by games producers. Whether it is the clanking of pipes or a crackling radio, SH2 demands headphones or decent speakers. Playing late at night, with the sound up and the lights   off, is highly recommended. That's assuming the thought of being skewered by a blood-soaked nurse, complete with warped sound effects and shadowy visuals, isn't enough to send you scurrying off to Newsnight.Unfortunately, two of the most unsettling elements are unintentional - the camera and the controls. The former is unhelpful, with fixed viewpoints that make it difficult to get your bearings. The stodgy controls are flawed, stuck in a Resident Evil time warp where analogue controllers and responsive actions are a distant dream.Luckily the dark atmosphere and engaging story compensate enough to make Silent Hill 2 the pinnacle of the survival horror genre.  (GH)David Beckham  SoccerPlayStation £29.99 Rage ***It is not as bad as you think. Often, there is an inverse ratio between the size of the licence and the     quality of the video game, and in the UK, there is no bigger name to sponsor a game than the boy     Beckham.However, this game is quite playable, but not in the same league as the competition.      The problem with football action games is that the market is sewn up.There's EA's Fifa series, one     of the best- selling franchises of all time, while for aficionados there's Konami's ISS Pro series,     which now uses stats from Championship Manager. Perhaps only a big-name title could hope to dent     this duopoly, and David Beckham Soccer will sell truckloads.But in spite of Rage's experience, going     back to Striker on the Commodore Amiga, this is just not as good a game.      DBS looks and plays more like a Fifa title than ISS Pro, but the controls do not feel as natural. The     graphics are quite good by PlayStation standards, as is the commentary by Jonathan Pearce and Ron     Atkinson. The replay facilities are good.The com puter AI seems above average, though defending is     feeble. While the controls are simple, you can string together some great-looking plays.      The game lets you play a full season, with more than 200 up-to-date club and international teams.     For a console title, the range is impressive. And for beginners, there is a good training mode.      If you just want to win, play as Manchester United and use Ryan Giggs to outpace the defence. You     can try to dribble through with Barthez, but he tends to lose the ball on the edge of the opponents'     penalty area, letting them score a breakaway goal in an empty net. (JS)HeadhunterDreamcast £29.99 Amuze/Sega ****Crime prevention has been privatised. The Anti     Crime Network tracks down wanted felons to harvest their organs for more deserving citizens.     Someone keep this game away from David Blunkett: it might give him ideas. You play Jack Wade, a     chunky dude with a dodgy beard who works for the ACN. This is a stealth-action game in third-person     3D, so comparisons to Metal Gear Solid are inevitable.You must pass licence tests that are almost     identical to MGS's VR missions, with glowing vectorised walls and wireframe guards. Wade also has a     stealthy neck-snapping move that Solid Snake would approve of, and a variety of weapons. Unlike     Snake, however, Wade rides a motorbike.The environments range widely: from sunny Californian     streets and a great set-piece in a shopping mall, to more aesthetically cliched laboratory and     ship-bound interiors.The game's quirkily satirical story, meanwhile, is developed with unusually witty     Robocop-style newsflashes and blipverts. Headhunter's over-the-shoulder camera can get into     trouble at times, and point infuriatingly in the wrong direction in the middle of a firefight. The     game's puzzles are bog-standard linear affairs: just find object A and take it to location B.There is     also a more limited player vocabulary: Wade does not have the range of movement and tactical     choice that Solid Snake enjoys. Yet the game makes up for these flaws with the stylised solidity of     its architecture, an excellent symphonic score, and the well-executed fun of picking off enemies who     don't even know you are there.Headhunter is no Metal Gear Solid-killer, but it is a pleasant surprise     from the hitherto unknown Swedish developers. It is also coming out for PlayStation2, but not until     January. (SP)
How long did the early Sinclair computers take to develop?The Z80 took about nine months from start to finish. One of my sons had been using a TandyRadio Shack TRS80, which he really loved. I could see how exciting these were for young people but the cost of them was very prohibitive. I felt sure that if a working computer could be made for a reasonable price, then there was potentially a mass market for it. We had to come up with some neat tricks to reduce the costs such as using a TV display instead of a separate monitor and having a tape-recorder in place of a floppy disk drive. Instead of having a video chip and video memory, I used theZ80 processor chipto do everything. I also used the main memory as the only memory.Are people today incredulous of how impressive 1K Ram was back then?It really is hard to believe how memory is squandered now and how much was achieved with so little in the past. I find it sad that the modern PC is so cumbersome and that such a monopoly exists in the operating system, which allows the monopolist to be less than perfect - to put it mildly. Effectively every secretary is being given a computer worth &#163;1,000 to do the job of a typewriter.Why did the Cambridge Z88 fail to capture the public's affection in the same way as the Spectrum?By the time of theZ88the IBM-style PC had become such a standard that it may well have affected our sales. The small display was also a negative feature. In the calculator days, we were caught out because we didn't make the components for the chips and displays. Japan stole the march on Europe with that and we could not buy the components as cheaply as the Japanese manufacturers, so we lost out.What are you working on?The next product Sinclair Research will be launching is an electric wheelchair drive, which we developed because a lot of people asked when we brought out theZeta bicycle driveif we could adapt similar, low cost, technology to work for wheelchairs. Other long-term projects include a low-cost, ultra-lightweight, bicycle and an electric vehicle - I am afraid I can't go into detail about it!Favourite gadgets?I am not enormously into gadgets. I don't even really use a computer on a day-to-day basis. I use aCasio Scientific pocket calculatorand mySwiss Army penknife.Does the UK games industry owe the Spectrum a large debt?I am quite sure that the dominant position of the UK games industry stemmed from the Spectrum. I often have games programmers coming up to me telling me how they started on the Spectrum. It is very pleasing that the early computers triggered such interest.Visit:www.sinclair-research.co.uk
Speed readingWe use a Sony Vaio PCG-FX101 laptop and want to buy an external CD Rewriter for backing up files and making music CDs. Burnproof technology seems rare and expensive for external writers. Is it risky without it? Is it worth paying more for higher speed reading/writing?Ken &amp; Katekenandkate@hotmail.comJack Schofield replies:Any external CD-R drive will do the job reliably if you set it to make CDs at the lowest speed (which takes about half an hour) and don't do anything else while the CD is being made. However, if you want to make a lot of discs quickly while word processing and surfing the net then even the most expensive drive may not keep up. The problem is that data needs to reach the disc at a constant speed, and a buffer is used to store data to even out the flow. If there is not enough data in the buffer then a space is left on the CD, which may prevent it from working. This is a "buffer underrun". Sanyo developed a patented technology to make drives Buffer UnderRuN Proof, or Burnproof for short. Sony would obviously like you to buy an external Sony drive using i.Link, its version of IEEE-1394 (Firewire). Plextor's new PlexWriter S88TU with USB1.1/2.0 connection and Iomega's Star Trek-style Predator are among the many drives aimed at "stylish portable" buyers.Ext finderIs there a directory/dictionary of file extensions to help me identify the correct application for "opening" attachments to email messages?Kurt Sachsd&amp;k.sachs@geo2.poptelorg.ukJS:I usehttp://filext.com/Hotmail againI use my Hotmail address when subscribing for newsletters, surveys, etc. These usually contain hyperlinks, which I click on. However, they often do not open   properly, ie the page seems to be downloading, but when it says "done", the page is blank. Is this a problem with Hotmail or the pages?Colin Piercecolpierce@hotmail.comJS:Hotmail attempts to open hyperlinks inside a Hotmail frame, which does not always work. If possible, switch to a different email service such as Yahoo mail, which opens hyperlinks in new windows.CC writerWhen I send an email to multiple recipients, they can see each other's email addresses. How do I avoid this?Nick AtherleyNickatherley@cableinet.co.ukJS:Put the addresses in the bcc: (blind carbon copy) box instead of the To: or cc: boxes.AutocompleteIs there a way to clear out the autocomplete entries in Internet Explorer?Alan Hardingalanharding@ajharding.freeserve.co.ukJS:Go to Tools|Internet Options, click the tab for Content, then click the button marked Autocomplete.Out of sortsCouldn't someone spend just a few quid on teaching computers to count the way humans do ie 1, 2, 3, 4 not 1, 10, 11, 12?Michael PattenMichael.Patten@btinternet.comJS:Files are sorted from the left and you are counting from the right. You may not like "leading zeros" (01, 02, 03) but the computer needs them. Attempts to program round the problem would probably create even more problems in other cases.Backchat&#183;Several readers responded that the most obvious answer to Javier Vidal's Hanging PC problem was a faulty memory chip - one of the physical problems I might perhaps have mentioned. It happened to Tonestones@ntlworld.comwho suggests running a memory test utility calledMemtest86. Javier upgraded to Windows XP, which is complaining about his Mesh PC's BIOS chip attempting to read and write to illegal IO port addresses connected with ACPI (the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface). A BIOS upgrade would seem to be the next step.
1. Apple iPodCan Apple breath life into a virtually dead MP3 market? The iPod has the right     credentials. It looks stylish, is pocketable and has an integrated 5GB hard disk with enough space for     1,000 tunes. The rub is that it has a Firewire, not USB, connection. And while this enables users to     transfer tracks significantly faster than most rivals, it rules out the iPod for anyone who owns a     non-Firewire Mac (ie original iMacs and iBooks). Still, they can always upgrade hardware, which cynics     have suggested was Apple's primary reason for releasing the i-Pod. Great gadget, though. £3502. Compaq iPaq H3660This time last year Microsoft was nowhere in the PDA (personal digital     assistant) market. If you bought a handheld PC it had to be a Palm or Handspring. However, the     arrival of an improved version of the Pocket PC operating systems coupled with superb PDAs from     Compaq,  and Hewlett-Packard has changed everything. Techie Britons were so excited by its     arrival that for a while there was a waiting list to buy one. And a superb colour screen, stylish     design, excellent battery life and seamless compatibility with Windows-based PCs means the iPaq is     one of the most coveted PDAs. £4003. Philips DVDR1000Almost two years after it was announced,     Philips brought its DVD video recorder, above, to the UK. And home cinema fans concurred it was     certainly worth the wait for the quality of recordings made on to the DV+RW format discs. Those     disks could then be played back in existing DVD players and drives. Hot on Philips' heels came     Panasonic with its DVD-Ram video recorder. For the time being, they can only be played in the     recorder. However, the DVD-Ram disks are capable of a few neat tricks, such as enabling the user to     watch a programme on one part of the disk while recording a programme on to another. £1,1004.   Sony Clie PEG-N770After a disappointing entry into the PDA market with the Clie PEG S300E, Sony     upped the ante with perhaps the best Palm OS-based PDA on sale, above. It features the same     33MHz Motorola Dragonball processor as its rivals from Palm and Handspring and shares their core     applications. However, its colour screen is much more comfortable on the eye. Its selection of     entertainment software also sets it apart. These include an audio (MP3/ATRAC3) player and Gmovie     for playing short video files. Look out for Memory Stick based add-ons (including Bluetooth and     fingerprint recognition modules) arriving early next year. £3505. Sony DSC-F707In case anyone had     doubts that Sony was taking the digital camera market seriously, the company unveiled the     DSC-F707. Targeted at the serious digital photographer, the camera was among the first to take     images of five megapixels. Sony didn't shirk on features either, including an autofocus facility that     allows the user to shoot images in darkness and a powerful 10x digital zoom. £1,0006. HandspringVisor Edge Handspring's best offering this year was this ultra slim and stylish PDA. It has just been     reduced in price too. £2007. Casio WQV3When Casio launched its watch with built-in digital camera     last year, the major criticism was that it took mono pictures. Casio has gone one better this year     and offered a colour version. £2408. JVC GR-DVP1The smallest digital video format camcorder is     capable of shooting high-quality footage. It can also moonlight as a still image camera. £1,1009. LGMZ-60PZ10 Who could resist this 60in plasma screen TV? Shame about its outrageous price tag.     £18,00010. Panasonic DVD-LA95The smallest and sexiest personal DVD player on sale. It plays     DVDs, CDs, and CD- Roms laden with MP3 files, yet is small enough to fit in your briefcase. £1,000
If you have noticed some recent virus activity in your Microsoft Outlook inbox, you are in good company: BT's internet business, Openworld, has admitted sending its customers Badtrans, the internet's latest successful email virus.A company employee accidentally sent emails infected with the virus to an unknown number of its users on Friday, the first day the virus appeared, BT spokesman Tony Henderson said.Badtrans is a particularly nasty problem for computer users as it gives hackers "Trojan horse" access to credit card details and passwords.Mr Henderson, said: "We believe the number of people affected was just in double figures. As soon as we spotted what appeared to be happening we stopped email transmission."Mr Henderson said BT Openworld could not fully trace which customers had received the infected emails.People would only be able to detect whether they have been infected by installing anti-virus software which can identify the programme, he said."We are in touch with customers directly and we will be emailing them to offer advice. We will tell them  to install a virus guard and firewall," he said.However, BT Openworld's own security measures and anti-virus software did not prevent infection and have not allowed the company to trace how its computers became infected.The company does not believe any of its sensitive data can be accessed but it is now reviewing its anti-virus protection.Badtrans operates by installing a Trojan horse programme on a computer's hard drive, which then records every keystroke and logs the information in a hidden file which hackers can collect. This includes credit card details, secret passwords and other sensitive information.Mark Sunner, from anti-virus technology company MessageLabs, said Badtrans was spreading fast and constituted a serious viral outbreak."It is definitely the biggest virus in the UK, and currently the most active worldwide. We saw it appear first in the UK, and the UK seems to be bearing the brunt of it. I'd say it is a fair bet that this variant originated in the UK," Mr Sunner said.Badtrans attacks Microsoft Outlook email accounts and computers can become infected without opening the file - simply previewing the email is enough to activate the "Trojan".Badtrans spreads by sending copies of itself to the senders of any unread emails in the Outlook inbox and then when activated to everyone in the user's email address book.It is contained in file attachments, the names of which are variable. Some of the most common include pics.doc.scr, humor.mp3.scr, sorry-about-yesterday.nm3.pif, readme.mp3.pif and me-nude.mp3.scr.
Google, our favourite search engine, is set to embark on an interestingexperimentto try and sift out the junk in its results. It has far less than other search engines, but wants to further refine its service by allowing users to rank the usefulness of the sites they find.
Now I know what I want for Christmas:Mae West
A British company attracted attention at the Western Show 2001 in Anaheim, California, yesterday.Pace, which is well known for set-top boxes, showed its wireless "advanced home gateway" running as part ofMicrosoft's Advanced TVsystem. If you have a wireless set-top box with a broadband cable TV connection, then desktop and notebook PCs and other devices can use it to connect to the net. Clearly this is part of the wave of the near future, the other part being wireless hubs linked to ADSL phone connections rather than cable TV sets. So it is another feather in the cap for Pace, which is based inSaltaire,near Bradford in Yorkshire (David Hockney country, for those who don't know aboutSir Titus Salt). And the company is not dependent on the success of Microsoft's long struggle to get into the TV business. It is also working with the giant AOL Time Warner conglomerate, among others, and supplies Time Warner Cable with a set-top box.
The most widely reported computer viruses of 2001 were Nimda and SirCam, while Code Red - the worm that sparked an unprecedented FBI warning of imminent internet meltdown - did not even make the top 10.Computer security company Sophos calculated its top 10 list based on the number of calls to its helpline regarding a virus. A computer worm that appeared this weekend - BadTrans - went straight into the chart at number nine.The company found that 2001 saw a proliferation in the number of Trojan horses - a code that allows a hacker to access your computer remotely - as the growth of networked systems gave virus writers access to more computers through a single back door.Far from being written by untalented teenagers using downloadable kits, the most widely spread viruses this year were complex and written from scratch."Of the 12,000 viruses we saw this year, about half of all reported cases were caused by just two viruses: Nimda and SirCam," said Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant at Sophos.Those worms used more sophisticated techniques to spread, although users could have avoided both by patching a flaw in Microsoft's IIS internet software when the FBI issued its Code Red warning in July.Badtrans - released this weekend and already popping up in email inboxes worldwide - is a worm that spreads via Microsoft Outlook 5 and contains a Trojan horse.The types of virus being spread, and the fact that one of the top ten - Kakworm - is two years old, suggests that users are still not practising safe computing, said Mr Cluley."There are a number of simple steps you can take that won't require you to pay an anti-virus company any money," he said. He suggested that users should never click on an attachment with a double extension, such as filename.jpg.vbs.The success of the Anna Kournikova virus in February led more virus writers to use sex to lure computer users to click on an attachment, becoming one of the main themes of the year. However, the greater threat came from worms that spread without user interaction, such as Nimda, which spread simply by users viewing an email message or visiting an infected website.Mr Cluley warned that the proliferation of always-on connections such as cable and ADSL will leave home users increasingly vulnerable to Trojan horses over the coming years.He also expected to see more mass-mailing executable viruses, such as SirCam and BadTrans, and more multi-pronged viruses, such as Nimda, which spread via email, networks and infected websites.However, Mr Cluley said he did not foresee a problem with mobile phone or palmtop viruses in 2002.Another possible development next year is that the FBI will release its own Trojan horse - called Magic Lantern - in an attempt to gain access to the computer data of suspected criminals and terrorists. The FBI's existing monitoring technology, called the Key Logger System, has required investigators to sneak into a target's home or business and attach the device to a computer.But Mr Cluley said the department's chequered history in computer crime meant a FBI-sponsored Trojan horse may never come to fruition."This is the same FBI that caught SirCam three weeks after it was made public and has failed to sentence the author of the Melissa virus two years after he confessed," he said.Sophos top ten viruses of 2001 by percentage of calls to helpdeskNimda - 27.2%Sircam - 20.3%Magistr - 12%Hybris - 6.2%Apology - 3.8%Homepage - 3.6%Kakworm - 3.1%Kournikova - 2%BadTrans - 1.8%Navidad - 1.8%
In 1981, teenagers irritated their parents by milling around in arcades. Now, two decades later,
   technology has moved on and adolescents wind up dad by obsessing over mobile phones.Can anything
   bridge the gap between the two generations? Yes it can. Welcome back, Space Invaders. Taito's
   coin-op classic is returning in a new guise - as a mobile game. In the new year it will be made
   available for Java-enabled handsets, thus moistening the nostalgia ducts of the over 30s and slowly
   sucking in the PlayStation generation."Blimey dad, it might be greyscale and retro but it rocks!"
   Space Invaders, along with Atari games such as Asteroids and Galaxian, (also being launched in the
   new year) are seen as the perfect vehicles to take mobile gaming out of "early adopter" mode and
   into the mainstream.Because, for all the sterling work done by committed wireless developers, the
   market remains stuck at phase one. The problems are self-evident. First, all titles thus far have
   been developed for Wap and SMS.And neither is a good platform for games. There is no animation
   with Wap and because all the processing is done at the server end rather than in the handset,
   gameplay is reduced to selecting options and waiting for a response.Consequently, games are
   turn-based and often painfully slow. SMS is really only workable for quizzes and text-based
   adventures. This is why the overwhelming majority of mobile games being played are those embedded
   in the handset. Trouble is, they get boring and they don't earn money for anybody.The consensus
   among mobile games developers is that the magic combination of Java and GPRS (general packet
   radio service) will change everything. How so? First Java (or more precisely its gaming "flavour",
   J2ME) puts processing power into the handset. With Java, mobile gamers can enjoy the kind of
   animation only possible previously in embedded games.But unlike their embedded cousins, these are
   games you can change. Java phones have a small "virtual machine" loaded into their memory so they
   can run any J2ME program downloaded into them. A program such as Space Invaders, in fact. GPRS
   fits with Java perfectly.It is packet-based so users pay by the amount of data downloaded rather
   than the airtime. And download times are much faster than on circuit-switched networks. The
   Java/GPRS combo makes all kinds of goodies possible. It should make gaming more transparent - just
   click on games, download the one you want and play it.No need to worry about loading up the
   internet browser and maintaining a connection. It also makes the payment method clearer. Games
   providers want to follow the arcade model in which you buy 10 lives for, say, 50p, after which the
   game expires (although you will be invited to "play again?" at the end).And because all the networks
   want to build communities, players will be encouraged to forward games links to friends, issue
   challenges and text their mates with high scores etc. There is already some evidence of the appetite
   for this kind of gaming.In France a company called In-Fusio has put its own version of Java (called
   ExEn) on Trium and Philips handsets and regularly notches up 2m gameplays a month. Java should
   take the market further because it is a standard that can be applied by a handset company or
   content creator. Matt Spall of Morpheme, a mobile games developer, believes there is real
   momentum behind it."Wap was a relative failure because it was over-hyped and there wasn't enough
   content available. With Java, there is a broad commitment to have plenty of games ready from day
   one." Morpheme has already sold its first six Java games. But even with so much goodwill behind it,
   Java gaming will be a minority pastime until the market is saturated with enabled handsets. And that
   is not expected to happen until 2003.In the new year, Digital Bridges' Space Invaders and iFone's
   Atari collection will be made available to around 300,000 players - the total number of consumers
   expected to buy either a Motorola Accompli or a Siemens SL45i, the first two Java handsets to go on
   sale in Europe. By the end of the year, the floodgates should be opening up. Nokia maintains it will
   sell 50m Java handsets in 2002.Just one hurdle remains: jargon. If Java is to take off it must be
   the technology that dare not speak its name. The marketers must find a way to promote it without
   telling us what it is.
"Tempest for Elizais a Program that uses your computer monitor to send out AM radio signals. You can then hear computer generated music in your radio." (viaSlashdot)
Goodbye, Anyday. Palm plans to closeMyPalm,its excellent Web-based PIM (personal information manager), and the only one I know to sync with Lotus Notes as well as Outlook. Users have until January 10 to rescue their data. MyPalm was founded as Anyday.com, and I was a user before Palm paid $80m for it in May last year. Unfortunately, I was using it with a PC and Microsoft-powered PocketPC, not a Palm, so I was not very surprised when the next release of the software left out the PocketPC part. However, when I dropped support a line, they zinged back the missing piece with what is still one of my favourite file-names, MYPALMPOCKETPC.EXE.
The shake-out of internet companies continued yesterday when four of the dot.com boom's best known brands sought mergers to improve their chances of long-term survival.Media group Chrysalis and 365 Corporation - which produces sport- and music-related content - confirmed that they would pool their sports website assets, while natural health products retailerThinknatural.comand gardening siteGreenfingers.comalso announced a merger.Merrill Lynch predicts that fewer than one in four internet companies will survive as independents. Last week Chrysalis said it would write off the value of all of its internet assets.Chrysalis and 365 will each have a 40% stake in the new business, with management holding the remaining 20%.Thinknatural and Greenfingers believe they can save money by sharing a common technology platform and management team. They were bought together by mutual shareholder Amadeus Capital.
Watch out, there's another virus about. This one comes in e-mail with the subject line "Re:" from someone whose name begins with an underline, such as _fred@hotmail.com and so on. The payload is an attachment with a name such as YOU_ARE_FAT!.DOC.pif The worm is called W32/BadTrans B, which may remind the wary that we have had BadTrans A around since April without bringing the world to its knees. However, Messagelabs'Virus Eyeshows its progress with a scary graph and says it has just displaced SirCam as the most common virus. Details of this bit of malware have been published bySophosand other anti-virus vendors, and the fix has been available fromMicrosoftsince March. Incidentally, I have not seen this virus myself, but Online-reader and computer consultant Richard Haselgrove alerted me when he received it from, oh dear,BT OpenWorld support.Well, did you notice that BT Internet was the most infected UK domain on Friday, on Messagelabs' list?
"Search-engine spiders crawling the Web are increasingly stumbling upon passwords, credit card numbers, classified documents and even computer vulnerabilities that can be exploited by hackers," according to an article posted atCNet.It is an old problem apparently made worse by Google's ability -- new this month -- to search for a variety of file types.
European Parliament members have a reputation for well-meaning but at times questionable decisions and its 57-year-old Dutch MP, Wim Van Welzen, is no exception. When the parliament voted to adopt his amendment to the draft directive on electronic data collection and privacy this month few people in Europe's internet industry understood the consequences. Today they are united in disbelief, frustration and extreme concern.The last-minute change now threatens a key tool called "cookies" that powers internet sites. Cookies give websites the memory to recognise their users and they underpin most of the e-shopping services and personalised internet content you see. If a web page has been customised to your tastes then chances are it's thanks to cookies. Behind the scenes they also drive the research webmasters use to improve services, and the online advertising that funds the majority of the sites we use for free is founded on them.But the European privacy directive will redefine cookies as "highly sensitive personal data", subjecting them to heavyweight restrictions and legal regulations that will force many websites to abandon them.Cookies were never envisaged by the commission as covered by the directive and the amendment that appeared from left field was adopted without any discussion. MEPs thought they were increasing users' data privacy when in fact all they have done is to turn the clock back: reducing the internet's speed and effectiveness, forcing websites to downgrade services and handicapping the European internet sector they are trying to foster.Of greater concern to those in the media is that sadly this is the thin end of a thick regulatory wedge with the internet facing further directives. The natural inclination of the European regulators is to restrict and protect. But have these regulators ever canvassed the views of real consumers? Did they even know the EU's own websites uses cookies without consent in the very way they seek to outlaw?Ironically, the real reason the legislation is unnecessary is that internet companies are championing user privacy. It's in their best interests because protecting user privacy fosters greater confidence   in the sector. Existing privacy regulations already provide strong protection, indeed data processing laws have never been stronger.The "dangerous" cookie is no more than a small, harmless strand of data your computer is given when you visit some websites. Only the issuers can read the cookie and it allows them to tailor the content to your needs. If you call a second page or return to the site later it will remember you. By forcing sites to demand constantly that their web users reaffirm "explicit prior consent" for each and every type of cookie delivered we will all be subjected to waves of interrupting messages and error screens. Confused users will switch off and new users will be frustrated that so many sites no longer work. It would only have been a positive move for personal privacy if browsers did not already have easy-to-use privacy management tools built in.The likely costs of this and the commercial impacts are startling. Advertising revenues underpin the economics of most websites and these regulations hit just when the sector is proving itself and convincing brand owners of its value. Recent PricewaterhouseCoopers figures show that in the UK alone internet advertising spend grew by 42% year on year for the first half of 2001 to &#163;90.2m, maintaining online as the fastest growing marketing medium.Recent research by the institute of practitioners in advertising suggested that the advertising industry alone stands to lose &#163;187m if cookies are restricted which in turn would undermine the foundations of many free-to-air internet services. Advertisers use cookies to schedule their campaigns, calculating their reach and frequency using measurements that are increasingly central to making the internet more widely accepted in media planning and buying. Targeting offers a level of marketing precision previously unseen in media. Even though the data is not personalised it would fall under the new heavy restrictions.The point of cookies is in danger of getting lost in the political argument: they make the web easier and faster to use and can be turned off or deleted whenever any user wants. Restrictions will damage the online sector in a way unthinkable only a few months ago. Legislation will damage the very European companies governments are trying to stimulate. Cookies are harmless and the European Parliament's conviction that they are the digital equivalent of trespassing is simply not true.The sector needs a wake-up call. It's time for us all to pull together and tackle this issue head on before it's too late.&#183;Danny Meadows-Klue is chairman and chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureauwww.iabuk.net
The Barbican art gallery in London is planning an exhibition to celebrate forty years of computer gaming. Game On will open on May 16 with more than 250 exhibits and "lots of interactive opportunities for visitors", according to Conrad Bodman, the Barbican's resident curator. Of course, if you want to know what games were like 20 years ago, all you have to do is pick up one of today's more expensive mobile phones. Games from early 80s Sinclair Spectrum tapes, Atari cartridges and other things recently considered almost worthless are now being given a new lease of life by companies such asiFone.
Press release of the day so far: "...the latest second generation website software is allowing communities and interest groups to go virtual and create an online community. Second generation websites no longer have to cost £500,000, they can now be up and running for around £20,000 without a dedicated IT resource." No kidding - just £20,000? Are we supposed to say "what a bargain" now?
Telecoms watchdog Oftel has left Britain in danger of becoming "the broadband sick man of Europe" through its failure to force BT to properly introduce competition, says the chief executive of a European telecoms service provider.In a letter today to Oftel's director general David Edmonds, the chief executive of Ebone, Duncan Lewis, warns that plans to connect British businesses and households to fast and "always on" internet services will become as great a fiasco as Railtrack unless the regulator clamps down on BT."The UK used to set the standard for effective telecommunications liberalisation. With an early start, the foundations for broadband Britain, where consumers have choice and businesses enjoy real gains in productivity, seemed firm. Sadly, that foundation is on the brink of collapse." Mr Lewis, whose company was forced by the delay in broadband Britain to take shelter in a merger with cable group KPNQwest last month, made his comments as the debate over the supply of fast and "always-on" internet services hots up.Later this week the e-commerce minister, Douglas Alexander, will give his formal response to a report published in mid-October by a government-appointed panel of experts known as the Broadband Stakeholder Group.But while Mr Alexander seems likely to accept the panel's recommendation that government should help boost the take-up of broadband services by aggregating demand among public sector institutions, he is likely to stop short of offering the industry the sort of tax breaks and cheap loans extended by governments in other European countries.Mr Alexander's report is likely to be a big talking point at an emergency summit on broadband Britain being held at Earls Court, London next week. Along with BT's head of local loop unbundling, Ian Stirrat, will be representatives of competitors such as Bulldog Communications and Colt Telecom.Oftel representative Anne Lambert is also likely to come in for some significant criticism when she appears at the summit at the Last Mile Europe 2001 conference.AOL's chief communications officer, Matt Peacock, who will be attending the summit, believes the event offers the industry a chance to try to understand where broadband Britain went wrong. But for things to improve the government will have tobecome involved, he says.
"Britain is in danger of becoming the broadband sick man of Europe"warnsthe boss of a European telecoms provider today. Many would argue that we arealreadyin asicklyway, and the longer things are left to rot, the more invasive - and costly - the remedy.
Acool adfor Adbusters' buy nothing day, which was on Friday.
In an ad showing what would happen to a Caribbean melon stand if it adopted big business styles of working - "that melon is only for display purposes only, madam" - Malibu gives a fleeting glimpse of a website address:www.wesleymelons.com. Go there to have a look and you have to click through eight - count 'em, eight - screens of terms and conditions before you even reach the main menu. Is it part of the joke, or yet more proof that lawyers and the internet don't mix?
Flashback:US tech journalist James Gleick on Push technology (remember Pointcast?) in a piece first published in 1997. He predicted the Push fad, touted on the cover of Wired and in the Wall Street Journal, would fade fast, and it's widely accepted that it did die a quick death. But was the concept a dud, or just the implementation? Seems to me that today we get quite a lot of information pushed at us every day, through things like subscription emails.
Uncontrol.com: Much more fun than housework... (needs Flash - viaKottke.org)
The Wired News two part series on the technology in Star Trek, and how today's tech is in many ways more advanced than that seen on the show, (part one,part two)soundslike a good idea, but comes across as strangely po-faced in practice. Like - c'mon guys, Star Trek's entertainment, y'know...
It looks as if it's over for Gameplay - off 13% at 0.85p - the computer games firm that was worth millions of pounds at the height of the dot.com boom last March and is now valued at &#163;1m.Yesterday Gameplay - which now employs only two people - said that what remains of the business is worth just &#163;90,000.Announcing full-year results, chairman Mark Strachan tried to explain how a firm that was voted AIM newcomer of the year   is closed in all but name. It had hoped to capitalise on the growth of broadband to turn itself into a provider of online games.But broadband services were delayed, and the strategy collapsed.Selling its operating businesses in the teeth of a tech recession in order to raise cash produced a spate of sales, and the company was forced to put itself on the block in the summer. Talks with a possible rescuer collapsed on Thursday.
Philip GlassBorn:January 31 1937, Baltimore, Maryland.Education:Peabody Institute 1945-51, University of Chicago '52-6, The Juilliard School, '57-'62, Nadia Boulanger, '62-4.Married:JoAnne Akalaitis 1965 (one son Zachary, one daughter Juliet) dissolved '80; Luba Burtyk '80 dissolved; Candy Jernigan (died '91); Holly Critchlow 2001-.Works Include:Music for Play 1965; Strung Out '67; Two Pages '68; Music In Fifths, Music In Similar Motion '69; Music With Changing Parts '70; Music In 12 Parts '74; Einstein On The Beach '75; Satyagraha '80; Koyaanisqatsi '82; Akhnaten '84; The Juniper Tree '84; The Making Of The Representative For Planet 8 '86; 1000 Airplanes On The Roof, The Fall Of The House Of Usher '88; The Screens, Hydrogen Jukebox '90; White Raven '91; The Voyage '92; Orph&#233;e '93; Monsters Of Grace '98; Dracula '99.
At the beginning of August 1966, my wife Mercedes and I went to San Angel post office, in Mexico City, to send the original manuscript of One Hundred Years of Solitude to Buenos Aires. The packet contained 590 sheets of paper and was addressed to the literary director of Editorial Sudamericana, Francisco (Paco) Porr&#250;a. The post office employee placed the packet on the scale, did his mental arithmetic, and said: "That'll be 82 pesos."Mercedes counted the notes and loose change in her purse and confronted me with the reality of the situation: "We've only got 53."We were so accustomed to these daily setbacks after over a year of penury that we did not give much thought to the solution. We opened the packet, divided it into two equal parts and sent half of itto Buenos Aires, without even asking ourselves how we were going to find the money to send the rest. It was six in the evening on Friday and as the post would not be opened until Monday, we had the whole weekend to reflect. There were already few friends left to squeeze money from and our best possessions were lying in eternal rest at the pawnshop. We did, of course, have the portable typewriter, with which I had written the novel in over a year of six-hour days but we could not pawn it because we needed it in order to eat. After a thorough overhaul of the house, we found two other things that were not very suitable for pawning either: my study heater, which must have been worth very little by then, and a mixer that Soledad Mendoza gave us in Caracas when we got married. We also had our wedding rings that we only used for thewedding and had never dared to pawn because it was believed to be an ill omen. This time, Mercedes decided to take them anyway, as an emergency reserve.First thing on Monday morning we went to the nearest pawnshop, where we were already regular customers, and they lent us - without the rings - a little more than what we needed. It was only when we were packaging the rest of the novel in the post office that we realised we had sent it the wrong way round: the last pages before the first ones. However Mercedes did not find it funny because she never trusted fate."The only thing we need now," she said "is for the novel to be bad."The sentence was the perfect culmination of the 18 months that we had been battling together to finish the book on which all my hopes were founded. Until that point, I had published four inseven years, for which I had earned very little more than nothing. Except for In Evil Hour, which won the $3,000 prize in the Colombian Esso competition and was sufficient for the birth of Gonzalo, our second son, and to buy our first car.We lived in a middle-class house in the hillocks of San Angel Inn, property of the chief clerk of the governorship, the lawyer Luis Coudurier who, among other virtues, possessed that of looking after the house rental in person. Rodrigo, aged six, and Gonzalo, aged three, had a good garden here for playing when they were not at school. I had been general co-ordinator of the magazines Sucesos and La Familia where, for a good salary, I fulfilled the obligation of not writing a single word in two years. Carlos Fuentes and I had adapted El Gallo de Oro for the cinema, an original story by JuanRulfo that was filmed by Roberto Gavald&#243;n. Again with Carlos Fuentes, I had worked on the final version of Pedro P&#225;ramo for the director Carlos Velo. I had written the script for the film of Chronicle of a Death Foretold, and that of Presagio with Luis Alcoriza. In the few hours I had left, I took on a broad variety of incidental jobs - advertising texts, television commercials, some song lyrics - which gave me sufficient in order to live decently but not to continue writing stories and novels.However, I had been tormented for some time by the idea of an enormous novel, not only different to everything that I had written to date, but also to everything that I had read. It was a kind of terror with no source. Suddenly, at the beginning of 1965, I went to Acapulco for a weekend with Mercedes and my two sons and I was struck by a cataclysm of thesoul so intense and crushing, that I almost missed avoiding a cow that was crossing the road. Rodrigo gave a cry of happiness: "When I'm grown up, I'm going to kill cows on the road too."I did not have a moment's rest on the beach. On Tuesday, when we returned to Mexico, I sat down at my typewriter to write an opening sentence that I could not keep inside me: "Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aureliano Buend&#237;a was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice." From that moment onwards, I did not rouse myself for a single day from a kind of overwhelming dream, until the last line in which Macondo was whisked off to hell.In the initial months, I held on to my best sources of income, but I became increasingly short of time to write as much as I wanted. I ended up working very late nightsin order to fulfil my outstanding commitments, until life became impossible for me. Little by little, I began to abandon everything until the incorruptible reality forced me to make a plain choice between writing or dying.The choice was crystal clear, since Mercedes - more than ever - took care of everything when we ended up tiring our friends. She obtained unimaginable credit from the local shopkeeper and the butcher on the corner. From the first moments of anguish, we had resisted the temptation of interest loans until we seized our courage and made our first incursion into the pawnshop. After the ephemeral relief that came from certain mundane objects, I had to turn to the jewellery that Mercedes had received from members of her family over the years. The branch expert examined them with the precision of a surgeon. With hismagic eye, he weighed and checked the diamonds in the earrings, the emeralds of a necklace, the rubies in the rings and finally, he turned to us with a great bullfighting pass of the cape: "This is nothing but glass!"We never had the inclination or time to check when it was that the original precious stones had been replaced by fakes because the black bull of misery assailed us on all sides. This will seem like a lie, but one of my most pressing problems was paper for the typewriter. I was badly brought up to believe that typing, language and grammatical mistakes were in fact mistakes in creation and each time I detected them, I would tear up the page and throw it into the wastepaper basket to start again. Mercedes spent half the household budget on pyramids of reams of paper that did not last out the week. This was perhaps one of my reasons for not using carbon paper.Simple problems such as these came to be so pressing that we did not have the courage to elude the final solution: pawning the recently purchased car, without suspecting that the cure would be more serious than the illness, because we diminished the overdue debts, but when it came to paying the monthly interest, we were left hanging in the abyss. Fortunately, our long-standing and good friend, Carlos Medina, insisted on paying it for us, not only the interest for one month but for several more, until we succeeded in recovering the car. It was only a few years ago that we learnt that he too had been forced to pawn one of his cars in order to pay the interest on ours.Every night our best friends took turns in coming round to visit us. They appeared as if by chance and, under pretexts of books or magazines, they brought us baskets of food that appeared incidental. Carmen and Alvaro Mutis, the most persistent, encouraged me to recount the current chapter of the novel to them. I managed to invent emergency versions for them, because of my superstition that relating what I was writing chased away the magic.Carlos Fuentes, in spite of his fear of flying at that time, travelled to and fro over half the world. His homecomings were a perpetual party for discussing our current books as if they were one. Mar&#237;a Luisa El&#237;o, with her clairvoyant dizziness and Jomi Garc&#237;a Ascot, her husband, paralysed by his poetic amazement, listened to my improvised stories like coded signals of divine providence. So I was never in any doubt, from their first visits, that I was going to dedicate the book to them. Moreover, I very soon realised that all their reactions and enthusiasm illuminated the threads of my real novel for me.Mercedes did not speak to me about her credit tricks again until March 1966 - one year after I had started the book - when we owed three months rent. She was speaking on the telephone to the owner of the house, as she often did to encourage his hopes, and suddenly she covered the mouthpiece with her hand and asked me when I hoped to finish the book.Given the rhythm that I had acquired over a year of practise, I estimated that I needed six months. Mercedes then made her astral calculations, and told the landlord without the slightest tremor in her voice: "We'll be able to pay you everything in six months' time.""Excuse me, madam," he askedher in amazement, "Do you realise that it will be an enormous sum by that time?""I do realise ," said Mercedes, unmoved, "but by that time, we'll have everything sorted out. Don't worry."The voice of the good lawyer, one of the most elegant and patient men that we have ever known, did not tremble either when he replied: "Very well, madam, your word is good enough for me." And he made his mortal calculations:"I'll expect you on the seventh of September."He was wrong. It was not the seventh but the fourth, with the first unexpected cheque that we received for the rights to the first edition.We lived the remaining months in total delirium. My closest group of friends, who were well aware of the situation, visited us more frequently than before, always laden with miracles to carry on living. Luis Alcoriza and his Austrian wife, Janet Riesenfeld Dunning, were not frequent visitors, but they used to organise legendary parties at their house, with their learned friends and the most beautiful women in the world of film. Very often, they were simply pretexts for seeing us. He was the only Spaniard outside Spain who was capable of making tortillas on a parallel with those of Valencia and she had the ability of keeping us up in the air with her skills as a classical dancer. The Garc&#237;a Riera couple, cinema fanatics, dragged us to their home on Sunday nights and infused us with happy insanity for facing the week ahead.At this point, the novel was so far advanced that I allowed myself the luxury of continuing to enrich the false plot that I improvised during our friends' visits. I often heard them recounted by others, to whom I had never related them, and I was surprised at the speed with which they grew and ramified from mouth to mouth.At the end of August, from one day to the next, I saw the end of thenovel around the corner. I did not use carbon paper and there were no photocopiers around the corner, so there was just one original of some two thousand pages. It was food of the gods for Esperanza Araiza, the unforgettable Pera, a good typist who worked for Manuel Barbachano Ponce in his Dracula's castle for poets and film makers in the suburb of Cuauht&#233;moc. In her spare time over the years, Pera had typed fair copies of great works of Mexican authors. Among these were La Regi&#243;n M&#225;s Transparente by Carlos Fuentes, Pedro P&#225;ramo by Juan Rulfo and several original Luis Bu&#241;uel film scripts. When I suggested that she type a fair copy of the final version of the novel, it was a draft peppered with corrections, firstly in black ink and then in red to avoid confusion. But this was nothing for a woman who was used to everything in a cage of lunatics. Not only did she accept the draft out of curiosity to read it, she also accepted that I pay her what I could afterwards and the rest when I was paid the first royalties.Pera copied one chapter a week while I corrected the following one, with all kinds of emendations in ink of varying colours to avoid confusion - and not simply with the aim of making it shorter, but of giving it the highest possible level of density. Up to the point where it was reduced to almost half of the original.Years later, Pera confessed to me that when she was taking home the only copy of the third chapter with my corrections, she slipped while getting off the bus in a torrential downpour and the sheets of paper were left floating in the quagmire of the street. She picked them up, drenched and almost illegible, with the help of other passengers and dried them at home with a clothes iron.My greatest emotion at this time occurred one Saturday when I did not have the corrections for the following chapter ready and I called Pera to tell her that I would I would take it round to her onMonday. After lengthy hesitation, she was bold enough to ask me if Aureliano Buend&#237;a would end up sleeping with Remedios Moscote. When I answered yes, she heaved a sigh of relief."Thank God," she exclaimed "if you hadn't told me, I wouldn't have been able to sleep until Monday."I never knew why it was that during this period, I received an untimely letter from Paco Porr&#250;a, - of whom I had never heard - in which he asked me on behalf of Editorial Sudamericana for the rights to my books, with which he was very familiar in their first edition. My heart broke because they were all with different publishing houses under long-term contracts and it would not be easy to release them. The only consolation that occurred to me was to tell Paco that I was on the point of finishing a very long novel that had no commitments, the first finished copy of which I could send him in a few days time.Paco Porr&#250;a accepted it by telegram and sent me a cheque for $500 as an advance by return post. It was just enough for the nine month's rent that we had promised to pay at that time and we did not know how, due to my poor calculation, we were going to finish the novel.Anyway, Pera's fair transcription with three carbon copies was ready two or three weeks later. Alvaro Mutis was the first reader of the definitive copy, even before it was sent to the printers. He disappeared for two days and on the third, he called me in one of his hearty rages after discovering that my novel was not really the one I related to entertain our friends and that he repeated with delight to his close circle."Shit! You've made me look like a rag," he shouted. "This book has got nothing to do with the one you related to us."Then, splitting his sides with laughter, he said: "Just as well that this one's much better."I do not remember if I had the title of the novel at that point, orwhere or when or how I thought of it. None of our friends of the time have been able to clarify this. Will there be some imaginative historian who will do me the favour of inventing this fact?The copy that Alvaro Mutis read was the one that we sent by post in two parts and another was the guarantee that he himself took shortly afterwards on one of his trips to Buenos Aires. The third circulated in Mexico among the friends who had stood by us through the hard times. The fourth was the one I sent to Barranquilla so that three dearly loved protagonists of the novel could read it: Alfonso Fuenmayor, Germ&#225;n Vargas and Alvaro Cepeda, the daughter of whom, Patricia, still guards it like a treasure.When we received the first copy of the printed book, in June 1967, Mercedes and I tore up the much-marked original that Pera used for the copies. We did not even conceive for a second that it could be the most valuable of all, with the third chapter scarcely legible because of the rain and the ironing marks. My decision was not at all innocent or modest; we tore up the copy so that no one could discover the tricks of my secret carpentry. Nevertheless, there may be other copies in some corner of the world, particularly the two sent to Editorial Sudamericana for the first edition. I always thought that Paco Porr&#250;a - quite justifiably - had kept them as a relic. But he denied it and his word is golden.When the publishing house sent me the first copy of the printing proofs, I took them already corrected to a party at the Alcorizas' house, primarily because of the insatiable curiosity of the guest of honour, Luis Bu&#241;uel, who wove all manner of masterly speculations about the art of correcting, not for improving but for concealing. I saw Alcoriza so fascinated by the conversation that I fully determined to dedicate the proofs to him: for Luis and Janet, a repeated dedication but the only true one: "From the friend who loves them most in the world". Next to my signature I wrote the date: 1967. The mention of the repeated signature and the commas in the final phrase were due to a previous dedication that I had signed in a book for the Alcoriza family. Eighteen years later, when One Hundred Years of Solitude had succeeded in its career, someone remembered that episode in the same house and expressed the opinion that the proofs with the dedication were worth a fortune. Janet took them out of her trunk and showed them round the room, until everyone joked that they could use them to stop being poor. Alcorizo then made one of his very typical scenes, beating his chest with both fists and shouting in his loud and highly indignant voice and with his terribly Spanish determination: "Well I would rather die before selling this treasure dedicated by a friend!"To the fitting ovation of all, I took out the same pen again as the first time, and wrote beneath the dedication dated 18 years previously: "Confirmed, 1985". And I signed this 180-page document, with 1,026 corrections in my own hand, again as the first time: Gabo. Luis Alcoriza died in 1992, in his Cuernavaca retreat. Janet continued to live there and died six years later, reduced to a small nucleus of her friends. The most faithful of all was H&#233;ctor Delgado, and Janet named him as her legitimate heir. An American university recently offered $521,300 for their proof copy. The only thing that I find unfair in this story is that Luis and Janet lived their last years with hundreds of thousands of dollars kept safe from time and the moths in the bottom of the trunk, as a result of their invincible Iberian dignity of not selling the gift from the friend who loved them most in the world.
