Letting employees swap songs has cost a company a$1 million fine.
Nike footballonline.
Rick Belluzzo: Why I left Microsoft
Just had a delightful letter from a PR telling me that I need a new angel. She is absolutely correct. Unfortunately it's a typo for angle.... but that's probably true as well.
Here'sa potentially useful little service: Deleted Domains lets you know what internet addresses are up for grabs because the owner has chosen, or forgotten, to re-register them after they have expired. Go on - snag that two-letter .com name you've been lusting after... (viaRequired Reading)
IBM, the world's largest computer company, shed 600 staff on Friday and has just issued a profits warning about first quarter results due on April 17.
Microsoft has admitted that theXboxis not selling as well as it expected in Japan -- it hasn't even sold out the initial shipment of 250,000 units. However, there was no comment on European sales, which were always likely to be patchy. (The Japanese have a strong propensity not to buy American electronics products. This is not balanced by any European prropensity to buy European-made products, which includes the Xbox.) Still, Microsoft says Halo has sold a million units in quick time. And the money is in sales of games.
Dilbert cartoonistScott Adamsis chatting on USA Today today, in connection with a new collection of strips.
Update to the broadband newsbelow: you can find a list of the 100 BT exchanges being upgraded, from Abergavenny to Worthing West,here.
Within weeks of its launch, Apple's iPod MP3 player had been adapted by users to store contacts and act as a simple PDA. Apple, seeing the way the wind was blowing, incorporated basic contact management functions into the latest revision of the machine launched earlier this year. But, asWired Newsreports today, the various hacks for the device are getting more and more sophisticated. Now the demand is that Apple opens up the firmware to allow a iPod development free-for-all. Could Apple end up producing an accidental PDA, years after it abandoned its Newton project?
BT hasannouncedtoday that it is bringing broadband to another 100 exchanges in British towns and cities. It also plans to launch a cut-down broadband offering this summer, which will provide internet access but no content for - we presume - a lower monthly cost. The monopoly telco says it is has been connecting 10,000 people a week to ADSL since it cut the cost of high-speed net connections earlier this year, and is aiming for five million broadband connections by 2006.
BT is hooking up a further 50 towns and cities to high speed internet access as its new chief executive, Ben Verwaayen, pledged to place the service at the heart of BT's future strategy.Following a three-month internal review, Mr Verwaayen also promised to carry on heavily cutting costs, axing between 5,000 and 6,000 jobs this year in a bid to save £375m and reduce the company's debt mountain to below £10bn by 2005.Despite heavy cost cutting and internal reorganisation last year, BT is still £13.6bn in debt.In his first major speech since taking over the job from Sir Peter Bonfield, Mr Verwaayen said his focus would be on customer satisfaction and financial discipline."We are an integrated telecommunications company but with separate operating lines of business. There will be no IPOs, no burying our heads in internal restructuring," he said."BT was the first major telco to redress its balance sheet and restructure itself for the new dynamics of the market. And BT will be the first to return to the fundamentals of good business practice."Mr Verwaayen reiterated his commitment to reaching 5m broadband connections in the UK by 2006, announcing a new stripped down broadband product, which will connect users directly to the web without first going through an internet service provider.BT said it was connecting more than 10,000 new broadband customers per week after cutting the wholesale broadband price to £14.75 per month in February.To deal with the demand BT is converting a further 100 exchanges in smaller towns and cities to take the total number of broadband enabled exchanges to over 1,100.It is also boosting capacity in existing exchanges, making high speed internet available to two thirds of the population by the end of May.Although BT's chairman, Sir Christopher Bland, has persistently ruled out a move into broadcasting for BT, the company hopes to place itself at the heart of home entertainment systems by concentrating on its broadband network.In a statement BT pledged to use broadband "to enhance the communications experience to the PC through video and multimedia"."Over time, BT will expand this to other devices, linking PC, telephone, sound systems and TV, adding interactivity to TV and the entertainment experience," it said.
Just what I needed: The May Day 2002 site (below) has a link to anEvil Plan Generator.
Keep an eye on a Web site that covers theMay Day Festival of Alternatives, which actually runs from April 16 to May 6.Apress releaseon the site says that Mr Plod (Metropolitan branch) would like to close it down. A good old-fashioned dawn raid would be good, as this would attract worldwide publicity.
The most stupid running story of the past week has been the kerfuffle over a Unisys Web site designed to promote its mainframe-class Windows NT server. It offers a number of white papers explaining why Windows can solve problems that Unix doesn't and proclaims:We have the way out. Nothing odd about that, you would think, but the fact that site was running on a BSD Unix/Apache platform excited some of the more braindead members of the Linux Taliban. Almost as foolishly, Unisys (which also sells Unix, and used to be a leading Unix proponent) moved the site to a Windows server, when it should have simply told these idiots to Get A Life. Out here in the real world, PC magazines often get produced on Macs, Linux companies (indeed, most Linux users) use Microsoft Windows and Word, Ford car parts get delivered in Mercedes Benz trucks, and digital camera adverts are shot with film cameras, Indeed, the white papers on the Unisys site are in Adobe PDF format not Microsoft Word, but who cares? To be blunt, this kind of "product fascism" shows a severely deficient personality and we could all do without it.
I've been a George Gilder fan since he sprang to global fame viaForbes ASAP. However, asBusiness 2.0points out, what were stimulating polemics have not so far turned our to be a solid basis for investments.
The big issue for online punters is trust - can they be sure their bets are safe, or are they about to click their money down the drain?So the established brands flaunt their status to inspire confidence: Ladbrokes online casino proudly flags up that the software it uses to randomise card hands and roulette wheels has   been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers, while William Hill welcomes punters with the words 'Relax, you're in safe hands'.There are regulations about the sizes of deposits, stakes and wins, but they leave plenty of potential for losing big. On Hill's, the most you can deposit a week is &#163;3,500, and that's after a   year as a registered customer. Another casino, which offers baccarat, poker and craps, is The Spin Room, run by Victor Chandler: Here, as on the Ladbrokes site, you can play for fun before a first deposit. Some US casinos also take sterling bets, such as River Belle, an online Deep South steamboat.In internet betting, the main options are Ladbrokes, William Hill, Coral-Eurobet, Blue Square and Alderney-based Sporting Bet. They mostly offer prices on racing and other sports; Blue Square also invites bets on financial markets, political elections and a variety of 'specials'.
Some people do make money from online casinos - fraudsters. Criminals are employing a welter of devices to swindle money out of credit card holders and businesses.These crimes are are increasing. Last month, a report by Europay, the European arm of Mastercard, said that a fifth of all internet fraud was generated by internet gambling. Total losses from credit card fraud last year were more than &#163;400 million, according to the Association of Card Payment Services.Europay said that 5 per   cent of all credit card fraud took place on the internet which was double the previous year's proportion.Gaming industry insiders say organised criminal syndicates, often from Russia or Indonesia, steal credit card details by hacking into online retailers' or banks' data.They then open a betting account and opt for winnings to be paid by cheque into a bank account. This is stipulated by some credit companies. After all, they make more money the more people borrow.By the time a card holder   discovers the fraudster has racked up losses, the winning cheques have been cleared.Casino businesses are the ones to suffer because in internet fraud cases it is the merchant, not the consumer who takes the hit. Many want winnings paid back only to credit cards.The credit card companies argue that it is the banks who should take a strong line in vetting winning cheques.Gambling businesses also fall victim to individuals who, having run up huge losses, claim they never made bets in the first place.The National Criminal Intelligence Service has endorsed the gambling industry's position but little progress has been made. It has been 18 months since a meeting between the two camps.But there are signs that credit card firms are beginning to listen to the gaming industry. 'They are starting to realise this is a growth industry which is not going away,' said one senior figure.The number of rogue sites which take punters' card details and don't pay winners are few.
I hopethiswas intended as an April Fool, because I am certainly not going to put with this level of invasiveness, even if it means paying for Opera.
Many computer owners will relate tothis storyfrom the Wisconsin-based Post Crescent newspaper. A man lost the plot when his $2,600 computer had to be returned for repairs no fewer than five times. He took it back to the store he bought it from, and put a sledgehammer through it. Alas, he was later arrested and is now awaiting a summons. [viaMac EvangeList]
Europemedia.netreports the frustration of UK internet service providers who complain that not enough telephone exchanges are equipped to handle broadband. BT claims that 60% of homes and 70% of internet users could get ADSL if they want it, but some ISPs are starting to question that figure because of the numbers of people they're having to knock back. The most likely problem is that the south-east of England, and other high-density parts of the country, are well served, but that vast tracts of more rural Britain are not. We've seen this before with mobile phone roll-out: the final few percent of the population is always the hardest part to serve. Not that that's much consolation to the people who miss out.
How about a digital rights management system that would let you watch a movie on your PC in London but not if you were in Manchester or anywhere else? Or an e-mail that was readable in Manchester, UK, but not in Manchester, New Hampshire? Simple: just tie the encryption to the GPS global positioning satellite system. Dorothy Denning is pioneering this form ofgeo-encryption. There's a useful paperhere.
Before you register an interest at the newMini Coopersite in the US, be sure to checkthe small printat the bottom. [Thanks,Jaco.]
Congratulations to Jungle for being the first company to e-mail me about reserving aNintendo Gamecube. The Rogue Leader bundle is the thing to go for if you wish you had been born to fly anX-wingfighter in Star Wars. TheDeath Star Trench Runhas never been done better.
A revolution in leadership is needed if public services are to avoid wasting millions of pounds of public money on internet technology that fails to engage the public, says an official report into the progress of e-government.The national audit office (NAO) says there is a danger that a cautious "box-ticking" approach to central targets for putting public services online could result in low quality, bureaucratic and user-unfriendly internet services that are largely ignored by the public.The parliamentary watchdog warns that government departments must target users more clearly and develop incentives to encourage people to use web-based services, such as reduced charges and shorter waiting times for processing applications for licences and passports.Without strong leadership and commitment to genuine online services there is a risk that departments may "fail to re-engineer services and ways of working, believing that technology-induced change will be minimal and that benefits will be modest."The report adds:  "E-government is requiring a fundamental change in the way departments operate which will require strong leadership and high quality staff training to secure the benefits of the new technology".The government has set a target of providing 100% of services online by December 31 2005, and its e-envoy Andrew Pinder has estimated that the target will be met.   But the NAO points out that while 52% of the 524 services routinely provided by departments are currently online, the majority of these provide information only.Just 3% of services allow the public to conduct internet transactions, such as providing grants or benefits, even though these offer the most potential for efficiency gains. At present there is no service that allows collection of revenue online.NAO comptroller and auditor general Sir John Bourn said: "A significant amount of taxpayer's money is being spent on delivering public services through electronic means."We have found examples of innovative practice but there is much to do to realise the full potential from using internet technology and ensure a sufficient number of people use public services delivered electronically."The major challenge is to get services online and to encourage and enable people to use them. Otherwise the considerable potential gains in departments' efficiency will not be delivered and large amounts of public money will have been wasted."E-government is defined as providing public access via the internet to information about all the services offered by central government departments and their agencies, and  enabling the public to  conduct and conclude transactions for all those services.But a review of department's e-strategies by the NAO found that civil servants "ability and aptitude to use IT need significant development", and more resources were needed to implement and upgrade IT systems.
Microsoft's president and chief operating officer justquitafter only a year in the job. He will not be replaced. Rick Belluzzo (you knew that, of course) did not make much impact on the company, which is dominated by Gates and Ballmer, but had a hand in turning round the MSN operation. (MSN is a lot better than it was, even though I hate what they did to Hotmail.) Belluzo spent 23 years at Hewlett-Packard. (The Wall Street Journalhas a better account but it's only available to paid subscribers.)
Anarchy OnlinePC	&#163;9.95 a month &#163;9.99 or download from Anarchy-online.comFuncom	*****Remember the late, relationship-threatening nights spent with games such as Championship Manager and Sim   City? Prepare for more arguments with your partner, as Anarchy Online is the most addictive and time-consuming game around at the moment. AO is a Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game (MMORPG), a genre that started to take off in the late 90s with the likes of Everquest and Ultima Online. But where these titles were set in cliched fantasy environments, AO's sci-fi backdrop opens it up to a wider audience.This is a traditional RPG with players gaining experience points to improve their character, but it's the scope here that so impresses.Rubi-Ka feels like a coherent world, with huge cities, lush forests and barren deserts waiting to be explored. Characters are customisable and it's highly unlikely you'll meet players who look like you. Teaming up   to hunt monsters is the fastest way to "level" (gain experience points to move up a level) but playing on your own is equally useful, with numerous missions to complete.The community is mature (average age is 28), and a Norwegian development team has helped the game gather a European, as well as US, audience. Stunning graphics and impressive player animation all appeal,   but it is the total involvement in a virtual world and economy that grabs you.There is always some new weapon to sell, some item of armour to hunt for, or some new area to explore. Of course there are technical issues - players regularly have to download update patches - and lag is a problem at times, although AO plays perfectly well on a 56k modem.  (Greg Howson, aka Synthta)AquaNoxrPC	&#163;27.99  Fishtank Interactive/Massive Development	***One of the few titles to meet the needs of fans of underwater combat was Archimedean Dynasty. In it you played Emerald "Deadeye" Flint, a mercenary captain trying to protect the sub-oceanic world of Aqua from malicious organisms known as Bionts.Now Flint is back, and Aqua is under threat again -   from the Bionts, from terrorists, and from a new race of giant squids. This is the excuse for 20-odd missions of aquatic carnage.AquaNox looks the part. The graphics are murky without being unclear, and when   you point your ship upwards, distant natural light ripples across the ocean surface. The various craft look nifty, and the explosions of vanquished enemies are ample reward for your efforts.There's nothing particularly watery about the gameplay: currents don't seem to have any effect, there's no pressure gauge and therefore no depth limit, and you can't spring a leak.Partly because of this, the gameplay rapidly becomes samey. Sure, things get harder as the game progresses, but the techniques hardly vary.You start out in a tin can armed with a peashooter, and must earn credits by complet ing missions to upgrade your craft. The difference in handling between the ships is perceptible, and your choice of weapons - guns, lasers, and a smorgasbord of torpedoes - can have a huge effect on your battles.The control system is simple enough and the same goes for the interface between missions. Unfortunately, these segments add little in the way of enjoyment, since you never get any dialogue options or, indeed, any say in which mission you do next.Despite the impressive graphics, the limited gameplay means AquaNox soon becomes a bit of a damp squid.  (AB)The Warrior KingsPC	&#163;35 Black Cactus/ Microids	****It seems to be a golden age for strategy games, with every month bringing a new contender and widening the genre with new possibilities. Warrior Kings marks an impressive debut for new boys Black Cactus and solid food for anyone weaned on Battle Realms or Shogun.Gifted with an ingenious plot, which branches out to accommodate the three races you can choose from, your 20 missions feel a lot more expansive than most real-time strategies. Special mention must go to your units (more than 90 in all) and your more powerful heroes, including the monstrous Behemoth, all beautifully animated. Add to this an impressive 3D engine and excellent sound and resource management, and you have an RTS   that incorporates all the best recent innovations.Combat is also entertaining, with epic battles involving hundreds of units, clashing swords or exchanging magical attacks across wide expanses of terrain. This is not as fluid or as fast as the action of Battle Realms but the sheer number of units at your disposal makes the individual animations less important. Lie back and let the mythology take over: it works surprisingly well.Unfortunately, it seems to have been rushed on to the shelves, with security problems that required downloading a hefty patch, and driver issues that prevented it running on two of my three PCs. Second, by only partially adhering to line of sight (for example, you can shoot enemies over the other side of hills), you can be defeated by anomalies rather than your opponent's tactical skills.Despite this, Warrior Kings is bold, ambitious and well worth the effort. Moreover, it's nice to see a new British developer taking on the US and Japanese masters in their own back yard.  (MA)
I never played computer games much as a child. Sure, like most kids of my generation, I had an Atari, with the "six games!" that were the same game with lines in different places; I even had a Sinclair ZX81 for a record two days before a crack appeared in the casing and my parents chose to spend their money on a real babysitter.So while my friends were gathered excitedly around NESes, BBC Micros and Amigas, I threw myself into uncooler pursuits, such as cycling, writing and unravelling the mysteries of the opposite sex.It wasn't until 1992, after university, that I had my electronic epiphany. I was sharing a flat with another writer. He went away one weekend and said I could use his laptop. It was a Windows-based machine, which mostly contained scripts, but he had recently installed a game that came free with a magazine - a first-person shooter called    Labyrinth. Or Catacomb. I forget.In any case, it was black and white, 2D, and involved running around shooting monsters. I was still playing it when he came back. And that was it. As soon as I had sufficient funds, I went out and bought a PC. Among the bundled software was a game called Doom II. And there, along with a bit of work and the occasional sop to my social life, went the next three months of my life.After that my life settled into a pattern. I'd play a computer game until I got tired of it... and then I'd play another one. At some point, around 1995, I took the natural step of combining my hobbies, and became a computer games reviewer. Now I could fritter away countless hours hunched over the keyboard, spend a couple of hours on Sunday night writing about it and, like the millionaire who gives &#163;20 a month to Save the Children, pretend I was leading a valid existence.I never let things get to the stage where I was (sackably) late for work; I didn't stand anyone up (anyone I really liked, anyway); and I didn't completely abandon such mundane tasks as washing and cooking. (My definition of cooking, however, was piercing the film and opening the microwave door.) But, over the past decade, I have spent, at a conservative estimate, 40 hours a week staring into cyberspace.Then late last year, after missing my train because I'd wanted just one more go at Thames Racer, I decided it was time for a trial separation. OK, so my CD-Rom drive packed in. But until the replacement turned up, I would be unable to nuzzle at the breast of my surrogate girlfriend.And suddenly I was arriving at work with as much as 10 minutes to spare. I was brighter, more attentive, more engaged in conversations. I had time to exercise, to socialise, to add two tablespoons of water to the sachet after three minutes on full.The day before the new CD-Rom was due to arrive, I ventured to a friend that I was giving serious thought to giving up completely.  Noting that my birthday was looming large, the friend dismissed my new-found asceticism as a case of 32-bit syndrome: 32's a bit old to be playing computer games.I'd always been sure I could get away with it until I was at least 34, but it made me think: did gaming really make that much difference?  It was at this point that I decided to embark on my big project: to find out not just what 10 years of gaming had done to me, but what it could have done and could yet do. If I was going to give up this drug, I needed as much ammunition as I could get.I didn't have to look hard for the first cartridge. In January, all the papers ran stories, following a report in the British Medical Journal, about a 15-year-old PlayStation addict who, after weeks of playing a game with a RumblePak, was diagnosed with hand-arm vibration syndrome. And this is just one of many illnesses associated with gaming. Apparently I am also risking contracting RSI, eyestrain, headaches, tendinitis, back pain, calluses, epileptic seizures, auditory hallucinations and obesity.There are even reports of children who become so absorbed they are unable to control their bodily functions. Damning evidence indeed.Still, I'm in reasonable shape for a man of my age, and have never really got any kicks out of RumblePaks. The physical dangers alone, then, were not an adequate deterrent. But what about psychological problems? After all, there are no end of reports on how videogames turn us all into sociopaths with no mates and no dress sense.So I went to the British Library to see what the shrinks had to say on the subject: sure enough, a cursory search turned up 187 articles on the psychological effects of video games. The vast majority were the result of tests on children, and most of those were assessing whether violent computer games breed violent kids. Some were particularly alarmist: "Increased violence and aggression levels, including high-risk behaviours... alcohol and tobacco use and the accelerated onset of sexual activity," warned one; another, seemingly unfamiliar with the concept of scientific impartiality, was entitled simply, "Teaching Kids to Kill".Now admittedly, after one particularly sweaty Doom session, I found myself at the back of a long, slow-moving supermarket queue, behind a woman who appeared to have lined her purse with Vaseline; at this point, I did briefly fantasise I had just picked up a double-barrelled shotgun from a secret room down the aisle. But in general, I had noticed no significant increase in my aggressive tendencies; and besides, I wasn't a child.Further research turned up a few more wide-ranging studies. There was Methods    for Understanding Home-School Connections Among Latino Immigrant Families (bad); Foucault's Heterotopia and Children's Everyday Lives (good); and, most irrelevant of all, The Association Between Video Games, Religiosity, Parental Guidance and Aggression in Sixth Through Eighth Grade Students Attending Seventh Day Adventist Schools. The closest thing I could find to my own situation was an essay on the effects of videogames on reaction time, cognitive function and well-being in the elderly, but that was broadly positive, and therefore of no use.  Had no work been carried out on the effects of these games on normal adults? I called Dr Mark Griffiths, reader in psychology at Nottingham Trent University, who has conducted several studies in this field.His opinion, however, was that only youngsters were at significant risk: "Once your development is complete, adverse effects are less likely." Games were, he said, safe in moderation.  Aha. What about immoderate play? Could I possibly    be addicted?"There are six components to addiction," said Griffiths. "Whether it's salient (the most important thing in your life); whether it reliably modifies your mood; whether you build up tolerance (enjoy it less); whether you get withdrawal symptoms; whether it conflicts with other life factors; and whether you relapse (ie, your CD-Rom breaks down but you get it repaired in record time)."Well, yes, all of those had probably applied at some point. Yet Griffiths seemed unwilling to diagnose the dysfunction I was seeking, basically because I was compos mentis enough to have held down my job and engage him in vaguely intelligent conversation - vaguely intelligent conversation about computer games, mind you.In fact, his view of games was broadly positive: they can, it transpires, raise self-esteem; they make good "distractor tasks" for those suffering from stress, pain, cancer, burns and psoriasis; they can be an effective educational tool; they increase hand-eye coordination and reaction speeds (a study on air traffic controllers in 1997 discovered that regular games players were better at their jobs); and they were useful for getting burns victims' fingers moving again. This was not what I wanted to hear.My Holy Grail clearly lay elsewhere. They say that when you're    trying to give up smoking, you should make a small space where you put the price of a packet every day, to remind you how much cash you are saving. Perhaps a financial incentive would do the trick? After all, as a nation, we spent &#163;1.6bn on games software and consoles last year, and I suspected that my outlay alone could have paid for a small orangery in the Sudan.Now the more perceptive among you will point out that as a games reviewer, I get freebies. Indeed, most of the titles in my collection have come straight from the press office. But I've still shelled out a number times - for games I actually wanted to play, for example. And besides, software is not the only expense.First there's hardware. More than once I have forked out over &#163;1,000 for a PC just so I could have something powerful enough to run a game I wanted to play. Then there's the endless upgrades, peripherals and repairs. Not to mention the ancillary costs of online play: my first phone bill after I started playing multiplayer RPG Ultima Online was in excess of &#163;450. On a salary of &#163;12,000.Computer games had accounted for more than their fair share of my income. But I had never stolen a car radio to pay for my weekly fix; and I was still slightly in the black.At this point I began to despair. I knew I had a prob  lem, but was unable to gather enough evidence to prove it. Suddenly, I had a rare flash of inspiration. It occurred to me that, if I really wanted to find out what video games had done to me, I should compare the modern me with the me before I discovered the mouse. How had computer games changed my lifestyle? My relationships? My moods? My first instinct was to rush to read my diary; but I stopped keeping that in 1992.OK, I thought, I'll ring my mates and ask them if they'd noticed any change. And on leafing through my address book, I realised, with a jolt, that I am in touch with almost nobody whom I called "friend" 10 years ago. There was still the fleeting possibility that this might be ascribable to coincidence. But then I took a hard look at my life. In 10 years, little has changed.I still haven't written the TV series, or the script, or the novel, or taken the world of stand-up comedy by storm. I haven't got married, had kids or bought a house. Hell, I've only bought four CDs since 1992. I've stopped my diary, sold my car, lost touch with my friends, given up my other writing jobs, been abroad twice and had three relationships that lasted more than a month. Alarmed, I set about compiling a list of what I have achieved in that time.I have completed Doom,   Doom II, Hexen, Heretic, Myst, Quake, Quake II, Stonekeep, Phantasmagoria, Day of the Tentacle, Sam &amp; Max, Gabriel Knight, Half-Life, Fallout, Syndicate 2, Fallout 2, Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale, Megarace 2, Baldur's Gate 2: Shadows of Amn, Command &amp; Conquer, Red Alert, Nox, Tiberian Sun, Heroes of Might &amp; Magic III, Might &amp; Magic VI, Magic: The Gathering, and Micro Maniacs. Many more than once.Not to mention huge stints playing Risk, Scrabble, Championship Manager 2, Civilisation II and Ultima Online, none of which can be completed as such. I've even spent the best part of a month playing the Hearts game that came free with Windows 3.11.Once I'd finished the list, I had all the motivation I needed. So now, while I am still young, I'm hanging up my mouse. I don't know how I'm going to do it: perhaps, as one wag remarked, I can download some patches from the internet. But I'm going to do it. So the next time someone asks me how many lives I've got left, I can reply: "Just the one, thanks. And I'm going to make the most of it."
Is it a bird, is it a plane? No, it's SMS. From Rio to Riverdale Avenue, the new winged avenger in the fight against crime is the mobile text message.Text messages (SMSes) are used to cut down on credit card fraud in Brazil, to combat carjacking in South Africa, and report stolen cards in the Netherlands. In Riverdale Avenue, they give the curtain-twitching fingers of the Neighbourhood Watchers something else to do.Texting came to the rescue in Rio de Janeiro, where fraudulent transactions account for 26% of all credit-card use, according to SMS pioneer Alan Coad, of Logica Sul America.Now, customers of the Rio-based Unibanco can opt to get a text message every time their credit card is used. The message, sent over the ATL mobile network, might say: "R$1,650 spent at Gucci." If they haven't been designer shopping, a phone number for lost and stolen cards at the end of the message means they know who to call to prevent an even bigger bill.In South Africa, if a car is carjacked and the driver presses a concealed panic button beside the accelerator, an SMS is relayed to the vehicle management company. Then, rather than risk being shot, the driver will offer to get out of the car.The vehicle management company, usually owned by an insurer, will send out a helicopter to track down the stolen vehicle. It will know from the first SMS that it is, say, a white BMW.As there could be many such cars on the road, the helicopter pilot can get the vehicle management company to send another SMS that makes the car's lights flash on and off. It will hover above the vehicle, but if it still doesn't stop and there is some clear space around it, another SMS sent to the car's electronics can make it pull over.The hardware, including a global-positioning system to provide the car's location, costs around $800 from DigiCore, a Johannesburg-listed company. It includes sensors placed around the car, a black box and a panic   button. "There are 98,000 South African cars equipped in this way," says Coad, who thinks the technology could appeal to the 300,000 people who bullet- or bomb-proof their cars in Rio.In the UK, a similar system from the Dorset-based Interactive Projects - sans helicopter - goes on sale this    month. When activated, it sounds a local alarm to deter the attacker, and also sends "PANIC!" text messages to one or more mobile numbers, including the car's exact location. The person who receives the message phones the driver to see if the police need to be contacted. TrakM8 (pronounced Track Mate)   Advance costs &#163;449.99.In the Netherlands, citizens can message the registration numbers of stolen cars to a central database, so they can be tracked down more quickly. Meanwhile, on the Isle of Man, where mm02 (BT Cellnet's parent) is testing a third generation (3G) mobile network, some testers are   using it to stop their homes being burgled.The system texts them on their 3G mobiles if their burglar alarm goes off, displaying the view from the house's webcam, so they can see if it's a man with a swag bag or just the cat.In the more low-tech mainland UK, members of the Neighbourhood Watch scheme in some areas can text in crime tips, such as INTRDER @ 19 RIVERDALE AVE, says Mike Short, chairman of the Mobile Data Association and a spokesman for BT Cellnet.In Japan, too, mobiles are being seen as vital in the fight against crime. Lars Vestergaard, head of wireless research at IDC, says: "Users plan to hold up their video mobiles at the scene of a crime, then text the image to the police." This is only for the brave, if the reputation of the Yakuza, Japan's gangsters, is anything to go by.Perhaps surprisingly, even if your mobile has been stolen, SMS can still come to the rescue. Phoneguard, to be launched in the UK later this year, will be able to disable a stolen phone with a specially encrypted SMS. There are also schemes to flood stolen phones with messages, draining the batteries and rendering them useless - an idea tried in Amsterdam. Is there no job too big for the winged messenger?
Rick Belluzzo, Microsoft's president and chief operating officer, has unexpectedly resigned after little more than a year in the position.The company said it had no plans to replace Mr Belluzzo, who stepped down yesterday as the software giant announced changes that will give its main business units more autonomy.All six main business segments will now report directly to Steve Ballmer, the current chief executive, effectively cutting out Mr Belluzzo.Microsoft said the restructuring had nothing to do with its long-running antitrust trial. The announcement, made after markets closed, surprised many analysts, who thought Mr Belluzzo was in line to succeed Mr Ballmer.Mr Belluzzo said the restructuring was important for the company's future growth."We needed to really change the orientation of the business to where business owners could not only &#91;control&#93; product development but also how the product goes to market and so on," he said.Mr Belluzzo said he realised in about January that the restructuring plans would make his job redundant, and saw that as an opportunity to pursue his long-term goal of being a chief executive at a company.Mr Belluzzo said replacing Mr Ballmer, or even the company's chairman and co-founder, Bill Gates, had never entered his mind."I think Bill and Steve will be around for some time ... so I never thought that was my ambition here."Although Mr Belluzzo seemed to have a good relationship with Mr Gates and Mr Ballmer, Jonathan Geurkink, an analyst with Ragen McKenzie, said Mr Belluzzo was overshadowed by the star power of the company's long-time leaders."In many ways Microsoft is still Bill Gates' and Steve Ballmer's company but I think &#91;Belluzzo&#93; brought a critical outside perspective to the company ... He helped whip 'em into shape," Mr Geurkink said.Before being appointed president, Mr Belluzzo focused much of his attention on the company's consumer operations, including its new Xbox game system, its MSN Messenger instant messaging system and its Ultimate TV service.Mr Belluzzo also was instrumental early on in the company's .Net initiative for delivering a variety of services over the internet. All of these consumer-oriented projects have been the hallmark of Microsoft's efforts to become more of a consumer products company, although most of them have yet to make money.Analysts credited Mr Belluzzo with bringing a fresh perspective to Microsoft and encouraging the company to think about different approaches, such as the current restructuring.
As many parents have discovered, those big monthly charges from the internet service provider have a lot to do with their teenage children downloading music over the web. The court-ordered demise of music-swapping pioneer Napster caused barely a hiccup in the daily trade of music, with services such as Audiogalaxy, Kazaa, Morpheus and WinMX being used to fill the void.There is a particular irony to all this activity. The entire online music industry is built upon a school subject that most of those young music fans would claim to dislike most: mathematics.  What they are really downloading each night are streams of numbers, computed using a calculus-based technique first developed more than 200 years ago.In the early 19th century, the French mathematician Joseph Fourier worked out some mathematical equations to describe the way heat disperses. Those same equations can be used to describe any wave form as a sequence of numbers, including sound waves. In the 60s, an American engineer called R A Moog used Fourier's maths to design electronic music synthesizers.In the 80s, Yamaha, the Japanese electronics company, used the same maths to revolutionise the music industry with the introduction of electronic keyboard instruments. And today, Fourier's equations live on as part of the mathematical framework on which the music encoding scheme MP3 is based. A particularly fascinating aspect to MP3 is that it combines maths with knowledge of the way the human auditory system works. First, let's look at the maths.Fourier showed how any wave form (including a sound wave) can be broken down into constituent sine waves, those perfectly regular waves that engineers generate on oscilloscopes. The exact pattern of sine waves that    combine to form a given sound wave can be represented by a sequence of numbers.Those numbers may be computed from the original wave by a mathematical process known today as a Fourier Transform. In this way, sound may be turned into numbers. Actually, there is a bit more to it than that. The Fourier Transform works not on a wave but on a mathematical description of that wave. So first you have to convert a wave into a mathematical description.Engineers do this by taking note of a trick nature performed many years ago when she developed animal hearing systems. A sound wave consists of a ripple in the air.What makes it sound is that our ears and, more generally, our hearing system interpret that air wave as sound. The motion of the air causes a skin membrane in the inner ear to vibrate, and those vibrations are converted into tiny electrical currents that flow into the brain. It is those electrical waves that the brain actually experiences as sound.A microphone works in essentially the same way, converting an incoming sound wave in air into an electrical signal. If we feed that electrical signal into a loudspeaker, then the speaker recreates (a copy of) the original sound wave. But we can also do something else to that electrical wave: we can use a    method known as sampling to generate a sequence of numbers. The most common procedure is called Pulse Code Modulation (PCM).This takes an electrical wave and measures the voltage of the signal at moments of time a small, fixed interval apart. In the case of an audio compact disc, the sampling is done 44,100 times a second. Thus, for each second of sound input, the PCM analog-to-digital converter generates 44,100 numbers, each one the measurement of the voltage at the instant it is sampled.In the case of a compact disc, each voltage is measured to 16-bit accuracy; that is, the system can distinguish up to 65536 (or 2 to the power of 16) different voltages. A sample rate of 44,100 per second coupled with 16-bit voltage measurement is sufficient to encode any sound as a sequence of numbers that, when converted back into sound, the human ear cannot distinguish from the original.Unfortunately, it takes a lot of storage capacity to capture music in this fashion: 10 megabytes for every minute of (stereo-recorded) music, to be precise.Given modern compact disc technology, this is fine for the recording industry, but would create a major problem if everyone were to ship CD music files around the internet. This is where Fourier's maths and a knowledge of the    human hearing system comes in. Anyone with a computer is aware that there are algorithms that can compress data files (PK-ZIP and Stuffit are two well-known examples). When applied to a typical text file, these packages can reduce the size of the file by as much as 80%. But with CD quality PCM files, the reduction is only around 10%.Algorithms specially designed to operate on PCM files have achieved a 60% reduction, but that is nothing like enough to support internet music swapping. MP3 works by forgetting the idea of compressing the entire file so that the original sampled sound wave can be reproduced exactly. Instead, it deliberately discards some of the information. Thus, anything in the original sampled sound wave that the human hearing system cannot detect may be discarded.There is a lot of stuff that can be thrown away without our noticing. MP3 is short for MPeg3, or more fully MPeg - Level 3. MP3, an industry standard developed in 1992 by the German Frauenhofer Research Institute, achieves a spectacular compression ratio of a sampled audio wave, ranging from a factor of eight to a factor of 12, depending on the source. This means that the 10MB of storage capacity needed to encode one minute of hi-fi music on a compact disc is reduced to a 1 MB MP3 file on a computer hard drive.MP3 divides the frequency range into 32 bands, each of which the human ear hears separately. The component of the input signal (sampled wave) in each of those ranges is then subjected to a Fourier-like mathematical transformation that separates it into a further 18 constituents, generating a total of 576 individual frequency bands. Within each of those bands, components undetectable to the human ear are removed.The resulting signal is then compressed further by Huffmann coding, a technique familiar to computer scientists, which represents frequently occurring values by shorter codes than used for less frequently occurring values. (For instance, it would be highly wasteful to use the default 141,120 bits of the sampled wave to encode a 1/10 second silence in a song.) The result of all this maths?Free music at the stroke of a few keys on the keyboard for any teenager with a computer. (Discounting the internet connection charges their parents pay at the end of the month.) With consumer electronics stores offering new MP3 players every few months, and with millions of PC owners swapping music files illegally (as well as occasionally downloading them legitimately), the modern music industry is built on   mathematics as much as anything else.  What Joseph Fourier would have made of today's applications of his original mathematical analysis of heat waves is anybody's guess.&#183;Dr Keith Devlin, a Yorkshire born mathematician, is the executive director of the Center for the Study of Language and Information at Stanford University in California. His most recent book is The Maths Gene: Why Everybody Has It But Most People Don't Use It, published by Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
One of the more noble uses of the internet is in bringing attention to talent cruelly ignored during its lifetime. Musical tribute sites are now plentiful, and although the majority focus on living obsessions such as Britney Spears (more than 15,000 sites and counting), their ability to elicit posthumous and often poignant praise is always worthy of attention.Last night's 250th edition of Top of the Pops 2 contained a notable triumph for word- of-web, with singer Eva Cassidy voted fourth in the viewers all-time list of videos. Cassidy can be heard singing the Sting track Fields of Gold in the TV advertising campaign for Cancer Research UK, but some credit should also go to the websites that have proved a magnet for fans since her untimely death from bone cancer in 1996.Lovingly maintained by her cousin, Laura Bligh has been running for three years. "When I started the website in the spring of 1999," she says, "it was hard to get information about Eva. She was very obscure but the people who heard her music tended    to become instant fanatics. It was a fan in the United Kingdom who reserved the domain name and signed it over to me."Since then, the guestbook on the site has become a virtual shrine for Eva, after the flood of praise generated by her posthumous album Songbird led to her being far better known in the UK than her native America. Cassidy was unable to secure a record deal, despite now being recognised as one of the singular voices of her generation. Although page-hits hardly compensate for such injustice, Bligh is quietly pleased at the results. "At first I was thrilled if the site had 50 visitors a week, but lately it's been 300-500 per day. An online retailer would sneer at such numbers, but I am proud."Bligh's site also exposes another valuable function of the tribute site, namely as an online confessional uniting people with shared experience. Admittedly, much of this can be mawkishly sentimental (fan-poetry, for example, is usually excruciating) but the true stories are often moving. One recent entry in the guestbook from George in Belfast reads: "It's true GOD only takes the best. As a fel  low musician of 40 years and ill as well, I hope when I leave this world soon I will have the sheer joy of being in her band. Words cannot explain the peace I get from her magical voice. God Bless You All - I'll see her soon xxxxxxxx."Cassidy's online fame is exceptional but by no means unique. Premature death has always inspired a degree of extra devotion, from Jim Morrison to Marc Bolan, but the growing availability of JPeg, MPeg and, most notably, MP3 files, has made it especially valuable for musicians, who no longer have to seek out obscure albums to keep track of lesser-known artists.  "In the past four years, the popularity of the internet has changed the way people get information and how they shop," concludes Bligh. "It came along at the right time for Eva Cassidy's music, because people who heard her recordings and wanted to buy her CDs didn't have to rely on local stores, which would not be likely to carry such obscure albums. I'd love to know how many Eva Cassidy CDs Amazon has sold - she is one of their all-time bestsellers."
With the decision by ITV Digital to opt for administration, it would appear that digital terrestrial TV in the UK has at least one foot in the grave.Not so. Hardware manufacturers Pace and Panasonic are convinced that while digital terrestrial TV is looking a little off-colour, it has a rich life ahead. They believe the secret of its longevity might not be its pay-TV services, but its free channels.Even if Carlton and Granada pull the plug on ITV Digital as a pay-TV service, its decoders will continue to tune into a selection of free channels, including several BBC and ITV stations.Now Pace, a British company, is offering viewers the chance to view those channels (including BBC Choice, BBC4, two recently launched BBC children's channels and ITV2) via a &#163;100 digital   terrestrial TV adapter.Last week, Panasonic also paraded a similar box (due in June) alongside a selection of TVs with built-in digital terrestrial tuners. Other manufacturers such as Nokia, Philips, Bush, Sony and LG sell decoders or TVs that tune into the free digital stations.Pace is confident that no matter what happens to ITV Digital, it will reach its target of selling 400,000 digital terrestrial adapters in the next 14 months.Its marketing director, Andrew Wallace, believes that punters will be attracted by its new box. "We are talking about a new market in   free-to-air digital TV channels," he says. "According to our research, there is a huge market for a digital TV adapter that offers viewers free multi-channel TV, yet is not expensive."In the short term, the problem for the likes of Pace and Panasonic is that they are reliant on broadcasters offering interesting free-to-air channels. And, in the words of Adrian Justins, the editor of What Video and TV magazine, "the channels just aren't that sexy."Who wants to watch re-runs on ITV2 and BBC Choice or monitor sleeping MPs on BBC Parliament? What is the   incentive for the viewer who is happy with the five channels from their analogue TV system to pay out &#163;100."But if the carrot doesn't work, there is always the stick. The government aims to switch off analogue TV transmissions in the UK between 2006 and 2010. It maintains, however, that at least 95% of UK homes would have to be converted to digital TV before it does so. With figures showing that only 40% of homes are connected to digital TV, whether it be terrestrial, satellite or cable, it clearly has a long way to go.Huge numbers of TVs and VCRs with analogue tuners   are sold daily in the UK, and growing consumer awareness of the issue could lead to a campaign to derail the government's plans.There is also the problem of availability of the digital terrestrial signal. Unlike Sky Digital's satellite service, which is consistently available throughout the UK, there are large pockets where consumers cannot tune in. Some home-owners will have to re-adjust their aerials, too.One card the government could play would be to subsidise the digital terrestrial decoders. It's an idea that, according to Pace's Wallace, was gaining credence within   government circles a few years ago. "The potential revenue from the frequencies used by analogue transmissions was such that financially, it would have made some sense," he says.Sadly for Pace, the awkward genesis of the third generation (3G) phone system has meant that telecommunications companies, the prime purchasers of those frequencies, don't value them quite as highly as they did in 2000. For now, it looks as if ITV Digital will soldier on in some form, perhaps offering a more limited selection of pay-TV channels.But some believe that, unless the government intervenes, its troubles may have dealt digital terrestrial TV in the UK a fatal blow."I think the ITV Digital fiasco has undermined any confidence consumers had in digital terrestrial TV," says Justins. "They won't buy products they think might not work in a few years' time, and I'm not sure how successful the manufacturers will be in countering the poor image it is now saddled with."It really could be up to the government to save it."
Poetic adviceI write in reference to Victor Keegan's interview with Christina Patterson,     director of the Poetry Society (Working IT Out, March 28). Patterson suggests that the     net has not invigorated poetry in the development of new forms. However, beyond     hypertext, there are relationships emerging between poetry and programming, which point     to the poetry of language being written for the screen distinguishable from existing poetic     forms written for the page or voice.I refer to work such as the Orbital Poetry Engine (see below)      - a weaving together of languages (poetic and     programming) developed last year, as a collaboration between myself and the artist Neil     Jenkins, which combines the poem Orbital with an internet mapping program. We have since     collaborated using this "engine" to redefine different poems, the number and the names,     for example: www.herenorthere.org/11.09.01/ and to reflect aspects of surveillance on     the internet with Echelon - www.herenorthere.org/!/ It is, of course, difficult to keep up     with everything taking place on the internet, but I hope these examples point to the     possibilities for taking words and language beyond the concepts of authorship, publication,     and the market place, to which Patterson was referring.Mac Dunlopmac@signhear.netGet realThe £1 charge for a music track suggested by Dave Birch (Music Industry in a DReaM,     March 28) illustrates how the record companies have yet to come to terms with the     internet. A pound per track is as much as, if not more than, what is currently demanded     for a CD after adding all the costs of marketing, production, distribution and retailer     mark-up. The internet passes most of these costs on to the user. A more realistic charge     would be 10p or 20p per track.Most would happily pay that for a legitimate copy that     didn't depend on the vagaries of Gnutella. But why not pay that direct to the artist and do     away with the record company altogether?Roger Houghtonmail@rogerhoughton.comFlash     upgradeTracy Brown says, with regard to Flash: "It is time for the old crankies of this     world to wake up and smell the upgrades." So all those people browsing the internet on     state-of-the-art palmtops and mobile phones (which might not have Flash, and aren't     easily upgradeable) are "old crankies"? Or blind people, for whom Flash's "stunning,     entertaining visuals" would be rather lost, are in Tracy Brown's words, "too lazy and     stubborn to adapt"? That viewpoint amazes me.By all means, use Flash if your website     warrants it. But please make the site usable by those who cannot use or do not have     Flash.Matthew Somervillematthew.somerville@trinity.oxford.ac.ukTell it as it isThe     chief usability problem is not whether a site is built by a professional or an amateur. It is     whether the web builder will accept criticism. I always tell web builders that before they     go live with a site, they should get a few vaguely competent internet users (not friends or     colleagues) to spend an hour trying to make the site work - without assistance. And do     they? Do they heck!They would sooner stick a ferret down their trousers than admit their     websites are less than perfect.Ian Richardsonianmedia@netcomuk.co.ukPop-up blockFor     all those who are irritated by pop-up adverts, I suggest a change of browser. Mozilla, an     open source browser based on the Netscape code, has just been released in version 0.9.9,     which permits the user to block websites from opening new windows and moving or resizing     existing windows. To judge by your feedback last week, this is a long-overdue development.     Mozilla is available (free!) for Windows, Mac and Linux from Mozilla.org.James Eaglejeeagle@yahoo.comGreen sleevesAt my local computer store, I can buy a black ink     cartridge for £27.50 and a colour one for about the same price. Alternatively, I can buy a     new printer, complete with black and colour cartridges for £19.99. What's my ethical     position here? Should I buy the printer, remove the cartridges and throw the printer away     or should I pay the extra £25 and help save the planet?Mick Harpermickxharper@aol.com
Tribute listsWithin hours of the death of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, the official Royal website was leading cyberspace's mourning. Those who want to have been able to send their messages to a virtual book of condolence since last weekend. But of more interest, perhaps, even to those of you who have read quite enough about the Queen Mum's life, are the quite bizarre lists that have been presented in the royal site's tribute to her.One catalogues the - count 'em - 24 honorary degrees she was presented with. Another lists all her illnesses, and any engagements   she missed because of them. They range from the mundane - the feverish cold of 1969 that caused her to miss the 5th WRAC Golden Jubilee reception - to the vague - a "bad leg" that put her out of action for a week in 1981. There's also the infamous 1982 fishbone episode that stopped her enjoying (among other things) a Royal Concert at the Barbican, a dinner with the American ambassador and a visit to United Biscuits in Harlesden.It all keeps someone in work, I suppose.Bottle watchSome of us lament the in-your-face commercialism that blights any major sporting event these days. But you've got to hand some gadgety kudos to Budweiser, America's other fizzy drink brand, and "official beer of the 2002 Fifa World Cup". (Does that mean the players drink only Bud when they're out before a big game?) For their World Cup promotion they have installed global positioning system (GPS) units in 25 Bud multipacks, now on sale around Britain. Open one of the special (but otherwise empty) bottles or cans and the unit is activated. The Bud "Prize Patrol" then springs into action, using the GPS data and some mapping software to   track down the lucky prize winner and award them tickets to this summer's World Cup. Let's hope the winning bottle isn't being glugged on the fly by some adolescent tearaway, or the Prize Patrol could find their high-tech gadgetry leads them to the back of a deserted bicycle shed.Radio 1 searchBBC Radio 1 is about to launch a search, via its website, for new unsigned music talent, called OneMusic. The hunt, which starts on Monday, is a prelude to a whole day of output devoted to unsigned acts, scheduled for May 6.On the same day, the Radio 1 website will be relaunched - again - with a new section handed over to a kind of musical Ask Jack, where music industry experts will offer advice on getting into and succeeding in this most notoriously cut-throat of businesses.Novel ideaOrange has launched what it calls "an experiment in writing and creativity on the internet" by creating a new 3D website that will allow readers to share in the process of writing a novel. Visitors to Orange Labyrinth will - once they have downloaded    some special PC-only software - be able to watch author Kate Mosse prepare for, then write, an ambitious series of books - the Labyrinth Trilogy - spanning 800 years of French history. Visitors will be able to watch her interview historians, listen in on discussions with publishers and agents and hear her audio diaries as she moves from research and planning, through writing, to publication. Schools in west Sussex will be using the site as an educational resource, and Orange will be doing much   the same: its reason for getting involved is to monitor how users behave when confronted with a 3D world.Phone safetyOne of the Great Chatroom Rules is that you should never give out your telephone number - which creates quite a barrier for those who join the online forums looking for some romance. Telepay, a premium-rate telephone line company, reckons its new service is the answer. Ring-me.com allows you to create a new, one-use telephone number to issue to someone you meet online. They then dial the number (a premium rate line, naturally, charged at 37.5p a minute peak, 25p a minute off-peak) and are connected to you. Should your date turn out to be less pleasant on the phone than they are on the net, you don't need to worry that they'll pester you with unwanted calls: the number stops working an hour after it is issued.
Where do you stand on file-sharing software?The Napster case was fought wrong. Shutting sites down is not the way to go. I earn my living from creating something people can easily rip off - so do the software companies - and there has to be some sort of moral obligation on the part of the user. There are only so many really brilliant people who can write that software. I'm scrupulous about buying all my software to support the companies. I like to meet the people who write the software as, ultimately, what we buy is their personality. These are good times for technology. Grand pianos have been around for 500 years: we've only just started with computers!Preferred music software?Native Instruments Absynth  is excellent. I love Steinberg's recently launched VST System Link  because until now, you've had to keep buying a new computer and throwthe old one away. This allows you to keep using your old computers with your new machine as part of one system.Any major disasters?When I used an Atari with Notator it never crashed, so I'd spend days not saving stuff. I remember working with Ridley Scott at 3am on a piece that had taken a couple of days and we were really excited. I went to hit Save but instead hit Revert To Save and was left staring at a blank screen! He just looked at me and said "I'm going home now!" Horrific as it was, that taught me the lesson to save things more often and to read manuals!Why do you prefer Macs?With OS X they've now got Doug Wyatt, the guy who wrote OMS, working with them. They're taking music more seriously now. Steve Jobs seems to be running Apple as his hobby and he appears more interested in Pixar, so consequently he's perhaps more interested in visuals - but he may have figured out that music is a good market.I can take my G4 Titanium laptop  with a little Oxygen keyboard that fits in the same bag and I'm pretty much able to do a score anywhere.Do you use OS X?I feel I can't go near it yet but they seem to be taking their time to really make it work well for musicians. It's changed quite dramatically and I have friends who are switching between OS X and their old system to get used to it. It's taken a long time to get this far but only four years back, everyone was saying Apple was dead and here they are, stronger than ever.&#183;The Wings of A Film, a compilation of Hans Zimmer's film scores, is out now on Decca.
The scene is a smart apartment on a sunny day in Ipswich. In the first room there is video conferencing taking place from a computer. In the bedroom, a set-top box delivers digital television. In an adjacent room a PC spurts out streaming video, while in another room, a very wide television screen offers a cinema-style visual experience.All of these are running simultaneously and - listen carefully - all the data is coming through a single standard copper wire that could be 50 or even 100 years old. What I have been   experiencing is not broadband as in ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) which I have just installed at home but VDSL, or very high rate digital subscriber line, which is 10 times faster than ADSL.Welcome to Adastral Park, Martlesham, British Telecom's research laboratory in Ipswich, where the experimental apartment has been built. But it is not as experimental as it sounds because this VDSL technology is already working in Australia. It is a proven system looking for a market and an agreed set of global standards (which is almost complete).Where VDSL scores over ADSL is that it deploys high capacity optic fibres right up to the green cabinets that can be seen at street corners. Fibre for ADSL stops one to 1.5 kilometres short of the house. Each green box can service 400 homes and because the connection through copper wires is shorter, it can carry much more data. Don Clarke, head of BTexact's VDSL development, says: "We think of it as ADSL on steroids."This immediately raises a question: why not lay optic fibre - a single strand of which can carry the equivalent of hundreds of thousands of telephone calls simultaneously - right into the home? The problem lies not in the cost of fibre, which has fallen dramatically. Fibre to the   home is still reckoned to be uneconomic (except for new houses) because of the civil engineering problems of installing it in 28m homes, say BT engineers.The driving force behind all this is higher revenues. Richard Bayley, the vice president, global marketing, of Marconi Access systems (which sells VDSL equipment to BT) points out that although data traffic is now higher than voice, the latter is still the "killer application", because voice still makes up to 80% of revenues. Marconi and BT are hoping that residential voice revenue will migrate to being part of a package of voice, video and data. "He who gets to the front door first," observes Bayley, "will get the cream."The prospect of fibre right into the home - as opposed to the end of the street - has been the ultimate vision of broadband enthusiasts for more than 15 years. Originally, the debate was whether BT should be allowed to deliver entertainment down its wires (mainly video-on-demand) in exchange for wiring the country with a network of optic fibres.The direction the country was to go in was decided by the Macdonald Committee in the mid 1980s. In keeping with Thatcherite values, it decided that market forces - not the strategy of a monop oly utility - should decide what happens.This paved the way for the cable companies to dig up the roads to install rival networks delivering television and phone services. All this effort, from a technological point of view, was not necessary because the huge capacity of fibre optics could have done it all with room to spare.But what hardly anyone predicted (and assuredly not me) was the extraordinary achievements of telecoms engineers at BT and elsewhere who did magical things with the humble copper wire. Back then, the stuff seemed destined for the Science Museum, but is now capable of delivering broadband services to four or five televisions and computers simultaneously.And what has happened to the monopoly versus market forces debate? Well, the two cable companies that remain are desperately staving off bankruptcy prior to reconstruction and, doubtless, an eventual merger. Monopolies are coming back into fashion. Meanwhile, attempts to open up BT's monopoly of the "final   mile" - the distance between the telephone exchange and the home - to increased competition are in tatters. All but one potential new entrant has abandoned plans to run their own ADSL from the telephone exchange to the home in favour of subcontracting from BT. The last survivor, Bulldog Communications, is crying "foul" over BT's decision (as of this week) to drop the wholesale price of ADSL connection from &#163;25 a line to only &#163;14.75.This is the nub of the problem. By dropping the price, BT will undoubtedly give a big fillip to the broadband market but at the expense of killing competition that may (or may not) have produced even lower prices or better technology in the long term.It is tempting to conclude that competition in networks like telecommunications infrastructure doesn't work as it does in the economics text books.Meanwhile, I am dabbling at home with a broadband ADSL connection that is 10 times faster than my previous modem, while VDSL, which is 10 times faster again, is up and running and looking for a mass market.Let's forget about competition for once and roll it out as quickly as possible.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Big fixMost of the virus and security problems people have with Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Outlook Express are due to bugs that have been fixed, some of them in the last century. Most people have things to do besides track fixes that, ideally, would not be needed in the first place. However, occasionally it is worth making the effort, and this is one of those times. Microsoft has collected its fixes for IE5, 5.5 and 6.0 into cumulative update packages, which can be downloaded fromMicrosoft. The download also removes two new vulnerabilities. However, it cannot be uninstalled later, so make sure you have appropriate back-ups.AV checkMy virus-checking software is to become unsupported. Can you recommend a good package - preferably free!Nick PeedJack Schofield replies:Try AVG AntiVirus, which you can download fromGrisoftin Czechoslovakia. AVG 6.0 Free Edition is available to UK users and all other non-European users. (Europeans outside the UK are offered a 30-day trial version of AVG 6.0 Standard Edition.) An alternative is the DOS version of F-Prot, which is also sold in commercial versions. See theunofficial pagefor details. The free F-Prot does not run as a background task, you have to run it manually. This is one reason I like it. However, it means my first line of defence is the ruthless deletion of unsolicited email attachments. Since almost all are, in my case, sent by PR agencies, this is not a problem.GrabberCould you recommend an offline browser or piece of software that would enable me to, for example, look at the full list of Guardian stories and simply click on the ones I wish to download.John Murphy,BouniaguesJS:This is probably not the answer you would get from anyone else, but I useReGetDeluxe or ReGet Junior to do this. For example, Search Guardian Unlimited for a list of stories, right-click on the page, select Download All by ReGet Deluxe from the menu, and it downloads them in seconds. (You are given a list first, so you can untick any you don't want.) You can then read the stories by double-clicking them. For added convenience, move all the pages (plus almost anything else you want to include) into a folder, then import them all automagically intoAskSam, a free-form database. ReGet works with pages of photos and other types of file, as long as it has direct links. FlashGet and some other filedownloadersdo the same thing.Sort StartThe number of programs on my Start menu in Windows 98 means I have to scroll down to find them all. I would like to have two lists side by side.Martin McGuiganJS:The Tweaking Toolbox is one utility that will do that, or you can try aregistry hack. It may be better to make the Start menu's list of programs shorter by moving them to sub-folders such as Applications, Utilities, Multimedia, Genealogy, or whatever, to avoid scrolling. You can "drag and drop" Start menu entries to move them where you want. However, it's easier to do this in Windows    Explorer at C:\Windows\Start Menu\Programs, using File|New| Folder to create new sub-folders. You can also reorganise your collection of bookmarks at C:\Windows\ Favorites in the same way.Too much!Windows should be able to address up to 4 gigabytes of memory, but the reality is different. Systems fail to boot with more than 1GB because of "insufficient memory", and with slightly less than 1GB, give an "out of memory" error to any program that exceeds 512MB.R G Silson,TringJS:Windows 9x has a bug, or feature, that goes back to Windows 95 but did not matter until people started installing large amounts of physical memory. Briefly, someone decided that the more memory you had, the more the virtual cache manager (VCache) would need. If the memory is big enough, VCache takes so much memory from the system area there's not enough left for programs. The solution is to use the MaxFileCache setting in the System.ini file to limit VCache to 512MB or less. See http:// support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/q253/9/12.asp or search Google for Q253912. However, any PC with this much memory would usually be running a much more efficient operating system such as Windows NT/2000/XP or a version of Unix.Training timeWhere can I find information about places for IT training?Frederic HardyJS:The Institute of IT Training has an accreditation scheme and awebsitewhere you can search for a training company. You can also search for courses atLearn Direct(forScotland). Finally, the government'se-skillsoffice provides a concise overview of IT career possibilities. No doubt readers will provide better sources.
If you downloadedKaZaA(for the free music), then you probably got Altnet (for paid-for music) as well, without knowing it.
GI talkIf you are an Afghan tribesman, watch out for US troops carrying a new pocket computer called the Phraselator, described as a "one-way phrase-based voice-to-voice machine translator".This computerised talking phrase book can shout pre-recorded commands such as: "Drop your weapon," "Lie face down on the ground," and, most frightening of all, "We are here to help you".The VoxTec Phraselator - developed, like the internet,   with the help of US defence department research grants - is basically a ruggedised PocketPC running Microsoft Windows CE on a Strong ARM chip. When not playing back commands, it works like a Compaq iPaq.VoxTec is touting other applications, besides "peacekeeping operations". Systems   could be useful to police and fire departments, customs officials, coastguards, airline staff and business travellers. Voice input makes it convenient and, unlike paper-based systems, it can handle hundreds of languages.Such devices may become common when the estimated $1,500 cost comes down to a level where tourists can afford them.LighterNEC has launched a 146g PocketPC that it claims is much lighter than the competition.The MobilePro 300E has all the usual PocketPC 2002 functions and comes with 64MB of memory and a 3.5in 320 by 240 pixel colour screen.Expansion is via an SD card slot, with optional Rocketeer modules to take    CompactFlash II and PC Cards. It will be available this month for &#163;399, including VAT.All talkPhone theft might be reduced if your phone could only be activated by the sound of your voice.Schlumberger and Domain Dynamics Ltd, based in Reading, reckon they have developed a way to make the idea work. Their voice authentication system takes up only 2.5K of memory and can therefore fit on a Java card or the SIM card in a mobile phone.Users can choose their own pass-phrase and repeat it three times; the phone SIM stores a voiceprint that works as a PIN.The phone is accessed by turning it on and speaking the pass-phrase.
3G: The future is not what it used to be.Ovum has provided a good overview of the state of the next-generation phone market, and you can get the rest for only £1,500 (40% off the normal price).
Read my lips: NTT DoCoMo is developing a phone that can do just that, reports New Scientist.
It seems that computer games have begun to find a place in the world of academia: the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York has become the first US university to offer an MA degree in computer game design.The university hopes to provide graduates for a rapidly games expanding industry, reports the New York Times. Graduates will have the expertise to secure potentially lucrative jobs coming up with the next Lara Croft.Rochester may be the first American university offering an MA course specifically dedicated to games, but students based in Britain - which has produced runaway successes such as Tomb Raider - will not have to leave the country to study game design.Several universities already offer specific gaming masters degree courses in the UK, including John Moores University in Liverpool and the University of Essex.Bournemouth University also has three computer animation MAs on offer, one with a focus on game design. Students have gone on to jobs in the games industry with Sony's offices in London and Cambridge, a university spokeswoman said. She had no specific information about the amounts earned by its graduates but said, "Salaries are substantial."The courses are a sign that universities recognise the commercial importance of the £13bn computer games industry, although the first MAs in computer game theory and deconstruction will prove they recognise their cultural importance as well.
Freeserve, the UK's largest internet service provider, has renewed its attack on BT, accusing the telecoms giant of pursuing an orchestrated campaign of anti-competitive behaviour.John Pluthero, the chief executive of Freeserve, has  reported BT to the telecoms watchdog Oftel over its £10m broadband campaign.BT is already involved in a spat with rival service provider AOL over the payment of VAT, and  BT has now been accused of exploiting the links between its retail an wholesale arms to steal a march on the competition.Freeserve, which relies on BT to deliver its internet service to 2.4m users and is battling to attract new business with its high-speed broadband service, believes BT is trying to take unfair advantage because it is the owner of the national telecoms network."The Chinese walls that are supposed to exist between BT Openworld and BT Wholesale may be fooling Oftel," said Mr Pluthero."But to the rest of us who understand the lead times needed to bring a new product to market it's obvious those walls are paper thin."Immediately following February's announcement of a  price reduction in the wholesale price of broadband, BT ran a series of ads in the national press directing readers to BT.com/broadband.But Freeserve accused BT of using this to promote its own service because the advert linked to BT Openworld's own broadband offering without mentioning other ISPs that offer broadband.BT Openworld, which is 100% owned by BT and is housed in the same headquarters, is legally obliged to operate at arm's length  under Oftel guidelines.But Freeserve is not convinced and believes it was informed of BT's wholesale broadband price cuts before the rest of the market.The cut from £25 to £14.75 had a hugely significant impact on the market enabling BT rivals such as Freeserve and AOL to drop their prices to the consumer.However, while BT has been signing up new broadband users at the rate of thousands a week, its two biggest rivals have yet to get off the starting blocks.Freeserve argues that in booking a high profile TV campaign and distributing 2m sign-up CDs so soon after the announcement, BT Openworld showed it must have known about the cuts in advance.According to Freeserve, the broadband push has also highlighted the need to separate BT's wholesale and retail arms - a move also long argued for by others in the industry.Last January Oftel ruled it would be unfair for BT to cross-subsidise its consumer broadband services but no further action was taken.Freeserve is demanding that Oftel launches an immediate investigation into predatory pricing under the Competition Act.It argues that BT Openworld can't be generating enough revenue to cover its free installation offer and as such is guilty of cross subsidising its services."There's now a realistic chance that broadband will at last begin to take off in the UK and Freeserve will play a big part in this; what must not be allowed to happen is to hand that market to BT through flimsy regulation of the incumbent's anti-competitive behaviour," added Mr Pluthero.
Britain's two other largest internet service providers - AOL and BTopenworld - yesterday raised their unmetered internet access prices by £1 per month, following a Freeserve price hike in March.AOL's Flat Rate service and BTopenworld's Anytime package will cost £15.99 a month from May. Last month Freeserve raised the price of its Anytime unmetered access service by £1 to £13.99 a month.The price rises were not unexpected. In January, the chief executive of Freeserve, John Pluthero, warned that he "would be surprised if there weren't price rises from a lot of players this year".BTopenworld denied speculation that the price hikes were an attempt to move customers from unmetered products onto broadband access."That's not the case. Although clearly there are people who will migrate, we don't use pricing as a means to move customers between products," a BTopenworld spokesman said.The company has 800,000 unmetered access customers and 100,000 broadband users. However, the unmetered business is not currently in profit."Customers want an ISP that will be around in the long term, and to do that we need to be profitable," the spokesman said.Last week, the industry regulator, Oftel, approved BT's price cuts in its wholesale ADSL line rental, bringing the price to resellers down from £25 a month to £14.75. And last month BT cut the price of its lowest cost broadband connection from home users to £29.99 a month, meaning the cost differential is still £14 a month.
The Google story (below) is, of course, in the great traditon of the famous Internet RFC for transmitting IP usingAvian Carriers.
Intel is now shipping .2.4GHzversions of the Pentium 4, on track for 3GHz by the end of the year.
Is Apple going to do a great .Net client? Microsoft.net could be Apple's death sentence, or its salvation. It's entirely up to the client software how it deals with an XML message from a Web service, so it's Apple's responsibility whether a Mac deals with it in the dumbest possible way -- like a mobile phone, for example -- or with the richness that Microsoft is busy plumbing into Windows. Fromthis reportit doesn't look too promising at the moment, but there's still a long way to go.
At the end of the day, whichbuzz phrasesdo you hate most?
Hehe. ThisApril foolfrom Google was funny too...
