We've all marveled at thehorror storiescoming out of Korea, and lately China, about MMORPG addiction, but now it seems that the world's most advanced digital entertainment consumers are succumbing to a new more unlikely compulsion - mobile gaming.Accordingto Korean news site, Donga.com:"14 million out of 37 million cell phone subscribers in Korea play mobile games. To put it another way, four out of every 10 people are mobile gamers. More specifically, 2.3 million play mobile games everyday, accounting for 6.2 percent of the total cell phone subscribers, including 15 percent of cell phone users in their teens and twenties."The story provides the example of one gamer, a university student named Lee, who now owns two cell phones, one for calling and one for gaming - immediately and ironically negating the whole point of mobile games: to cut down on the amount of gadgets you carry around with you.The problem perhaps, is one of quality. In the west, mobile games still aren't actuallygood enoughto elicit this kind of devotion, but in Korea, there are some really fascinating location-based and augmented reality games, as well as sprawling RPG adventures. They're justaskingfor trouble.As for the first mobile gaming related death, that is actually far more likely to happen in Europe where the process of actually downloading a Java title can be as stressful as moving home, getting divorced or being attacked by bears.
"America Online Inc and Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. are planning to put thousands of episodes of once-popular television shows like Welcome Back Kotter and Chico and the Man on the AOL.com Web site, where high-speed Internet users can view them for free. The new In2TV service is set to launch in January and will include episodes of more than 100 shows," reportsThe Washington Post."Company officials, scheduled to announce the service today, said the shows will be available on demand, meaning computer users who search six new Web-based television channels on AOL.com will be able to choose when they watch the shows and which episodes to view. The companies, both part of media giant Time Warner Inc, will profit by sharing revenue from advertising, including banner ads and four 15-second streaming video ads per 30-minute episode."
There's nothing quite as misery-inducing as a great game destroyed by a pitiful design flaw. I had the displeasure of experiencing such frustration in two games this weekend, EyeToy Kinetic and Buzz! The Music Quiz, both of which are anticipated best-sellers in the Christmas holiday season and which otherwise appear perfect. Unfortunately, it's badly implemented human-computer interaction which turns both seasoned and novice gamers off interactive fun.EyeToy Kinetic, the Nike Motion and Sony PlayStation 2 collaboration, is an excellent way to combine work and pleasure. Flail around the living room/bedroom trying to hit and kick invisible (to observers) objects to increase points while avoiding the ones that reduce your score. An excuse to exercise, without even realising you're doing it. A perfect marriage, no?Well, it would be if the EyeToy camera, the add-on which projects you and your movements onto the screen, had more consistent movement sensitivity. First of all, you must play it against a completely white wall in a room large enough to allow all appendages to flail freely. There must be no dark patches (read: shelves, pictures, animals), and lighting that casts no shadows.Secondly, there must be no sharp corners or furniture to accidentally collide with. I have become a master furniture mover, but honestly, I didn't get the game to find my ideal interior decorating self, and I don't like having to move my house around every time I want to play a game.Third, and most irritatingly, if you're in the middle of a personal training routine and suddenly discover that there are shadows/objects that interfere with your point scoring (I was on the left side of the screen and an object went off on the right, officer), you can't jump out and get into the options menu to adjust the dimness/brightness/sensitivity. Instead, you have to either suffer through and get a bad mark for the day's exercise (and a patronising comment from the digital personal trainer), or you can quit out and not be able to get back into the routine (and get a bad mark and a patronising comment from the digital personal trainer).Not being able to adjust the control options in the middle of a game is seriously flawed.This is essentially the same problem with Buzz! The Music Quiz. Apart from the PlayStation-era graphics, the basic concept is an excuse to print money. Use bespoke controller, answer questions. Easy peasy.However, it seems that having finished the game back in April they could have implemented something that allowed players adjust the options in the middle of a quiz. Accidentally pressing the button while playing in a round can cause a dramatic and irreversible change which ruins the rest of the play. The button was on the floor, I stepped on it and a "new player" joined in the fun. Sure, not a problem. The more the merrier. But there are rounds where it's impossible to continue if someone doesn't take hold of the controls. Why isn't there, for example, an "exclude contestant" option?Yes, it's petty, but little things like this make me less likely to pick the game up again. What little things irritate you about design?
"According to Nature, the world's pre-eminent scientific magazine, Assistant Professor Shashank Priya of the Materials Science and Engineering Program at the University of Texas at Arlington is successfully using pocket-sized mini windmills to power wireless network of sensors in remote locations," reportsIndoLink."Essentially, Priya's challenge was to develop a windmill with a diameter of just 10cm which works by flexing piezoelectric crystals as it rotates, causing them to generate a current. A 'gentle breeze' of 16km/h is enough to generate the 7.5mW necessary to power a small electronic sensor. Such windmills are designed to solve the problem of powering Wi-Fi kit in remote locations. Geologists, for instance, can monitor seismic activity using wireless-enabled sensors located across large geographical areas."Priya and other Materials Science &amp; Engineering researchers have created two versions of inexpensive generators utilizing wind power. As wind turns a propeller, a cam on the propeller shaft causes flexing in a series of bimorphs that are arranged in circular or stacked patterns. The researchers have created output power of 5 -- 50 mW using wind flow of 5 - 10 mph from their crude but inexpensive -- less than $20 -- prototypes."
"French wireless telecom company Bouygues Telecom and Paris' public transportation authority, Régie Autonome des Transports Parisiens (RATP), are preparing a trial that will allow riders of the city's subway and bus systems to use RFID-enabled cell phones as contactless transit cards," reportsRFID Journal."Starting in March, 150 commuters will use new wireless phones instead of their RATP Navigo contactless transit cards to prepurchase fare for travel on the RATP network. To pay for a ride, participants will need only wave their cell phones past one of the Navigo RFID-enabled readers already installed at 800 Metro subway stations and on 8,000 buses. The trial's participants will have the option of using the cell phones to add additional money to their Navigo account, by means of a Web site accessed through Bouygues' i-mode wireless data service site. Navigo customers cannot currently renew their accounts online."
Imagine you're looking for a special gift for a friend who also happens to be a prostitute. Obviously the first place you're going to visit online iswhorepresents.com, though sadly all you would find there is a guide to Who Represents famous actors in Hollywood. Easy mistake, the internet can be very confusing sometimes - little did the people who ran custom pen company Pen Island realise the kind of accidental traffic their websitepenisland.netwould attract. Perhaps it's also down to the boast about their pen supply, described as ranging from long and skinny to thick and even ones that squirt.Other domain name double entendres includemolestationnursery.com, a plant nursery based in Mole Station, New Zealand thankfully;cummingfirst.com, the website of the Cumming First Methodist Church;ipanywhere.com, an essential tool for PC users andclassicalbum.com, which has nothing to do with posteriors classical or otherwise. Unfortunately, it's members only admitted topowergenitalia.com, and - sadly - they're merely an Italian company that sell batteries.
"Prosecutors claim a Mac specialist on trial in connection with the killing of his wife did a Google search for the words: "neck snap break" and "hold" before she was killed. Robert Petrick, who is defending himself in Durham, NC, cross examined a computer forensics expert this week. The expert testified about digital footprints he said the state discovered on several hard drives in Petrick's home," reportsTechWeb."Prosecutors claimed that Petrick, who stands out in his Christian North Carolina community as a self-professed Pagan, left behind a trail of digital evidence including a visit to a site called bloodfest666. Investigators are also focusing e-mails to women they said Petrick was having affairs with and a download of a document entitled '22 ways to kill a man with your bare hands'."Note:"a lawyer standing by for Petrick said he believes the evidence was all culled from the hard drives and he has no information that Google participated in the investigation."
Most software tends to get bigger, butTinyApps.Orgtakes the view that "Small is beautiful". All the programs in this collection are small enough to fit on a 3.5in floppy -- not all at once, of course!"Virtually all of the programs listed here are free of charge and for use under Windows (Palm and OS X pages also exist)," says the site. Windows includes DOS. There are several programs I already use, and the list of curiosities includes the original VisiCalc spreadsheet -- 27K.
"Sony BMG Music Entertainment said Friday that it will suspend production of CDs with copy-protection technology that has been exploited by virus writers to try to hide their malicious code on PCs," reportsCNet.The decision by the music label comes after 10 days of controversy around the technology, which is designed to limit the number of copies that can be made of the CD and to prevent a computer user from making unprotected MP3s of the music.Security experts blasted the technology because it uses "rootkit" techniques to hide itself on hard drives and could be used by virus writers to make their malicious code invisible. The first remote-control Trojan horses that took advantage of the cloak provided by Sony BMG surfaced this week.Comment:Nice to see Sony react, eventually, but it's not giving up on copy-protected CDs. It will simply use a different copy protection system.For previous posts, seeNovember 1,November 3,November 5andNovember 10.
I recently bought a new laptop with a 60 gigabyte hard disk. I installed Microsoft Office (with Outlook, Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint) and the new Adobe Creative Suite, and have only 2GB left. Richard Calvert-SmithA simple way to find out where your space has gone is to run Sean Werkema's freeware program,SpaceMonger. Alternatives are listed In theGoogle DirectoryandNonags.On my notebook PC, Windows XP takes up about 2GB for files plus a swap file (pagefile.sys) and a hibernation file (hiberfil.sys). Microsoft Office takes up about 300MB and typical Adobe programs about 100MB each. Adobe reckons Creative Suite 2 Standard needs 7GB. Since a "60GB" drive is really a 57GB drive, that leaves about 47GB not accounted for.Update:Tony Meacock reminds me that I previously recommended (SequoiaView). Like SpaceMonger, this also uses treemaps, but as Tony says, "it has a more elegant display".
I got Mario Kart DS (Euro version) this morning. Wow. The online works like a dream. It took, ooh, 30 seconds to setup on my wireless network and a similar amout of time to find 3 opponents (from the US) and then the races started. Wow. No lag, no hassle, just fantastic Mario Kart action. Yes, I know this sounds like a press release or something, but it was that good. It has even overshadowed yesterday's arrival of Pro Evo 5 PSP, which, like Liberty City Stories, is technically impressive but suffers from some control issues, mainly due to the PSP's analogue nub. But anyway - who would have thought it, Nintendo getting online gaming so right. Golden age for handhelds anyone?
Try to explain a moblog to someone who has never seen or heard of one, and you're likely to be met with a blank expression. With the possible exception of exhibitionists, what's the point of posting photographs from your mobile phone on a website where strangers can gawp at them? And yet, as anyone who's ever tried moblogging will tell you, there's something addictive about documenting your days for the amusement of others. Whereas a weblog requires you to spend time and effort writing up your activities, a moblog means you can let the images speak for themselves. The moblog is a snappier, happier alternative to the weblog.Being able to take a photograph on your phone and then email it to your moblog is a lot less hassle than logging on to a weblog service. All you need is a camera phone with an email deal. And it doesn't even have to be photographs of you: Alfie Dennen, co-founder of the biggest UK moblogging site, (Moblog UK, says the most popular subjects are "cats and food", which might explain why Kozika, a cat-obsessed Japanese lady, is so popular (moblog.co.uk/blog/kozika). And it's not necessarily for sad people with too much time on their hands, either - Goldfrapp, for example, are setting up a moblog for their new tour.Creating a record of your life is hardly a new concept, and many mobloggers are now using their phones much as they would once have used a diary - the main difference is that mobloggers are opening up their lives in real time. It's partly for this reason that moblogs hit the mainstream press this summer - camera phone images uploaded to MoblogUK after the July 7 bombings in London were among the first images to be seen. Overnight, "citizen journalism" was hailed as the inevitable future for news services.Those wanting to turn their camera phone into a money-making opportunity can go to companies such as Scoopt (scoopt.com), which will authenticate your images and liaise with the press on your behalf, but most mobloggers still regard their sites as a way to communicate with the world. As moblogger Richard Morgan (moblog.co.uk/blog/Rich) puts it, "There's a directness and intimacy to pictures that anyone can understand: this is what I'm doing now; I find this funny; I wanted to share this with you - whoever that person may be."That community feel is something of a surprise for many first-time moblog users. While old-timers on the weblog circuit may command large and loyal audiences, anyone who's recently started up a written blog will know that the readership usually consists of four close friends and their mum. Newbies on MoblogUK, on the other hand, are greeted with welcome messages from regulars who can browse all the latest images on the home page, making it a far more rewarding experience than spilling your heart out on a blog only for no one to notice.And while the exhibitionist in us can enjoy admiring comments for an arty picture, the voyeur gets to satisfy their urges, too. (Jamie Oliver's moblog), for example, offers photographs of food, as well as ample opportunities to peer at Jamie and his pals. And MoblogUK has several "community" moblogs that all can contribute to, including the Famous Faces page (moblog.co.uk/cblog.php?show=276) for shots of celebrity sightings. Don't hold your breath, though - some are so lame they comes across more as exercises in irony.So if you want to know what's happening on the street right now, or need to know if your shoes match your outfit, or if you just like looking at pictures of cats, maybe it's time to get into moblogging.How to create a moblogChoose your weapon:You'll need a camera phone that can email - most modern mobiles will do.Get connected:If you want to upload a lot of photographs, get a tariff with a large data allowance. Or look into the data bundle add-ons offered by your service provider. Many new handsets come ready for email. If yours doesn't, your network provider store should be able to set you up with an account.Pick your moblog service:Nokia has its own blogging service, (Lifeblog), but it works only with certain handsets. MoblogUK is the biggest UK moblogging site, but there's also (Phlog) - both are free.Get posting:Once you've created your account, thought of a good name and picked out the design template for your site, you can begin posting. You'll be given a special email address to which you can then send images and the service provider will do the rest.Ways of seeingThe best blogs include:mito.typepad.com/photos/bento/Bento boxes made by anthropologist Mimi Ito for her children each day;shotoftheday.textamerica.comHighlights of the best shots from the Text America weblog community;moblog.co.uk/blog/scaryduck.The Guardian best blog winner, Scaryduck, has a great moblog, too;phlog.net/user/frufru. While most moblogs show today's breakfast or the traffic jam we're stuck in, FruFru gives us pictures from around the world;moblog.co.uk/blog/abdunnazar.Nazar lives in Kerala, India: lots of photographs of family, friends and beautiful scenery;moblog.co.uk/cblog.php?show=959 thenumbersgameBasically photographs of numbers - find the next number (at time of writing, they're on 225), on a bus, say, and send it in ... strangely addictive.
As a nation, we own roughly 12m computers. The average living room contains seven technology devices. You don't need to be a mathematician to figure out that one, if not all, of these gadgets will break down at some point. We then have several choices: consult the manual, retrieve the box from the loft, call the helpline, find a spotty teenager or, as is increasingly becoming the case, call a "tech butler".For the 30% of the workforce who work from home, it is simply not an option to spend a couple of hours waiting on hold on a helpline. In an office situation, you can dial technical support. At home, the choice often comes down to 1) attack the computer or 2) cry.In the US, where 35m households are networked (meaning that various gadgets, from blinds to lights, speak to each other), the demand for skilled technicians who can make house calls has rocketed. Researchers predict that 162m US and 23m European households will be similarly wired up by 2010. This means one of two things: either we will all have to study electronics, or we will all have to find someone else who has.Tech butlers first emerged in five-star hotels such as the New York Ritz Carlton. Many US luxury hotels now employ full-time tech butlers (as well as tan and bath butlers), whose job it is to get computers online and gadgets working.Home users were the next obvious step. Endless calls to offices' IT departments resulted in some smart thinkers setting up shop. "We spent so much time helping out our clients at home that we thought we might as well go into business full-time," says Anthony Ryder, an IT support specialist who set up UK-based Geeks-On-Wheels. Recently, it was reported that Gwyneth Paltrow carries a backpack with equipment to monitor her baby daughter back home, via CCTV - surely a tech butler will be on hand when it fails to work.Those with technical problems are prepared to part with up to &pound;90 an hour for quick and intelligent service. "Our clients want the combination of a technical geek with the discretion of a butler," says Andrew Lobel of Thinking Fish, a 25-year-old who spent months studying the American IT model and now employs 40 staff. His butlers wear suits, carry briefcases and arrive on time. "We developed in response to people's complaints," he says. Before tech butlers emerged, many of us were dependent on a computer anorak who probably worked from home and had the social skills of a rhino. "He was never around when you called, and didn't return calls," says Lobel. "What people want is the level of service they are used to in an office, with the same degree of professionalism."Tech butlers can do anything from wiring up a household to creating domain names, fixing a printer or programming a child's iPod. "We had one client call us who couldn't get the mouse to work. When we arrived, we found he was pointing it at the screen," says Lobel.Lifestyle IT, one of the leaders in the field, regularly has to extract debris from CD drives or explain that the computer is not broken, but it simply needs to be switched on. The butler part of the job comes with politely dealing with stressed clients. Calls often come in when techno rage is in full flow. "When people are under pressure, they see red," says Lobel. "Our job is to handle the situation with utter professionalism."Clients range from businessmen who need to connect their offices to their homes to homeowners at a loss for what to do with their technology. "I've used Geeks-On-Wheels a number of times," says journalist Kinvara Balfour, who works from home. "The first time one came round, he offered to set up my digital TV box before he left - I'd had it sitting there for weeks and was too lazy/fearful to plug it all in. The next time he came round he helped me fix an internet phone line I have direct to the US. Geeks fix computers, but also gave me a few lessons, which is nice in the privacy of your own home."Some companies also install hi-tech music, phone and lighting systems and program houses James Bond-style. Specialists such as Cornflake offer a whole menu of modern technology, from phone systems to surround-sound stereos and security systems that can be switched on from your mobile.This is not the future we're talking about any more: many upmarket housing developments are already using hi-tech systems where lighting and security are programmed together. "With these systems, people can create their own environment in every room - they can program romantic or work settings that are linked with their CD collection," says Chris Adair of Cornflake, whose clients include Robbie Williams and Rory Bremner. Most of the houses he works in are controlled through a single keypad: even the fireplace can be switched on by pressing a button.Of course, the downside of the hi-tech house - as Robbie Williams discovered - is that when it goes wrong, it goes very badly wrong. Williams was locked out of his house one day when the button he was supposed to press to unlock the entrance gates failed to do the job. "All these systems are programmed for emergencies," says Adair, "so the lock-down systems are pretty immediate."IT, lighting, music and media specialists were once the playthings of the very rich but are now increasingly the norm. Take flat screens: they were never intended to be hung from walls with all the cables trailing down the side: they were designed to be wired in discreetly at the same time as the lights. Ask a builder to do it and you're likely to be turning on the oven rather than Sky TV. "It has become a very specialised field," says Adair, who is normally called in when people are redeveloping their house.Thankfully, his butlers are still available for ordinary things. Cornflake kindly agreed to send me an engineer to set up my husband's stereo. His philosophy was: I could spend my afternoon reading the manual and trying to figure out which cable goes where, or I could pay someone else to do it while I got on with earning some money.Lifestyle ITIan Brown of Lifestyle IT has been known to take Kylie Minogue's calls in the small hours of the morning. He's talked her through the same sort of thing he talks through with most of his other clients - how to log on when you're away from home. The conversation usually starts with, 'Now take a deep breath, you can do this.'Lifestyle IT, which was founded in 2001 by Brown and Bhobinder Hundal, was among the first companies in the UK to set up as tech butlers. Word soon got out that these guys could fix printers and CD drives, and a whole lot else besides, and pretty soon they had everyone from bankers to pensioners begging for home visits.They now offer a swanky membership package, which means they'll provide unlimited phone support and charge you a reduced rate when they make a house call (they'll also build a website for you). Clients also include Sam Taylor-Wood.Price:Lifestyle packages from &pound;650 a year; &agrave; la carte visits, &pound;120 an hour/minimum two hours. Call 020-8423 2244 (lifestyleit.com).CornflakeChris Adair used to have to apologise for what he did (play with lots of electronic toys); now he is laughing because most of us don't know how to use the growing number of recreational gadgets (flat screens, surround-sound speakers, mood lighting) now available. Not only that, but many of his clients are amusement addicts who like to operate their toys from a one-touch pad. 'We have clients with car collections who've wired their CCTVs to their phones so they can view them when abroad,' he says. Clients include Chris Lowe of the Pet Shop Boys and Robbie Williams.Price:A typical refit costs from &pound;30,000; call-out, &pound;50 an hour. Call 020-7631 0472 (cornflake.co.uk).Geeks-on-wheelsGeek chic cannot be underestimated -'It's all the rage,' says Anthony Ryder, who set up Geeks-On-Wheels in 2004. You can't miss the logos on the fleet of Nissan Micras (or 'geekmobiles', as they like to call them) parked outside the Geeks-On-Wheels headquarters in Knightsbridge, London, and Brighton. Engineers wear matching grey T-shirts and will tend to virtually any technical hiccup. 'We have had people who don't know how to turn on a computer,' says Ryder. 'They'll call us saying that it's broken.'Price:&pound;75 for the first hour, &pound;35 the next. Call 0800 107 4110 or 0800 107 4111 (Geeks-On-Wheels.com).
It is a marvel to me, after a lifetime of disavowing all gender differences but the most obvious, how much boys like robots. I've no interest in robots, unless they're on the telly, and they can do everything a human can, only 10 times better, and when they're Arnold Schwarzenegger painted silver. Even then, my engagement is fractional.Imagine my surprise, then, when the men of the household fell upon these items like they were something you could eat. We had: a robot dog, even though there is a perfectly good regular dog; a tiny robot man, whose skills are implausibly limited; a robot vacuum cleaner, even though the business of vacuuming has never set light to even the tiniest flare of spirit; and a robot football duo, easily the least sophisticated of the robot brigade, really just two remote-controlled hillocks of plastic, each very slightly equipped to kick a very small plastic ball into a plastic net.This was enjoyable, like playing table football without having to break into a tiny, tiny sweat. It is to table football, effort wise, what darts is to javelin throwing. Though when you watch darts, its players do, obscurely, seem to sweat quite a lot. You could play with the footie robots all night, unless you happen to be rubbish at it, and can't work out which way is forwards, in which case you'll tire fast, and the words "let's start a tournament" will fill you with derision. The little robots are fun to send across your floor, with the remote.Let's be clear - they can't do anything at all, apart from backwards, forwards, sideways, the other sideways. The notion of a robot as a time-saving device is flagrantly ludicrous in the face of these nuggets, unless you already happen to waste a lot of time racing snails. They take direction better than snails.The robot man, though technically more advanced, saved even less time. It can't actually do anything, apart from dance in an amusing way, though it ruined the amusement by saying, "I can't believe I did that!" at the end of the dance, which made it sound altogether too self-aware, like a precocious child doing an Irish jig. It will also flinch if you mime punching it in the face.A slightly human feature is that, when you try and get it out of its box, it wriggles. Apparently, it burps - this is only hearsay, though. We never heard it burp. I guess you'd have to feed it something indigestible before you'd hear a proper burp. It can grab light items, such as a packet of fags and, at a pinch, a drink - hilarious! Look, I'm corrupting my robot! Next I'm going to put it in a funny position where it looks like it's having sex with a chair.It reclines backwards until it's fallen over, whereupon it can get back up again. Phenomenal abs, you say, until you realise that it has no abs, it's just a robot. What can I say? This totally sucks. Some more boys, also with more passing interest in robots, said this is just a development stage - they're working on a robot that is a lot more like Arnold Schwarzenegger and in the meantime, they release products featuring small advances just to cover their costs.Now, we need to talk about this dog. As the only robot with any real-life usefulness (unkind parents, fakely satiating the offspring demand for a pet with this non-pet), this is also the most expensive, coming in at two grand or thereabouts. There is something incredible about how dog-like this thing is - in the way it moves, the way it nuzzles into things that show it any affection, the way it wags its funny plastic tail, the jut of its doggy chin.Even in its totally synthetic embodiment, featuring nothing of the soft and fluffy experience you'd associate with a dog, it is more dog-like even than a toy made of real dog skin. It totally messes with your understanding of sensory experience, and of visual recognition - what we think we know by "dog", I mean, is nothing like what we actually know. It's neither visual nor tactile; it's all in the gestures. And in turn, this screws with your understanding of wordless affection; you can scratch a dog on the chin, it will wag, or similar, and you get a sense of cross-species understanding, of oneness with the world, of the purity and sincerity of unmediated physicality. And then you scratch a bloody robot on the chin, and it wags its tail as well, and you get the same warm feeling, before you check yourself, and suddenly, everything is meaningless, and we're all just flotsam in a loveless world. No offence to the robot, but this feels like a shame.Anyway, Aibo (for that is his given name) is a Japanese dog, with freakishly good English in an American accent. He has a memory of 128 megabites; this is way more than a regular dog, apparently.Now, there are features of Aibo that are distinctly undoglike. He can speak, for a start. And he can also walk backwards. But so doglike is he otherwise, that when he does these things it flummoxes you, rather than making you think, "well, obviously, he's a robot". So, five minutes in, he says "you haven't named me yet!", and instead of thinking about it, and naming him something very droll like a swearword or a historical dictator, you panic, and think "what's a dog's name? What?" and then you call him Spot, which is coincidentally the same name as your existing dog, and this spawns an ongoing fight between the two dogs to do your bidding which, despite the real-life dog not knowing how to dance, or take pictures, or store music, continues until such time as the robot dog goes to sleep.Then the real dog goes to sleep as well. He's exhausted; he's been trying to dance, when he doesn't know what it means. Spot the Second, in the end, is a bit too assertive. He says things like, "give me your hand", when any fool knows that correct protocol is for the human of the equation to say "give me your paw".From a scissor-paper-stone point of view, the vacuum won hands down. It frightened the real dog; it obstructed the robot dog; it knocked over the robot man. And it sucked up components of the robot football, which discomforted me, partly because it would interfere with play, and partly lest I start some new variant of mad cow disease. You charge up the little mite, and send it on its way. There is a kind of force field you can set up, whereby it ignores areas you don't want vacuumed. Otherwise, it trundles about the floor, sweeping until it meets an obstruction, then scooching off in the opposite direction.Where it falls down compared with human endeavour is that it can't tell which bits it's already done, so it's not unusual to see it disappearing under an oven, emerging with a chip on its head, and then disappearing back under, like the movement pattern of one of those rats that gets fed ecstasy to see how mental it goes. I'm sentimentalising the thing, I know. I feel very fond of it. My floor is extremely clean.The conclusion, I think, is that, with robot technology being what it is, you'll get the most satisfaction from things with very narrow job remits. You want something to suck dust, you got it; you want something to mimic human company, you generally don't got it. The dog is something of an anomaly here, but given the choice, I'd still keep the real dog.Mr Soccer robot football (two robots, football boots, football and goalposts), &pound;34.95, from Firebox (0870 241 4289;firebox.com).Robosapien V2 &pound;199.95, fromFirebox, as before.Aibo ERS-7M3 &pound;1,699, from Sony (0870 511 1999;sony.co.uk). Roomba vacuum cleaner &pound;189.98, from Empire Direct (0870 120 1122;empiredirect.co.uk)
"Nobuo Masataka, a professor at the Kyoto University Primate Research Institute and author of the monster best seller "Keitai wo Motta Saru (Monkeys With Mobile Phones)," argues that the proliferation of mobile phones has got young Japanese making monkeys of themselves, aping the behavior patterns of chimpanzees," reportsMainichi Daily News."There's been a dramatic increase in the dearuki-zoku [out and about tribe]. They don't eat meals at home with family members and you can clearly see with your own eyes the large increase in young people who hang about on the streets together with the same old friends," Masataka tells Sapio. "They make places like Shibuya their territory and rarely head even to places like (nearby entertainment and shopping districts) Shinjuku or Harajuku. They get tired going to new places or meeting new people. If they get hungry while they're strolling around, they simply get food by going into a convenience store, buying something and sitting down outside on the curb to eat it. If not that, then they just hang around for hours in fast food joints."The primate specialist says the actions of the dearuki-zoku closely resemble behavior patterns in chimpanzees, which tend to travel in groups, walking around for a long time without going to any specific place, then eating and disposing of their wastes in the same place before bedding down on piles of grass whenever and wherever the inclination takes them.
LA RushPS2, XBoxYou can imagine the scene of LA Rush's pitch to cheap and cheerful publisher Midway: it's a game based on modifying cars, just like brand new TV show Pimp My Ride! A couple of years on and following literally dozens of frighteningly similar concepts, LA Rush feels so depressingly tired it's hard even to muster words with which to describe it. Drive; win races; upgrade your car, then sob quietly into a cushion as you desperately try to shake the feeling of ennui that threatens to overwhelm your very soul. It does feature nice, weighty-looking car crashes, but they go on for so long that after the first five or six they become yet another factor that makes you want to run and hide.&#183;Midway, &pound;40GunGamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxWith its unambiguous name, deftly realised spaghetti western mise-en-sc&egrave;ne and dialogue growled through gritted teeth, GUN is a tale of white men shooting each other, as well as Indians (the game is set at least 200 years before their rebranding as native Americans) joining in whenever they get the chance. Using a free-roaming structure that lets you gallop between towns in search of your roots, you can also take side missions from local sheriffs, hunt for gold and pick fights with bandits in the badlands, in a kind of Grand Theft Horse style. Shoot from the saddle, upgrade skills and weapons and track down the killers of the man you thought was your father. While not as wonderful as classic alien western Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath, this is rootin' tootin' stuff.&#183;Activision, &pound;30-&pound;40Game Boy MicroConsoleManufacturing small objects of desire is something Nintendo does extremely well. However, in the wake of Sony's launch of the envy-inspiring PSP, Nintendo knows it has some work to do if it wants to retake the high ground of irrational consumer need. Step forward Game Boy Micro - it does everything your Game Boy Advance SP did, but in a much smaller, way prettier box and with a beautifully tiny, backlit screen that makes old games look lovely all over again. Not so much pocket-sized as actually wearable, the Micro is slightly too expensive for an impulse buy. Mobile phone gaming? Only if you truly hate yourself. Game Boy Micro can be used to play Advance Wars 2 until your tendons snap. Heaven.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;70
MondayXbox360 on the TVTurn your room into a videogameGames that take over your soulTuesdayVideogame journalism on trial againSpeaking of being taken seriously: Airport InsecurityDeserting the XboxGeek girl shockerWednesdayVinnie goes to the dogsGTA on the PSPThursdayTechnologyNext Gen rumour round-upSims2 adsKatamary creator has eye set on rolling up the real worldFriday10 things about conversation in virtual worldsCompetition that may suitEve offline
Hadn't noticed this before. But the one of the two runners up in lads mag Nuts Ultimate Game of the Year award at the Golden Joysticks wasEve Online. Er? How the classy MMO managed to get itself nominated by Nuts readers, not normally known for their appreciation of slow-paced space epics, is one of the great mysteries. What next? Eve nominated in The Sun category too? Oh. Looks likeCCPgalvanised their community very effectively.
It seems this blog has made the Awards Shortlist forBest implementation of a business blog -- sponsored by VNUnet.comin the Online Information awards. These are connected with the 29th annual Online Information exhibition and conference held at Olympia, London, November 29-December 1.
I am going to buy a Dell computer that does not come with Microsoft Office installed. Can you recommend a free replacement for Word and for Excel, one that will allow me to work with .doc and .xls files? Gervase CampbellYou can certainly tryOpenOffice.orgas a free replacement for Word and perhaps Excel, depending on the level of compatibility you require. This is, of course, something only you can judge. However, you can run tests by downloading OpenOffice.org, and loading some important Microsoft Office files to see whether they work correctly. You should also create some typical files with OpenOffice and make sure they work as you would wish in Microsoft Office. There's an article that covers many of the issues:Sharing files between OpenOffice.org and Microsoft Office.It seems to work well enough for many people.However, I don't think it's a particularly good option unless you are short of funds or have other motives (eg you are anti-Microsoft on principle -- which is up to you). You can often buy the OEM version of Microsoft Office for a low price with a new PC, and Dell offers Microsoft Office 2003 Basic [Word, Excel, Outlook] for £94. This strikes me as being good value and it's how I buy my own copies of Office.If you can claim to be "a qualifying student, parent, guardian or teacher" then you can get Microsoft Office 2003 Standard Student &amp; Teacher Edition for even less:£92.97 from Amazon.co.ukwith free delivery.If you are on an average UK salary, that's less than one day's wages, not counting tax etc. (Last year, in London, the average worker earned £680 a week, according to the Office for National Statistics.) If you look at OpenOffice, you can do your own calculation as to whether "free" offers a worthwhile saving.Should Microsoft Office file formats cease to be de facto standards, of course, the calculations would change dramatically. That's something to be wished for, and you might want to help it along, but it hasn't happened yet.
Better late than never dept: "Every time Google comes out with a new product, many people talk about how great it is and highlight the product as a category killer. However, it increasingly appears to me that Google is filling up holes in their offering, in an attempt to match its competitors. Based on that assumption, I started wondering if Google had any product that was truly unique. To do so, I started a chart that mapped Google offerings against its competitors. For the purpose of this analysis, I decided that Google's main competitors were Microsoft, Yahoo!, and AOL," writesTristan Louis.The basic format is just a table -- well, four tables -- of what the different companies offer. This reveals gaps in Google's portal offfering, and therefore, Tristan writes: "I would not be surprised to see the following products coming from Google over the next few months: * An audio search engine, which will include a podcasting component (and possibly a podcast authoring component via blogger) * A strategic partnership with Wikipedia or some other encyclopedia * Some type of clustered search offering * A calendar product, which will probably inject new life in that space * An auction offering, tied with an internal payment system * A web hosting service that will scale from small entities to large ones and will include Gmail as part of the email offering * Some type of access service, probably using their Wi-Fi solutionYahoo's Jeremy Zawodny responds that it confirms what he's been saying:Google is Building Yahoo 2.0:it's as if someone decided to re-invent more and more of Yahoo's popular services in random order, giving them a fresh user interface, less historical baggage, and usually one feature that really stands out (such as Gmail's storage limit or Google Talk's use of Jabber)."When Google Calendar and Google Finance (more in a future post) finally show their faces, I suspect they'll follow the same pattern. They'll look like someone sat down and thought "I'm starting with a clean slate, so how would I build a modern version of Yahoo! Calendar, with a newer and more interactive UI, one killer feature, and fixing the various things we've learned since Yahoo! Calendar launched many years ago?"
Apple is preparing to switch from PowerPC to Intel processors, and is looking for ways to stop users from running its OS X operating system on generic PCs, which could hit sales of Apple hardware. On Wednesday, CNet reported an Apple patent application to cover a "system and method for creating tamper-resistant code" that might do the job.According to CNet:In its application, Apple describes a means of securing code using either a specific hardware address or read-only memory (ROM) serial number. Apple also talks about securing the code while interchanging information among multiple operating systems. Mac OS X, Windows and Linux are called out specifically in the filing."This invention relates generally to the field of computer data processing and more particularly to techniques for creating tamper-resistant software," Apple says in its patent filing. Specifically, Apple refers to the technique of "code obfuscation," in which software makers employ techniques that make it harder for those using debuggers or emulators to figure out how a particular block of code is working.However, today,Andrew Orlowski at The Registerquotes anonymous industry sources who argue that the patent has no real content. He writes:The patent makes 72 claims -- one for every conceivable eventuality -- without specifying the nature of the invention, our experts agree.So '554 appears to be a set of Russian dolls, only no invention can be found in the smallest.What is the purpose of Apple trying to bamboozle the US Patent Office with a bogus patent application? Or was the idea of submitting a patent about code obfuscation which was itself heavily obfuscated too good a practical joke to resist?
Sega has announced an official UK release date for Sonic Team's follow-up to the offbeat dating game, Project Rub. It'll be entitled... wait for it, it's a corker... The Rub Rabbits. In a quite brilliant press release sent out yesterday, the title is referred to as a 'rub comedy adventure', surely the greatest videogame genre ever invented. Grown men sat around a table and thought of that. It warms the cockles of your heart, it really does.Here's a little taster of the release:"The Rub Rabbits! leverages the unique touch-screen and voice-recognition interface on the DS hardware by challenging gamers to switch from tapping and rubbing to screaming and blowing as a means of controlling character actions. Four brand new modes have also been added, including the Hullabaloo Mode, in which you and a friend get finger-tied in rounds of "Twister," and the Connect Mode, in which you can play any of six multiplayer games with up to four friends. You can also play in a time attack of previously cleared chapters in Attack Mode."There's also a "Baby Making" mode which Sega fails to elaborate on. Those who couldn't wait for the Euro release and splashed out on animport copyof the Japanese version might know what all this is about, but I don't as yet. Although I'd like to.Not tempted yet? Here's some more info:"Getting the girl is never easy, especially when competing against 12 other rivals. Players will battle rivals and win the affection of the game's love interest, and that's just the beginning. The Rub Rabbits! offers over 35 chapters in Story Mode, in addition to double the content in the newly expanded Memories Mode, which tests players' skills at clearing all stages for added bonuses; and Maniac Mode, which is packed with character customization options."Hurray for Sega. Hurray for the brave new era of rub-related adventuring!It's out in February.
It is the small hours of Wednesday morning and the most unspeakable noise is coming out of my computer. It sounds like three wildly contrasting bands all playing different songs at once, possibly because it is three wildly contrasting bands all playing different songs at once. I can't seem to make it stop. I have been searching for music on the internet all day - an eventful period, during which I have been declared undesirable by a group of Libertines fans, been subjected to some profoundly distressing poetry and propositioned by what may be the world's most desperate swinger - but this racket is the final straw. I am tired and I am fed up. I am also at the bleeding edge of a new musical revolution.At least, that's what some people will tell you. The internet has been touted as the future of the music business ever since file-sharing became big news: bands, it was mooted, would cut record companies out of the equation by posting their music on their websites and building up a virtual fanbase. But nothing of the sort happened. Selling music via a website became the province not of hip new bands, but old stagers considered defunct by their labels: Simply Red, Level 42, legions of wizened prog rockers. They were making a living, but the whole business still carried a slight taint, the modern equivalent of flogging your records from a car boot.Then, three weeks ago, Sheffield's Arctic Monkeys entered the charts at number one with their second single, I Bet You Look Good On The Dancefloor.They had just played their second London gig, before an audience of 3,000. Even by the hyper-speed standards of modern rock and pop, this was a remarkable rise, apparently made possible only because the band had posted their songs on their website and thus built up a vast virtual fanbase before even securing a record deal. It may not be as simple as that - rumours persist that their success involved tactics more commonly associated with manufactured pop artists, including employing a "street team" of die-hard fans to venture on to other artists' messageboards and talk the band up - but the notion of the internet as a hotbed of new talent has been further bolstered by the story of a Brooklyn-based quintet called Clap Your Hands Say Yeah. They self-released their Talking Heads-influenced debut album via their website and managed to shift 25,000 copies after a glowing review on another website,pitchforkmedia.com. Their sales figures might not have Coldplay glancing over their shoulders just yet, but they are enough to create the kind of buzz not seen around an American band since the White Stripes. Half the dates on their forthcoming first British tour are sold out, while the album's UK release - on a "real" record label - is hotly anticipated."I think it's been bubbling for a couple of years," says NME editor Conor McNicholas. "A generation of music fans came through that had never known the world without the internet. &#91;File-sharing website&#93; Napster, in its first incarnation, introduced the notion of music as a free commodity. When the clampdown came that shut the free Napster down, people were still interested in filling that free-music fix, but unsigned bands were the only way to do it. Then the Libertines came along, and they were really interested in breaking down the boundaries between the band and their fans. The habits and practices that grew up around the Libertines involved giving away lots and lots of music for free. Fans were swapping huge numbers of MP3s. It changed people's perceptions of what a band could be. A record deal wasn't the be-all-and-end-all, they could make the connection with people a lot sooner."The Arctic Monkeys were the first band to really develop that and match it with genuine inspirational talent. The internet has become much more important for finding new bands."It's certainly an intriguing prospect. If the Arctic Monkeys and Clap Your Hands Say Yeah were discovered via the web, what other fresh talent might be lurking in cyberspace? I resolve to find out. Filled with enthusiasm, I don't exactly get off to a flying start. Folklore states that the Arctic Monkeys' rise began when the demos were discussed on the fan forum of the official Libertines website, so I head there. The fan forum of the official Libertines website doesn't want to know. When I try to access it, a message flashes up: "You have been banned from this forum." This seems a bit much, considering I've never been there before. I try the fan forum ofbabyshambles.cominstead, but that seems to be entirely comprised of girls engaged in a tooth-and-nail struggle to see who can write the worst poetry in the history of mankind. "Garlands of white grief adorn me senseless," writes one budding Emily Dickinson, "splintered from the centre-out my nerves lie like glass." After reading a few more poems, I start to feel a bit like that myself. Over on the Arctic Monkeys' fan forum, there's a thread enticingly titled Other Bands Music, but it turns out to consist largely of Arctic Monkeys fans telling other Arctic Monkeys fans about new groups that sound exactly like the Arctic Monkeys. I really like Little Man Tate, which spike their wry, observational lyrics and dry Yorkshire wit with a dash of Franz Ferdinand's hip-swinging swagger, and have a song about a threesome that rhymes "delectable" with "bisexual", but I can't help thinking that the next big thing will sound completely different from the current big thing.Then I remember pitchforkmedia.com's role in the rise of Clap Your Hands Say Yeah. Today, however, previously unknown artists are thin on the ground among its crop of reviews: all established names except for one, a "faux-metal" band called Goblin Cock, which have a song called Winkey Dinky Donkey and a line-up featuring Lord Phallus, Bane Ass-Pounder and someone known only as Braindeath. You certainly can't fault the review for enthusiasm. It opens with the memorable phrase: "Way back on Heavy Vegetable's second astonishing album ... " I've never heard of Heavy Vegetable. Perhaps I'm desperately out of touch with the world of "faux-metal". Perhaps pitchforkmedia.com's writers are making bands up.Either way - and I may live to regret this statement - I can't really see Goblin Cock crashing into the singles chart at number one with Winkey Dinky Donkey, although I'd quite like to hear JK and Joel ringing up Lord Phallus to let him know: "And what do you say to people who dismiss you as mere copyists of Heavy Vegetable?" etc. I move on.Myspace.commay well be the hottest website on the internet: its parent company, Intermix Media, was bought by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp for a staggering $580m. It started out as an "online community" where members could share their likes and dislikes by setting up homepages and linking them to those of "friends" with similar interests. Not everyone on myspace.com wants to talk about music - minutes after I sign up, there's a message in my inbox from an extremely hopeful woman in Dayton, Ohio, who's looking for "no strings uncomplicated sex TONITE with YOU" - but more than 55,000 artists have set up webpages and posted MP3s. The number of "friends" an artist attracts is used as a gauge of popularity by the music industry ("I can't imagine a record label signing a band who didn't have a presence on myspace," notes McNicholas). REM and Madonna have posted exclusive music there, and the website has recently launched its own label. Its first signing, a rock/rap act called Hollywood Undead that made myspace's most popular unsigned bands chart, will release their debut album next year. If the next big thing is anywhere on the internet, it's probably here.But finding it is more difficult than you might think. It's not enough to simply go for the unsigned bands with the most number of "friends". For one thing, the system is open to abuse - you could simply fake popularity by setting up endless false myspace accounts and linking them to your band - and for another, a lot of myspace clients seem to be American goths: if you believe the most popular unsigned bands charts, the next big thing is almost guaranteed to sound like the incidental music from Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Nor is it enough to try to find the most popular unsigned band by genre, despite the range on offer, stretching from afro-beat to southern rock. Out of interest, I try to find the most popular Christian rock band in Britain. I am presented with Unicorn Love, with a rainbow for a logo, which claim to sound like "a joyful noise". In fact, Unicorn Love sound quite a lot like Whitehouse, the "extreme music" band notorious for songs called things like I'm Coming Up Your Ass and My Cock's On Fire. There is a lot of ear-splitting noise and screamed obscenities. I'm fairly certain they're not Christians.After I've recovered from Unicorn Love, I try linking from artists I know. It takes an inordinate amount of time, and I end up listening to a lot of dross, but eventually I come across a couple of bands I really like.Semifinalists - who have bewilderingly labelled themselves as a 2-step garage act - perhaps take their cues a little too readily from the Flaming Lips, but the songs are fine: psychedelia with lashings of added electronics. Larrikin Love, meanwhile, boast a charming mess of influences: they have a surprisingly effective line in spindly white reggae. Even if neither of them is the next big thing, they probably stand a better chance than Goblin Cock.Flushed with a degree of success, I make a mistake that ranks alongside reading the poetry on babyshambles.com. I lean on my keyboard and somehow manage to open three myspace web pages at once. Their MP3s burst into life simultaneously. Regrettably, one of them belongs to Unicorn Love, still screaming obscenities and making ear-splitting noise. Like a grandparent trying to work out the timer on a video recorder, I get enormously flustered: trying to close them, I succeed only in opening a couple more. The bleeding edge of the new-music revolution now feels perilously similar to the bleeding edge of a nervous breakdown. I turn my computer off and head for bed.
Bob Moorefrom the XEROX Palo Alto Research Centre (PARC) has posted up the synopsis of his talk from this year's Austin Games Conference on the research weblogPlayOn, "10 Things About Conversation in Virtual Worlds that Remind Me that I'm NOT in the Real World".From the article:Although massively multiplayer virtual worlds have made great strides in achieving visual realism (i.e., through detailed 3D models, lighting and physics simulation, motion capture, etc.), they are much less sophisticated in terms of interactional realism, or the simulation of face-to-face interaction......As a player of MMORPGs and virtual worlds, I routinely experience a state of immersion and connection when interacting with other players. However, there are many occasions on which this immersion is broken when the system seems to do the wrong thing. There is some slippage or awkwardness in the interaction that draws attention to the limitations of the system and reminds me that I'm not in a real-life conversation.He and fellow authors Nic Ducheneaut and Eric Nickell list a series of avatar failings that online and offline gamers alike would recognise, and suggest ten things developers could implement which would make the gameplay experience more immersive.Some of these, like holding gestures and tightly coordinating gestures and talk are, as journalist Mark Wallace points out in the post's comments, already implemented in some virtual spaces like There.com and Second Life, where participants can create animations themselves and sell them on. Imagine the possibilities for true immersion and real psychological presence in these fictional realities if life-like body language was seamlessly incorporated and simplistically-activated in such spaces.Indeed, including really realistic aspects of human interaction that Computer Mediated Communication traditionally leaves out makes social psychological analyses of human behaviour much more exciting, as evidenced by some of the implicit avatar influencefindingsin virtuality from Stanford University's Jeremy Bailenson and Nick Yee, and perhaps more precise.Then again, as per raging debates on sites likeClickableCulture,Terra Novaand others, is it right for academics to study the participants in virtual worlds as if they (we) were rats in a cage?
Anyone who has been to a gaming event like E3 will have noticed the snappy, stylish and smart attire of the attendees. Or maybe not. Perhaps realising this, or maybe using it as a way to promote the upcoming Bond game From Russia With Love, EA have teamed up with suit makers King &amp; Allen tooffer a really rather great prize. Onewinnerwill get a tailor-made suit with personal fitting and you get to choose the colour, texture etc. Very nice.
"A first wave of malicious software written to piggyback on Sony BMG Music Entertainment CD copy protection tools has been spotted online, computer security companies said Thursday," reportsCNet.The malicious software programs in this case are Trojan horse, or "bot," variants, which are intended to give the attacker remote control of any computer they infect as they hide in Sony's copy protection tool. Security experts say that more such attacks are likely. For Sony, concern over the issue has prompted at least one lawsuit and plenty of criticism."This is no longer a theoretical vulnerability; it is a real vulnerability," said Sam Curry, vice president of Computer Associates' eTrust Security Management division. "This is no longer about digital rights management or content protection, this is about people having their PCs taken over."
The main US papers have been writing about the information that Bill Gates and Microsoft's chief technical officer Ray Ozzie sent staff before last Tuesday's announcement of Windows Live and Office Live. Dave Winer has now published the full texts atHypercamp.
Superheroes suit videogames. When Superman saves the earth, he simply comes in, does his bit, and then re-establishes the natural order. In the shared world of multiplayer online gaming -where nothing can really change because thousands of players are with you - this is ideal. Supervillains, however, are uniquely unsuited to these worlds because they want to remould them in their own image. This is the problem facing the games developer Cryptic when working out how to give its successful superhero multiplayer online game City of Heroes a dark mirror, in the shape of new game City of Villains.Cryptic doesn't cut the Gordian knot, just pretends that the twist of cord isn't there and prays you don't notice. City of Villains places you as a freelance agent working for (or against) larger nefarious organisations. In City of Heroes, you rescued the kidnapped innocent. In City of Villains, you kidnap the innocent victim. The biggest disappointment is that you never really feel "evil". Yes, you may have a taste for barbed-wire gloves, but crimes against fashion don't carry a custodial sentence.That it is still an enchanting and atmospheric game speaks volumes about the value of developer Cryptic's approach. It is best to think of City of Villains not as a sequel but as a sister game. Players who subscribe to City of Heroes can also play City of Villains once they buy the box, allowing them to skip between virtuous paragons and vile nemeses on a whim. City of Villains improves the game's quality, by being funnier and better written and constructed, but also adds content, allowing heroes and villains to do what they were made to do - fight spectacularly. Even without that, the game's unique approach keeps it compelling.Whereas in many peer games you will fight foes in a shared environment with hundreds of players, City of Villains is personalised. In World of Warcraft, for example, if you are hunting wolves in a wood, it will be packed with fellow humans practising similar canine cruelty. When you accept a task here, you will travel across the shared world then enter a zone specifically created for you and the people you have chosen to team up with.There are advantages and disadvantages to this. While it disregards the potential pleasures of thousands of players being present at once in favour of interacting with a small group, it removes the problem of having your pleasure linked to the mood of anyone who wants to make your life a misery. Hell is other people, especially American teenagers cowering behind internet anonymity. More positively, rather than relying on an environment that repopulates itself with creatures for you to fight, mini-narratives can be crafted as you progress through an area that exists only for you. Other games have dabbled in this area, but only Cryptic has committed itself with such determination.Even in the shared areas, while most games in its genre try to follow the implicit order of its name and create a persistent world, City of Villains concentrates on creating a stage. Rather than using the shared space as a playing field for all the gamers, it is an epic backdrop for your own adventures. The superheroes making their way around the city are extras in your story. Standing at a street corner and watching them zip by, wreathed in colour and dripping fire, is an atmospheric experience most games can only dream of.Atmosphere is very much City of Villains's thing. Whereas in most persistent-world games the computer-controlled inhabitants wander around waiting for an adventurer to lightly concuss them, the inhabitants of City of Villains try their hardest to present a convincing simulacrum of life. Gangs fight on the streets, perform robberies and so on. As you pass, they talk mong themselves, describing their plans and reinforcing their position in the world. While they are, in game terms, just waiting for a player to fight them, they have the good nature to pretend otherwise. Petrified citizens go about their daily routine, occasionally commenting on your latest exploits, cementing the impression of your infamy. Yes, it is just a card trick. In games, that is all it ever is. City of Villains will try its hardest to fool you.It is not a living world, just a startling and beguiling impression of one. It is a grand setting for an adventure - "your" adventure - and does everything to try to make it as memorable and driven as possible. The Rogue Isles, for all their decadence, are a beautiful place to visit: playing tourist beneath indestructible skin is an adventure holiday in the most literal of terms.From choosing your costume to your first flight, City of Villains revels in the glorious, ludicrous pop-opera of the superhero comic. It is hard not to be seduced.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This weeks printed Technology section is now onlinehere.For the cover story, Robyn Dixon visits someNigerian cyber-criminalswho use email to lure their victiims. InGrowing up with the wired generation, Natalie Hanman reports a survey on how today's teenagers use technology. And inTransmission: impossible, Peter Judge goes to the Everglades to see xMax, a wireless broadband technology that is said to be "a thousand times more efficient" than rivals. Plus, as they say, much much more.
I'm standing at the bottom of a radio tower in the Everglades. The top of the tower, 850ft above me, seems to sway in the clouds. All around are trees, ravaged and felled by hurricanes. No one sensible would go up that tower, but I want to, because I have just been told that up there, the limits of radio transmission technology are about to be broken.At the top, we are told, is a radio transmitter no stronger than the base station of a cordless phone. Normally, its signals would struggle to reach me at the tower's base. But we are about to drive 18 miles, and pick up those signals, as clear as a bell.This all happened last Thursday, when a company called xG Technology (www.xgtechnology.com)took the wraps off a new radio scheme, showing it to three UK journalists and a bunch of investors. We are all asking ourselves the same question: is this for real?xG says that xMax is a thousand times more efficient than other wireless systems, including current mobile phone systems, and even those still to be widely implemented, such as WiMax.The transmitter in the 900MHz band used in some cordless phones is only using 50mW of power. Both the transmitter and the receiver antennae have fairly high gain, but not enough to boost it that far - especially as this is not a focused beam. A radio enthusiast with a Pringles tube can coax a Wi-Fi signal a few miles, but this is broadcasting in every direction at once.Under those conditions, any conventional signal would be impossible to pick up at 18 miles. And yet we saw a 3.7Mbps data stream, enough to send video with sound. If this is real, it is very new.xMax uses something called single-cycle modulation. Most radio systems use a carrier signal, and alter it to send data. The transmitter changes the amplitude, the frequency or the phase of the carrier, and the receiver locks on to the signal, and detects those changes.Normally, it takes several oscillations of the carrier to send one bit of data, but xMax changes each wave cycle individually. "While other modulation schemes take a thousand cycles to send one bit, we can send a bit in a single cycle," says Joe Bobier, the inventor (http://tinyurl.com/a5jx7).The technology also operates on many frequencies simultaneously.That means xMax needs much less power to send data. One xMax base station can cover an area that would take 90 WiMax transmitters, and would cost a fraction of the price, says Bobier.A lot depends on the receiver, which Bobier says is clever, but simple to build: it's just a "50-cent circuit", he says, but it synchronises closely with the transmitter and somehow manages to filter out much louder conventional radio signals.At the demonstration, the receiving equipment was, literally, a black box, hooked up to an antenna and an oscilloscope that showed the signal was being received. Bobier wouldn't describe it in detail until his patent is issued, next month.Bobier has convinced one scientist: "xMax is unconventional," says Stuart Schwartz, professor of electrical engineering at Princeton University, and one outsider to get a full explanation. "It is clever and innovative, but it is not magic."According to Schwartz, the xMax modulation scheme could be used on any radio system. It would allow a home wireless Lan using nanoWatts of power (a few billionths of current levels), so devices could run for a year on small batteries. It could even be used on signals travelling on copper wire, making everyone's broadband go further at much faster data rates."What Joe built is so broad, we had to focus on one thing," said Rick Mooers, head of Mooers Branton, the bank that is backing xMax, and also xG's chief executive. "The demo we've seen is purpose-built to show xMax as a powerful alternative to the two hottest wireless technologies around: 3G cellular services and the WiMax wireless broadband technology."It's also, we suspect, designed to persuade the companies behind those technologies to buy into xG. "We're in discussion with channel partners, to make a shrinkwrapped package that would allow anyone to set up as a wireless service provider," says Mooers.But before that happens, someone will have to give this a more detailed check. The UK journalists tested the system as well as we could. Rupert Goodwins, of ZDNet (http://tinyurl.com/7ed7x),tested the connections on the receiver, and agreed the signal was coming from outside. Adrian Mars, researching future radio technologies for the Cambridge-MIT Institute, checked xG's distance claims against his own global positioning system receiver. But none of us got to go up the tower. Schwartz has seen the transmitter and he's convinced. If xG is going to revolutionise radio, someone is going to have to go up and take a look at it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Being sent to your bedroom used to be a punishment: now it's a teen dream. Through personal computers, mobile phones and gaming consoles, teenagers are spurning antisocial angst for a culture of "connected cocooning".It's a phrase coined by music channel MTV to describe how the current 16-to-24-year-old "MTV generation" is permanently plugged into a network of digital devices, bringing the world to their fingertips in a way no previous generation has ever experienced.Such limitless communication is having a revolutionary impact on the way young people interact, socialise, work and play. This tech-savvy teen tribe is united as never before, with the lonely search for identity set to become a vision of the past."Technologies certainly do create cultural phenomenon, whether for good or for ill," says Windsor Holden, senior analyst at Analysys. "Young people have seen all these different facilities, adapted them and changed the means of communication."MTV's recently released Generations report on the lives of the MTV (ages 16 to 24) and VH1 (ages 25 to 44) generations defines how technology has driven differences between these age groups.Young, early adopters have become used to instant gratification, the report found. Globalisation and consumerism do not deter. Instead, brands define and give a sense of belonging. Devices and their uses displace the real and the virtual, creating a world where you can be who you want to be. And joining the digital march isn't just a personal choice; to play a part in youth society, it is imperative to be switched on, charged up and always connected.As Aisha Walker, lecturer in education at Leeds University, says: "Younger people now have a wider range of communication available and their parents don't necessarily understand the technology. But they are not talking about different things, they are just perhaps talking about it in a slightly different context."From discovering new bands on social networking site MySpace, to texting music downloads on Groove Mobile's Tell A Friend service, the supposedly alienated, antisocial youth of the 21st century are forming a world wide web of cultural critique that cannot be ignored. It is what they have always done - only now, it is easier, quicker and packs a bigger punch.Rather than kicking a ball around in a park with a friend, they're battling a Tokyo-based teenager in the Fifa premiership league. "Videogaming is a connector and an equaliser, and has created a new type of community mindset," says the report. "The mere mention of individual games and their challenges spark conversations between strangers; high scores will cause even the roughest teenager to respect the geekiest."A day spent watching the MTV channel confirms the eclectic, rapidly evolving tastes and trends of this generation. Alongside the musical hits and misses there is a large dose of unsubtle celebrity, branding and consumerism.Frightening pace of changeSound scary? To many parents, teachers and politicians, it clearly is. "Young people are more unified by watching Big Brother than they are by having a political persuasion," says Simon Brown, vice president, strategic planning at MTV. "For the older generation, the pace of change has been quite frightening."He says social and political flux, as well as the advance of technology, is behind the change."The VH1 generation grew up in a period where there were still a few certainties. The family was still together. You had CND marches, so had clear political divisions. You knew where you belonged. A lot of these certainties seem to have gone. So you have to try to mix and match identities to assert who you are. The MTV generation doesn't have fixed values, so they are more open to new technologies."Media has taken over some of the teaching that normally society would have provided. And technology has driven that; it has been the conduit."Cyber bullying, "happy slapping", internet pornography and underage mobile gambling have tainted the takeup of technology, with many blaming it for increasing social alienation in today's youth.But the effects of technological advancement are unavoidable. Three out of four children have access to the internet via a computer at home. One in three children who use the internet makes friends online. Children in the UK aged between 10 and 19 own approximately 7.5m mobile phones, on which they send many of the 89m text messages written daily. And one pound in every 10 of disposable income was spent by teenagers on mobile products and services this year.It is an astonishing level of penetration. The mobile phone, especially, has become an integral part of a young adult's everyday life. Ringtones are a badge of identity as much as the clothes you wear; text and picture messaging is the way to spread the word. A phone in your pocket is not only reassuring but commands respect. Graham Brown, chief executive of DhaliwalBrown, which runs Wireless World Forum (W2F) and mobileYouth, says: "Mobile music is a tool for timeless psychological needs - the need to belong through peer group reinforcement and the need to be significant, through status." Knowledge is powerFor the new MTV generation, the mobile is also one of many sources of information. And knowledge is power. What to wear, what to listen to and where to go: modern technology provides the answers."Word of mouth as a source of information has always been trusted, especially by younger generations," says the report. "The speed of the internet means that websites can provide information quicker, and its size means that a far greater pool of talent can potentially be accessed in a single sitting. Its information is trusted more because it is perceived to resemble word of mouth... This is why viral marketing campaigns work so well."This viral spread of what's hot and what's not has led to a growing appetite for more diverse subcultures. W2F's Future of Mobile Music report reveals that the more advanced mobile music markets in Japan and Korea are finding success in providing increasingly niche offerings, such as reggae and blues. Few in the UK have yet taken advantage of this movement away from the mainstream - as the unimaginative T-Mobile/EMI deal with Robbie Williams shows - but companies that ignore such trends risk missing out on the economic benefits of marketing to a youth sect with pocket money to spare."Sixteen-to-24-year-olds just can't stop talking to each other," says Brown. "Take away their means of communication, and they are really lost."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Reality TV is in its death throes, gathering bad press and negative public opinion. Unfortunately, the demise of the fly-on-the-wall style of programming has not killed off the insatiable need of every Tom, Dick and Henrietta to grasp fleetingly at their 15 minutes of fame. So now another kind of superstar-seeking practice has emerged on the boob tube (as my father affectionately calls it), sponsored by Sony Computer Entertainment.The music-related products available in the PlayStation family, including dance mats, karaoke microphones, music pop quizzes, cameras, record scratchers, guitars, drum pads and keep-fit digital personal trainers, will be responsible for creating tomorrow's pop icons, not Lady Osbourne and Simon "nice trousers" Cowell. Mark my words.This collection of software, also known as Pop Star Boot Camp, rewards and punishes players for singing, dancing or playing within the confines of a narrow margin of right and wrong. The games effectively act like a voice coach, choreographer or pop producer. A wannabe pop princess can load up the Darkness on SingStar, and record herself hitting those high notes while performing EyeToy Groove-trained dance moves. Anna, her digital personal trainer on EyeToy Kinetic, will give her hell if she misses a day of exercise, because, after all, she's got to look good for the paparazzi.Meanwhile, the over-enthusiastic quiz master on Buzz! The Music Quiz will grill her on pop history. If she thinks a musical instrument will add cred to her rep, she can pick up any of the available controllers and mime away. Practising in her living room, she could be ready for the charts in no time.Of course, this is what Sony has banked on. What's missing is one important element: the Sony Music contract.Even without the contacts and the distribution channels, the promising pop star could make the leap from living room to Top of the Pops with some digital jiggery-pokery. The music scene is benefiting from the indie media channels that have emerged over the past five years, and while the repertoire of an artist from Sony's school of rock would be limited, there is a market for such a phenomenon. User-generated music videos, mashups and other cultures of creativity have all emerged via the web, creating new breeds of celebrity. All that new breed of star needs is a way of getting those precious moments off a memory card and on to the internet.Sony's PlayStation pop products may not revolutionise the music scene or even save us from reality TV, but the results could be funnier than all the Cheeky Girls in the world.
Keita Takahashi should be lauded as the cleverest man in games design. The visionary creator of the world's simplest yet most enjoyable series, Katamari Damacy, doesn't want to make games in 10 years time. He doesn't even like them. His aim is to make games fun - not just for the existing subpopulation of gamers that the majority of games are created for - for everyone.According to an article on the BBC, instead of dealing in digitalia, he wants to make playgrounds. Real playgrounds. With things to clamber up on and climb down from. In reality. This is the secret of his success.From thearticle:"I would like to create a playground for children," he said. "A normal playground is flat but I want an undulating one, with bumps."...he believes children should spend more time in the physical world and less time wrapped up in the virtual world of games.Man, I wish I was a kid in his world. And that is his true genius.
As Alice atWonderlandsays,thesecommunity-generated Sims 2 machinima-cum-television ads are superb. They're definitely added to the list of excellent PR campaigns.
Just in case you've missed them, a few interesting snippets of gossip and speculation have been buzzing around the internet of late regarding Next Gen consoles.First up, news site, Joystiq, hasreportedon rumours that Sony may have patented a disk technology which prevents PS3 users from running games previously owned by other people. Linking to the story, Slashdotaskedis this, 'The death of used game sales?'. It's bound to be one of those anti-Sony shaggy dog stories, so don't get too worked up.While possibly taking with one hand, Sony may well be giving with another. Eurogamerreportson comments made by Michael Ephraim, the MD of Sony Computer Entertainment Australia, which suggest PlayStation 3 games may not be region encoded. Perhaps, like the movie industry, videogame companies are finally realising that staggered release schedules don't have a place in the modern global market.Eurogamer also has aninterviewwith Nintendo Europe's senior vice president of marketing Jim Merrick, who claims that Revolution won't necessarily be launched in Japan first and then Europe several months later.No, this is too much. I'm going to have to have a sit down and a cup of strong tea...
This week'sTechnologysection goes big on the game that lets you be bad -City of Villains. The MMO (massively multiplayer online, for those of you yet to lose your life to one of these) is the companion game to City of Heroes and lets comic fans live out their superhero fantasies. By all accounts - and reviewer Kieron Gillen gives it 5/5 - it's a marvel. There is also aroundupof the Golden Joysticks awards, you know, the ones that rated 2006's Zelda: Twilight Princess as the game to watch this Christmas. Finally, our very own AleksreckonsSingstar could save the music industry.
Patient as fishermen, the young men toil day and night, trawling for replies to the emails they shoot to strangers half a world away. Most recipients hit delete, delete, delete, without ever opening the messages that urge them to claim the untold riches of a long-lost deceased second cousin, or offer millions of dollars to help smuggle loot stolen by a corrupt Nigerian official.But the few who actually reply make this a tempting and lucrative business for the boys of Festac, a suburb of Lagos in Nigeria at the center of the cyber-scam universe. The targets are called maghas - slang from a Yoruba word meaning fool.Samuel is 19, handsome, bright, well-dressed and ambitious. He has a special flair for computers. Until he quit the game last year, he was one of Festac's best-known cyber-scam champions.Like nearly everyone here, he is desperate to escape the rundown, teeming streets, the grimy buildings. It's the kind of place where plainclothes police prowl the streets extorting bribes and where people paint "This house is not for sale" on their homes, in case someone posing as the owner tries to put it on the market.It is where places like the Net Express cybercafe thrive. The atmosphere of silent concentration inside the cafe is absolute, strangely reminiscent of a university library before exams. Except, that is, for the odd guffaw or cheer. The doors are locked from 10.30pm until 7am, so the cyber-thieves can work in peace without fear of armed intruders.In this sanctum, Samuel says, he extracted thousands of email addresses, sent off thousands of fraudulent letters, and waited for replies. He thinks disclosure of his surname would risk his safety.The email scammers here prefer hitting Americans, whom they see as rich and easy to fool: maghas are avaricious and complicit. To them, the scams - known as 419 after the Nigerian criminal statute against fraud - are a game.White people are greedyThe scammers' anthem, I Go Chop Your Dollars hit the airwaves a few months ago from an artist called Osofia and is hugely popular in Lagos:419 is just a game, you are the losers, we are the winners.White people are greedy, I can say they are greedyWhite men, I will eat your dollars, will take your money and disappear.What makes the scams so tempting for the targets is that they promise a tantalising escape. The scams offer fabulous riches or the love of your life, but first the magha has to send a series of escalating fees and payments. In a dating scam, for instance, the fraudsters send pictures taken from modelling websites.The real push comes when the fictional girlfriend (or fiancee), who claims to be in America, goes to Nigeria for business. In a series of "mishaps", her wallet is stolen and she is held hostage by the hotel owner until she can come up with hundreds of dollars for the bill. She needs a new airline ticket, has to bribe churlish customs officials and gets caught. Finally, she needs a hefty get-out-of-jail bribe.Such schemes are estimated to net hundreds of millions of dollars annually worldwide, with many victims too afraid or embarrassed to report their losses.Basil Udotai, of the government's Nigerian Cybercrime Working Group, says 419 fraud represents a tiny portion of Nigerian computer crime, but is taken seriously by authorities because of the damage it does to the country's international reputation."The government is not just sitting on its hands," he says. "It's very important for the international community to know that Nigeria is not glossing over the problem of 419. We are putting together measures that will tackle all forms of online crime and give law enforcement agencies opportunities to combat it."Asishana Okauru, acting director of financial intelligence for the government's Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, said &pound;400m relating to 419 crime had been seized in the past two years. There have been 12 convictions in such cases brought during that time, he said, a good result given the sluggishness of Nigeria's legal system, but others say the courts are too slow and corrupt.Nigerian authorities, extremely sensitive about 419 crime, say the scammers are mostly from other countries, and that any Nigerians who participate do so because of high unemployment and, above all, the greed of victims.He lives like a princeWhen Samuel, aged 15, sat down in an internet cafe and started drilling away at the keyboard, he had no idea he was being watched by one of Festac's cybercrime wizards. After noting Samuel's skill, the crime boss, nicknamed Shepherd, invited him to his mansion to try extracting email addresses using search engines. Then, to make Samuel feel special, he took him shopping for designer clothes."He's fun to be with. When you're around him he makes you feel you have no problems," Samuel says."He said every hour I spent online I could be making good money," Samuel recalls. "He said, 'The houses I own, I got it through all this.' And they're not just ordinary houses. They're big, made of marble. He's got big-screen TVs, a swimming pool inside. He lives like a prince."Samuel was "a bit confused" when Shepherd offered him 20% of the take. "But I looked at everything he had, and it got into my head, actually. The money he had, the cars."Eager to impress, Samuel worked for six-hour stretches extracting email addresses and sending off letters that had been composed by a college graduate also working for Shepherd. He sent 500 emails a day and usually received about seven replies. Shepherd would then take over."When you get a reply, it's 70% sure that you'll get the money," Samuel says.Soon he was working for two bosses, Shepherd and Colosi, both well known to authorities but neither were ever bothered by the law. Police involvement in the scams is widely alleged."Most of the time you look for American contacts because of the value of the dollar, and because the fraudsters here have contacts in America who wrap up the job over there," Samuel says."For example, the offshore people will go to pose as the Nigerian ambassador to the US, or as government officials. They will show some documents: This has presidential backing, this has government backing. And you will be convinced because they will tell you in such a way that you won't be able to say no."After a scam letter surfaced this summer bearing the forged signature of Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo, police raided a market in the Oluwole neighbourhood of Lagos, one of six main centres that provide documents used in 419 scams. They seized thousands of foreign and Nigerian passports, 10,000 blank British Airways tickets, customs documents and fake university certificates.The scams often involve bogus internet sites, such as lottery websites, or oil company, bank or government sites. The scammers sometimes use London telephone area codes to make victims think they are calling Britain.Though the fraud is apparent to many, some people think they have stumbled on a once-in-a-lifetime deal, and scammers can string them along for months. Some eventually contribute huge sums of money.'A good life'By 2003, Shepherd was fleecing 25 to 40 victims a month, Samuel says. Samuel never got the 20%, but still made a minimum of &pound;500 a month, three times the average income here. At times, he made &pound;3,500 to &pound;4,000 a month.Samuel says Shepherd employs seven Nigerians in America to spy on maghas and threaten any who get cold feet. If a big deal is going off track, he calls in all seven."They're all graduates and very smart," Samuel says. "If the white guy is getting suspicious, he'll call them and say, 'Can you finish this off for me?' They'll try to scare you that you're not going to get out of it. Or you're going to be arrested and you will face trial in Nigeria. They'll tell you that you are in too deep - you either complete it or you'll be killed."Samuel says his mother, widowed when he was 16, was devastated when she realised what he was up to. "She tried to force me to stop, but the more force she applied, the more hardened I became. I said: 'You can't give me what I want. I want a good life'."But Samuel had second thoughts when a friend was arrested after ripping off a boss for &pound;10,000. The friend was beaten and disappeared into the labyrinthine Nigerian justice system. Samuel thought of his mother and how she would be alone if something happened to him.When he gave up cybercrime at the end of last year, he said nothing to his mother. But she noticed. "She said she was happy and she could sleep well," he says. "Actually, I started crying. I realised there was more to life than chasing money."Now when he sees Shepherd in the streets, his former boss just grins."He says: 'Don't worry. You'll come back to me.'"&#183;A longer version of this article first appeared in the Los Angeles Times419 ways to lose your life savingsAdvance-fee frauds, also known as 419, appear to offer a one-off opportunity to get rich or find the girl of your dreams. The scams can involve phony websites, forged documents and Nigerians in the US posing as government officials. Some of the most popular are:&#183;Next of kinscam tempting you to claim an inheritance of millions of dollars in a Nigerian bank belonging to a long-lost relative, then collecting money for bank and transfer fees.&#183;Laundering crooked moneyscam, in which you are promised a large commission on a multibillion-dollar fortune, persuaded to open an account, contribute funds and sometimes travel to Nigeria.&#183;Nigerian National Petroleum Coscam, in which the scammer offers cheap crude oil, then demands money for commissions and bribes.&#183;Overpaymentscam, in which fraudsters send a bank cheque overpaying for a car or goods by many thousands of dollars, persuading the victim to transfer the difference to Nigeria.&#183;Job offer you can't refusein which an "oil company" offers a job with extremely attractive salary and conditions ($180,000 a year and $300 an hour for overtime) and extracts money for visas, permits and fees.&#183;Winning ticket in a lottery you never enteredscam - including, lately, the US State Department's green card lottery.&#183;Gorgeous person in troublescam, in which scammers in chatrooms and on Christian dating sites pose as beautiful American or Nigerian women, luring lonely men into internet intimacy then asking them to send money to get them out of trouble.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Your classic cowboy builder arrives promptly on day one, dumps a few bags of cement on the lawn, then disappears for a month. "Sorry, got another job on." IT suppliers are more refined, but in government contracts they, too, can suffer from the "another job" syndrome. Teams of high-powered executives, who worked round the clock to win a contract, evaporate when the real slog starts - leaving only the IT equivalent of the sledgehammer-wielding trainee.The government has itself to blame. For the past five years, it has dangled billion-pound contract after billion-pound contract in front of an industry desperate for the work. NHS, criminal justice, Inland Revenue, defence information infrastructure, the list goes on. In all the world, only a dozen or so companies are capable of acting as prime contractor for such projects. Just bidding for a deal on the scale of, say, the NHS electronic care records spine, involves hundreds of staff and several million pounds; it's no task for Fred in a shed.Despite these costs, there is rarely a shortage of bidders for billion-pound deals. Although top executives deny it, a company will always put slightly more effort into winning new business than to making existing contracts work. It is what shareholders demand. The inevitable result is over-stretch.The government's new IT strategy, published last week, tacitly admits that much is wrong with this way of doing things. First, it acknowledges that the "another job" syndrome is real.In fashionable argot, it warns that "the current volume of change is stretching the capacity and capability of the government teams and their suppliers to deliver". ("Deliver" is the season's hot verb: variations of it appear 51 times in the strategy's 20 pages.)If we are already struggling to implement massive IT programmes at the NHS, the Ministry of Defence and Customs and Revenue, what hope when schemes such as e-borders, the identity card and road pricing come on stream? The strategy's answer is "portfolio management". Instead of letting departments go it alone with IT, the strategy suggests managing the pace of contracts to fit the ability of industry (and government) to make them work. The aim is to "deliver results with more predictability".Whether this will work depends on the clout that the chief information officer, Ian Watmore, has to put ministers' pet projects on hold. It will be an interesting challenge.More obliquely, the strategy points to another weakness of the current system. This is that, because of the small pool of viable bidders, it is difficult to ban a major firm from government work, however bad its performance. Here, the published strategy shows some interesting editing when compared to drafts circulated in September.The drafts contain the phrase: "Many of the government's suppliers have a patchy track record on delivery." In the published document, this is watered down to: "The public perception remains that many of government's suppliers have a 'patchy' track record." Another draft clause, which seems to have been cut, reads: "Small, innovative suppliers continue to press for easier participation in government business".Together, these two phrases hint at a different way of doing things. That, rather than handing over IT projects in their entirety in billion-pound deals, the government parcels out work in small chunks, none mission-critical, on a scale that small firms can bid for. Although there will still be cowboys - more, probably - they are less likely to wreck a project. Significantly, this is standard practice in Canada, acknowledged as the world's leading e-government.To work this way implies a high level of in-house skill and knowledge, a capacity run down over two decades of privatisation in Britain. But one of the new strategy's core themes is to build up government IT professionalism. As this takes shape, we may see a new way of handing out government business emerge - so long as those who watered down the strategy aren't in charge.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Xbox Live has been such a big success that Microsoft has decided to launch two more online services: Windows Live and Office Live. Both were announced last week, but somewhat prematurely: the software for Windows Live is far from finished, and Office Live won't even open for testing until next year.Windows Live (www.live.com)is a personalised search front page of the sort offered by Google and Yahoo. It can show your email, news and weather via RSS (Really Simple Syndication) feeds. It also holds "gadgets" such as the ones that will be available on the sidebar in Windows Vista - or on the Windows desktop now, with Yahoo's Konfabulator.Windows Live will also house a new version of MSN Messenger, called Windows Live Messenger. This will share an address book with the next-generation replacement for Hotmail, which is now being tested under the codename Kahuna. Other features will include a Safety Center, where users can get their PCs scanned and have viruses removed, and Windows OneCare, a paid-for service that includes antivirus, firewall, PC maintenance and backup capabilities.The Windows Live site will focus for active online services. The old MSN (Microsoft Network) site will continue, but with a focus on online publishing.It is less clear what the Office Live site will offer. Microsoft says it is designed to help businesses with fewer than 10 employees "establish an online presence, automate key internal and external business tasks, and collaborate with employees, partners and customers". The "online presence" includes a domain name, a website with 30MB of storage and five web-based mail accounts - all free. Office Live is expected to host software for tasks like customer relationship management (CRM), which a very small business probably could not otherwise afford.Again, Microsoft already offers web services for small businesses through its bCentral sites. It will be surprising if Office Live isn't bCentral by other means.This is the same stuff Microsoft has done - and sold advertising against - since the last century. We can only hope it will do it better.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It seems that music player manufacturers who take on Apple are forever fighting a losing battle. For just as it seems a chink appears in the iPod's armour, Apple raises the bar by introducing a new series of players, adding innovative features or dropping the price.Philips is the latest manufacturer to have a crack at the personal audio market by offering a 30GB hard disk model - the HDD6320. The Dutch company has a decent pedigree in personal audio, too, with its long-gone HDD100 at one point a serious rival to the Apple player.The HDD6320 is a worthy successor and, if it drops in price - at &pound;250 it is &pound;30 more than its Apple rival - it could woo a few buyers away. It certainly looks striking, with a very attractive piano black finish. There are no buttons or controls to spoil the flat lines of the fascia as the HDD6320 sports touch-sensitive controls, which light up when in use.The player also boasts a good quality two-inch 65k colour screen. It is no rival for the latest iPod's screen, and only plays back JPeg images and not videos, but it is certainly better than most rivals.Although it takes time to get used to, the touch screen is good. It very quickly zips through a library, which will be very big if you fill up the disk.To transfer music to the device you need to install Windows Media Player 10 on your PC. This means you can port Windows Media Audio (WMA) tracks downloaded from Napster and other WMA-based online music sites to the device, but it means that transferring tracks to the player isn't as intuitive as it should be.Sound quality (it can cope with MP3s up to 300kbps) is excellent, with the HDD6320 delivering a strong, punchy sound on both MP3s and WMAs. The good quality earphones bundled with the player help to broaden the sound, too. Battery life is 15 hours, an hour more than the iPod.It might not sync with iTunes, but with its innovative interface and excellent sound quality, the HDD6320 is a welcome addition to the range of hard disk-based music players.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Now in its 23rd year, the Golden Joystick ceremony featured its biggest tally of awards, yet sprinkled them evenly across platforms and publishers. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was the single biggest recipient, scooping up five, including Ultimate Game, Hero and Villain of the Year, reflecting its 1.5m units sold in Europe. It also showed Rockstar to be the sole Britsoft flag-bearer against a rising tide of Japanese titles, which accounted for a further six gongs."These awards celebrate innovation and achievement as well as popular success," said James Ashton-Tyler, of Future, whose readers accounted for many of the 200,000 votes cast. "Game developers love winning one because they are awarded by the votes of those people who buy and play their work."However, Valve's Half-Life 2, considered by many to be the best game in the running, managed to convert its five nominations into just a single prize - Best PC Game. This may have been down to being launched too early in the voting cycle, yet San Andreas appeared around the same time and fared far better - a clear sign of the PC's declining importance as a games platform.And, as always, there were contradictions. Despite runaway sales over the summer and winning Innovation of the Year, Sony's PSP lost out to Nintendo's DS for Best Handheld and Best Handheld Game (Mario DS). Nintendo also scooped Publisher of the Year and the One to Watch for Zelda: Twilight Princess. Yet in the audience, many of its nominations were greeted with silence or surprise, indicating that Nintendo's 12-year reign as king of the handheld console market was coming to an end.Meanwhile, entertainment was provided by Channel 4's Jimmy Carr, whose routine contained a bevy of predictable innuendos directed at the Page 3 girls uneasily flanking the stage. At a time when the industry is making its bi-annual push to encourage more female gamers, it was a reminder that so long as awards are sponsored by Nuts and the Sun, and most of the games are commissioned and coded by men, such aspirations are half-hearted. By way of compensation, the patronisingly titled Girl's Choice gong was awarded as the audience drifted off to the after-party.And the award goes to ...PlayStation 2 Game of the Year:Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasGameCube Game of the Year:Resident Evil 4Xbox Game of the Year:Halo 2PC Game of the Year:Half-Life 2The Carphone Warehouse Handheld Game of the Year:Super Mario 64 DSBest Film-Based Game of 2005:Resident Evil 4BBC Radio 1 - Colin and Edith's Best Game Soundtrack of 2005:Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasThe Sun Online Online Game of the Year:World of WarcraftPublisher of the Year:NintendoThe In Stock Magazine Retailer of the Year:Play.comThe Game One Gaming Innovation of the Year:PSPThe MCV One to Watch for Xmas:The Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessThe Sun's One to Watch for 2006:Resident Evil 5Hero of 2005:CJ from GTA: San AndreasVillain of 2005:Officer Tenpenny from Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasThe Girl's Choice for 2005:The Sims 2Editor's Game of the Year:Resident Evil 4Unsung Hero of the Year:FahrenheitUltimate Game of the Year:Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Making telephone calls through the internet for almost nothing is now moving from geekdom to a high street near you, as Dixons and BT fight for control of what is expected to be a massive market that will eventually make the present telephone system redundant. Dixons has just launched Freetalk, its &pound;79.99-a-year service that, unlike the hugely successful Skype, does not need your computer to be on all the time because it links via a small box directly to the modem/router. I was looking forward to it with visions of turning my home into an internet-only phone zone. I tried it out alongside a similar product, BT Broadband Voice, but with rather disappointing results.The attraction is not the technology itself (who cares?) but the claim it will cut your phone bill. Yet Dixons' charge of &pound;79.99 for a year's "free calls" is equivalent to making more than 1,400 off-peak hours of calling using a BT landline tariff of 5.5p an hour, so you would have to be a pretty heavy user to make it worthwhile. The same applies to BT's own Broadband Talk tariffs - &pound;7 a month if you opt for the one offering free calls at all times of day.Both were reasonably easy to install, though Dixons required several unscheduled resets before it started working. More worryingly, with both of them, but particularly the Dixons model, conversations frequently lapsed into monologues when my voice could not be heard at the other end. Whether it was due to the phone or my broadband connection I do not know, but it was not encouraging.And don't delude yourself that you can say goodbye to the cost of that landline yet. BT's option requires broadband and a normal BT line - so it becomes a straight calculation whether you would make enough free calls to justify the extra cost. In theory you could use Freetalk as your sole phone service - but first you would have to find a broadband supplier or cable operator willing to allow that.You will still need a landline if you want to be sure of making 999 calls with Freetalk, because internet phones don't tell the emergency services where the phone is located (though BT claims to have solved this problem). You may also need a traditional phone as an insurance against a power cut, loss of speed or even the spam associated with broadband. Dixons is currently marketing it as something additional to your normal phone rather than an alternative.Internet telephony will turn out to be the most disruptive technology since the internet itself. But for the moment, it is best to stick to easily downloadable services requiring a computer, such as the pace-setting Skype, which added 9 million customers last week alone, BT Communicator, which is linked with Yahoo, or the less impressive Google Talk, which, like BT/Yahoo, also offers instant messaging. None is any use unless you know others on the network but Skype, which also has a paid-for service, SkypeOut, for calls outside the net, claims 200m downloads and is most likely to be the first to reach a critical mass.The prospect of globally free calls, once the majority of people are on board, is fascinating. It will enable anyone in the world to speak to anyone for nothing if they are online, as most subscribers will eventually be. It will spawn countless new businesses and consumer applications, while giving poor nations a chance to leapfrog into a new era.At present it is like the wild west. You can't talk to anyone on Communicator or Google if you are on the free Skype service and vice versa. The nirvana of free, easy-to-use net calls is not yet here, especially not in the UK, which is trailing behind other countries. But at least one gets a glimpse of what will happen once the wild west has been tamed. It is worth signing up now if only because it will be fun being part of the journey rather than waiting for the new era to arrive.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Apple is on a roll - don't knock it just yetKieran McCarthy is too pessimistic (The song remains the same, November 3). The biggest mistake Apple made was to leave the development of software and content to third-party developers. It was hardly surprising that software and content developers dropped the Mac in favour of Windows given the relative sizes of the respective markets, and this led to a vicious circle.Steve Jobs has learned that bitter lesson and Apple now produces enough good software to persuade people to commit to the platform. It has become the best facilitator of digital content through iTunes. If I had the money, I would be buying as many Apple shares as I could right now.Norman ChoThere is one difference between the Apple of now and the Apple of 1970-1997. This Apple is doing all it can to secure its position. It has introduced the Mac Mini, the Mighty Mouse and is switching to Intel processors. These show a desire to win and were all ruled out by Steve Jobs. Apple added video to the new iPod even though Jobs said it wouldn't. Why? Because it wants to keep what it's got.Martin PilkingtonSuccess should be measured far more widely than market share or commercial dominance. Most of the attractive features of the Sony Vaio laptop reviewed on the Innovations page (November 3), were introduced to consumers by Apple - windows interface, trackpad, wireless networking to name a few. A Vaio user therefore has much more reason to thank Steve Jobs than Bill Gates. In one sense, we are all using Macs.The last thing consumers want is for Apple to remain dominant in music players for long. Let us hope it loses its position and revolutionises in another area where change is needed.Bill Aylward, LondonHeading for a breakdownJamil Shehadeh's piece (Technobile, November 3) made me angry. The analogy with cars is misleading. Cars have lots of moving parts that wear out or need to be lubricated and their reliability has improved over the years.In contrast, PCs are as unreliable as ever, and the problems are mostly to do with software. Even with common applications hardly a day goes by without a failure of some sort. The public has been hoodwinked into believing this instability is unavoidable. Yes, good housekeeping practices can help, but these are mostly to circumvent problems that should never occur in the first place.Alan Bamber,SomersetCalling for helpI was pleased and encouraged to read about the latest government initiative to bridge the digital divide (The world at his fingertips, November 3). At last, the government has appreciated that as one of the most ubiquitous technologies in the country, the mobile phone can be used as a valuable tool for social inclusion and a conduit for the distribution of public services.The next step is to educate mobile users on what their mobiles are capable of. For example, the web browsers on mobile phones could be used by people to access local government information and services. We should look to Japan for inspiration where ToruCa, a type of mobile information information-capture service from NTT DoCoMo enables users to obtain information by simply waving their phones in front of dedicated reader/writers at restaurants, theatres, stores and other establishments.David Wood,executive vice president and co-founder, SymbianBlogBackI already have a DS and PSP (although I am seriously considering selling my PSP due to lack of use) but I am definitely going to buy a Game Boy Micro. As I travel to work by train for 30 minutes each way every day, it is a real pain having to carry a bag just so I can take my DS or PSP to play on the journey. The Micro will be brilliant simply because it will fit in my pocket. Also, I will be able to have a sly game of Advance Wars at work and no one will notice.http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/games
Puck, puck, puck. There's always a frisson of excitement the first time you use a new gadget. The Mukka Express promised, in one device, the perfect cappuccino: an espresso maker with a milk holder above it. The theory was great: heat water, fire it up as steam through the coffee and re-use the steam to froth the milk. Pour it out, scoop out the milk: the loveliest cappuccino.So imagine the irrational anger that poured forth with the mucky milky coffee. Call that froth? A child with a straw could do better. The Mukka had swiftly crossed that infuriating line: the gadget that doesn't work. The technology that spits. The seducer that promises new pleasures but leaves financial unease.Such useless gadgets litter desks. The radio pen. Neither pen nor radio worked. The cassette-iPod adaptor: all the static you want for &pound;9.99. The innovative corkscrew that only screwed its owner. The aquaphobic waterproof camera. Ha!It's fair to assume that these gadgets' creators were convinced they had hit on a killer idea. Unfortunately, lack of demand, resources or just plain physics intervened to put each of these useless concoctions into God's doggy bag. The kind of doggy bag left in red metal containers at the exit to parks.This is why The Society for Needed Technology is so important. Rather than waste minds on battery-powered peppercorn crushers, let's throw them at technology society needs but doesn't have.Top of the list is the pram deflector to deal with even the most souped-up juggernauts of toddler transport. At the moment, little Tristan forces the more considerate citizens to leap into the path of trucks to avoid inconveniencing parents. But no longer.Sure, the first models wouldn't be perfect. The snowplough design might break under heavy impact. It may not cope with all types of buggies; it may even clip pedestrians. But these problems could be ironed out and millions would pay &pound;29.95 to reclaim the streets.An in-car system to identify idiot drivers. If the police receive more than five reports about one car's imbecilic lane-changing in a 24-hour period, the driver is fined &pound;100 and three points. That's community policing. And the technology is here - just ask Ken Livingstone.And what about a remote for mobiles and personal stereos, to be used at the owner's discretion in public places? Quiet crisp packets for cinemas? Speech recognition and deletion for TV? A nationwide referendum system connected to the House of Commons? An all-in-one cappuccino maker?Come on, gadget makers, turn your back on evil, find redemption and make this country a better place.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Nintendo will this month begin selling the first Wi-Fi-enabled games for its handheld DS console. It has linked up with hotspot providers BT Openzone and The Cloud to provide 7,500 free Wi-Fi locations across the UK, including 500 McDonald's, 25 student unions, First Great Western train stations and football stadiums.Wi-Fi marketing was previously aimed mainly at the business community on the move; the deal with Nintendo is the first time that gaming has been added to the proposition.There are already 400,000 DS machines in the UK that will support the new Wi-Fi games. On November 25, the first of six planned Wi-Fi games will go on sale, including a version of Mario Kart and Tony Hawk's American SK8Land in 3D.The project is obviously aimed at selling more games for Nintendo, while BT Openzone and The Cloud will pick up fees from the gaming giant, which wants customer usage to be free. "We managed to negotiate very well on the Wi-Fi access and we hope we will sell a lot of games," says Yarnton.The access may be free to gamers, but it's clear that Nintendo has plans for other products, perhaps charging for premium games, or to download new games direct from the Wi-Fi network for a fee.Nintendo is doing a similar deal in the US with Wi-Fi provider Wayport for 6,000 McDonald's restaurants - and users in the UK can play their US counterparts on the free Wi-Fi connection.The Wi-Fi industry will be following the takeup of Nintendo's games as it tries to work out more reliable business plans to broaden public wireless internet technology. Despite the growing availability of hotspots, a recent Gartner study of UK business travellers found that only 17% used them.The primary problems are that Wi-Fi is both complex and expensive to use, with providers such as BT and T-Mobile and venues such as hotels and airports charging different fees, with rates as high as &pound;5 an hour.
A marriage made in convenience heaven - that's Vodafone's bright idea for putting mobiles on sale through automated machines, promising to make buying a new sim card or phone as easy as buying a can of fizz or bar of chocolate, 24 hours a day.The company recently began a trial, selling a small range of pay-as-you-talk handsets through machines at two of Vodafone's stores in Manchester's Market Street and Trafford Centre. If the trial proves to be a success, then the company plans to roll out the vending machines nationwide, to venues such as airports and railway stations.Aimed at the itinerant mobile user - the busy business person or tourist - the use of vending machines represents the final commodification of mobile phones. The kiosks take cash or credit cards - using chip-and-pin security - and currently sell a sim card-only pack for &pound;5, and three different models of phones, including a Sagem MY-X4 for &pound;30 or a Nokia 2600 for &pound;40. Top of the range is a Sagem MY-V56 handset for &pound;50, a competitive price for a 3G phone with Bluetooth, Java, polyphonic ringtones and a built-in camera. The same phone sold through Tesco retailed for &pound;59.99. All three phones come with &pound;1 credit, and are then topped up in the usual manner.As with pay-as-you-go phones sold through other outlets, the mobiles do not require any identification or registration procedure.Vodafone says the specially commissioned kiosks are the first of their type in Europe. Fittingly, for a company that invested millions of pounds in the technology, the machines themselves are 3G-enabled, meaning they can "phone home" to update their stock levels and will allow the machines to be serviced in remote locations such as bars or shopping centres - or "anywhere with a three-pin plug", according to a Vodafone spokesperson.The company says the Manchester trial will not only allow it to judge the success in terms of sales and popularity, but also what issues arise from selling phones through a machine, and the types of handset users are prepared to purchase in that format.While the kiosks may be a first for Europe, they would barely raise an eyebrow in Finland or Japan, where consumers have been using phones and buying unusual items through vending machines for years. In New Zealand, parking meters can accept payment through a system operated by Vodafone and known as Txt-a-Park, which charges the user's mobile.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Taken phishingI have received an email from PayPal (service@paypal.com) asking me to renew my credit card details. It leads to an address atwww.puenteinfocubamiami.org. Am I right to ignore it?St.John BurkettJack Schofield:Yes. This is an example of a phishing expedition. Criminals put up fake websites that look exactly like, say, PayPal or a bank and email you a link. They look authentic because it's easy to copy the original site. If you type in your name and password or credit card details, these are stored in a text file and the site will usually give some sort of error message to say your details cannot be processed at this time. The scammer collects the details later and either uses them or sells them on to a criminal group. You can always test these sites first using a fake ID and password.If you think you do need to update your PayPal or bank details, don't follow a link in an email: go directly to the site and log in in the usual way. If you suspect you might have fallen for a phishing email - many thousands of people do - change your password immediately. For safety's sake, you should also change the passwords at any other sites where you have used the same login name and password ... though, of course, you should not have done in the first place!PayPal has its own advice page athttp://tinyurl.com/wsid.This points out that PayPal will always address you by name in emails, not as "Dear PayPal User" or "Dear PayPal Member".There are several free anti-phishing toolbars such as Netcraft's toolbar for Internet Explorer and Firefox (http:// toolbar.netcraft.com), SpoofStick (www.spoofstick.com)and the Cloudmark Anti-Fraud Toolbar (www.cloud mark.com/desktop/ie-toolbar). Some allow you to report the website used for phishing, so the address can be blocked. There's not much point in reporting spam, but phishing expeditions can be stopped by closing down the sites used to collect passwords.If you think you won't fall for such a scam, take the MailFrontier Phishing IQ Test II athttp://tinyurl.com/d5mt4.Clean LCD screenCan you recommend a safe method for cleaning an LCD screen?Steven W DadswellJS:I always use an old well-washed cotton handkerchief dampened with water. It's important to use a soft cloth, not something scratchy like a paper tissue. Water is much cheaper and easier than using a solution of diluted isopropyl alcohol, as often recommended. Chemicals can be dangerous: modern LCDs have sophisticated surface coatings, and there's no way of knowing what they are. Clean the screen using slow, light, downward strokes: don't rub it. If I had to remove more than the usual dust from an LCD, I'd try products designed for camera lenses and a Calotherm or similar microfibre cloth. Seehttp://tinyurl.com/8mlxm.AMD chips inFollowing your comments about processors, I am about to upgrade my four-year-old desktop and have been told to get an AMD 64 with 32 bit processing.John ParsonsJS:Reader Gordon Murray asked specifically about Intel Celerons and Pentiums. I provided a link to The Inquirer for further information (http://theinquirer.net/?article=26628), and this recommends only Athlon 64 chips that use Socket 939. For general purposes, both Intel and AMD chips will do the job.Backchat&middot;Last week, Raj Panjwani wanted broadband without paying for a BT line. I suggested a cable company, if available. Bhavick Morjaria from 123 Technology says there may be another alternative: WiMax wireless."I've been testing Now Wireless Broadband and I am delighted to report that it actually works. However, the service appears to be London only, and only goes up to 1Mbps."There's a postcode checker atwww.mynow.co.uk.
"Developers, developers, developers ..." People laughed at his gyrations but Microsoft's Steve Ballmer was right on the button with his famous proclamation in 2001. Microsoft needs developers in order to be successful. It is not just its own armies of coders in Redmond and around the world, it is also the many millions who write Windows applications, from commercial tools to open source applications. Without software, Windows would be nothing. Software needs developers, and developers need tools to write code.This week, Microsoft finally launched its latest generation of development tools. Visual Studio 2005 encompasses everything from mobile application development to building distributed enterprise applications. It has been a massive undertaking, more than three years in the making. But while large companies need tools that mix architecture, test and development, they are not for everyone. You do not need a heavyweight team development tool to make your own RSS screensaver or Google Maps mashup.Many of today's professional programmers started coding using a version of the once ubiquitous Microsoft Basic, before graduating to more complex languages. But Basic has been left behind as Microsoft concentrated on its enterprise customers; bringing us Visual Basic and the Visual Studio family of development tools. This approach has given us a world of complex Windows applications, but it has also meant that Microsoft's complex and expensive tools have lost out in the battle for the hearts and minds of the developer community.Java quickly became the education language of choice, and hobbyists switched to open-source development environments or web-oriented tools such as Flash. If Microsoft is going to stay on top of the heap, it needs to change things - to encourage a new generation of programmers who believe that Windows is as developer-friendly as Linux.Instead of one catch-all development tool costing thousands of dollars, Microsoft is giving away six separate development tools in the Visual Studio Express family (http://tinyurl.com/2cqat).There is one version for each of the main Visual Studio languages, another for the web application developer, plus a version of the SQL Server database to woo coders away from databases such as MySQL.The Express tools may not always be free, although SQL Server Express will be, and it is no coincidence that Oracle has just announced a free version of the 10g database for individual developers. Microsoft is promising the other tools will be free to download from its MSDN developer website until November 6 next year.Microsoft is a latecomer to this game. Java developers have had free development tools for a long time, and the GNU C++ compiler is key to Linux's success. Sun bought the NetBeans tools and made them the basis for its own tools, but kept developing the original free NetBeans (www.netbeans.org).You can learn Java with NetBeans and then graduate to Sun's more complex tools. IBM did the reverse when it freed the code behind its WebSphere Studio, and created Eclipse. It is now the foundation for tools from Macromedia and BEA that blend the open source framework with their proprietary features.Microsoft hopes to provide a similar logical progression. There is a big difference between the Express tools and Visual Studio, but they are based on the same technology. In many cases, the interface and options are the same. Coders who need a little more power will also be able to switch to the Expressions tools for Windows and web development that come out next year and again get a familiar interface.The other problem is getting people interested in the first place, and making them feel they can build programs that solves their problems rather than making do with existing software and web services. Microsoft hopes to get people started with a website called Coding4Fun (http://msdn.microsoft.com/coding4fun/)and a set of starter kits with code to help you start building applications and websites. If you think your applications look good enough to sell, there is even a Starter Kit to turn your code into shareware with product activation and registration, along with built-in PayPal e-commerce.Coding4Fun takes a deeper look at building Windows applications, and covers everything from developing your own games, to working with hardware to build and control webcams using USB-connected kits from Phidgets. Web service support in the Express tools will also make them ideal tools for working with Microsoft's new Windows Live services.It has been a long time since the BBC Micro and other home computers galvanised a new generation of programmers and developers. Microsoft is hoping its family of free Visual Studio Express tools will provide a similar kickstart for Windows and Windows Live.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Model:Renault Clio 1.5 dCi 106 DynamicPrice:&pound;12,350Top speed:118mphAcceleration:0-62mph in 11.1 secsConsumption:61.4mpg (combined)Emissions:123 (g/km)At the wheel:Kate MossThey'd rather walk:Tom FordOn the stereo:BabyshamblesEn route for:MonacoIt's 15 years since Renault's cheeky hatchback, the Clio, filtered out in front of us, to widespread cries of "Nicole!" and "Papa!" We've all come a long way since then. These days, as likely as not, Nicole is shipping children around in a people carrier while Papa readies himself nervously for his statutory test retake. But the Clio continues to flit about regardless, appearing now in its third impression, ready for the next draft of Nicoles and their surprisingly active dads.Even a decade and a half later, the car's gameplan hasn't changed. The mission is to produce a hatchback that appears cute and cherishable in such a way as to make ostensible rivals - the VW Polo, for instance - look about as life-affirming as a single-drawer filing cabinet. At the same time, the design must be seen to stop well short of whimsy and the kind of nakedly ticklesome, nursery-frieze stylings that these days leave many cars of this nature looking like shrunken ice-cream vans. On this delicate call hinges the continuance of the Clio's hitherto masterful ability to keep the Nicoles on board without entirely alienating the Papas.And whatever else you might feel about the new Clio, in this cosmetic area at least you would have to chalk it up as another resounding victory for Renault's judgment. Rather than devoting itself, in the modern manner, to seeing how closely it can get the outside of the car to look like a bubble blown with strawberry-flavoured gum, Renault has gone for a few carefully softened lines and modest curves. Surprisingly, this is true even around the boot - the major growth area in contemporary car design and the part of a new car which is most likely to resemble a slightly crushed bottle bank. The Clio's modest, uncomplicated practicality in this area shames the hyperactive backsides of its peers, making them seem positively tarty by comparison.Altogether, then, we are in the presence of that increasingly rare thing: a small car which communicates its appeal with a sly wink, rather than jumping up in full costume and giving you a 10-minute Coco the Clown routine. Somehow the new Clio manages to look light without seeming frivolous, and serious without being ponderous, which is a pretty agile trick for a lump of steel with headlamps on it.The commitment to sly sensuality continues inside, where the plastic fascia has been carefully selected, according to Renault, with an unusually refined attention to "touch". Call me old-fashioned, but I tend not to spend a lot of time stroking car dashboards. Indeed, even after many happy years of motoring, I can probably still measure in mere seconds the total period that I have logged as a rubber of the dash. But then, if they were all like the one in my Clio, who knows? Maybe I could get into it. In my Dynamique level three-door (third poshest of the four available trims), the dash-finish gloried under the name "slush" - a lot to ask of a piece of moulded plastic, and yet not unreasonable in this instance given the weirdly heat-softened look and (yes) feel.What you can't avoid contact with, of course, are the door handles, unless of course you are committed to busting in through the window ahead of every journey, which few people are. For your sensory pleasure, Renault has lightly rubberised the catches, again democratising a privilege taken for granted by people in expensive saloons.You'll be bound to touch, too, the indicator at some point, and probably the light switch as well, all things being equal. Here, in place of the usual stalks, the new Clio lifts from its sister car, the Megane, a pair of thickened and abruptly sawn-off paddles, which end up not much bigger than what people in days of yore thought of as an in-car cigarette lighter. These stubby controls take a little getting used to, but they have the effect of focusing the attention and, accordingly, tightening the entire driving experience, the way that a tiny sports steering wheel can.Best of all, the usual ridged wheel for opening the dashboard's air vents is supplanted by a kind of spongy, rotating squash ball, like the underside of a computer mouse, only much more fun to fiddle with. This represents nothing less than a revolution in air-vent opening devices. One day, all air vents will open this way.A 1.5 litre 106bhp diesel engine (the most thrusting of the three diesels available) was ample to burst the car out of unpromising urban situations, and its whistle and throb made it sound a bit like a light aircraft - not unpleasant, and certainly less stressful than the traditional Post Office van noise of diesel legend. It was neat and nippy, and roomy enough to insert a large dog into the boot without folding.All this and cuddly crumple zones too. Renault has crashed this car so that you don't have to. And, on the evidence of those crashes, Europe's leading crushed-metal assessors have granted the Clio a five-star safety rating, which is as positive a mangle-factor as you and your loved ones could hope for. Another good reason to be in a Clio then, especially given the increased chances of meeting Papa coming the other way.
