What's your favourite piece of technology?The Nokia E61 smartphone.How has it improved your life?As I receive over 300 legitimate e-mails a day and I am only at my desk for part of the day, the only way to cope with them and achieve everything I want to is to deal with them as and when they come in wherever I am.As well as growing the business at a rapid pace, I also chair a government advisory group and am an active board member of some charities. I wouldn't be able to do all of that and keep an active social life if I couldn't deal with things while I am out and about.If you handle it discreetly, people you are with won't consider it rude. Taking calls on your mobile phone when in a meeting is a much greater breach of manners than slyly tapping out messages from under the table.I'm also experimenting with not having a PA for the first time in years as I tend to drive them up the wall. With one of these devices separate from my phone I can manage my own calendar as well.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think I'll become obsolete before this does.What one tip would you give to non-Nokia E61 users?Try it and see how it changes your life!Do you consider yourself a Luddite or a nerd?Somewhere in the middle – a nuddite or a lerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you have ever owned?About fifteen years ago I was on holiday in New York with some friends when I got suckered into some shop where a guy sold me a cordless phone that was so powerful you could take it miles from home and it would still work. It cost many hundreds of dollars and my friends tried warning me off but I had to have it and of course when I brought it home it didn't work.At home I have this huge Sony VAIO 17-inch laptop which is so big it doesn't fit in my briefcase so when I travel abroad I take a smaller one.Mac or PC?The problem with Macs is that they make you feel much more creative than you really are. The much vaunted desktop publishing revolution made publishers and designers out of too many of us. Aesthetically they are a lot more attractive though.What song is at the top of your iPod's  top-25 most played?Amy Winehouse's "Valerie", though Snow Patrol's "Chasing Cars" is a close second.Will robots rule the world?Well no, because we won't let them.What piece of technology would you most like to own?It's got to be an iPhone – just waiting for them to get onto Vodafone.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday December 20 2007The Western Digital drives referred to in the article below do in fact let users access any of their personal files via the internet. We said that was not the case.If it's the 1-terabyte Western Digital MyBook World Edition drive, and if you're trying to access pretty much any audio or video format somewhere outside your home network, and if you've installed the Anywhere Access software by Mio that came with it, then the answer is no. Actually, you can't view those files outside your network whether you install the software or not.The topic became a storm in the blogosphere after Boing Boing and Wired discovered a note from Western Digital (tinyurl.com/2u32d3) which points out that "due to unverifiable media license authentication, the following file types cannot be shared by different users using WD Anywhere Access". It then lists 38 of the most commonly used audio and video types and explains: "If these file types are on a share on the WD My Book World Edition system and another user accesses the share, these files will not be displayed for sharing. Any other file types can be shared using WD Anywhere Access."Which other file types would those be, then? Um ... pictures and text?Western Digital was at pains to explain that it's simply being cautious. "The company has started out very conservatively in creating a certain set of features and functions," it told Information Week. "The goal is to listen to what the marketplace needs and wants, and identify an appropriate solution that respects intellectual property."What Western Digital is clearly worried about is that protectors of intellectual property - such as the big record labels and movie studios - might, if they found that its drive allowed people to share files with the whole world, sue Western Digital for aiding and abetting in piracy. Sensibly,  it decided to avoid that outcome.What wasn't sensible, though, was deciding to offer the internet sharing option but to restrict it. With the wisdom of hindsight, what WD should have done is much simpler: not offer the internet sharing option at all. (Gizmodo found that not installing the Anywhere Access software did the trick nicely -tinyurl.com/24gt5t).Because the fact is that for pretty much every network hard drive you can buy for use at home, the answer to the question above is "no". They won't show up beyond your home network because they aren't designed to have a public web interface. So what happens inside your home network with your audio and video files - whether legally copied or not - remains your business.Unfortunately WD was trying to make some use of Mionet, a company that it bought in July. While Mionet's software is meant to be "use everywhere", the match isn't made in heaven - at least, not if you're a hard drive company aiming not to get sued. Whether Western Digital can recover its battered PR image remains to be seen. But Mionet may find it useful to disappear, just for a while.
What exactly is it like to be female in the male-dominated games industry? Is it an asset or an annoyance? A help or a hindrance? Brilliant or bogus? In a finely-balanced series of interviews, MTV's Massively blog attempts to crackdown on issues and attributes of several women in the US games industry who are working in and around games. Each brings a panoply of opinions to a whole slew of subjects. For example, Game Girl Advance editorJane Pinkardchooses to use her platform to discuss gender differences, Playboy The Mansion producerBrenda Brathwaitetalks about the nitty gritty of employment and Ubisoft developerElspeth Toryintroduces the subject of coping in a boys' club as a successful woman.Interviewer Tracey John does a great job at getting to the meat of the matter and draws out the provocative perspectives of each. For more, check out all the interviewshere.
Opera has announced in apress releasethat it has "filed a complaint with the European Commission yesterday which is aimed at giving consumers a genuine choice of Web browsers.... Opera has requested the Commission to take the necessary actions to compel Microsoft to give consumers a real choice and to support open Web standards in Internet Explorer," it says."We are filing this complaint on behalf of all consumers who are tired of having a monopolist make choices for them," said Jon von Tetzchner, CEO of Opera. "In addition to promoting the free choice of individual consumers, we are a champion of open Web standards and cross-platform innovation. We cannot rest until we've brought fair and equitable options to consumers worldwide."Yeah, right.Consumers would no doubt be delighted if Microsoft suddenly shipped a fully compliant browser and discontinued IE7. That would probably break a large proportion of the sites on the web, and kill e-commerce at a stroke. (No, we shouldn't be in this position. I wish we weren't. But the fact is, we are.)Still, as I'm sure you will have noticed, Microsoft's defeat in the US and European courts has provided wonderful benefits to ordinary consumers, who are now dramatically better off than they were only five years ago. As you can see from, say, Vista, Microsoft has also benefited hugely from having squadrons of US Justice Department minions reading all its internal emails and adding layers of complexity to encourage a spirit of competition.Also, a decade of anti-trust harassment has had a terrible effect on Microsoft's profitability. It has only managed to increase its net income from $2.2bn in 1996 to a measly $14.1bn this year. (Well, some of that may be Steve Ballmer's fault. Or Linus Torvalds'.)Still, you have to wonder whose fault it is when Opera can only get a market share of 0.65% (onNet Applicationsnumbers), when Firefox has managed to get 16.01% with a browser that has, er, borrowed so many of Opera's features. OK, so Google isn't pushing it, but is Opera really that much harder to download?It would make more sense if Opera was simply setting out to trouser a truckload of Microsoft cash, the way Sun, RealNetworks etc did after Microsoft's defeat in the US courts. Where's the money angle?
Normally we keep stuff about the Free Our Data campaign to its own blog, but some things are worth mentioning here too. Such as Ordnance Survey, the UK's mapping agency, which todayannounced that it is launching its OpenSpace projectfor wider use.This ties in withour story in today's Technology section- though the key thing is, of course, that mashups in this way will only be available to nonprofit organisations.From the press release:OS OpenSpace enables web-savvy users to build mash-ups with a range of Ordnance Survey data in line with government aims to make public sector information more accessible.Under an application programming interface (API) developers will register for a feed of data to experiment with non-commercially. It includes a range of mapping scales covering the whole of Great Britain down to street level.But before you hang out all the bunting, it's only for some just now:This week's stage involves a hands-on preview to a dedicated group of developers who will have exclusive access to test functionality and build applications ahead of a public launch early in the new year.Still, Steve Coast of OpenStreetMap is enthusiastic, at least in the release: "This represents one of the most significant releases of a mapping data API. It will be interesting to see what web developers do with it," he's quoted as saying.Ed Parsons, who as chief technology officer at OS (before leaving last year for Google) was key in making this happen,remarks on his own blog:I'd love to see comments from anyone who is part of the alpha, but I guess they are under pretty strict NDA at the moment. One observation is the limit on the number of maps tiles which may be rendered for an API key, this is not something I have seen elsewhere, but I can understand it as a defence against accusations from commercial users of the data of unfairness.Still is great to see something I put so much effort into during my time at the OS finally reaching the public.I saw it demonstrated by Ed and his team when I visited OS in 2006; I thought it looked impressive then. Legal wranglings over licences are thought to have held it back.The point of the Free Our Data campaign (in case it's new to you) is that we argue that data like the OS maps should be available for freecommercialreuse (at present it's charged-for, and can be very expensive), and the cost of providing their services funded directly out of taxes. Then, commercial companies could thrive and compete without the drag of the data cost. (As an example, consider the multiplier effect of GPS - which I wrote about here.)So, do you think OS maps will help mashup methods? Will you use them?
Microsoft has once more come under fire for allegedly anti-competitive behaviour - this time from software rival Opera. The Norwegian company, which makes an internet browser of the same name, has filed a complaint with European Union officials accusing Microsoft of stifling competition.Opera, which has around 12 million users worldwide, said today that Microsoft had been acting anti-competitively by bundling its Internet Explorer program with the Windows operating system."We are filing this complaint on behalf of all consumers who are tired of having a monopolist make choices for them," said Jon von Tetzchner, the chief executive of Opera. "We cannot rest until we've brought fair and equitable options to consumers worldwide."The company said it was looking for a series of measures from European officials, including forcing Microsoft to unbundle Internet Explorer or allowing rival products to be preinstalled in Windows, and compelling Microsoft to follow design guidelines issued by web standards groups.Record fineLast year the EU fined Microsoft a record €280m in a similar antitrust battle over its Windows Media Player software.Opera's claims are closely modelled on the high-profile case against Microsoft pursued by the US government in a six-year battle over the integration of Internet Explorer into the Windows operating system.That episode almost ended with the Seattle software giant being split into several separate companies, but eventually resulted in a series of provisions to encourage competition. The initial agreements expired last month, although there have been moves to extend them until 2012.Microsoft responded to the latest allegations by saying it would work with EU competition officials, but believed that it was helping consumers by including Internet Explorer in its software."Complete freedom""Computer users have complete freedom of choice to use and set as default any browser they wish," the company said in a statement."Internet Explorer has been an integral part of the Windows operating system for over a decade and supports a wide range of web standards. We will of course cooperate with any inquiries into these issues, but we believe the inclusion of the browser into the operating system benefits consumers."According to recent figures from analysis company Net Applications, Internet Explorer remains the most popular web browser, with 78% of the market. Its main rival, Firefox, is used by around 15%, and Apple's Safari by 5%.
Facebook isopening up the Facebook Platform Architecture, "enabling other social sites to use our platform architecture as a model". The social network site says:In fact, we'll even license the Facebook Platform methods and tags to other platforms. Of course, Facebook Platform will continue to evolve, but by enabling other social sites to use what we've learned, everyone wins -- users get a better experience around the web, developers get access to new audiences, and social sites get more applications.This is already more than theory. Bebo, which is popular in the UK, has just announced its ownOpen Application Platform. This is, not coincidentally, based on Facebook. Bebo says:The Bebo Open Application Platform will be the first in the industry to implement the standards defined by the Facebook Platform, an open development system that enables companies and engineers to extend Facebook's more than 7,000 applications to other social websites.In other words, there's now a Facebook system that can compete with Google's misleadingly-named OpenSocial, which Google developed in secret then presented as an alternative to Facebook's proprietary system.There's nothing surprising about this. Facebook opening up was an obvious option andone we discussedwhile the dust was settling over OpenSocial.So, for now, we're left in a state of tension. It looks as though there will be two foundations for developing and delivering social networking applications: Facebook and OpenSocial. This is a lot better than having 50, for 50 different social network sites. It's also not too bad in the sense that any social networking site can back both platforms (Bebo supported OpenSocial, and Facebook could do so, if it wanted).The remaining question is whether the two systems will converge -- making life simpler for developers -- or diverge, thus providing some real competiton.
In the US there's been a lot of talk about Google bidding for space on the wireless spectrum - and in Britain, things are also hotting up as regulator Ofcomtoday announcedthat it would be auctioning off the spectrum which will be made available through the move to digital TV.The so-called "digital dividend" will result in a swath of the airwaves being sold off to the highest bidder, Ofcom's bossessaid in their official statement:In light of all the evidence available, we have concluded that we should take a market led approach to awarding the digital dividend.This means that, with one important exception, we will auction the spectrum in a way that allows users to decide how the spectrum should be used and creates the maximum flexibility and opportunities for different technologies and services.That exception is to leave gaps on the spectrum for wireless microphones, mainly for for program-making and special events. But they also decided to sell the whole of the available spectrum, rather than keep some to one side as an "innovation reserve". I wonder whether that decision will pay off in the long run, or be seen as short-sighted in 10 years when people are desperate for spectrum for a use we haven't yet foreseen.So the big question is who's going to get involved and what for? It would be great to see ubiquitous wireless internet grabbing space on the airwaves, but there are plenty of other possibilities available.The one thing that is certain is that everybody will be desperate to keep prices down at the auction. Last time this sort of thing took place, with third generation mobile, the phone operators massively overpaid by splashing out more than £20bn on 3G licenses (a mistake that customers are still paying for today).
Inthis week's Technology sectionwe look at how Google fends off SEOs (that's search engine optimisers), what the arrival of Ruby on Rails 2.0 means for end users, why Leopard has so many critics, Ordnance Survey readies itself for mashups, and more. Click through for the full link.And we still want to hearyour predictions for 2008! Tell us at that post.This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Is Google a Grinch or a good guy?The giant search engine has been accused of 'stealing Christmas' from companies by changing how it ranks results. Sean Hargrave finds out if their complaints are validNewsbytesTiscali tops | Be watched | WorldTV free | iPlayer with stuffing | Global eyes | YouTube winners | A sporting challenge | Try the TrocThe oldest profession combined with the newest technologyNick Carr: That our computers have seduced us has long been a truism. Now, thanks to the ever-inventive internet mafia, it is becoming a literal truth. Russian cyber-crooks have reportedly unleashed a software robot, or bot, that poses as a would-be paramour in sex chatroomsWill my network hard drive let me get my files online?If it's the 1-terabyte Western Digital MyBook World Edition drive, and if you're trying to access pretty much any audio or video format somewhere outside your home network ... then the answer is noIs there a way to make my online searches private?Yes, if you don't want to know what you've searched for, and don't want anyone else toGamesMario &amp; Sonic At The Olympic Games | Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men | Resident Evil: The Umbrella ChroniclesUS military in denial over 'pain ray'Concern over the safety of a crowd control system in tests sparks fears about its use in operational situations. David Hambling reportsOS maps finally available to not-for-profit organisationsMichael Cross: As Ordnance Survey finally loosens its hold on some of its data, is it a case of too little, too late?Flash games are a gift if Santa Claus lets you downKeith Stuart: It's been an extraordinary year for videogames - a banquet of such obscene riches that the most decadent gluttons of ancient Rome would hang their heads in shameTechnophileSatnav is a necessary evil, but Sony's NV-U92T is just the latest in a long line of devices that's lost its wayYouChooseTechnology videos we loveLetters and blogsPink-faced | Operating at speed | Farewell, email | Writing on the Wiki wall | OLPC too expensive | Bad luck, Windows usersHas voice recognition finally come of age?Victor Keegan: One area where speech recognition is very useful is dictating notes to yourself to remind you of things to do, or simply recording those random yet pertinent thoughts that occur to you during the day that might otherwise be forgotten. That would certainly change my life for the betterAsk JackDoctoring spyware | Bugged by pops and clicks | A PC for Photoshop | HomePlug or DS2Developers take REST with RailsTom Stuart: The latest version of the Ruby on Rails development framework shows off a style that could benefit web users and programmers alikeNew code of conduct for virtual grievingThe memorial websites where bereaved people can virtually visit loved ones - viewing pictures, videos and recorded messages, lighting virtual candles, and even leaving comments - now have their own code of conduct. By Bertan BudakLeopard is nothing for Apple to purr aboutCharles Arthur: Why was I looking up "downgrading to Tiger"? Because I'm considering it. And it's clear from the search that plenty of other people, having upgraded to Apple's latest version of OS X, codenamed Leopard, are doing the same
December is the cruellest month for companies that rely on their rankings in Google results for sales. The reason: it's when the dominant search engine - with 85% of the UK search market - often decides to rejig its algorithm and to downgrade links to sites that it judges are only there to give them a high placement in search results, so-called "link spam".If Google decides your site's incoming links aren't a spontaneous or "honest" expression of that site's desire to link to you and it reduces their value in its algorithm, your site will fall in the search result lists. For a company that relies on business from such so-called "organic" search results, that can mean a dramatic - perhaps fatal - drop in trade because while the number one spot in the average search results will attract roughly half of all clicks, at the bottom of the first page sites can only expect 2% of clicks. Fall on to the second page and it's less than 1%.Boosting result positionsGoogle never explains why brands suddenly find themselves plummeting down its results pages; but it is fair to assume that the search engine believed the brand had been buying or selling links.Google is now in what Warren Cowan, chief executive of London-based Greenlight, is calling a "Mexican standoff" with the rest of the search industry, as everyone waits to see if it will back up previous warnings with substantial downgrades in sites' PageRank (a credibility score out of 10 Google gives to each site it indexes) or even delisting for worst offenders. Greenlight is one of the many search engine optimisation companies that try to push companies' and brands' rankings up the results, and help decide when and what links or link adverts to buy. It's a multi-billion pound business, and being able to react faster than rivals is crucial. So everyone is tense.Google claims there are no imminent changes in strategy due to be announced - but the search engine is renowned for taking action during December to counter what it sees as undemocratic means of boosting search result positions. And it reiterated its rules last month about its opposition to link spam and link farming, where companies buy multiple links to their site to make it appear more popular than it naturally is (tinyurl.com/2s3ls3).This time last year it changed its advertising system, AdSense, to crack down on sites built solely around attracting the adverts it served. Three years ago it shocked the online world with a new release of its algorithm just ahead of Christmas, earning the search engine the nickname of "The Grinch" (tinyurl.com/2ottdk).The move brought accusations of double standards from search engine optimisation experts such as James Keehan at London-based The Search Works. "It's an odd grey area, because it is very happy to take advertising money off the sites that it says other people shouldn't be using to boost their search engine rankings," he argues. Danny Sullivan, editor-in-chief of the blogSearchEngineLand, agrees. He believes that while Google is right in trying to combat link spam, it is still wrong to allow link farms to advertise. "Google doesn't sell cigarette or alcohol advertising on ethical grounds, so why allow link spammers to advertise when they're trying to tell sites to avoid this route?"Google has also divided search marketing experts by calling for webmasters to report sites they believe are buying links to boost their position in search results. While some think this is a reasonable request, many consider it odd to ask sites to police a problem which they believe Google has caused for itself. "They've completely made a rod for their own back, and they're expecting all of us to sort it out," says Cowan of Greenlight."The founders of Google never realised how commercial the net would become. People out there are not linking to sites for altruistic reasons; it's a business. Whenever you try to build up natural links for people there's nearly always a discussion about money. It's almost impossible for Google to police it, so they're expecting us to police it for them."Those in search marketing who are critical of Google identify the crux of the problem as being, ironically, the way in which Google shows its displeasure at sites that are suspected of having sold links or transgressed other rules."They probably didn't mean to, but by publishing PageRank figures they're helping to price the market in paid links," points out Kevin Gibbons of SEOptimise, which is based in Oxford."If you're looking to buy or sell links, the first thing you would do is look at the credibility score Google gives a site to see how powerful those links are. It's a way for Google to hit the sites selling links, by decreasing their PageRank, but it also has the effect of letting link buyers know the reputation score Google gives to that site and hence how much they should pay for the links."But Google's reiteration last month of its opposition to link spam has some backers. Carolyn Watt, group account director at London-based Netrank, believes that the web giant's actions are a good reminder of what it expects of sites. "Google gets a lot of criticism, but what it's trying to do is ensure its search results are fair and democratic," she says.Firing blanks?Google points out that it allows companies that sell links by the hundreds of thousands to advertise because they are not doing anything "bad", but the search engine's recent announcements are there to remind site owners that it does not want the paid links they provide to count towards a site's position in search results. Instead, it says "no follow" tags should be added to such links.Google adds: "We're always getting better at spotting violations of our guidelines, and as we do the sites that focus on meeting user needs will naturally rise to the top."However, search experts are used to Google issuing warnings with little action, according to Nilhan Jayasinghe at Spannerworks in Brighton. "Nobody's sure if Google's just firing blanks," he says. "It's hard for us persuade clients to stick by the rules, as we want them to do, because the benefit of links can appear to outweigh the risks."James Keehan, commercial product director at The Search Works in London agrees. "We need a good shakeup," he says. "Google really has to make an example of someone and my money would be on Christmas or early New Year. If not, what's the point of the warnings? Brands will only toe the line if you make a major example of someone."How Google stole Christmas for search executivesChristmas 2004The big one, and the reason Google has been dubbed "The Grinch". Google unveiled the "Florida" rejig of its algorithm and Christmas was cancelled for many search executives. It was the last major overhaul. The algorithm is now adapted regularly.Christmas 2006Google tightens the rules for its AdSense system, with the aim of combating content-poor "made for AdSense" sites.Christmas 2007At the end of October and in early November, Google's warnings of action against those who sell and buy paid-for links saw PageRank reductions (typically from a seven out of 10 to a four or five out of 10) for prestigious sites such as The Times, Forbes, New Scientist and The Washington Post - which has since recovered to an eight out of 10 (tinyurl.com/243c4g). Many publishers are left wondering if further action will be taken in the next couple of weeks.
As Keith explainedhere, we'll be doing a group gamesblog games of the year next week but these are my personal picks of what has been the best 12 months for gaming that I can remember.Best PlayStation 3 game- Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. A clear winner here, Uncharted's hugely entertaining mix of adventuring and combat, combined with some simply beautiful visuals, to create the first real PS3 must-have.Best Xbox 360 game- Crackdown/Mass Effect - Crackdown was my game of the year (see below) but Mass Effect deserves an honorable mention. Flawed yes - the side missions are undercooked, the inventory and squad systems need an overhaul - but Mass Effect hooked me more than anything else this year. The plot, the combat (which improves rapidly after a slow start) the oddly addictive planet scanning, the fabulous synth soundtrack - Mass Effect was a triumph.Best Wii game- Super Mario Galaxy. Not the life changer that many seem to think but Galaxy was great fun and the first "hardcore" - and don't be under any illusions here, your mum won't be choosing Mario over Wii Sports this Christmas - Wii game that felt properly designed with the controls in mind rather than the tacked on feel that blighted too many big name Wii conversions.Best handheld game- Puzzle Quest. I was late to this, only discovering it when it surfaced on Xbox Live Arcade. But the genius combination of RPG with Bejeweled-style colour matching meant I was soon getting a DS copy for the train. Marvellous stuff.Best PC game- Burning Crusade. Yes, it was "only" an expansion pack but BC added stacks of content - new landmass, new races, flying mounts - to World of Warcraft and was a masterclass in keeping the fans happy while simultaneously attracting new ones.Biggest disappointment of the year- PS3. This list also included Halo 3 and PES 2008 but PS3 was the clear "winner" for me. Mediocre software, powerful but overpriced hardware, half baked online service - it's hard to think how the PS3 launch could have been any worse. Ratchet and Uncharted point to a brighter future though and the never-ending updates are finally bringing out the potential of the hardware but 2008 can't come quick enough for Sony.Most promising game of 2008- Alan Wake. This Twin Peaks/Silent Hill adventure has been in development for years but should finally surface next year. In a sea of space marine/military shooters and tedious driving games Alan Wake will hopefully bring some tense atmospherics to 2008's gaming party.I've also added another category.Game of the Year- Crackdown. Emergent objectives, nonsensical plot, little in the way of handholding - Crackdown may have bucked gaming conventions but was simply the most entertaining game released in 2007. Leaping from skyscrapers, lobbing cars at goons, the exhilarating climb up the agency tower, vertigo - Crackdown was the first "sandbox" game to fulfill the potential of the free roaming genre. And that's before you factored in the online mode. Friends could join your game at any time and - amazingly - complete objectives (even if you have already completed them) and get them registered into their own game. Or they could just help you out by driving a truck into a criminal hideout while you snuck round the back. But collaboration and convenience are clearly the way forward for online gaming. Crackdown was also the first game to really use the potential of the 360's achievement system, with the challenges adding some structure to a game that generally avoided it. Roll on the sequel.
From The Curse of Frankenstein to Quatermass, its catalogue of more than 150 classic British films often portrayed the horrific consequences of meddling with science in glorious, gory Technicolor.And yesterday it was announced that the first production from the recently revived Hammer Films would attempt to similarly marry old and new to shocking effect by premiering on MySpace in a series of 20 four-minute "webisodes". The film, Beyond the Rave, will be the first UK co-production by the social networking site's recently launched video arm, MySpaceTV.Starring Sadie Frost alongside a largely unknown cast and with a score chosen by DJ Pete Tong, it will chart 24 hedonistic hours in the life of a young soldier before he goes to Iraq. Inevitably, things soon take a sinister turn.Simon Oakes, chairman of Hammer Horror, promised it would mix the defining elements of its catalogue - blood, sex, death, vampires - with a 21st-century setting and sensibility. "It's suspenseful, with plenty of blood, but it's not 'gore-nography'," he said.The company, revived this year after 25 years by a consortium headed by Big Brother creator John de Mol, is also planning to release the film on DVD after it has been shown on MySpace. Oakes insisted that the film would not be too violent to be shown to a general audience, but the DVD release would probably be re-cut as an 18-certificate movie.  Hammer also has two more conventional movies going into production next year but Oakes said Beyond the Rave was a way of getting its first production out quickly and bringing the name to a new audience."There's a demographic out there that don't know Hammer in the way my generation do. I saw that MySpace could bring us to a global audience online and it's also a great way of finding new young talent."MySpace has become synonymous with new musical talent and wants to play a similar role in video. It recently showed an episode of the Channel 4 drama Skins before it was aired on TV.Oakes said he wanted to make Hammer resonate for a new generation in the way the original films, which made stars of the likes of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee, became a byword for psychological terror and were later imitated and parodied.MySpace, still the most popular social networking site in the world with 110m users despite the higher profile of late of rivals like Facebook and Bebo, is constantly looking for new ways to keep its users on the site for longer.Like its rivals, it predicts video content will be a key factor.
I've been using my hi-fi turntable to transfer vinyl to CD, but it faithfully reproduces all the clicks and crackles of my well-played collection. I've tried the Wave Editor tools in both Roxio (3 through 9) and Nero but they still leave a recording that is decidedly "vintage".John PalmerThere are a lot of programs that will automatically remove clicks and crackles from digitised files. However, the results can be extremely variable, and many people complain they also take some of the life out of recordings. The best you can do is try a few and see what suits your needs best.At the moment, Acoustica'sSpin It Again 2.1is well-regarded when it comes to delivering good results economically -- it's $34.95 (£17) -- without much effort. An alternative was Steinberg's Clean Plus 5, most recently sold by Pinnacle, but it seems to have been discontinued.Diamond Cut Audio Restoration Tools (diamondcut.com) are also worth considering, and Diamond Cut Millennium is available online for $55. (The full Diamond Cut 7 costs $159.)Serious restoration might well involve several passes, andSonic Foundry's Noise Reduction($399) includes four separate plug-ins: Noise Reduction, Click and Crackle Removal, Vinyl Restoration and Clipped Peak Restoration. There's also Brian Davies's Click Repair, which is available for $40 Australian (£17), direct from the author (http://wwwmaths.anu.edu.au/~briand/sound/).If you want to do the job using free software, Clive Backham has an excellentguide to digitising vinylthat covers the main software options. Backham also wrote Wave Repair to "ease many of the tasks that are required during restoration of music recorded from vinyl records, and which are often difficult using general purpose tools".Obviously it would be better not to have too many clicks and crackles to start with. Check your stylus and make sure your deck is set up correctly. You should also clean your records. Specialist products include the Disc Doctor's Miracle Record Cleaner (discdoc.com), which may be available in the UK fromvinylcare.co.uk, and carbon fibre brushes.Backchat: Ken Vines says: "Magix Audio Cleaning Lab is a good program for dealing with all sorts of audio input, including vinyl. It's up to version 12, I think, but 10 and 11 (which I use) seem perfectly adequate and have several ways for removing or reducing the effect of clicks and crackles, including individual attention." Brian Gotheridge recommends the same program.
My PC was infected with W32.Myzor.FK, so I purchased Spyware Doctor. This seems to have cured the problem, but my PC is phenomenally slow. Is there likely to be something still remaining? Is Spyware Doctor worth keeping or should I try something else?John UttleyW32.Myzor.FK@yf is part of an attempt to sell you a fake anti-spyware program -- there are lots -- and it also tries to steal passwords. You should change yours. Many free programs are able to remove it, including Lavasoft's Ad-Aware and AVG AntiSpyware (formerly Ewido). To double-check your PC, download a new free antivirus program, reboot your computer in Safe Mode and run it, then reboot and run it again. You could also try one of the online scanners, such as Trend Micro'sHousecallorKaspersky Online.PC Tool's Spyware Doctor is a well-respected program, and a cut-down version is included in the Google Pack software. It can be a resource hog, but as you've bought it, it's not worth paying for Webroot's SpySweeper as well.Unfortunately, the free versions of AVG AntiSpyware and SuperAntiSpyware don't provide continuous real-time monitoring. If you feel you need this, I'd suggest using Windows Defender (formerly Giant AntiSpyware), and running Spyware Doctor from time to time to double-check it.
You recommended HomePlug as a way of creating a home network over the mains wiring. Could you advise whether to go for the American HomePlug or for the European DS2 200Mbps standard. I gather that BT and Sky have announced some sort of scheme to provide Freeview/Sky over the National Grid using DS2. My interest is in establishing a private computer network in my block of flats rather than in watching television!Peter DavisHomePlug 1.0 is the de facto standard used by most products, which are based on Intellon chips. These are usually 14Mbps, which is fast enough for home networking, or have been extended to the "turbo" 85Mbps. However, products using the later 200Mbps HomePlug AV standard are now widely available. DS2 Powerline technology, which uses chips from a Spanish company (ds2.es), starts at 200Mbps, and 400Mbps has been demonstrated.The problem is that the different systems may not live together, assome peoplewho have installed BT Vision using the DS2-based Comtrend mains adaptors have found. HomePlug 1.0 and AV are designed to co-exist. However, the safest approach is not to mix different speeds (14, 85, 200) or different technologies (HomePlug 1.0, HomePlug AV, DS2), if possible.The IEEE is now voting on a draft standard for powerline communications through the P1901 working group (grouper.ieee.org/groups/1901). In November, a merged proposal from the HomePlug Powerline Alliance and the Japanese Consumer Electronics Powerline Communication Alliance (behind Panasonic's HD Power Line Communications) beat the one from the Universal Powerline Association (behind DS2) by 28 votes to 13. It now needs 75% of the vote taken on December 11. Since HomePlug AV is backed by Cisco, Comcast, General Electric and Intel, it should win through.Under the circumstances, 200Mbps HomePlug AV products seem the most likely to be closest to standard, but they are overkill for sharing a DSL connection.
Since I bought a camera producing RAW images and became more adventurous with Photoshop, I have outrun the capacity of my old PC, although it has 4GB of memory. Most of the available quad-core machines seem to be designed for gamers, which is not what I require.Martin McNicolAlmost any modern dual-core PC should be fine for Photoshop, which uses up to 2GB of memory on 32-bit systems, and mainly does two-dimensional graphics. You don't need a gaming machine designed to provide high frame rates with 3D graphics.For good performance with Photoshop, it's best to have a fast processor and a very fast hard drive, although a fast 2D graphics card should help. Moving to a 64-bit version of Windows XP or Vista (or Mac OS 10.5) would also speed up the program in use, but you might have a few problems getting drivers for peripherals. Sadly, even the latest Adobe Creative Suite 3 is still 32-bit, and the major benefits will not emerge until it's a 64-bit application, and has been optimised for multi-core processors.Adobe has a technical note, Optimise performance of Photoshop (CS2 on Windows) attinyurl.com/2rvjs2. Following Adobe's advice could speed things up a bit, and therefore make your need for a new PC less urgent.
After the recent controversy-splattered sacking of Gamespot reviews editor Jeff '6/10' Gerstmann, comes news that PR firm Kohnke Communications is suing Star Trek Online developer Perpetual Entertainment, accusing the studio of, 'breach of contract, fraud, intentional interference with contract, and other similar charges',according to Shack News. The charges relate to Perpetual's recent shift in ownership which allegedly resulted in the semi-cancellation of its forthcoming title Gods and Heroes. Despite the project being put on hold, Kohknke were seemingly asked to produce promotional materials for the title. From the Shack News piece:[Kohnke] also alleges that one of the reasons behind the cancellation of Gods &amp; Heroes was to avoid paying out the bonuses due to Kohnke upon its release, which would have financially weakened the company further.But this isn't the 'shocking' part. Apparently, Kohnke's legal complaint against the developer states, "Kohnke's public relations campaign was successful in creating pre-release 'buzz' around Gods &amp; Heroes, and in convincing reviewers to write positive reviews about the game." In the post-Gerstmann era this seems to constitute some kind of controversy as it's beingreportedthat the PR firm influenced reviewers.Thing is, Gods and Heroes was never released. Ithasn'tbeen reviewed. It did receive positive coverage - in preview form -earning a Best of Show awardfrom MMORPG.com among other similar tokens, but this was all based on unfinished code and press info. This just seems to be one of those occasions where PR firms get the worlds 'review' and 'preview' mixed up.As for videogames PR influencing coverage - duh, that's their job. PR is all about influencing opinion. Sure, the game should do a lot of the work - some might say all. But that's not always the case in a cut-throat industry where journalists are being bombarded with code, screenshots and press releases on an hourly basis. Good PR, good schmoozing if you will, creates a platform for a game to get the attention it may or may not deserve. There is a science to this - whether we like to admit it or not (hey, you can evenread a bookon how to secure positive (p)reviews for a game).But as a journalist myself, it still rankles to read of a PR firm claiming to have used its abilities alone to secure good coverage. No-one wants to believe they're being manipulated. And it could be that all the firm did was hand out a few press releases and hope for the best. PR is all about emphasis and exaggeration after-all. It's mind games. Smoke and mirrors.The eternal frisson between PR and games journalists is that both parties like to think they're controlling the other. A good PR person knows how to get their game noticed and how to emphasis its positive attributes, without making the pitch obvious. Of course, the next step is actually 'paying' in one form or another for a good review. This is not what Kohnke is talking about.This isn't sleaze, it's business.
After a long tussle over the BBC's iPlayer download service between the corporation's executives and grumpy non-Windows users - andplentyofarticlesabout itsextended,bafflingdevelopmentfrom us - the Beeb has finally started streaming TV content online throughiPlayer.It's a browser-based Flash player embedded on static web pages - pretty straightforward stuff. I've just had a quick browse around the site, and it looks like the same restrictions apply that are on downloads: you can only watch shows from the past week.In fact, further investigation shows it's got even more restrictions. At the moment not everything that's available for download is also available for streaming - Doctor Who, for example,just gives the error message"Sorry, Doctor Who series 2 is not available to play here".Because the episodes exist on static pages though, you can share the streaming page if you like (but still not, it appears, of shows more than a week old - hacking the URL to see shows from longer doesn't make them viewable in Flash).It'll be interesting to see whether this will increase uptake of the entire iPlayer service, which sources say has only a few thousand regular users at the moment. And it vastly increases the prospects of somebody indexing the content and providing it in a more long-lasting format.It's also worth nothing that a report onThe Registerjust yesterday quoted a BBC spokeswoman as saying that streaming would launch within the next two weeks. Looks like they were hedging their bets.
The Ask Jack column gets queries about digital radio, and Wi-Fi radio, andrecentlyI mentioned theRevo Blik Wi-Fi, thinking it was about to ship.Well, if that's the sort of thing you want, take a look at theBLIK RadioStation, which is expected to ship on December 19 at around £150. This offers both DAB (the current UK system) and DAB+, FM, Internet radio via Wi-Fi, and media streaming from a PC or Mac. It also works as an iPod speaker system, and an alarm clock.Two cheaper versions are already on sale: Blik DAB (£49.95) and Blik Wi-Fi (£99.95).Revo's press release says:BLIK RadioStation is the result of a long and fruitful collaboration between Revo technologies and Frontier Silicon, the industry leader in digital radio technology. At the heart of BLIK RadioStation is Frontier Silicon's new multi-standard Venice 6 module.TheDigitalradiotech.co.uksite points out that products from rival suppliers were expected by the end of the year. "The other manufacturers that are planning to release products using the Venice 6 include Bush, Grundig, Magicbox, Ministry of Sound, Pure and Tivoli." It says:All receivers using the Venice 6 modules will be at least DAB+-upgradeable by default, and some of the other products that will be sold in the UK will be DAB+-upgradeable and receivers sold in Europe will have the DAB+ software pre-installed. But Revo has chosen to install Frontier-Silicon's recently-finished DAB+ software implementation on all Blik RadioStation receivers whether or not they will be sold in the UK or in Europe.Revo is a small Scottish company and launched its first product, the Revo In-Car DAB, in December 2004.
Bebo is working with rival social networking website Facebook on an application development platform that works across both sites.Experienced developers and web businesses can now build their own small web tools for Bebo using a set of code offered by the the popular teen social networking site.In the first such deal, Bebo's Open Application Platform is compatible with the code used on Facebook, meaning that applications built for one of the sites needs only minor alterations to work on the other.Shields: 'This year was about original professional content and applications.' Photograph: Linda NylindBebo also supports the new Open Social initiative coordinated by Google, a set of standards that allows developers to build applications that work across numerous sites.Facebook is not yet compatible with OpenSocial, but had started working with Bebo on a joint platform before the Google project was announced, according to Bebo president Joanna Shields."We have a great relationship with Facebook and they did really impressive things with their application platform. But we had widgets on the site a long time before that became so successful," Shields said.At launch, 36 companies had built applications for Bebo including the film review site Flixster, clothes company Gap and broadcaster CBS.The developer platform is an easy-to-use interface, said Shields, but users still need a basic understanding of code to build their own applications.Applications have become a major feature of social networking sites, allowing users to access a host of services inside the site.Facebook now offers more than 10,000 applications built by external developers, including games such as Scrabulous, photosharing such as provided by Flickr, and video players.Websites will increasingly move to make their services open and their content shareable, and mobile will see the next big wave of activity for social networks, said Shields."As people who want to invest more and more of their time in their social networks, the mobile is a natural interface for everyone to communicate with friends and family, for media sharing and content," she added."It's an integral part of the lifestyle media and community structure. It will be very exciting and Bebo is going to be at the forefront of that."She pointed out that the industry had expected user-generated content to be the big issue of the year, but that it had actually fizzled out."This year was really about original professional content and applications," she said.Bebo's next move will be to expand its international growth by rolling out localised versions.It launched a site in Poland last week and also has versions in the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, Germany and France.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The Press Associationreportis short but sweet for Sean Phelan. founder of the online mapping service Multimap:Multimap - one of the UK's top 10 visited internet sites - was bought for an undisclosed sum, but is thought to see founder and majority shareholder Sean Phelan bank a significant haul from the deal.Mr Phelan, who set up Multimap in 1996, held a 50% shareholding in the firm and had reportedly already raised almost £1.9 million from the sale of a 25% stake to investors just three years after launch.The announcement sees Mr Phelan part company with Multimap, although chief executive Jeff Kelisky will remain with the group following the sale to Microsoft.Microsoft said the deal would further expand its existing mapping and location offerings, which include Virtual Earth and Live Search.The question now is, why? What's in it for Microsoft that it couldn't do itself with its own mapping services? The apparent value is that point about being one of the UK's most-visited sites - an accolade that Microsoft can't match with its own mapping sites here.Set up in 1996, and a doughty survivor of the dot-com boom and bust, Multimap has expanded its services (despite competition fromStreetmap) to good efffect.The Wall Street Journal has some of theinteresting stats:Microsoft has been struggling to compete with Google in the mapping space, where that company leads the market with its Google Maps and Google Earth products. Google Maps had 71.5 million unique users during October, while its Earth service recorded 22.7 million users, according to research company Nielsen Online. In comparison, Microsoft's Windows Live Maps service had 7.1 million unique users worldwide during the same period, Nielsen said. Multimap had 1.4 million users.Which might make Multimap sound smaller, but it's focussed on the UK and Europe, while those are worldwide numbers.Perhaps the most enlightening comment will come fromEd Parsons, who this time last year was just leaving a job as chief technology officer at the Ordnance Survey (a principal data supplier to Multimap) to take up a post at Google Maps UK.This might leapfrog Microsoft (via its new subsidiary) into the most-sought mapping source in the UK. Though I have to say that I've always found the mapping directions from Multimap and Google Maps and the others amazingly un-useful for getting to places you've not been. But that's a post for another time.So, do you think Microsoft will make a bigger success of Multimap? Or will it swallow it and strangle it?
I'm not glued to my live stream of LeWeb3 today so I'm going to have to rely on blog and Twitter highlights of the talks. Unfortunately, live blogging is pretty sparse from the conference due to the predictably flakey WiFi that always plagues such events.Fortunately, flakey WiFi hasn't prevented Swiss blogger Stephanie Booth from live TwitteringDoc Searlspresentation that near as I could tell should have been called Bullshit 2.0. The main theme seems to be how companies herd the masses into walled gardens to sell their eyeballs to advertisers. They ply aforementioned masses with the promise of being bitten by zombies or passed hot potatoes to satisfy the social urges that they obviously can't sate during their work with their socially stunted co-workers.Read on for more updates from Day 2 and some just posted gems from Day 1.Stephanie Boothhad the Tweet-by-Tweet coverage of Doc's talk.doc searls: bullshit will lose leverage (when users are really in charge)good point: whytf should web "anything" (2.0) be about advertising? Web 2.0 bullshit gets resultswith facebook, you're not just a face, you're a target, you're a tool for advertisors. Marketers are your "friends". Selling eyeballs to adsdoc's prediction #2: advertising will die (including Google ads)#3 herding peopleinto walled gardens and guessing about what makes them "social" will seem as absurd as it actually isUPDATE: Memoire Vive has a goodfive minute interview with Doc Searlsexpanding on some of the themes in his talk. Joe Andrieu summed up themain themes of the interview:What is meta about life transcends what is meta about electronics.We have to look to solve problems for ourselves.What really matters is our independence, our freedom, our ability to act on our ownSvetlana Gladkova at Profy had somefrank criticism for the start-ups pitchingat LeWeb3. They focused on the wrong things in their presentations, she said. More importantly she said:So again, it looks like we are facing shortage of actually useful ideas behind startups. Developers try to come up with something unique but they end with something truly unusual BUT it is something that no one will ever need to use.And she said that start-ups were not thinking enough about their business models.Investors are definitely not happy about startups focusing on advertising model because it is hard to believe there will be enough ad dollars for everyone. And thus they recommended doing something that could be sold to enterprises as they are easier to make pay than end users.I am sure that more highlights will trickle out as bloggers have a chance to digest and update their blogs. Watch this space.Highlights from Day OneThere were some good posts that only got published after the day because of the lack of reliable WiFi in the hall. Adam Tinworth of One Man &amp; His Blog fame had a good post calledSocial Media versus Anti-social Media, covering a couple of "interesting, but ill-attended talks", one by June Cohen of the TED Conference. She was talking about new media and old media and actually how new all mass media is:Using the clock metaphor for human existence, "old media" appears about two minutes to midnight."Before that, all media was social," she suggests. Without mass media to carry messages, people communicate on an individual or group basis, in the same place as each other. The mass media age has, against expectations, created an anti-social media. Media delivered from on high is new and "frankly, really horrible". TV has isolated us, Cohen suggested.."US 50 year olds watch 40 hours of TV a week - that's a full time job".I'm sure that most Guardian Technology readers are aware of theTED- Technology, Entertainment, Design - conference. But if you can't afford the annualUS$6000 subscription(even with a fistful of powerful pounds), you can see the presentations online. Recently, I've been watching them usingMiro, getting updated ones viaTED's RSS video feeds.tags technorati :LeWeb3,DocSearls,startups,web2.0
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Simpsons fans rejoiced when Homer's "Doh!" made its way into theOED in 2001. How will gamers respond to the news that 1337-speak staple "w00t" has been included in the AmericanMerriam-Webster Open Dictionaryonline reference? There's already a clue ina recent commenton this blog.Not only has it received an inkling of legitimacy but the accolade extends to being named "Word of the Year", previously won by American satirist Steven Colbert's "Truthiness".Fromripten:While some gamers may lament n00bs stealing their word, it does mean that all things gaming are gaining greater acceptance. If we all pull together, maybe we can pwn the rest of the words next year and get pwn instated in the dictionary next year.
It's that time of the year when newspapers and magazines everywhere get the chance to fill countless pages with retrospective features and award specials - allowing the editorial teams to slip into autodrive before heading out of the office for Christmas.We're no different. Next week we'll announce the Gamesblog games of the year, but first you have to vote for them. We'll then mix your suggestions in with ours - a bit like on Strictly Come Dancing - to come up with the definitive titles.So, here are the categories. Simply add your votes as a comment on the end of this post. I'll re-post it everyday to give as many people as possible the chance to have their say. To help out, Aleks, Greg and I will provide our personal Top Fives for the year over the next few days.You need to vote on the following (or select the ones you care about):Best PlayStation 3 game Best Xbox 360 game Best Wii game Best handheld game Best PC game Biggest disappointment of the year Most promising game of 2008Feel free to add justifications for your choices - I'll use a few in the final round-up. Now get voting!
As 2007 draws to a close, no doubt we will all be casting our minds back over the past year - a rip-roaring sequence of exciting launches for tech-heads, gadget-lovers and gamers alike.Just take a few examples: the iPhone, Windows Vista, PlayStation 3 and Halo 3 - allmassivelaunches that helped define the year that was.But let's not look to the past - let's try to glimpse the future instead. What's coming up in the coming 12 months that's worth watching out for?In terms of gadgets and gear, I'm heading off to CES and Macworld in January, where we'll no doubt hear plenty of groundbreaking announcements: look for lots of bigger, faster, smarter hardware and some crazy outlandish stuff too.I'm also unfeasibly excited about the prospect of a LEGO Batman and Indiana Jones. And gamers - what's floating your boat? Are you finally going to get to play the titles you've been waiting for?That's just the tip of the iceberg, but 2008 will have to work hard to match the past 12 months. What are you looking forward to?
New York jeweller Tiffany &amp; Co has described eBay as a "rat's nest" of counterfeit goods in a bitter outburst against the internet sale of fake watches, necklaces and bracelets.The 170-year-old design house has accused the world's largest online auctioneer of doing little to prevent the selling of fakes on its site.A New York judge heard arguments in the dispute between the two sides last month. In a legal brief filed while awaiting a ruling, Tiffany said that out of a sample of 136 Tiffany items advertised on eBay, 73% were fake."EBay had reason to know that there was pervasive and fundamental misuse of its system for the sale of counterfeit Tiffany goods," says the brief. "Indeed, it was a proverbial 'rat's nest'."Tiffany argues that eBay is liable because it continued to offer services to customers when it knew that abuse was rife. It says that its glitzy reputation, encapsulated in the Audrey Hepburn film Breakfast at Tiffany's, has been "diluted and tarnished" by the fakes.In its defence, eBay argues that it always removes unlawful goods brought to its attention and that Tiffany should make more effort to protect its brand. EBay says that only $14m (&pound;6.8m) of Tiffany's $11bn sales over five years has gone towards an anti-counterfeit operation.EBay's lawyer, Bruce Rich, said: "Tiffany's case is a barren one, both legally and factually."Judge Richard Sullivan's ruling will be closely watched by the technology industry. EBay claims that a ruling against it will "wreak havoc" with businesses similar to its own and have an adverse impact on the development of internet commerce.
Just in case you haven't seen this yet, Pa Rappa the Rapper designer Masaya Matsuura is teaming up once again with artist Rodney Greenblat on a new game for Wii.According to Next-Gen.bizthe 'one-of-a-kind music game' is set for release late next year. Matsuura has also recently committed to speaking at the forthcomingD.I.C.E summitin Las Vegas where he could well shed more light on the project.Pa Rappa was, of course, one of the pioneers of the 'rhythm action' genre, alongside the likes of Konami'sBeatmaniaand Metro'sBust-A-Move. It was also a key title in Sony's drive to market PlayStation as a mainstream 'lifestyle' product. Unapologetically 2D and 'uncool' the title seemed to be working against the ethos that brought us Wipeout, but it drew non-gamers to the screen like nothing before.Can the duo ever have this impact again, especially on Wii which is already an accepted mainstream phenomenon? I'm certainly looking forward to finding out.
A computer program that poses as a flirtatious internet surfer is being used to steal people's identities from online chatrooms, experts claim.According to analysts at online security company PC Tools, the robot - known as CyberLover - is being used by criminals to gather information on internet chatters.Intended for use by lonely hearts with no time to talk, CyberLover takes on a series of different identities and fools chatters into believing they are talking with a real person. Users can direct the nature of the questions, and the program will then compile a report on the person it has been talking to and deliver it back to its owner.Although the system is aimed at lovelorn Russians, experts at PC Tools claim criminals are using CyberLover to ask victims a series of targeted personal questions which can be used in identity theft."The potential number of victims could be very substantial," said PC Tools analyst Sergei Shevchenko. "As a tool that can be used by hackers to conduct identity fraud, CyberLover demonstrates an unprecedented level of social engineering."The ability to fool a person into believing they are talking with a human rather than a computer is held as one of the cornerstones of artificial intelligence. Although experts do not believe CyberLover would pass the Turing test - designed by mathematician Alan Turing as a measure of machine intelligence - it is one of the more sophisticated tools in circulation.
It may only provide a glimpse at the next generation of Gran Turismo, but Prologue seems to have impressed Japanese games mag Famitsu. According to ripten.com (I'm not linking directly as it keeps crashing my browser), the taster release is reviewed this issue, earning an outstanding 39/40. It's due for release in Japan tomorrow.I'll confirm the score ASAP, but in the meantime,here's an extremely tasty new trailerfor the game.Update:Seems this score is a fake - I was suspicious due to the lone source, but it was midnight and I was tired... I'mnot the only onewho reported it though. Ah, the blogosphere...
Turns out Apple co-founder, Steve Wozniak, was ata partycelebrating the 25th anniversary of the Commodore 64 on Monday night. There he wasoverheard by CNET bloggerDaniel Terdiman mentioning that his favourite ever game is Tetris.it wasn't just the normal version of Gameboy Tetris that he loved. Specifically, he said, it was the version for the Gameboy Lite, a rare version of the machine distributed only in Japan that has a backlit screen suitable for play on long plane rides.Super geeks, just like musos and film buffs are always a little bit elitist. They don't just know all the products you know, they know much rarer versions of the products you know. I suppose in Woz's case, the difficult-to-come-by GB Lite version of Tetris is a practical necessity rather than a simple status symbol, but still, the old Game Boy version always lasted well for me. Anyway, I know a lot of programmers who love Tetris - there is something in the anally retentive exactness of the game that appeals, I think.On the subject of Tetris, I was moderately amused to find that Rubbish Pixels'Six Biggest Arseholes in Gamingpost last week included the 'L' block in Tetris:This pixelated, asymmetrical tosser trickles down the screen like he owns the place, doesn't bother trying to fit anywhere and loses you ten lines when you panic and place him horizontally over the clear space you'd been saving for a straight line block.I'vesobeen there.
The Xbox 360'smovie download servicelaunches today allowing owners the chance to rent high and - if you can bothered - standard definition movies direct to their console. Once downloaded you can keep the film - which cost around 2-5 pounds - for 14 days but it will delete 24-hours after you start watching it. But you can, if you are that way inclined, watch it as many times as you like within the 24-hour window.Microsoft have announced a further partnership with Warner Movies which will see the likes of Batman and, er, Analyze That added to the service before the end of the year. But the limited content isn't the real issue. Clearly TV shows are needed - the US service has the likes of Family Guy and Studio 60 - and more recent films are a must. But this can be fixed over time. The real barrier to entry is the hardware. Yes you can download standard def stuff but why would you want to when most of these films are either on telly fairly often or available cheaply on DVD? High-definition is clearly the attraction here - unless the likes of Superman 3 in standard def get your pulse racing - so you'll obviously need an HD TV to watch. But equally as importantly you'll need some spare hard drive space. The average HD movie will need around 5gb - a large percentage of your demo/savegame stuffed standard 20GB drive. So chances are most users of this service will have forked out 300 quid for a 360 Elite (which comes with a 120gb hard drive) and double that for an HD telly. You'll also need a fast, and preferably uncapped, broadband supplier. So as much as Microsoft may want this service to expand the 360's customer base it will probably end up appealing to the hardcore users. Me? I'm downloading The Matrix as we speak. Anyone else tried it yet?
One of the benefits of the web is that if you don't want to pay a £1000 or €1000 for a pass to an internet conference, you can at least get the sense of things via blogs and podcasts, and that's true with LeWeb3 '07.Blogger-podcaster Ewan Spence had an early podcast with is review of theLeWeb3 schwag bagwith Japanese internet luminaryJoi Ito, ZDNet'sDennis Howlett, Nir Ofir of Blog.tv and Matthias Luefkens of theWorld Economic Forum. It has the usual marketing leaflets and also "weird objects that could never get through customs or security at the airport. Did someone forget this was inernational?"The big news on day one is that trip-based social networkDopplr is coming out of closed beta.Marshall Sponder is blogging some of the individual talks, and he's already blogged the presentations ofKevin Rose of Digganddesigner Philippe Starke. Profy is doing some profiles of the start-ups at LeWeb3 includingsocial search company Semingoandweb-based contact storage service ZYB.Quotes from the first day, from Kevin Rose viaSusan Kish at Lunch over IP:It doesn't have to be a big website to be a great project. ... You don't have to be a coder or a hardcore geek to start a great project online these days.Read on for updates.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:LeWeb3,Paristechnorati tags endWatching on the webIt looks like leweb3 is the most popular tag for posts. You can get an up todate round up via Technorati. It's one of the most popular tags at the moment.If you're like me and you can't make it to LeWeb3 '07, but you'd like to keep up in real time, you can watch thelive stream on the site. There have been more than a few grumbles that the video is only in Windows Media format. But you can watch it usingVLCon a Mac or a Linux box if you use this URL "mms://wm.narrowstream.net/ampilive3". I'm watching it via QuickTime on my Mac withFlip4Mac.The Future of Social NetworksMarc Canterof Broadband mechanics chaired a panel about the future of social networks with Tariq Krim ofNetvibes, Hans Peter Brondmo ofPlum,Patrick Chanezonof Google andSusan KishofEuropean Energy Forum. Some highlights fromMarshall Sponder's poston the session.Tariq Krim said that widgetisation of the web is the future but that no one has figured out monetisation.Susan Kish says that social networks solve real problems that but most in senior management of business don't embrace it. She said that McKinsey found that 75% of managers see value in social software for employee collaboration and 70% see value in communication with consumers, but most businesses lack 'senior evangelists' to encourage adoption.There was a question from the audience expressing social network fatigue with a bewildering number of new networks causing problems not solving them.Why do people bang on about gaming (or internet) addiction?Japanese entrepreneur Joi Ito gave a great talk finding some way to bridge the World of Warcraft and Creative Commons.Swiss blogger and social software consultant Stephanie Booth said of Joi'stalk via Twitter:thanks, Joi, for talking about the misuse of "addicted" in relation to tech/gaming stuff.And education blogger Ewan McIntosh asked:Why are we 'addicted', and not just enthusiastic?Isn't it funny how we never say that someone is 'addicted to church' or 'addicted to books' but we seem quite happy to say that it's 'awful that young people are addicted to gaming'?
Virtually live from LeWeb3 in Paris, I've got the live video stream from European Web 2.0 conference LeWeb3. Guardian Unlimited's own Emily Bell is going head to head with professional trollAndrew Keenabout whether the social web and social media are going to be the death of society as Andrew contends. The pair have already had one encounterover on Comment is Free.Blogger Graham Hollidayhad thisprediction via Twitter:Emily "bruiser" Bell about to go head to long tail with Andrew "user generated crap" Keen. My money's on school maam Bell bollocking him.Read on for the blow by blow.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:LeWeb3,Paris,UGCtechnorati tags endOK, this is a bit of live blogging. It will be a paraphrased transcript. I'll make it as accurate as possible, but my fingers can't fly quite that quickly to be word for word. I'll tidy it up after the debate finishes.Eric Archambeauof Wellington Partners was moderating, given the job of keeping the fight clean between the contenders. Eric said that Andrew's hypothesis was: The internet is killing our culture and undermining the value of experts and professionals. We're back in the 18th Century where only the rich could afford to see the fruits of great artists and philosophers.Emily says that over the last 200 years we have been cut off from culture by gatekeepers who kept us from seeing the vast output of creative artists around the world.Eric: Is is that bad to be a gatekeeper?Emily: Andrew has strapped himself into a 50,000 word diatribe that we are destroying the present media economy by the democratisation of media. We know that it is an iterative process. Yes, I am a gatekeeper. But if the Guardian was a one-way conduit, we would become more and more irrelevant. In 5 years, we wouldn't have a business.That doesn't mean that we don't bring skills to this. But the opening up of content as a bad thing is simply not true and not worth arguing about.Andrew: Emily wants to have her cake and eat it too. When I argue with Emily, she says that ordinary people can't be creative because gatekeepers have appropriated the access to culture. If everyone did what the Guardian did online, then we'd be in a great position. The Guardian is doing a great job. It's paying its journalists.It tries to make sure that not too many children spew their garbage on their site ... We have to have gatekeepers like Emily even when they are pretending not to be gatekeepers.Eric: How do we keep trust in news on the internet?Emily: You are presenting the internet as some receptacle of broken trust. Nobody now can earn trust just by wearing a badge that says journalist. It's about what you have done. Your history follows you around. The internet is the best right of reply. Your reputation is much more fragile online than offline. Politicians have to learn this. You have to be transparent. When you make mistakes, you have to fess up to them.If you're writing online, it's not that you're sloppy with your work. But everytime you put something out there, something will come back, and it will improve what you do. Media companies need to learn this.Eric: Is that what you see Andrew?Andrew: The internet has been great to give media a kick in a pants. It's another thing to give it a kick in the crotch and kill the thing. You can talk about companies like zing, zoom and zang, but all the while, journalists and content creators are being laid off. The Guardian is shining example of how to do it. The Guardian is, as Emily told me, a charity. But a lot of for-profit record, media and movie compannies are in trouble. A lot of it is that these companies are incompetent. I'm really worried about the future of the business.Eric: What about TV?Emily: I thought that the Ted lectures are very interesting. Broadcast has not performed very great. In Britain, in six months, every one of our major broadcasters has been in a scandal. ITV ripped £8million pounds from its viewers in fradulent calls.They have absolute contempt for their audience. I think the broadcast model is broken.If you come from the print medium, you have had to endure 25 years of broadcasters telling them that the print model is broken. I'd rather be where I'm at.Andrew: I sidestep television in my book. I don't have a television. Emily says that the television model is wrong. I don't think the BBC is broken.Emily: It works because they take £2 billion of our money. In a world of unlimited choice, how do you justify the licence fee?Andrew: In this current crisis, they have been seduced by the cult of the amateur. They have given way to reality television. The worse things on the internet and the worst thing on television are remarkably similar.Eric: On social networks, you have a new way to build trust in one another.Andrew: Why are we so obsessed with trust? The obsession with trust is a reflection of other socio-economic issues. The internet didn't invent trust.Emily: I agree with Andrew. We had Bill Keller in town recently. You hear very few people talking about trust in the old media. They understand that if you squander your trust, you don't have a business model. Far too much is talked about (trust).Andrew: They all have their Judy Miller moment. They say because Judy Miller of the New York Times let us down you can't trust the entire professional media. The failings of one professional media or one blogger doesn't invalidate all of the media or all of the blogosphere.I don't think that the internet can replace the real world in terms of trust and community. They can be aids, but they can't replace. Second Life is not real life.Emily: This is a nonsense. (slight smattering of applause) Of course, it's not replication of anything. The internet is a consequence of all kinds of things. The enabling part of it is that there is vast movement of goods and labour around the world. I can't cluster with people with similar interests around the world, but I can over the internet. It will never replace a direct, face-to-face conversation. How would things be better without it?Andrew: I'm not against the internet. I couldn't do without it, just like anyone else.Eric: The internet revolution is bringing casualties, and you say that the casualties outweigh the benefit. Isn't it inevitable that you see casualties?Andrew: That sounds like Stalin. What do you mean that it is inevitable that there will be casualties? I don't like words like inevitable inevitable. The purpose of my book is to think about in where we're going.It's not good that record companies are shutting down. It's not good to see movie companies going out of business. The new companies are not content companies but technology companies. I'm not convinced that in either cultural or economic terms is a good thing. I'm not convinced that what is replacing mainstream media is good.What I'm trying to challenge is the more radical notions of internet utopians.Emily: All revolutions start with radicals. What has happened in the last six months is that there is a refinement in this. The idea that the gatekeeper is wholly bad and mass creation is wholly good has been refined.Andrew: I've been dying to ask you this in public. What are you doing at Guardian Unlimited that is revolutionary?Emily: Nothing. But the world of communication is moving much faster than the world of newspaper. There is a difference between revolutionary and the best newspaper website in the world. You can't control the conversation. You can facilitate it and feed into it.What I can do is put our journalism in front of as many people as possible. If you're saying: What is really radical? We want to give people as much information as possible. There is nothing radical about that. We can do that in a faster, better way on the internet.Eric: Andrew, you're working on a new book.Andrew: It will have nothing to do with the internet. I wanted to start a debate.That's the end of the discussion. Who do you think won the day?
A video game banned for its "casual sadism" will be released in Britain after its makers yesterday won an appeal against censors. Manhunt 2, the first game in a decade to be banned, was prohibited by the British Board of Film Classification in June for its "unrelenting focus on brutal slaying".The video appeals committee allowed the appeal by Rockstar Games, the game's creator, by a majority of four to three. The reasons for the rulings will be given in a few days. The BBFC can take the case to judicial review, or award the game an 18 rating.A spokesman for Rockstar said it was too early to say whether Manhunt 2 would be in shops in time for Christmas. A company statement said: "We are committed to making great interactive entertainment, while also marketing our products responsibly and supporting an effective ratings system."The director of the BBFC, David Cooke, said the body would study the judgment carefully. "The BBFC twice rejected Manhunt 2 for its focus on varied and cumulative killings. We recognise that rejection is a very serious step, in which the desire of publishers to market their games, and that of the public to buy them, must be balanced against the public interest."Gamers play a scientist who must fight for freedom after escaping from an asylum.
Search engine Ask has come up with a new weapon in its battle to win more users: privacy.The search website, which is owned by media mogul Barry Diller's InterActive Corp, today announced the launch of a new online tool that helps surfers keep their internet search history private. The system, called AskEraser, allows users delete any record of the searches they have made using the Ask site – including removing the information from the company's servers.The company's rivals - such as Google and Yahoo - currently retain information on searches for as long as 18 months, but then anonymise that data or delete it entirely. Ask, however, says it will take user considerations into account by allowing them to turn on extra privacy settings and delete such information immediately."For people who worry about their online privacy, AskEraser now gives them control of their search information," said Jim Lanzone, the chief executive of Ask. "We take significant steps to protect any data that's stored in our servers, but for those people who want to take extra precautions AskEraser lets them take the issue completely off the table.""Race to the bottom"Questions have been raised recently over the amount of information held by internet companies, with particular concerns over the influence of Google and social networking sites like Facebook. Earlier this year Google was accused by lobby group Privacy International of leading a "race to the bottom" because of the vast amount of information it stores on users.The criticisms came despite the company's successful fight to protect user data after an approach by the US government to gain access to its databases.Although Google recently changed its policies so that it retained anonymised search information, its proposed $3bn takeover of advertising company DoubleClick has seen more criticism. The European Commission announced last month that it was to mount a detailed investigation into possible competition concerns over the deal.Ask will be hoping that its new tactic – which was heralded by an anti-Google advertising campaign earlier this year – pays off. According to recent figures, Ask is used for just 1% of all internet searches around the world. But privacy is becoming an increasingly important issue, say experts – thanks in particular to a series of British government data scandals."The computers that underpin online services have vastly superior recall," said David Tansley, technology partner at Deloitte. "Many internet users are probably aware that cookies keep a log of every site visited, but few surfers may be aware that until recently companies could hold on to such consumer data for decades."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Ask.com has joined the small butselectgroup of search engines that allows for your privacy. At the top of the new home page you can click AskEraser and turn it on. As theFAQsays:When AskEraser is enabled, your search activity will be deleted from Ask.com servers. AskEraser is currently available to users of our US site (http://www.ask.com) and UK site (http://uk.ask.com).It adds: "Ask.com must set one cookie which is not personally identifiable to act as a constant indicator that you have turned on AskEraser." Another cooie is required to view unfiltered (ie non-censored) results.Like other search engines, Ask accumulates user data to increase the relevancy of its results. If everyone turns on AskEraser, there won't be any data to work on....
Let me start by saying that I love Amazon. I buy everything from books to clothes to electronics to medication to food to batteries to toys to furniture to baby supplies from the company. I once even bought an ironing board on Amazon. No company can top them for ease of use or for respecting consumer rights when it comes to refunds, ensuring satisfaction, and taking good care of loyal customers.As a novelist, I couldn't be happier about Amazon's existence. Not only does Amazon have a set of superb recommendation tools that help me sell books, but it also has an affiliate program that lets me get up to 8.5% in commissions for sales of my books through the site - nearly doubling my royalty rate.Standing up for consumersAs a consumer advocate and activist, I'm delighted by almost every public policy initiative from Amazon. When the Author's Guild tried to get Amazon to curtail its used-book market, the company refused to back down. Founder Jeff Bezos (who is a friend of mine) even wrote, "when someone buys a book, they are also buying the right to resell that book, to loan it out, or to even give it away if they want. Everyone understands this."More recently, Amazon stood up to the US government, who'd gone on an illegal fishing expedition for terrorists (TERRORISTS! TERRORISTS! TERRORISTS!) and asked Amazon to turn over the purchasing history of 24,000 Amazon customers. The company spent a fortune fighting for our rights, and won.It also has a well-deserved reputation for taking care over copyright "takedown" notices for the material that its customers post on its site, discarding ridiculous claims rather than blindly acting on every single notice, no matter how frivolous.One of the dumbest companies on the webBut for all that, it has to be said: Whenever Amazon tries to sell a digital download, it turns into one of the dumbest companies on the web.Take the Kindle, the$400 handheld ebook readerthat Amazon shipped recently, to vast, ringing indifference.The device is cute enough - in a clumsy, overpriced, generation-one kind of way - but the early adopter community recoiled in horror at the terms of service and anti-copying technology that infected it. Ebooks that you buy through the Kindle can't be lent or resold (remember, "when someone buys a book, they are also buying the right to resell that book...Everyone understands this.")Mark Pilgrim's "The Future of Reading" enumerates five otherKindle showstoppers: Amazon can change your ebooks without notifying you or getting your permission; and if you violate any of the "agreement", it can delete your ebooks, even if you've paid for them, and you get no appeal.Draconian terms of serviceIt's not just the Kindle, either. Amazon Unbox, the semi-abortive video download service, shipped with terms of service that included your granting permission for Amazon to install any software on your computer, to spy on you, to delete your videos, to delete any other file on your hard drive, to deny you access to your movies if you lose them in a crash. This comes from the company that will cheerfully ship you a replacement DVD if you email them and tell them that the one you just bought never turned up in the post.Even Amazon's much-vaunted MP3 store comes with terms of service that prevent lending and reselling.I am mystified by this. Amazon is the kind of company that every etailer should study and copy - the gold standard for e-commerce. You'd think that if there was any company that would intuitively get the web, it would be Amazon.What's more, this is a company that stands up to rightsholder groups, publishers and the US government - but only when it comes to physical goods. Why is it that whenever a digital sale is in the offing, Amazon rolls over on its back and wets itself?· Cory Doctorow is a digital activist, science fiction author and co-editor of the popular blogBoing Boing
Have you ever wondered about what's in the vacuum of space? Ever thought about what the universe is actually expanding into? Or considered what's inside an atom?Well, perhaps we have some answers for you. Our guest in the studio for this week's edition of our science podcast is Oxford physicist Frank Close, author of a new book calledThe Void, who is on hand to talk about nothing... well, nothingness, at least.Listen to the showor visit theScience blogfor subscription information and to leave your comments.
Online spending hit a high at 1.09pm yesterday, as shoppers spent &pound;767,500 over the internet in a single minute. The figure has broken the record for the most money spent online by UK shoppers in 60 seconds, a payment processing company said.The surge in spending was expected to make yesterday Britain's biggest ever online shopping day, according to Retail Decisions, which processes card payments.In total, shoppers were predicted to splash out &pound;370m online during the day, 106% more than on the second Monday of December last year.Carl Clump, of Retail Decisions, said: "Christmas internet shopping peaks on Mondays as people buy online during their lunchbreak to save on more trips to the high street."Our data supports the ongoing trend that internet retailers are enjoying another bumper Christmas."Total e-retail sales during the last three months of this year are expected to hit &pound;17.6bn, up 82% on the same period last year.James Roper, chief executive of the Interactive Media in Retail Group, which represents UK internet retailers, said:  "The message to consumers is: with demand so high, shop early ... The message to retailers is: don't get caught out by this huge consumer appetite for online shopping."Online spending in the UK is likely to  hit &pound;40bn this year, and is predicted to reach &pound;162bn by 2020, when it will make up 40% of retail spending, according to a report out last month.The study, by the price comparison website uSwitch.com, found prices are on average 13% cheaper than in shops.Savings made by shopping online would cover the cost of a broadband service within four months, a representative of the website said.
The Nintendo Wii console, once the laggard in the console race, appears to be the top runner in the Christmas rush. Nintendohas pulled commercialsto attempt to curb the demand. Console bundles arereportedly going for a whopping £1000on internet auction sites.Mainstream press coverage and positive word of mouth have prompted this upturn.This is great news for Nintendo, whose console dominance dipped with the release of the Sony PlayStation in 1995. But it's also a fragile win; the machine's most popular fare - the bundled Wii Sports and Wii Play - will only keep it in living rooms for so long. Nintendo's future strategy for releasing a steady stream of consumable and light entertainment products will be as important as their strategy for catering to the hardcore.
Better late than never dept:Digital Radio Techreports that France has adopted the DMB system for digital radio (PDF). The site says:The big French radio broadcasters claim that they've adopted DMB because it allows them to broadcast pictures or low bit rate video or interactive graphics alongside radio stations to make radio more appealing, and they say that a wider choice of stations doesn't drive people to adopt digital radio.According toWikipedia: "DMB was developed in South Korea under the national IT project and the world's first official DMB broadcast started in South Korea in 2005, although trials were available much earlier." Trials are also being run in Germany, Italy, Norway, Indonesia and other places.DMB and DAB+ are almost identical. However, the need to allow for images means DMB is about 35% less efficient than DAB+, reckons DRT. The French will therefore get fewer stations or a lower audio quality than they would have got with DAB+.Steve Green, who runs Digital Radio Tech, reckons the only solution to the radio problem is to provide"over the air" (OTA) software updatesso that radios can be upgraded to cope with whatever new systems are introduced. This type of approach works with Wi-Fi radios.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
How do you know when the bubble is bursting? When companies start to be shut faster than they're being formed. On that count, we're not yet at any sort of bust. But keep your antennae tuned. The credit crunch will be far-reaching (I don't think people in the US have quite realised yet how widely it's going to affect corporate financing in 2008).OK, enough economics. On to the matter at hand. Edgeio, a project set up by Mike Arrington which, from the description, seems to have been a sort of paid-for RSS Craigslist, has gone (as NTK used to say) Falco! - that is,it's dead.Reasons:Edgieo first launched in February 2006 after a beta period. The company raised a small angel round of financing, then in October 2006 closed a $5 million Series A from Intel Capital and Transcosmos.The company burned through that money according to plan, meaning they ran out this month. The product roadmap was fulfilled, meaning development lags didn't hurt the company. But the revenues didn't come in and user/partner milestones weren't met. And that meant no one else was going to put more money into the company.In other words, nobody now - or at least those with money - thought the idea was a flyer. Says Arrington:I'm obviously sad about this since I was one of the founders, although my involvement for the last two years has been as a board member only. But this is the way the startup world works. You win some, but you lose most. Edgeio wasn't meant to be a success.And this morning I note that Agloco, one of those plainly-daft ideas in which people get "paid to surf and read adverts" (yes, I remember some of those from the last web bubble) has also decided that there's too big a gap between income and outgoings, and isstopping right there.Or as it emailed "members":We would like to update you on the status of AGLOCO's operations. We continue to believe in the AGLOCO concept, but our revenue is currently not sufficient to give Members a meaningful distribution. And though there are increases in membership, the resulting revenue is not enough to support operating costs. As a development team we are unable to continue to use our savings to fund the operations.Point about the latter being that it's only during a bubble that daft ideas like that can get any traction at all, because money in that sector becomes cheap. When things tighten up, people stop signing up, and there's a cash crunch, usually ending with a hard landing. Mix that in with a credit crunch, when banks are more prone to call in their debts (or not extend existing ones), and things abruptly look tighter than before in StartupLand.So what do you think? Shall we start a Guardian 2.0 Deadpool? Who would you throw in, and why?
LinkedIn, the social network for professionals, has launched a developers' platform and a customisable homepage to try and make its site more attractive to its influential business audience.From today, developers are invited to use a dedicated set of LinkedIn code to build tools and widgets for the site, allowing external sites to promote their services and share LinkedIn's audience.BusinessWeek.com is the first company to develop a LinkedIn application, introducing a tool that sits on its website and lists connections between the user and the companies and business people in its stories.LinkedIn's Intelligent Applications Platform is part of the philosophy of openness and information sharing that is part of web 2.0, said Liz O'Donnell, the international director of LinkedIn.Application programming interfaces, or APIs, such as the one launched by LinkedIn allow developers to build tools and services for websites.Flickr, Skype and Google Mail are some of the 10,000 applications now available within Facebook, for example, since it launched a similar developer platform in May."The overarching philosophy is to make LinkedIn a useful site on a regular basis for professionals," O'Donnell added."The network is the network whether it is on LinkedIn or not, and the spirit of openness allows information to go with a professional wherever they are."LinkedIn will only approve applications that it feels are relevant to its audience, said O'Donnell, because the site needs to stay efficient for its busy demographic.Though that is likely to be good news for Facebook users frustrated by zombie attacks and food fights, LinkedIn believes that most web users want one social network for their professional lives and one for their social lives and do not want to mix the two.Rather than locking information into one social networking site, LinkedIn aims to allow users to increase their productivity by sourcing new leads, service providers and recruiting within a vetted network.A revamped LinkedIn homepage invites users to customise jobs, contacts and discussion threads from its network and a community-ranked news link tool will be opened to the whole site in the new year.LinkedIn, which is only available in an English-language version, is also planning to launch localised versions in other countries in 2008.The site currently claims 17 million unique users each month internationally, with around 1 million in the UK.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Nokia has already done a "greener" phone with the Nokia 3110 Evolve model, but it also has a "futuristic Nokia Eco Sensor Concept" phone, reportsUnwired View. It says:Nokia Eco Sensor concept includes a wearable sensor unit that will house a number of optional sensors to monitor environment, health and local weather conditions, a dedicated mobile phone and a set of dedicated mobile software applications and services. The carrying strap made from solar cells will power the sensor unit and all the devices will "talk" to each other via low power near field radio technologies.Concept phones are like concept cars: not designed for production. But the Eco shows the sort of things Nokia is considering for future products. And with the baby boomer population now entering old age, it's probably right on the money with the idea of incorporating health monitoring.
Is your Christmas stocking going to be filled with socks and hankies, book tokens, and a boxed set of Andrew Lloyd Webber musicals? If so, there's still time to open an account at Amazon and create a wishlist, if you don't already have one. Add the items you really want, and tell your friends and relations where to find it.If you are not already a user, you may be wondering how many books you need. But it's a long time since Amazon was just an online bookshop. If offers CDs, DVDs and games, of course, along with all sorts of electronics products, including digital cameras and mobile phones. In the US, it also sellsunprotected MP3 music downloadsat lower prices than Apple's iTunes store.More than that, Amazon offers toys and games, jewellery and watches, sports and leisure gear, home and garden products, shoes, and even things for babies. You can now shop for a vast range of stuff from a Snugease baby-bib at £1.99 to a life-sized Tyrannosaurus Rex Dinosaur Replica, hand built for only £28,999.99. (Warning: you will need a big stocking.)Amazon says its corporate mission is "to be Earth's most customer-centric company where people can find and discover anything they want to buy online." It still doesn't have sites in all the larger countries, but many items can be shipped globally. There are also some things it is never likely to offer, from "escort services" to tactical nuclear weapons. But it has Christmas covered.The "customer-centric" part is important. Amazon isn't just a list of products and prices: customers can review each product and give it a star rating. Hostile reviews and low ratings can put buyers off, preventing Amazon from making a sale, but they are still allowed.Unfortunately, not all reviews are honest. For example, authors can use fake names to praise their own books and rubbish those of their rivals. Amazon could do more to try to prevent this, but anonymity allows honesty as well as deceit.Also, if want something, you don't have to buy it at Amazon's price.Amazon allows resellers to undercut it, and both customers andresellers can offer second hand items to compete with new ones. Again, this probably reduces sales and profits in the short term, but Amazon thinks this approach will pay off in the long term.Another novel feature is Amazon's long-running recommendation system. This is based mainly on what you buy, and the knowledge that 'other people with tastes like yours bought stuff like this'.If you don't like the recommendations you get, you can go through endless pages of them, rating the products you own and dismissing ones you don't like. This should improve Amazon's suggestions, though not by much.Amazon is always trying new things, and it offers a search engine (A9), and a variety of web services including storage. Most recently, in the US, it has launched its ownebook reader, Kindle, which can download books via a mobile phone network.
"LinkedIn, an Internet social network for professionals, will open up its service on Monday to outside software developers, starting with BusinessWeek magazine, to transform itself from an online contacts and referral database into an indispensable daily tool for business users," reportsReuters.LinkedIn's "Intelligent Applications platform program" lets developers create software for the service, and supports OpenSocial, but applications have to be approved. Reuters says:The partnership with McGraw-Hill Co's BusinessWeek will link keywords, such as company names, to the LinkedIn service. Visitors to the BusinessWeek site, who place their mouse pointers over certain keywords will trigger a pop-up box detailing how many of their LinkedIn contacts are related to the company or keyword.Venture Beathas more, and compares LinkedIn with Facebook.Last year, BusinessWeek ran an interview with LinkedIn co-founder Konstantin Guericke:How LinkedIn Broke Through.
