Launch audio playerIn this week's podcast, we have an interview with Kevin Rose, co-founder of Digg, where he tells us about how he wants the site to change; and Tom Anderson, who gives us the lowdown on MySpace's changes. Plus news, banter (whoisthe oldest person on MySpace?) and news of the forthcoming Mashed get-together. Plus where you can hear Aleks and Jemima singing in very public this summer. (That's a picture from rehearsals above. Isn't it?)Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand follow our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL
Apart from the well-stocked games catalogue the main reason 360 owners put up with their noisy and unreliable console is the genius ofXbox Live. Once you've got used to the ease of use - every title is supported so playing with friends is easy, as is nosing at their recently played games - it's hard to go back to the clunky online options of the PS3 and (especially) the Wii. And that's before you've factored inachievement points. But slowly the PS3 has been fighting back. Recent improvements have helped but the biggies havejust been announcedfor the PS3's next update."The 2.40 system software update for PS3 will include "XMB" access in-game. The update will also include "trophies," an exciting new feature that we'll be providing more details on soon, as well as some other new enhancements."What does this mean? Essentially it brings some of Xbox Live's best features to PS3. Trophies are clearly Sony's take on achievements. But XMB access is more interesting. This gives PS3 owners the Xbox Live style ability to manage and interact with their friends lists - think invites, messaging etc - while playing a game. Previously you would have had to exit out of the game. Ok, it doesn't sound that exciting on paper but cross media access has been top of many PS3 owners wish lists since the console launched.Of course, Live remains more tightly integrated and is likely to remain the better service even with these PS3 updates. But the gap is closing and you have to wonder how long Microsoft can go on charging for access to Live when many of its features are free on PS3.
UPDATE: Correct track listing added. I'm voting for Common People.I've noticed a trend at this year's music festivals: challenge the people who perform the best at music-based games to take their talents public.SingStar's chosen its winners out of the enormous spectrum of video submissions on their website toperform at Glastonburynext week (with yours truly...more on that in a sec), and nowyou can performat the Isle of Wight Festival by showing off your stuff onGuitar Hero.Seriously. Play your Fender-style axe on the same stage as Johnny Rotten. Rock.But back to next week. I have a humble request for help.I will be on stage closing for Kate Nash, accompanied by a track on the new SingStar for the PS3. As a SingStar veteran (apologies to my downstairs neighbour Shaun), I am mentally prepared for greatness at the hand of a USB mic. But I have a) no idea what to wear and - perhaps more importantly - b) no idea what to sing. Please help me choose!The tracks on the disc are over the fold. You get to choose which song I'll sing. I will sing the song you choose to the Queen's Head Stage on Friday night in a field in Somerset to several tens of people (I can only hope). Please, be kind.Bear in mind that the best, most entertaining SingStar tracks are short and very jumpy. Duran Duran's Rio, for example, onSingStar 80s, may be the most fun to sing, but it's very dull for everyone else as it goes on a bit.The SingStar Vol. 2 song list includes: 1. Aerosmith - Dude Looks Like a Lady 2. Blur - Country House 3. Bobby Brown - My Perogative 4. Eminem - Without Me 5. George Michael - Freedom '90 6. Gorillaz - Dare 7. Gossip - Standing in the Way of Control 8. Hot Chocolate - You Sexy Thing 9. Kaiser Chiefs - Ruby 10. Kool and the Gang - Celebration 11. The Lovin' Spoonful - Summer in the City 12. Maximo Park - Our Velocity 13. Morrisey - Suedehead 14. Nirvanna - Lithium 15. Panic! At The Disco - But It's Better If You Do 16. Paul McCartney &amp; the Frog Chorus - We All Stand Together 17. Pulp - Common People 18. Radiohead - Street Spirit (Fade Out) 19. Shakespears Sister - Stay 20. Spandau Ballet - TRUE 21. The Cure - Pictures of You 22. The Killers - When You Were Young 23. The Libertines - Can't Stand Me Now 24. The Mamas and The Papas - California Dreamin' 25. The Offspring - Pretty Fly (For A White Guy) 26. The Police - Don't Stand So Close To Me 27. The Proclaimers - I'm Gonna Be (500 Miles) 28. Tom Jones with Mousse T - Sexbomb 29. Tone Loc - Funky Cold Medina 30. Young MC - Bust A Move
I am curious that Viv Groskop thinks that bogus emails are "targeting" women (Beware of the hoax, G2, June 11). This type of folklore has a long history and cannot by its nature be selective about its audience. Many of the urban legends currently in circulation have a long history, having been adapted to different times, cultures and places. One of the earliest child abduction rumours, for example, started circulating in England in 1144. Similarly, the "back seat carjacker" myth that Groskop quotes is an adaptation of 18th-century tales warning horse riders to be on their guard against armed felons. The same old stories are circulating, but the difference is that now we have email, text and social networking sites to disseminate them. Previously they were spread via the office photocopier, or via word of mouth.These tales circulate not because anyone is being targeted but because they are cracking good narratives. We will often put something of ourselves into the retelling, not to perpetuate a hoax but usually for dramatic effect. Women historically have been more adept at information-sharing than men, but there is no evidence to suggest they are "targeted" by hoaxers. As we grow up, fairytales, urban legends and other forms of folklore teach us to be constantly on our guard, to be distrustful of strangers. And the stories we tell, in turn, reflect something of our own anxieties about modern life - for example the threat of violence, or the safety of our children while we are at work. Rather than trying to understand the mentality of the "hoaxers", we can instead learn a lot about our friends and relatives by studying the urban legends they feel compelled to pass on.Robin CroftUniversity of Glamorgan
Last month Iblogged about the dearth of decent post-apocalyptic games- in other words, games that deal with the apocalypse as a true human calamity rather than as an excuse to have a lot of people in leather fighting each other on modded trucks. However, a few readers name-checked Fallout 3, the forthcoming open world adventure from Bethesda, as a positive example, so I got some questions to the game's director, Todd Howard, about his vision for an interactive post-nuclear wasteland.Fallout 3 does indeed sound like a promising exploration of archetypal themes, building massively on the foundations of the two two titles. Citing everything from the science of Hiroshima to Children of Men as influences, Howard puts forward a compelling case...Can you tell us how your vision of an apocalyptic environment has changed since previous Fallout titles?I think it's changed only in terms of, this one is on the east coast. We wanted to have a large, expansive wasteland, but also a dense, destroyed urban jungle of rebar and concrete, complete with all the major DC landmarks. I might say Fallout 3 has more survivalhorror elements in it then the previous ones. I think it needs to be scary sometimes.Where does your inspiration come from? Are there specific books or films you've looked to for inspiration?Well, obviously most of it comes from Fallout 1 and 2, but we also took a look at more recent works that do some great visual things, like Children of Men. The book The Road is excellent too. Lots of stuff that looked at survival, sacrifice, and general loneliness. But we also looked at other things that were reborn, like Batman Begins, or Battlestar Galactica. I was very interested in how something like Galactica did such a great job of making itself new again, and I think Fallout needed that.[I'd say the screenshot above also shows the influence of I Am Legend, Mad Max II and even early Don Johnson movie and Harlan Ellison novella, A Boy and His Dog]Have you looked into the science of post-nuclear survival/destruction at all? How?We actually did a great deal of research on how older nuclear bombs worked and acted. The level of destruction is very interesting, from what the actual blast causes, and then the giant fireball, and finally the sonic destruction, which is actually larger. The initial blast isn't what destroys most things; it's the fireball and wind. Looking at Hiroshima was enlightening and sobering. There's a movie called White Light, Black Rain that is excellent. Terrifying, but excellent.The problem with many post-apocalyptic games is that they have a sort of almost celebratory Mad Max feel - lots of cool gangs and modded cars going into big battles - however, I feel that books like Earth Abides and Cormac McCarthy's The Road provide a much grimmer, more realistic vision of post-apocalyptic struggle - i.e. lonely people fighting against the odds. It seems Fallout 3 is more like the latter - is this the case? Have you gone for a more lone survivor feel?We have, yes, but you do run into the Mad Max types, the Raiders. They are one of our key enemy types. So we mix it up, moments of sobering loneliness, with you searching for food and water, and moments of craziness, with splashes of dark humour.In what ways do you feel you've captured the minutiae of survival in a post-apocalyptic landscape - will the player have to search for food/shelter in the game?I think it's the minutiae of the Fallout world. Say you are hurt in the game, and you come across a destroyed grocery store, and inside you find an old vending machine with some Nuka-Cola, you can drink the cola to heal yourself, but then the bottle cap also acts as the game's money. So you heal a bit and get a "cap" that you can use to trade. Just that tiny event is grounded in the reality of the world you're in.Who are the game's enemies? How have you sought to create a sense of society in the game - are their roving bands of survivors/mutants? How do they behave and why?Many types, from the Raiders I mentioned, to the Super Mutants, to just general mutated beasts like two-headed cows, or rampaging mutated bears. For each, we give them an agenda, and have that drive their goals, as well as their set-dressings. Often in the game we have setups like a destroyed café that you enter and you can tell the raiders have been there, that it is a camp of some kind, but they are out hunting, and then they return as you are inspecting it. It's a great moment that, like the others, feels alive and scary.One thing we said on the blog recently is that a truly apocalyptic game can't really have a positive aim, but your game seems to have a mission for the player which presumably has a 'happy' outcome. Do you feel that the traditional structure of adventure games - go through a series of challenges and 'win' at the end - is at odds with such a dark setting?Our main themes are sacrifice and survival, and the game has several different endings, so all of them have some level of darkness in them. I love the ending of the game...love it.In what ways does modern console technology allow you to create amore compelling post-apocalyptic landscape?It may sound stupid, but just the sheer amount of stuff we can put on the screen. I'm a firm believer that better graphics make a better experience, and we really stress it. We sweat all the small graphic details. It's a mix of scale with small details. Like a giant destroyed building that casts a great silhouette from the distance, but when you get up close, you can see how decayed and chipped away the concrete is. You can almost smell the dust when you stick your face in it. You really need both, the micro and macro details to pull it off, and the latest hardware really helps that.Do you have an underlying message in Fallout 3 - apocalyptic movies and books usually do...Different people sacrifice different things to survive, and blowing them into bloody-chunks is often hilarious.
It's a packed show this week, including the nitty and the gritty from Kevin Rose, founder of social aggregating websites Digg and Pownce. We also quiz MySpace co-founder Tom Armstrong about the service's new look – and ask him all the questions you wanted us to ask. Listen in to find out what Rose had to say about MySpace's future demographic, its plans for new dimensions and what's happening with its back end.All this plus the news, your views from the blogs, and an interview with the organisers of the forthcoming BBC Mashed un-conference in London.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook group
Let's see, we have it here somewhere.... ah, yes,hubris. "Excessive pride or self-confidence". Well, they'll have some time to look it up at Firefox headquarters, once they've stopped scurrying around trying to get the servers that were going tohost the world record downloadsto actually, um, serve some downloads.We don't know what the problems are, but a vague guess might suggest that inviting millions of people around the globe to download your product, which millions of them already use, might put a teensy bit of pressure on the servers.Getfirefox has, since the official opening of the site (at 10am US Pacific time, 1pm US Eastern time, 6pm UK BST), struggled to show anything, or else happily pointed you to a nice download. Of Firefox 2.So lots of people blogged it (I was at a talk at the Future of Journalism about celebrities; oh, the fireworks), which has led to lots of other people going to see the car crash. This hasn't helped.Lesson: world records are hard. As I write, my web browser (which isn't Firefox) has, after 20-odd seconds of "Waiting for mozilla.com", finally loaded the page.Yes! It's Firefox 2! (Try the image link above. Obviously, by clicking on it you'll contribute to the breakage. But don't let me stop you.)Come on - hubrisdoessay it all, doesn't it. What we need is for Angelina Jolie or Geri Haliwell to come along and sort it all out. Or do you have a different celebrity who you think today's "launch" of Firefox 3 more closely resembles?Update:ZDNetwarnsthat some URLs to "Firefox downloads" that you might come across at this point could be diversions to spyware or malware drive-by downloads. Be smart: stick with the Getfirefox site. (It'll come back.) And don't make the mistake some people do, which is to pay for such free downloads. Don't believe me? Re-readMoney for nothing, in which Danny Bradbury describes the site which charge people to download free software.Another update:OK, now (11pm UK time) it is offering Firefox 3. Wonderful what a couple of hours can do, eh. And now it's guaranteed the world record - since there is no existing world record to beat. Still, it will be interesting to see how many it actually does.(Edited: fixed typo in link, changed to spreadfirefox, changed back to getfirefox. Ta, all.)
Linux users can start saving up now...."Pomi (Penguin Robot for Multimodal Interaction) can see, hear, touch and emit smells as well as making faces," according to a story thatAFPhas picked up from the Korea Times.The Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI) said that "Pomi's software, which imitates human expressions of emotion, will be available on the market by the end of next month."The AFP story adds:The robot can move its lips, eyebrows and even pupils freely to make faces and can emit two kinds of fragrances to match its emotions.Will the two kinds of fragrance be open to user choice, I wonder? (I love two smells in particular: jasmine and vanilla pods.)
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Singularity is a conceit of modern science fiction: a place inside vast computers where whole universes are simulated whose reality is every bit as sharp and instantaneous as the physical world we inhabit. Books like Charlie Stross's Singularity Sky and the Matrix movie trilogy have done a great job of representing such alternative, computer-calculated realities.Science fiction writer Rudy Rucker, however, has taken issue with the whole idea, arguing that the universe is already "calculating" reality far better than any software could manage.After all, he says, the rock that you just dropped on your foot did a brilliant job of solving the physics of its velocity and direction, taking into account every conceivable variable from wind shear to the minute irregularities in its surface. Your nerve endings calculated, in flawless real-time, the screech of pain that was sent up your nerves into your brain, which in turn calculated precisely how much it all hurt and which cuss words flew involuntarily from your lips.Most problems don't require such accurate solutions, so we can usefully approximate answers with computers – whether it's predicting the weather or angling the flaps on the wings of a jumbo jet to bring it in for a landing.But the tiny approximations and fudge factors in those calculations add up. While we're pretty good at predicting the weather a day or two ahead, we are hopeless at predicting the weather a year from now. In order to get an accurate forecast, we'd need a whole solar system's worth of minute measurements and the computer with which to crunch them.Total accuracyIn fact, argues Rucker, we have one such computer – the solar system itself – and it predicts the weather at the rate of one second per second, with total and complete accuracy. Storing representations of the solar system is inherently less efficient than the real thing, he says. To get a solar system's worth of accuracy out of a computer, your best bet is to just leave the solar system as it is and wait until the outcome you're curious about has arrived.This conclusion flies in the face of the traditional approach to problem-solving: collect data, compute, collect more data, compute. But that approach gets you nowhere.At a certain point, data gathered to predict the weather overwhelms your capacity to add it to your calculations efficiently, resulting in ever-longer runtimes that give less accurate predictions. It's better to crunch the data needed to calculate tomorrow's weather in 10 minutes (and refine your guess twice an hour) than to shovel so much data into the hopper that you don't get tomorrow's forecast until next week.The sweet spot lies somewhere between gathering too much information and gathering too little – and the secret to hitting that spot is intelligent, discriminating data-acquisition.Take London: cover every square inch of the city with CCTVs and you'll get so much information that you'll never make any sense of it. Scotland Yard says that CCTVs help solve fewer than 3% of all crimes, while a study in San Francisco found that at best, criminals simply move out of camera range, while at worst they assume no one is watching.Similarly, if you take fingerprints from every person who applies for a visa – or worse still, from every person in Britain who has to carry one of the proposed new biometric cards – you will fill the databases with chaff that slows down searches, generates endless false matches, and threatens everyone in the database with the worst kind of identity theft.Needles in a haystackThe problem of sifting through vast amounts of data was highlighted by the US 9/11 Commission, which concluded that the American intelligence community knew in advance that the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon were in the offing, they just didn't know they knew it. The pieces were all there for anyone who knew to look for them, needles buried in a haystack of irrelevancies.The answer in both America and Britain has been to collect more haystacks: useless, indiscriminately acquired information onpeople who've done nothing to arouse suspicion. We even inveigle our citizens to become amateur curtain-twitchers and pecksniffs, demanding that they report "suspicious" activity to the authorities.Between DNA databases, mandatory fingerprinting for visa seekers, CCTV carpet-bombing, and Oyster card data, we've never collected more "security" information than we do today. But does this really make us secure? Is it possible to know too much?Outside of dramatically failed experiments like the Soviet Union and East Germany, policing has never been a business of gathering data on every single person and arresting the guilty ones. This doesn't catch guilty people, it ensnares the innocent and acts as a kind of monetary black hole, absorbing all the cash we can toss into it, growing larger and more voracious by the day.Too much data ruins the investigation, every time.
Today's Gaming Hero award goes to architectural designer Eric Clough, who has created a living adventure game inside an $8.5m Upper East Side NYC apartment. Clough, who was profiled in theNYTlast week, was commissioned by Steven B. Klinsky and his wife Maureen Sherry to create a complex that was different and inspiring. Well, inspired by Klinsky's request to bury a poem he'd written in the wall of the house somewhere, Clough devised a home littered with puzzles for the couple's four young children to discover and solve. From thearticle:The apartment is quite attractive and perfectly functional in all the typical ways, and its added features remained largely unnoticed by its inhabitants for quite some time after they moved in, in May of 2006. Then one night four months later, Cavan Klinsky, who is now 11, had a friend over. The boy was lying on the floor in Cavan's bedroom, staring at dozens of letters that had been cut into the radiator grille. They seemed random -- FDYDQ, for example. But all of a sudden the friend leapt up with a shriek, Ms. Sherry said, having realized that they were actually a cipher (a Caesar Shift cipher, to be precise), and that Cavan's name was the first word.The mystery in the house continues to unfold. I want to know how I can get an invite to come over and play.Morehereandhere. Clough's firm, 212box, ishere.cheers to Matt Muir for the tip!
Our own Tim Dowling todayhighlightsthe work ofthe English project, which is collecting as much vernacular as it can - or what it calls "kitchen table lingo".People have all kinds of different words for things - often just within their families - or use very personalised nicknames for objects, people and places (not dissimilar to a discussion that Jason Kottke started a while back aboutintentionally mispronounced words, spinning off this fascinating little article byGrant Barrett).But the big topic of debate is one that should be near and dear to your hearts, just as it is mine - the remote control.According to web forums, "clicker" is extremely common, as is "flipper", "changer" and the rather charming "the buttons". "Zapper" is often used, while "Frank" (geddit?) is a by no means isolated derivative.There are expressions directly derived from "remote control" such as "the mote", or "the trolls". "Hoofer-doofer" sounds like an odd one-off, but lots of people seem to claim it and it leads the pack of similar words such as "doofla" and "do-flicky". "Onner-offer" is apparently rare.Personally I tend to call it the "tweaker". But there are added problems, as remotes proliferate... do you give them all different names? Or do you just refer to the "TV tweaker", the "DVD tweaker" and so on?It's a minefield, I tell you.
MP3 shows the value of being an entrenched standard, and it's going to be tough for MT9 to take over. However,according to Reuters:The Motion Pictures Experts Group, otherwise known as MPEG, will meet this month in Germany to consider making a new digital audio format called MT9 an international standard. . Developed by the South Korean company Audizen, the MT9 format -- commercially known asMusic 2.0-- splits an audio file into six channels, such as vocals, guitar, bass and so on. Users playing the track can then raise or lower the volume on the different channels like a producer on a mixing board, to the point of isolating a single item.Unlike previous attempts to replace MP3 -- including AAC, Ogg and mp3PRO -- at least this one offers consumers features they don't have. AsThe Guardianpointed out last month:Songs mastered for the MT9 format not only allow you to take out the annoying saxophone solos, they can also convert any song into a karaoke-friendly instrumental version, or even a more intimate a capella.But would it be enough to get users to replace a zillion MP3-compatible devices? I don't think so.
Microsoft's Windows CE has appeared in all sorts of things -- sewing machines, petrol pumps, games consoles -- though the best known versions are packaged for PDAs, Windows Mobile smart phones, cars and point-of-sale terminals. (You can pick your CE modules a la carte, but a package is like a set meal.) Now there's a new CE Embedded version calledNavReady, for PNV (Portable Navigation Device) manufacturers.The main extra features are:• Live Search • Bluetooth profiles for Hands Free, Pairing Service, Phone Book Access, Advanced Audio Distribution, Audio and Video Remote Control etc • MSN Direct, for information such as traffic alerts and fuel prices. • Windows SideShow, which enables a device to act as a secondary display screen for Windows Vista-based PCsIt doesn't seem Microsoft has signed up many manufacturers at this point: the only one quoted isMio. However, Microsoft would have had to develop CE modules anyway because of GPS technologies appearing in mobile phones.
Two quick news stories doing the rounds at the moment. Sony isapparentlyworking on a new controller (again?!), this time explicitly inspired by the Wiimote as it splits into two sections, both of which contain accelerometers to sense motion. There's some talk about the devices coming with straps, so they can be attached to your arms, allowing onscreen avatars to follow your exact movements. With the dust barely settled on the Sixaxis/Dual Shock blueprints, it would be an odd, but not utterly remarkable decision. Some reckon the snap apart Twelveaxis (I made that up) will be unveiled at E3.Next, Microsoft isthought to belining up a Mii-style avatar system to replace gamer pictures on Live. This was part of a huge (alleged) leak of Xbox 360 marketing info onto the web (lots of it ishere at NeoGaf), where details of an Xbox version of SingStar were located. Named Lips, the game will let players use songs from their MP3 players. There'smore at Kotaku.Hurray for convergence culture.
Every year, theEIFfeatures a screening programme where publishers and developers can show off their forthcoming projects to an auditorium of 200 festival visitors. "The screenings are a hugely important and popular part of the whole Interactive Festival," says Chris Deering, Chairman of the EIF. "It's one of the very few opportunities for members of the public in the UK to see some of the most anticipated games before they hit the high street."Right now, screenings organiser, Brian Baglow, is on the look out for submissions - and not just from major publishers. He's interested in smallscale indie projects and - for the first time - machinima and game-related movies. "The new short film and machinima feature is something we previewed last year," Brian explains. "It proved so popular with the audience, this year we want to expand it to offer new content on screen between every session. We want to hear from anyone with material they would like to showcase, ideally related to games, or which were created using game technology."So, got a crazy Flash game or machinima masterpiece you want to show off to 200 people for 45 minutes at the world's most cultural videogame event? Brian would like to hear from you. Until he gives me permission, I don't want to shove his email address on here, so if you're interested, contact me at gamesblog@gmail.com and I'll pass on your details.
I was out of the country last week and missed out on theMetal Gear Solid 4hype. But from what I've picked up the launch felt a little subdued compared to similarly high profile titles like Halo and GTA. Actually maybe that's the point. Metal Gear is clearly a big - very big - gaming brand but one that has failed to truly crossover in the way that, say, GTA has. And after a grabbing an all too brief couple of hours yesterday you can see why. The game itself demands patience and skill - though you'll need less of the former these days as the lengthy cut scenes are finally - finally! - skippable (and yes, I know they are an integral part of the Metal Gear Solid "experience" but honestly, life is too short) But unlike the relatively simplistic likes of Halo on easy, Metal Gear demands a certain amount of videogaming skill. For example controls depend on how long a button is pressed or your proximity to surroundings. Easy enough for veteran gamers but what about those newer players, tempted in by more accessible offerings on the Wii and DS?Of course, you could argue that games like Metal Gear Solid 4 are an increasingly rare treat for hardcore gamers. And for once PS3 owners get a game that begins to show the potential of their console. Me? I'm looking forward to playing more this week. MGS 4 then - enjoying it?
Repressive governments are arresting more bloggers than ever as they struggle to cope with the threat posed by the internet, researchers have claimed.Thirty six people were arrested last year because of what they had written on their blogs and personal websites – an increase of more than three times on the figures from 2006, according to researchers at the University of Washington in the US.The latest edition of the annualWorld Information Access reportsays that there has been a significant increase in those falling foul of the law in countries such as China, Egypt and Burma."Egypt, Iran and China are the most dangerous places to blog about political life, accounting for more than half of all arrests since blogging became big," said Phil Howard, an assistant professor of communication at the university.He believes that the figure of 36 may be a dramatic underestimate, because many arrests are never made public."The real number of arrested bloggers is probably much higher, since many arrests in China, Zimbabwe and Iran go unreported in the international media," he said.Blogs have become massively popular way for people in countries with authoritarian regimes to express themselves, and part of the increase could be explained by this growing popularity – there are estimated to be more than 70 million such websites in China alone.But the fact that governments are paying increasing attention to what people say about them online means that it is becoming more dangerous for those who choose to write about their life on the web.While the reasons for the arrests vary from place to place, the most common transgression involves organising a social protest. This was the reason given for five of Egypt's record nine arrests in 2007, as well as incidents in Burma, China and Iran.While not all those arrested because of their blogs were imprisoned, the report says that the average sentence for those who were sent to jail was 15 months.However, the numbers so far in 2008 seem significantly lower, with just five bloggers having been arrested around the world during the first quarter of the year - including WelshmanGavin Brent, who was convicted in April of writing "grossly offensive and menacing messages" on his site.Another of those arrested so far this year Burmese bloggerNay Phone Latt, who disappeared in January before it emerged that he had been charged under the country's notorious Emergency Provision Act, which has been used to silence a number of dissidents since the anti-government protests last year.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Hey Manchester tech-ites and others, theTech Weeklyteam (me, Bobbie Johnson and our fine producer Scott) will be descending onto Manchester soil on Thursday and Friday to record our technology podcast in time forDigital 60andb.TWEEN. We're hosting a coffee and cake afternoon atThe Modernat the Urbis from 4pm-7pm to meet local technologists, game developers, digital entrepreneurs and others in the virtual ephemera.If you fancy coming along and/or plotting revolution (or perhaps simply recording something with us), sign up on theUpcoming event site.See you there!
A British man who allegedly hacked into the Pentagon's computer network should not be extradited to America because US prosecutors tried to intimidate him into cooperating with them, the House of Lords was told today.Gary McKinnon, a systems analyst who faces up to 60 years in jail if his extradition goes ahead, was the victim of an abuse of process, the panel of five law lords was told.The 44-year-old is accused of causing £475,000 in damage by hacking into 97 computer systems operated by the Pentagon, Nasa and elsewhere in the US military.McKinnon, a self-taught hacker who operated under the name Solo, admits accessing the computers but insists he only did so to try to find evidence for UFO landings, and that he was only able to gain access because of lax security.His activities, described by British prosecutors in 2005 as the "biggest ever military computer hack", were carried out using a low-speed dialup connection from a room in his girlfriend's aunt's house in Crouch End, north London.McKinnon was first arrested in 2002 but has never been charged in the UK. Last year, he lost a high court appeal against a government decision to grant his extradition to the US.Addressing the Lords today, his lawyer, David Pannick QC, said McKinnon was told by US authorities that unless he agreed to plead guilty and to extradition he faced a much heavier jail sentence.A US embassy legal official involved in the case had also quoted New Jersey authorities as saying they wanted to see McKinnon "fry", said Pannick, an apparent reference to the electric chair.It was "not in dispute" that a UK court had the power to turn down an extradition if it was thought there had been abuse of process, Pannick told the law lords."The US prosecutors sought to impose pressure on the appellant through his legal advisers to consent to extradition and plead guilty," he said.McKinnon was told that if he cooperated he would receive a jail sentence of between 37 and 46 months and would be repatriated to the UK for possible parole after half this time, the lawyer said."By contrast, the appellant's representatives were told that if the appellant declined to cooperate, this sentence would be in the region of eight to 10 years, possibly longer," Pannick said, adding that one threat was to treat the matter as a terrorism case, resulting in a possible 60-year term.US officials additionally said any transfer to the UK would also be ruled out if McKinnon fought extradition, Pannick told the law lords."This was pressure of an unacceptable degree," he said.A judgment is expected within three weeks.
You must know about penguins falling over onto their backs while trying to watch planes fly over, and that you can boil a frog without it trying to escape if you do it gently. You've probably heard that microwaving food in plastic containers can release cancer-causing agents, while a tooth left in a glass of Coca-Cola will dissolve overnight. And, of course, Nasa is famous for spending vast sums developing a pen that would write in space while the Russians simply used pencils.The original Coca-Coladidcontain a tiny amount of cocaine, but a tooth left in a glass of coke overnight will not dissolve. Photograph: Frank BaronAll these stories have at least two things in common. The first is that they are not true. They're "urban legends" endlessly repeated and often embellished over the years. The second is that they are alldebunked on the Snopes websiterun by a husband-and-wife team, Barbara and David Mikkelson. The couple found one another via the alt.folklore.urban newsgroup, where this kind of thing has been discussed for years.Not all the stories on Snopes are myths. It's true, for example, that in the early days Coca-Cola contained a tiny amount of cocaine, and that "a freighter carrying tapioca nearly sank when a fire in its hold (and the water used to extinguish it) cooked the cargo."It's also true that sex expert Dr Ruth trained as an Israeli sniper, though she never killed anyone. "I was incredibly accurate throwing hand grenades too. Even today I can load a Sten automatic rifle in a single minute, blindfolded," she adds.Stories are coded using traffic-light colours: red for false, amber for undetermined, and green for true. Some have "multiple truth values" while a great many get a grey spot for "unclassifiable veracity".The site specialises in the kind of stuff circulated in emails, so Snopes is the place to go if you want to look up whether a claim is true or a virus warning is a hoax (shortcut: it's a hoax). And, of course, if you haven't already received email lists of "humorous automobile accident insurance claims", silly answers to chemistry tests and amusing newspaper headlines, Snopes has collected them for you.Although it's mostly text, there is a "Fauxtography" section for images and videos. Again, they're rated for truthiness, and there are some fascinating stories. One video, for example, shows a TV reporter being run over. It turns out to be a shortened version of a KwikFit tyre commercial featuring "Dutch weatherman Piet Paulusma, who is quite alive and uninjured."It can take a long time to dig up and reference the facts behind the stuff in emails and "virals", but Barbara Mikkelson is doing it for us.The Snopes site is straightforward, being a list of categories with subdivisions. The categories range from Autos to Weddings via Food, Love, Religion and so on. If you fancy a browse, this is a quick way in. But if you want to look something up, it's usually quicker to use the Search page.This is worth doing, because checking the veracity of emails makes you look smart, whereas blindly forwarding them to all your friends can make you look gullible, or worse.
Last week I celebrated the retro videogame documentary King of Konghere on the blogandin the paper. I also got a few mentions intoTech Weekly, our technology podcast. Suffice to say, I was smitten.The movie, which follows a high score contest between incumbent Billy Mitchell and contender Steve Weibe on arcade classic Donkey Kong, scrapes away the bling of contemporary gaming championships and gets under the dirty fingernails of the characters themselves. Well worth a view.And hey presto - this week, we've got five copies of the DVD to give away! To get your own copy, all you have to do is send in your favourite retro gaming pics - likethis one, of Tetris Kittens from LOLcats. Send 'em to gamesblog +at+ gmail.com. We'll choose the five that make us chuckle the most.Only one entry per person, so choose wisely. Competition ends on Friday.
You must have heard of MySpace. Now, what do you want to askTom Anderson, its co-founder? (Yes, as far as we can tell his soul is still intact since the sale to Rupert Murdoch, but if you insist we can quiz him.)Questions quickly please - we'reputting him on the rackinviting him to the podcast at 3.30.
If you're a hi-fi buff then you have probably heard aboutbinaural recording, which is aimed at people with two ears. If you're listening to live music, in fact, you're essentially using a microphone in each ear. Binaural recording simply puts a mic where your ear drum would be, but using a dummy head. Keeping the two tracks completely separate provides playback with stunning realism, apparently. (I've not had the pleasure, yet*)Binaural recording is obviously an inconvenient way to capture things, compared with a good oldBlumlein pair, but Japan Trend Shop has found a simple way to do it in the field, using aBinaural Recording Mic from Otokinoko. Sure, it looks silly, and it mimics a very small head, but the results could be interesting. The main drawback, however, is the $3,899.00 price tag.* Here are somebinaural demosthat work if you have headphones and MP3 player software, but some of the links are dead. There are better ones atbinaural.nl. Try Jasper Slotboom (Cello &amp; Contrabass).
For most people, messages from heaven are usually accompanied by choirs of angels, spectacular miracles or at least the odd burning bush. But one website says it will offer devout Christians a more prosaic mode of communication from the beyond - by letting them email unbelievers when the second coming takes place.YouveBeenLeftBehind.compromises subscribers "one last opportunity to reach your lost family and friends for Christ" by automatically sending them a series of emails and documents if the rapture should occur.For an annual fee of $40 (&pound;20), customers are offered the chance to send these messages to their loved ones to convince them to believe in God.The site suggests preparing messages which could prove useful to those who remain on earth, which are then fired off if the second coming of Jesus happens.According to the website, such a biblical event would mean that "there will be a small window of time where they [non-believers] might be reached for the kingdom of God".The website, which is based in Massachusetts, is run by a small team of Christians who must log on every day to indicate that the rapture has not yet taken place. If enough of them fail to log in, however, the system assumes that the second coming is nigh and sends out messages from all its subscribers."The people on my team are Christians who expect to be raptured," Mark Heard, the site's creator, told the Guardian. "They must continually log in to the system. The team is spread out as far apart in the US as is possible to prevent against more than one member being taken out by, attack, natural disaster, or epidemic."Heard told the Guardian the subscription fee was only intended to cover his initial investment but he hoped he would be able to cut the price - or even provide it for free - as more people signed up.
Better late than never department: Fake Steve Jobs has posted that he'staking a break:Stay hungry, my friends. Stay foolish. I love you all. I really do. I'm super-excited about the fact that I've been able to change the world and restore a sense of childlike wonder to your empty, meaningless lives. I honor the place where your disposable income and my sleek, gorgeous, super-exciting products have become one, and I wish you peace and happiness and all the joy in the world -- oh Christ now I'm crying. Dammit! Will someone please get in here with a box of Kleenex? . Okay. I'm okay. So look. To keep you from getting lonely, I've published the photo above so you can print it out and keep it on your desk and gaze at it while reciting our mantra -- Steve is fine, Steve is God; Steve is fine, Steve is God -- and you'll be able to keep yourself hypnotized until I get back.But asSilicon Valley Insidersays:Forbes editor Dan Lyons, best known to most of you as Fake Steve Jobs, is leaving his employer after a 10-year run and jumping to Newsweek, where he'll take tech columnist Steve Levy's old slot.Whether he'll return to FSJ the same or changed is another question. I'm starting to wonder if FSJ could be running into what we could call theAlf Garnettproblem: you can satirize bigots only to find the bigots cheering you on.....Update: The first guest blogger,Jerry Yang, has posted.
Yahoo co-founder Jerry Yang has taken quite a bit of stick in the business blogosphere over the mishandling of Microsoft's repeated attempts to take over the declining company. This wasn't really surprising: Yahoo was his "baby," and anyone who has talked to Yang knows he has a very hostile view of Microsoft.Of course, if Jerry Yang actually owned Yahoo, then he could behave as childishly as he likes. The problem is, he doesn't. And New York Times writer Joe Nocera has sent him a public memo pointing this out. InOh Jerry, It's No Longer Your Baby, about "Shafting Yahoo's Shareholders," he says:Jerry, you're a billionaire because people all over the world bought your stock, and trusted you to do right by them. That's the compact you make when you take a company public: you get to be really rich, but in return, you have an obligation to do everything you can to ensure that shareholders get a healthy return on their investment. It doesn't matter that you would like Yahoo to remain independent, or that you can't stand Microsoft. Your feelings aren't supposed to get in the way of your fiduciary duty.Of course, it's not a new point by any means. Coming from J Random Blogger, it wouldn't attract any notice. But a ringing condemnation in The New York Times is much harder to brush off, especially withCarl Icahnout to get Yang's head on a stick.The problem is that while it may be possible to unravel Yang's "poison pill" takeover defences and search deal with Google -- which amounts to "we have to destroy the village in order to save it" -- there seems to be little chance of getting the Microsoft deal back.Plenty of Microsoft staff appear to think the deal isn't good for Microsoft (and that the price is crazy), and chief executive Steve Ballmer has got that message. He might still be able to buy Yahoo at a suitably knock-down price, in defiance of staff sentiment, but that wouldn't suit either Yang or Icahn.What makes all this really funny is that Microsoft's online efforts aren't hurting Yahoo at all. It's Google that is sucking the blood out of Yahoo, and all Jerry Yang can say is: "Here, have another quart".
In a way, the most surprising thing about Steve Jobs's presentation last week was how unsurprising it was.  The market had already discounted the fact that iPhone 2.0 would be a 3G device and that its software would mesh seamlessly with Microsoft's Exchange Server.There were murmurs of discontent that the camera delivered a measly two megapixels, still declined to do video and lacked a flash.  There was a frisson of excitement when it was revealed that the phone had onboard GPS, and contented murmurings as some new games and other third-party applications were demonstrated. But the only big news was that Apple is to halve the price in a dash for market share.Of course this is bad news for Nokia, Motorola, Samsung, Sony Ericsson and others, none of whom have yet managed to come up with a device that can compete head-on with the iPhone. But in fact the possibility that Apple might become as dominant in the mobile phone market as it is in the online music business should ring warning bells everywhere.The iPhone is the first phone that makes accessing the internet from a handheld device seem pleasurable. You can see that in the data about Google searches from mobiles, which shows that traffic began to soar the moment the iPhone launched. The original version was crippled by having only GPRS mobile connectivity, but because it also came with built-in wi-fi, users could see how good its online performance could be whenever it got within reach of a wireless base station.  The 3G version makes that kind of experience possible in a much wider range of locations.Spool forward. Imagine that iPhone 2.0 attains the kind of market penetration currently enjoyed by the iPod music player.  We will have entered an era when millions will routinely access the net predominantly from their handsets rather than from their computers. We will have sleep-walked into a different world.How come? Because whereas the personal computer is an open, user-configurable device, the iPhone is a decidedly closed one. Nothing runs on it other than software approved by Apple. This is not because the iPhone is incapable of running complex software: on the contrary, it is, in fact, a powerful Unix computer.  But users who treat it as such - for example, by installing 'unofficial' software on it - run the risk of having their device 'bricked' [disabled] the next time they synchronise it with the iTunes software on their PCs.Of course anyone can write programs for the iPhone with the aid of Apple's (free) Systems Developers Kit.  But the only way they can get them installed will be via Apple's 'App Store'. And nothing will get into the store unless it's been approved by Apple.If Apple's strategy succeeds, an increasing proportion of internet users will access through a gateway entirely controlled by a single company. For delighted iPhone users, this may seem like a great idea - just as it seemed like a great idea when Microsoft brought order to the chaotic PC market by developing the de facto standard operating system, and thereby acquired the kind of dominance that became so problematic.  Steve Jobs and Bill Gates may have more in common than people realise.john.naughton@observer.co.uk
It takes up to 60 hours to make, but is less than a millimetre wide. It is as hard as a diamond, but casually mislaid a million times a day. The ball in the ballpoint pen, or Biro, is 70 years old today.Sales of the ballpoint pen are stronger than ever, says the leading manufacturer, Bic. Last year it sold 216 million in Britain, a 2 per cent increase on the previous year. Worldwide, an estimated 15 million are sold every day. Predictions that the writing was on the wall for pens in the digital age seem as premature as the dream of the paperless office.Since 1950, Bic has sold more than 100 billion ballpoint pens globally - enough to draw a line to the moon and back more than 320,000 times. Yet few objects are as easily lost, stolen or chewed in lieu of cigarettes. Douglas Adams, author of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, suggested that unattended ballpoints independently made their way 'through wormholes in space' to 'a planet entirely given over to Biro life forms'.The father of one of the 20th century's most successful inventions was Laszlo Biro, a Hungarian who dabbled in medicine, hypnosis, the oil industry, motor racing and painting. It was as a journalist that he became frustrated by the scratchy nibs of fountain pens which splattered ink and tore paper. One day, he was in a Budapest printing shop and saw an ink that dried as soon as it touched paper. 'It got me thinking how this process could be simplified right down to the level of an ordinary pen,' he recalled later.The quick-drying ink used in printing was too thick to flow from a fountain pen, so Biro and his brother, George, a chemist, came up with a new design. After several years of experiments, they replaced the pen's metal writing nib with a tiny ball bearing in its tip. As the pen moved along the paper, the ball rolled, picking up ink from the ink cartridge and depositing it evenly on the paper. Whereas earlier ballpoints had relied on gravity to make the ink flow, the Biro used a pressurised tube and a capillary action to avoid leaking or blotting.Biro took out a British patent on 15 June, 1938. But he and George were forced to flee from Hungary during the Second World War and settled in Argentina, where they began small-scale production in 1944, pricing the prototypes at &pound;27 each under the name Eterpen. Their first bulk order was from the RAF, which needed more than 30,000 Biros so that navigators could write at high altitude, where fountain pens tended to leak.Biro sold his patent to Baron Marcel Bich of France for $2m, around &pound;11.6m in today's money. In 1950 Bich (who later dropped the 'h' to become Bic) launched his own cheap, disposable, mass-produced ballpoint pen. It conquered the market and in 1965 the French government approved its use in schools, with other countries following suit.Biro's daughter, Mariana, 73, said recently: 'The Biro was my father's greatest invention. I'm so proud that the name lives on. He used to hear people say the ballpoint was ruining writing skills. He would smile and say, "Well, writing comes from the heart. If we can help the hand to perform the task, what is so wrong with that?"'The design has evolved. The ball is now made from a tungsten carbide pellet, which is ground between plates using a grinding paste to form the spherical shape, a process that can last up to 60 hours. The finished ball is less than 1mm in diameter and as hard as diamond, ensuring that it will not pit or develop 'flat' areas on its surface during use. The barrel was made hexagonal for a better grip and has a small hole to allow air into the capillary tube so the rotating ball creates only a partial vacuum, ensuring the ink flows properly.Bic's Cristal ballpoint pen can cost 10p-15p and produces around two kilometres of writing. The firm has 24 factories which it says in 2006 produced direct greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 13,000 tonnes of CO2. The biggest environmental cost of a ballpoint pen is the oil used to make five grams of plastic for each pen. But Bic says the fuel consumed by a low-powered car over 100km requires enough oil to make 3,200 pens. It also says that because Bics 'are not toxic and contain few materials, the environmental impact at the end of their life is minimal'.Laszlo Biro worked on more than 100 inventions in all, and pursued a career as a Surrealist painter. He died in 1985 at home in Buenos Aires and every year Argentinian Inventors Day is celebrated on his birthday.
Audi A4 TDI SE&pound;23,940Miles per gallon:51.4Seats:5Good for:Writer's blockBad for:Road blocksAudi's cars have always reminded me of Ian McEwan's novels - models of understated elegance built around the kind of precision engineering so flawless you forget it's even there, carrying you forward, and yet somehow lacking a sense of fun. A little middle-aged were the words that came to mind. So it was reassuring to learn from the promotional bumf that the Audi A4 driver is 'male, married, middle-aged, successful and enjoys hiking, reading or travel'. I am not yet any of the first four, but by happy coincidence I'd decided to travel to Cornwall for a spot of hiking and reading, so I felt partially qualified to drive it.Audi calls it 'discreet' and 'restrained', which makes it sound like an affair in the Fifties, but there is still plenty of fun to be had in the driving seat, as Auto Express magazine and its 25 European sister publications have just confirmed - the A4 saloon was voted Europe's Number One auto for 2008.Longer, wider and lower than its predecessor, the new A4 is built on a completely new chassis with the longest wheelbase in its class, giving what feels like acres of legroom in the back and the largest boot capacity among its immediate competitors, which is handy for those hiking boots. Out on the open road, it was a dream; my 2-litre diesel hummed quietly to itself, smooth as cream even when asked to pull out a bit extra to overtake on a hill. Driving in congested towns caused me slightly more consternation at first, as the new A4 doesn't have a handbrake. My hometown is hilly, and at red lights my left hand would start flailing instinctively around in empty space as I held it on the clutch. Once I'd worked out how you're supposed to do it, though, it was perfectly straightforward. There's an electric parking button that does the job of a handbrake, and for a hill start you simply accelerate as you would with an automatic. Piece of cake - if you had one of these, you'd soon forget how to do a hill start since the car is doing all the hard work for you.In fact, the car is so helpful it wants to do everything for you; there are parking sensors which get very het up if you come within feet of an object, a light which warns of approaching vehicles in your blind spot, and a 'lane assist' which promises to 'assist a driver when distracted, tired or inattentive'. I can't help feeling such a driver would do better to pull in for a Little Chef coffee rather than switch on a substitute attention span. There's also a 10-speaker sound system that recognises your CDs, though scrolling through tracks on the colour screen while travelling is a distraction which might justify switching on the lane assist - one innovation to save you from the hazards of another. Like an entire continent, the A4 has three separate climate zones, meaning the driver and front and rear passengers can all choose their own temperature.By the time I reached Cornwall, I was so at home in the A4 I never wanted to drive anything else, even if people did assume I'd nicked it from my dad.If this is middle age, bring it on.&#183;Martin Love returns next week
Only Steve Jobs can turn the launch of a new phone into a quasi-religious ceremony. Last week's launch of the Apple's latest iPhone in San Francisco was preceded by the usual feverish excitement and speculation.When Jobs, chief executive and founder of the computer firm, finally got up to speak, audience members whooped and punched the air in triumph. Bloggers logged minute-by-minute updates on Jobs's utterances as if undertaking a football match commentary.In the end, the launch was something of a letdown, though disciples of Jobs will not have a bad word said against their leader. The phone replaces the iPhone launched last year, coming equipped with 3G to enable faster internet access. The only real surprise was the price - $199 for the 8GB model, $299 for the 16GB model - compared with $399 for the cheapest version last summer.So how has Jobs inspired such fervent devotion to Apple and to what most people would just call a new phone?Jobs's life story is better documented - and more unconventional - than almost any other chief executive of a leading company. Born in 1955, he dropped out of university after one term and took a job at video game maker Atari to save up enough money to backpack around India.When he returned, with friend Steve Wozniak and barely out of his teens, he designed and hand-built in his garage what many people have credited as being the world's first personal computer. A local store put them on sale for $666.66 in 1976, selling about 200. Apple was born, introducing the Macintosh computer less than a decade later, and more recently the iPod and iPhone.Leander Kahney, news editor of Wirednews.com and author of Inside Steve's Brain, calls Apple the 'magic factory'. Trying to explain the mystique that still surrounds the company's product launches, he says: 'No one gets to peek behind the curtain - the products just seem to appear magically. The whole innovation process is mystical.'As with many myths, the cult of Jobs and Apple (they are almost interchangeable) is a mix of fact and carefully preserved fiction. Jobs's and Wozniak's development of the Mac was a response to the launch by IBM, the dominant technology company at the time, of its own mass-market personal computer in 1981.Kahney says: 'He and Steve were hippy idealistic kids. There was a motivation to take on "the man". IBM was the man and the Mac was the tool of empowerment. They believed that technology would give power to the people. They played this image up - but they probably believed it at the beginning.'Jobs, a student of Buddhism and a vegetarian, was diagnosed with cancer in 2003 but the tumour was removed a year later and he has since made a full recovery. In 2005, he gave a moving speech to Stanford University students, apparently drawing on his brush-with-death experience: 'Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life,' he said. 'Don't be trapped by dogma, which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. And, most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.'Kahney says Jobs remains very hands-on in the design of new products: 'Everything has to go through his approval. He has his finger in all the pies.'Former employees of Jobs say he is extremely demanding to work for, with very high standards. Gary Allen, who runs an Apple fan site, says his management style is like a good sports coach - 'encouraging people to move past good performance and on to excellent performance'.He concedes, somewhat sarcastically: 'Sometimes his encouragement might seem aggressive, but apparently that's successful in creating extraordinary products. And apparently there are lots of people who want to experience his management style, since there is no end of applicants for jobs at Apple.'Analysts said that the launch of the iPhone 3G, at a lower price than its predecessor and being made available in 70 countries, marks Apple's bid to break into the mass mobile market.But as Paul Lee, analyst at Deloitte, points out, the company's previous big hits - the Mac and iPod - were launched into nascent markets where no dominant incumbent already existed. By contrast, the world is already awash with mobile phones. Lee says: 'The mobile phone market is one of the biggest in the world. Any vendor has to try to differentiate itself from competitors.'Analysts say that, as with other products, Apple will gradually launch other cheaper, pared-down versions of the iPhone. Apple, which is on track to meet its original target of selling 10 million iPhones by the end of this year, has not given any sales targets beyond that date. But it's unlikely the company will try to compete with the cheapest handset manufacturers, wanting customers impressed with the hi-tech iPhone to buy Apple software for the device and other products.Charles Golvin, principal analyst at Forrester, says: 'There seems to be a halo effect on Mac sales as many consumers who come into contact with other Apple products like an iPhone or iPod end up considering buying a Mac.'When it became public, Jobs's cancer fuelled speculation about how Apple would cope without its founder and talisman. Jobs watchers say that, notwithstanding last week's launch, the company is trying to give more exposure to other executives. Leander says: 'An Apple without Jobs would not have the same charisma or his mystique.' But as Allen sums up: 'Jobs will always be the Guru for his fans.'The CVNameSteven Paul JobsBorn24 February 1955; adopted by Californians Justin and Clara JobsEducationGraduated from high school in 1972, dropped out from Reed College in Portland, Oregon in his first yearCareer1976-85, co-founder and chief executive of Apple Computer; 1985-86, founder and president, NextStep; 1997, returned to Apple&middot; This article was amended on Tuesday July 8 2008. The sub-heading in this article described the latest Apple multimedia iPhone as the 'G3' instead of the '3G'; and the quoted price of $199 was for the 8GB model - the 16GB will sell for $299. It arrives in the UK and Ireland on 11 July. This has been clarified.
Wireless earpieces based on Bluetooth technology are being used to cheat during British citizenship exams amid widespread abuse of the testing system.Test centres have been cautioned about the use of hi-tech equipment concealed under headphones allowing outside contacts on mobile phones to listen to questions and provide the correct answers to would-be citizens.The Sheffield-based University for Industry, which runs the computerised Life in the UK test for the Home Office, warned of a 'huge increase' in the number of centres reporting attempts to cheat using Bluetooth headsets.'On many occasions this is combined with the audio function on the test system and can often be difficult to spot under headphones,' the UFI said in the email obtained by the Yorkshire Post.
I once worked for a company whose founder offered staff a place on the crew of his 60ft schooner. My friend and I were minnows and joined every trip going, baffled by those further up the food chain reluctant to spend their weekends bouncing around the Solent with the boss. On our first trip we thought we knew best, so when advised by the skipper to leave our cabin tidy before sailing we simply left ours like a bedroom and rushed to be first up on deck. Hours later we found our cabin ransacked by the seas, drawers open and contents strewn everywhere.In the same weekend we could be motoring along with the sails down, sunbathing on warm teak, and the next day be in full waterproofs, sitting in a row with our legs hanging over the high side of the boat as it lurched through cold grey waves. In the marina the boat seemed enormous; out of sight of land it felt like a bath toy. I liked chugging back to the moored boat at night after a trip to shore in a little rubber dinghy, through black water glowing with phosphorescence. One night we all drank wine on a deck lit solely by the light of a vast full moon sitting on the sea's surface, a short watery path of silver tempting us to pop on our Sauvignon specs and go and touch it.&#183;Do you have a memorable journey? Send it tojourneys@observer.co.uk
Venture Beat has just posted the third part of a three part interview with Robbie Bach, president of Microsoft's multibillion-dollar Entertainment &amp; Devices Group. Part one covered theZunemusic business, part two theXbox 360, and part threemobile phones, including Android.Bach comes across as businesslike but pretty dull, and there's not much new in there. Dean Takahashi -- who used to be the San Jose Mercury News's chip industry reporter, in the heart of Silicon Valley, and has written two books about the Xbox's development -- doesn't push Bach on the Red Ring of Death issue, which is a pity. Bach's answer:We were confident the product was ready. We did a lot of testing. The problem that shows up with the three red lights on the console is a complex interaction with some very complex parts. It's easy for me to go back and say, if I knew what would transpire over the next two years, would I go back and do something different, I think that's an obvious answer. But the fact is, based on the data we had at the time and all the hard work we put into it, there was no way to see what actually happened. As you know, it didn't start to show up in the data from our customers for almost a year. This wasn't like we had a yield problem and three weeks later people were having problems with their consoles. It's one of those things that nobody is proud of. On the other hand, we are in a complex technology space. You learn from it. You do the right things to make sure it doesn't happen again. The best thing you can do is tell your customers you want them to keep enjoying the product and here is what we will do on replacing it for free.But the transcripts are based on an interview Bach gave to "a small group of reporters in San Francisco," so he may not have had chance to push this one harder.
City University of New York journalism professor andMedia Guardian columnistJeff Jarvis hasobjectedto the latest moves by news agency Associated Press, because:The AP has filed trulynoxious takedown noticesagainst Rogers Cadenhead's community-created Drudge Retort, arguing copyright violations for quotes from 33 to 79 words long.This sounds like what those of us who live in the 21st century call "blogging". In this case, for example, I'm quoting Jeff Jarvis, linking to his site, and sending him some of the Guardian's lovely link juice. Jarvis gets more readers and becomes more famous, while his site becomes more important in Google's view of the world. You'd have to really clueless to object....The other thing that pisses off JJ (as he has pointed outbefore) is that AP is taking stories from member news organizations and not linking back to them:the AP is hurting original reporting by not crediting and linking to the journalism at its source. We should be operating under an ethic of the link to original reporting; this is an ethic that the AP systematically violates.Jarvis therefore suggests linking to the original journalism, rather than "the homogenized AP version of the news".AP seems to have shifted into damage limitation mode, and AP's Jim Kennedy (VP and Director of Strategy for AP) left a comment on Jarvis's Buzzmachine blog at 12.41pm. The same comment was added toTechDirt's poston the issue.Let's admit that AP does have a problem, because there are Web sites that just steal news feeds. So the real question boils down to whether Cadenhead's site is stealing or quoting, crediting and linking, ie blogging. As far as I can see, it mainly links via headlines, without saying where the link is going. (In the example at the top, it's The New York Times.)It's not black and white, and it would be interesting to hear a judge rule on whether it's fair use or not. Until that happens, it would help if AP specified exactly how many shades of grey it will allow.....Update 1: Jeff Jarvis comments: "I just wrote a (more temperate)followup posttrying to explain to the AP that they didn't understand they were calling the bloggers unethical when the bloggers were following their ethic of the quote and the link, as you point out. I also propose that the AP start to follow this ethic."Update 2: Today (Monday),The New York Times says: "The Associated Press, one of the nation's largest news organizations, said that it will, for the first time, attempt to define clear standards as to how much of its articles and broadcasts bloggers and Web sites can excerpt without infringing on The AP's copyright."
Herewith the diary of one person's struggle to get into his new Subaru Forester using the remote key fob alone. I know, this ought not to be a major problem. In the course of a man's work, reviewing cars, he inevitably meets a large number of remote key fobs. Big ones, small ones, chubby ones, ones with a confusing unmarked button on them that seems to do nothing but then suddenly causes the car's alarm to explode heart-stoppingly into action ... frankly, I've seen them all. There ought to be nothing in this area, by now, that can daunt me.There is, though - and it comes free with the Forester. The fob for this latest version of Subaru's esteemed rural action vehicle has only one button on it, a button that, in turn, locks and unlocks the car. No great difficulty so far, you would say. Two buttons is more conventional, maybe - a button for locking, a button for unlocking. But one button is, if nothing else, economical, yielding a 50% saving in buttons, so top marks for that.Except that here is (literally) the catch. Assuming the car is locked in the first place, one press on your Forester's button will unlock only the driver's door. If you want to unlock the other doors - as a courtesy to your passengers, say, or in order to gain access to the almighty boot space, via its colossal, top-hinged gate - you are instructed to press your solitary button twice.Now, I don't know whether you're ahead of me here, but on a single, dual-action, lock/unlock button, logic tends to insist that the second press is likely to reverse the action of the first press. In other words, rather than unlock the whole car, as desired, you potentially end up relocking the single door you had managed to unlock.Ah, but, you see, it's about timing. A double-click, administered deftly, in the right rhythm, defeats the lock/unlock duality and leads you to all-doors-open heaven. Yeah, right.Monday: hurriedly gather beside Forester with three children and a small mountain of baggage. (Note: as it is brilliantly built and very popular among farmers, school runs are well below the Forester, which should really be used for logging or dragging sick heifers off moors.) Flail away at remote and door handles in increasing desperation. Back doors remain locked. Give up and open driver's side passenger door by reaching through the driver's door. Throw bags into boot over back seat.Tuesday: after 10 minutes of experimental effort, get the whole car unlocked, but don't quite know how and can't repeat the success.Wednesday: more desperate prodding and handle-tugging, but this time with no success. Become quite tearful.Thursday: try to surprise the Forester by bursting out of the house already firing the remote - a bit like the final scene in Butch Cassidy And The Sundance Kid. But, of course, we know what happened to them. They got gunned down. And the Subaru Forester was still locked.Friday: spend a thoughtful half-hour or so working on my double tap. Manage to unlock the whole car, on average, one time in every 15 attempts - though feel I'm improving. Nevertheless, decide that no one will fully master this system unless they are the kind of jazz-rock drummer who routinely gets offered session work on Sting's solo albums.Subaru Forester 2.0Price&#163;19,145Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.9 secondsAverage consumption33.6mpgCO[squared] emissions198g/kmEco rating6/10At the wheelBernard MatthewsBound forNorfolkIn a wordAgricultural
A lot of great literature and myth has been devoted to people losing things and then trying to find them. The Knights of the Round Table sought the Holy Grail, Long John Silver his treasure, Gollum the ring. These quests lasted lifetimes and have enriched us all. The modern quest is briefer, but more irritating: Where Did We Put The Television Remote? We have three - and only one television that somehow needs all of them. One to turn it on, another to change cable channels, a third to adjust the sound.A television remote has a mind of its own. Quite often it seems to want warmth: cushions are a favourite hiding place. But it isn't dependable in its habits; sometimes it turns up between the cold glossy sheets of a magazine.Last Christmas my sister-in-law in County Durham gave us a more pastoral version of the first item under review in this week's column. We've lost it since, so I can't check my memory that some of it was made of wood, but it had a nice old-fashioned feel. First, you attached tags to the things you thought you might lose. Then, when as sure as eggs you couldn't find them, you blew into a whistle that set the tags off chirruping like little birds. Lovely - an evening chorus in the living room before Dr Who - but a drawback emerged when an American couple came to dinner. The woman's voice was neither too high nor too low, nor in any other way peculiar, but there was something in the pitch of it the tags liked, so whenever she spoke - "I can't stand Hillary", for example, or "My, how your daughter's grown" - therewould come a trill of agreement from beneath the settee.The Loc8tor Lite (£44.99,loc8tor.co.uk, 0870 111 7777) is much more sophisticated, as you might expect from a company with its headquarters in the Finchley Road, and the touch of marketing genius needed to substitute an "8" for an "a" in the title. "The ultimate locator - guides you directly to your lost items," is the slogan on the box, which contains one handheld sensor, two tags, a magnetic mounting bracket (handy for the fridge door), a keyring loop and some labels to stick next to the sensor's four buttons to remind you which button will locate which item. It's rather smart - slim, matt black, with a row of tiny lights like a miniature airport runway, ascending from red through amber to green.Red means the sensor is switched on, amber means you're travelling in the right direction, green means you're nearly there, by which time the tag is sounding its answering bleep and flashing like a buoy that has drifted far out to sea. It has a range of 400ft "based on a clear line of sight", a phrase I associate with the wireless-detonated bombs of the IRA and confusing in this instance because the mothership Loc8tor can detect its progeny through brickwork and pieces of furniture, so that it will get excited approaching the kitchen wall when the tagged remote is through the wall in the living room.My children tested it thoroughly: one of our remotes was in the microwave, traced down four sets of stairs from the attic door.Altogether less remarkable is the Mooncode Storage Lock (£19.99,strawberryfool.co.uk, 0845 226 9177), which is designed to prevent loss in the first place. Billed as the more secure alternative to "leaving keys and valuable objects under a rock, vehicle, doormat or 'hidden' somewhere else", it's made of cast steel and has a sliding bolt of the same kind used to attach bikes to railings, operated by a combination lock - the idea being that it can be looped around something strong and hard to move with your front-door key inside and safe from the casual burglar. As a safeguard, it was obviously impossible to test short of attacking it with hammers, but the general feeling in the household was that the sight of it would be like an advertisement to thieves: house keys inside, bring your cutting gear!I liked the Loc8tor, but we shall almost certainly lose it. To adapt Juvenal's Quis custodiet ipsos custodes , what will find the finder?
I have heard about USB sticks which dispense with the need for internet security software. Is this too good to be true?There are a number of gadgets that plug into your computer's USB port and screen incoming internet traffic - basically a portable firewall. This doesn't mean you can get rid of your security software, though, just that your virus checkers and other protection are all contained on the stick itself. It's useful if you switch between lots of machines, particularly in internet cafes and suchlike. The leading example is the Gatekeeper Pico from Yoggie (around pounds 75 on Amazon). You'll still need to buy a subscription to the antivirus programmes and it's not compatible with all versions of Windows.I want to replace my hi-fi system with something that has an iPod dock, DAB radio, CD player and powerful speakers. If it had a turntable as well, I would be over the moon. Is this a tall order?Pure's pounds 200 DMX60 mini hi-fi system covers most of your needs, although you could find the speakers lack a bit of oomph. For a turntable, too, Cambridge Audio (cambridgeaudio.com) has a good reputation.Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
Lego Indiana Jones: The Original AdventuresNintendo Wii, Nintendo DS, PC, PS2, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360Right from its opening in the Peruvian jungle, LEGO Indiana Jones and its charming speech-free homage to the original Raiders trilogy takes a path already well trodden by LEGO Star Wars. That means a series of fights followed by puzzles overcome by assembling or destroying small LEGO models. This time, with fewer characters to incorporate, less impressive weaponry and no Force powers, puzzle-solving takes centre stage, which slows the pace and means you will get stuck. The answers, however, are always within small, plastic arm's reach. Fights are clumsy, but the constant procession of things to be assembled and secrets to be discovered overcomes any negative sense this could create. While adding practically nothing new, the loving recreations of familiar scenes supplemented by innumerable extra block-pushing, obstacle-climbing, treasure-hunting tasks prove as alluring as ever.&middot; LucasArts, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99LostWindsNintendo WiiWiiWare is Nintendo's new initiative designed to encourage homebrew and small-scale video game development. Titles on the service cost a mere 1,000 Wii Points (or in other words around &pound;7.50. Why do they bother, eh?) and are designed to give room for the kind of experimentation of which big publishers can be wary. LostWinds is its flagship title, created by British developer Frontier, and follows the adventures of Toku, whom you move round the game's levels using the controller and gusts of wind generated by flicks of the Wii remote. After learning new powers including Slipstream, which lets you guide the fire from flaming torches around the screen, and Jumbrella Cape, which allows you to do the same for Toku, you continue your quest using gentle problem solving via the game's elegantly designed controls. With its water colour art-style and whimsical atmosphere, playing it is a entirely pleasing experience.&middot; 1,000 Wii Points (approximately &pound;7.50)Race Driver: GRIDNintendo DS, PC, PS3, Xbox 360While the TOCA Race Driver series, of which this is the latest instalment, was an exceptionally solid if mildly uncompromising racing game, it never felt like massive blockbuster hit material. This does. Doing the precise opposite of Gran Turismo, which starts you off doddering around in a Fiat Punto, GRID doesn't even bother with an introductory cut scene, putting you straight behind the wheel of an 8.5 litre Dodge Viper. The race mechanics are breathlessly action-orientated with tyre smoke regularly obscuring your view, delivering an incredible sense of speed and momentum. With novel touches like audio naming - that lets the game talk to you by your moniker - and menus that hover in 3D over the track, it also features the ability to rewind time slightly after big crashes, saving those tedious restarts. It's spectacularly great.&middot; Codemasters, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
MondayWikigame: an interview with IF author Emily ShortStar Wars thingsThe REAL news from the iPhone announcementTuesdayWikigame description drive: the Escape Pod and the Rec RoomKing Kong- fistful of quartersWednesdayStreet Fighter IV at Battle of DestinyThe World of World of WarcraftGamesblog's quick summer festival guideThursdayWikigame description drive: the Briefing Room, the Airlock and the Engine RoomSNK arcade classicsUS teens get game campXbox 360 RROD solved!FridayWikigame description driveHide &amp; Seek &amp; Alex FleetwoodDad gaming
Apiece of minethat's just up on the site notes the effort of Long Zheng, a Chinese-born Australia-based business and web student who has set up an area on his site called Taskforce where everyone can vote on what things they'd like done about Vista's (sometimes horrible) interface.That's not all the piece is about; I also look at the horror that erupted within Microsoft in June 2004 after Steve Jobs showed off the beta of Tiger, which had the Spotlight search function (they'd been working on WinFS, a search clone) and pretty Dashboard graphics (they'd been working on Avalon) years before them. (Theemails documenting their amazementwere released as part of the antitrust case over "Vista Capable" stickers.)Anyway, I had wanted to get some input from Zheng before finishing the piece, but the time difference didn't allow. But now he's responded, so I thought I'd quote the Q+A here.Q: has anyone from Microsoft got in touch about it? What would/have you say/said to them if so?Zheng: I've definitely been in touch with several employees in and around the Windows group at Microsoft getting their feedback on the website. As of yet, there hasn't been any official communication between the "Windows Experience" group and I. Hopefully that will happen sooner than later and we can work together to add some official response to the feedback.Q: where did you get the idea of putting it out to the crowd like this? Anything like theDell ideastormsite?Dell's Ideastorm was definitely an inspiration and starting point, as was Digg and other social bookmarking websites. I've always realized I wasn't the only Windows user who cares about the user experience down to the last pixel, and this was hardly a project I could undertake alone, so it made sense to invite the community as well.Q: do you think they'll take any notice?The good news is that they already have, albeit silently. I've heard very encouraging words from various Microsoft employees who have all said the feedback is being looked at very closely and even as far as acted upon.Q: have you seen Microsoft'sConnectsite at which has, I think, the same sort of aim? Any opinion?Funny you should ask, I'm actually a former-and-current Windows beta tester so I'm familiar with the Connect portal. I think the goal is the same - to improve the quality of shipping software, but the means are different. For example, I believe Connect is targeted more at IT professionals whereas my site invites users from much broader spectrum to contribute. Also, Connect users has a larger focus on the technological aspect of the products whereas the focus of my site is user experience. There is some overlap, but I think for the most part these gather different types of feedback.[Update: added link to story in first line, as requested by juliangall]
MySpace has been using the ubiquitous profile of founder Tom Anderson to research improvements to the site ahead of a major redesign to be introduced from Monday, June 16.The new-look site will include an enhanced TV player, an extensive search tool and a more advertiser-focused start page.Anderson's profile appears on every new MySpace profile by default, but users do not always realise the character is that of Tom Anderson, one of the founders of the social networking site and now president of the News Corp-owned firm.Feedback sent to Tom's profile, as well as user testing, online surveys and focus groups, all informed the redesign, which rolls out incrementally over the next week.Anderson said the work was just the first part of an overhaul of the site. "A year ago we set out on a path to rethink the way people interact with the fundamental features of MySpace," he said."By the early autumn we expect to reveal an entirely new and remixed MySpace that provides a more intuitive, customisable, and private experience."On Monday, a new search tool built using the open-source Lucene search engine will structure MySpace search results according to the location and interest of the user.These results will be split into the five most popular categories of people, music, TV, MySpace searches and general web searches.MySpace recorded around 20bn search requests in the past year, the site said, and this is the first time the company has contributed its resources to the development of an open-source software project.A new version of MySpace's TV player, which was developed in-house, will launch on Tuesday with improved tools for sharing and navigating content as well as a support for high-definition and full-screen.The main page of the site is being restructured from Wednesday, June 18, to appeal more heavily to advertisers in a format that allows them to take over the whole page.On the same day a new site navigation tool will give easier access to messaging services, music and TV content.MySpace has also noted the popularity of profile designs offered by third-party developers and will also introduce personalisation tools, though profiles can still be edited by hand-coding.The redesign is the first since the site launched in January 2004 and will roll out internationally.During April, MySpace reached 115.7 million unique users globally, according to comScore, but has been overtaken by Facebook for the first time.The rival social networking site, which is also undergoing a redesign, had 116.4 million unique users for the same month, according to comScore.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
You can see everything that's wrong about Microsoft, and right about the modern web, by comparing two sites.The first is theWindows UX Taskforcesite. UX stands for "User Experience", and while that might sound like the sort of abbreviation and phrase only Microsoft would make up, it was actually dreamed up by Long Zheng, and it's his website, and he doesn't work for Microsoft. He lives in Australia, having moved there from China when he was nine (he's now 20, doing a business and multimedia degree at Monash University). At the end of May, he (idly, perhaps)wondered aloud what user interface (UI) quirks people had found in Vista, and asked people to submit entries.Snowed under within days, he realised that the crowd really had something to say about Vista. And so he created the UX Taskforce site, where people can point out and discuss the things about using Vista they really wish Microsoft would fix.There you can vote for or against problems and quirks of various sorts being fixed. At the time of writing, top of the priorities list is a complaint that the "Safely Remove Hardware dialog is programmer-oriented, not user-oriented".Actually I think this is pretty much true ofeverythingabout Windows. The dialog they're referring to there is a classic: "Select the device you want to unplug or eject, and then click Stop. When Windows notifies you that it is safe to do so unplug the device from your computer."That's 30 words.Thirtywords. It's so prolix. The suggested improvements on the UX Taskforce site: "add the drive letters, add the device names, and get rid of all the worthless tree-level [view] stuff; it's a programmer's view, not a user's view." All good, though I'd also add: make it shorter. Why talk about "unplug or eject" in one sentence and then only "unplug" in the next? It should be more like "Select the device to be removed and click Stop. Remove it when Windows says it is safe to." That's 18 words. Could do better. But it's a start.Verbose and impenetrableThat wordiness, in my view, is the problem with Windows from top to bottom. It begins by confusing people and then gets worse. And it does it in such a verbose fashion that there's no hope of understanding it unless you're a programmer.Microsoft does have its own site where people can make their views known about what needs to be fixed. It's calledMicrosoft Connect, which describes itself as "a connection point between you and Microsoft, and ultimately the larger community". (Begging the question of who "you" is in that sentence, because aren't "you" part of the "larger community" already?)It's a mishmash of a site which doesn't have a clear focus. (Or not clear to me.) The problems being dealt with are arcane. There's nothing obvious for users to engage with, whereas Zheng has created a simple site where you can see what's there and what the purpose is the moment you open the page.That's Microsoft's problems in microcosm: a 20-year-old creates a better site than Microsoft to deal with Microsoft's problems.It's a company that's gotten too big and too slow. And it's been that way for years. Look for example atthe discussion between Microsoft executivesin June 2004, after Steve Jobs demonstrated the developer version of Mac OS X "Tiger" at its Worldwide Developers Conference. (The exchange was released as part of the ongoing antitrust case in which Microsoft is accused of misleading customers over the "Vista-capable" stickers on low-end machines).Blown awayBy this time Microsoft's programmers had been slogging away for years on WinFS – a method of searching the hard drive. On Monday, at the conference, Jobs demonstrated Tiger with "Spotlight" – Apple's first pass at built-in search. On Tuesday, the emails were pinging around Microsoft: Vic Gundotra, then general manager of platform evangelism, emailed Quentin Clark, director of program management for WinFS, to say that Lenn Pryor (director, platform evangelism) was "blown away by the WinFS clone functionality – it's already working".Later Pryor chimes in, explaining how he used his Mac to connect to the corporate email server and tried Tiger on it. "I did system-wide queries against docs, contacts, apps, photos, music, and ... my Microsoft email on a Mac. It was fucking amazing. I was like I just got a free pass to Longhorn land today." Gundotra passes the message on to Jim Allchin, head of Windows, saying: "In many ways Jobs took our WinFS and Avalon pitch word for word and delivered it. The difference was he had more stable bits than we did."Allchin replies: "It is hard to take. I don't believe we will have search this fast." I suspect he meant "in this timeframe" rather than "at this speed", because he'd have been confident that processor speed would solve any problem given time. The exchange goes back and forth. Gundotra adds: "I have the cool widgets (dashboard) running on my Mac right now with all the effects he showed on stage.I've had no crashes in 5 hours." (Emphasis in the original.) He also calls the videoconferencing "amazing" and the core video and image facilities "hot" and Spotlight "wickedly fast".To which Allchin can only reply with "Sigh ..." as he passes it up the chain as high as possible – to Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer. The buck stops there.And there it has stuck. It's interesting to note that Gundotra left for Google and Pryor for Skype. Clark is now manager of SQL Server. Allchin retired as soon as Vista launched. Gates has gone.A simple idea executed marvellouslyWhich still leaves Microsoft stuck. Those awestruck emails are probably happening today all over again over Zheng's Windows UX Taskforce. It's a simple idea, executed marvellously; and Microsoft has lost sight of how to execute both simply and marvellously.True, Zheng doesn't have dozens – or is it hundreds? – of products to look after, as Microsoft does. Yet his approach could work wonders. Microsoft is actually getting enormous benefit from what he's doing. The claim that if Microsoft did something similar millions of people would weigh in and turn the whole exercise into pudding isn't true, because of the Digg-style mechanics being used here: the community decides what's most annoying about Vista. All Microsoft has to do is be small, and fix it.But being small has never been an ambition of Microsoft's. Which is why Zheng and Apple have beaten it to the punch – Apple repeatedly so. I've said it before, but Microsoft would do better as a loose confederation of companies; and the Zheng and Apple examples here go to prove that.I doubt Steve Ballmer is listening, which is a pity. Though the loss isn't truly ours, it's Microsoft's.
It can be hazardous to announce new products in case people hold off buying the old ones. However, Asus reckons it will have Intel Atom-powered Eee PC 901 and PC 1000 notebooks on sale in the UK on July 1, which is not that far away. The systems were announced at the recent Computex trade show in Taipei (below), though it's not usually a show that gets widely reported.I'll be interested to try an Atom chip. The performance might be less than stonking, apparently, but it's small, cheap and power-efficient.The new Asus machines will also have 20GB solid state drives plus 20GB of online space at YO Store. Asus has also shown a 1000H model with a hard drive, but hasn't said when, or even if, this will arrive.
I've been away all week so have missed all the news, but clearly the biggest issue today is what game to get for Father's Day? My kids are 2 years and 4 months old respectively so I'll let them off for now. But my real concern is what game to buy for my dad. I've never bought him a game before but he has just splashed out on a new PC and is looking for something to play on it. Or at least I'm looking for something for him to play on it. He hasn't really expressed any interest before but hey, gaming is mainstream now right? So any suggestions? I'm thinking maybe Civ or a point and clicker or something. Forget games for girls and mums, what do you buy for a 60 year-old man? And if you're a dad, what gaming goodies are you hoping for? And no, "time to play what I already have" doesn't count.
What's your favourite piece of technology?Definitely my BlackBerry. I use it all the time and I feel very lost without it. I don't have a lot of  technology going on in my life, but that one I don't know how I'd live without.How has it improved your life?It's all about communication for me and being able to stay in touch with friends and family. It's amazing , here I am in London from the States and it's just so easy – I can still text people, I'm in constant communication with texting and emailing and I can just call anybody and it's an instant thing.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it just about 10 minutes ago – I got a phone call from the States, so yeah, I'm always on it.What additional features would you add if you could?My phone's pretty good – I can get online for the most part and I love that it has a GPS, Google Map thing. I think what I would do differently is just the speed of the connection to the internet – sometimes it takes a long time loading.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No way, I think it will probably get smaller and have more features on it. Who knows, maybe we'll never look at each other again – we'll just text.What one tip would you give to non-BlackBerry users?I have the BlackBerry Pearl, which is a smaller version of the original BlackBerry and it is a little bit harder to use because the buttons are closer together and more compact. And I know that sometimes guys have a hard time using it because it's small; I guess it's really useful for the small lady hands! So I would say if you're not used to the smaller phone get the larger one.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I guess a nerd? I don't know!What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It would definitely be my computer at home, and I also have a laptop. I have a Mac, and I love it.Mac or PC?I love my Mac, I can't stand PCs. I just work much better on a Mac.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?I have a lot of old things – I listen to a lot of Bob Dylan, and with travelling and everything I'm constantly with my iPod. My favourite band right now is Cat Power, so I listen to them a lot and it helps me sleep on the planes.Will robots rule the world?No, I hope not. That would be scary! They're definitely very useful, but I think humans will stay on top.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Maybe more computers with more software on them so I can edit films and do more stuff like that with filmmaking.In Search of a Midnight Kiss, starring Sara Simmonds, is now showing across the UK
