If you have to go, runs the old maxim, then go in style. But how to bow out in a&nbsp;manner befitting the unique scope and scale of this column? In aNissan Micra, perhaps, or aRenault Wind? What about aSmart Fortwo Brabus, aHyundai i10or aVauxhall Corsa?Each of them, in its own way, speaks of the profound emotions such illustrious cars fuel-inject into our central nervous systems. But, alas, none happened to be the one that would provide my valedictory ride. In the event, I was forced to make do with a Rolls-Royce Ghost.Now, I know what you're thinking: the Ghost, well, it's hardly thePhantom, is it? After all, it was designed to be a smaller and lighter alternative to the Phantom, which implies, does it not, some diminution in size and comfort? These anxieties naturally plagued my thoughts, but somehow I found the strength to endure, and determined to maintain the steely objectivity upon which readers have come to rely. There's no doubt the Ghost, the latest addition to BMW's Roller roster, is a smaller car than the Phantom – smaller in the sense that Canada's smaller than Russia. Which is to say, it's massive.Given its bulk, it looks sleekly handsome. There's nothing spectacular in its styling. It says Rolls, but in cool sans serif rather than bold capitals. Inside is a level of comfort and thoughtfulness to which very little in the outside world can match up. Everything from the leather seats to the dark wood veneer and chrome vents feels like the product of craftsmen's tireless handiwork. There are probably a few exclusive art deco bars or classic yachts that can conjure up the same atmosphere of insulated refinement. But you have to ask yourself, can they go from 0-60 in 4.7 seconds? And can they do it while remaining in a state of hushed smoothness? I don't think so.That's what is perhaps the most remarkable aspect of this extraordinary car. With all its satisfyingly substantial heft, it can still accelerate more rapidly than a Porsche 911. One flex of the right foot and it's like propelling the QE2 into hyperspace. Paradoxically, I don't recall ever being at the wheel of a car that was more pleasurable to drive at under 30mph.The distinction most frequently made between the Phantom and the Ghost is that the former is a car to be driven in, the latter a car to drive. This seems about right, except that I didn't find any of my passengers complaining. With its TVs, roominess and general air of indulged living, it offers a comprehensive leisure environment for all occupants.Indeed, I'd go so far as to say that for an all too brief period, life seemed fuller, sharper, in a word, better. You can't ask any more of a car. And, as it turns out, I'll no longer need to try.Rolls Royce GhostPrice£195,783Top speed155mphAcceleration0-60mph in 4.7 secondsAverage consumption20.8mpgCO2 emissions317g/kmEco rating1/10Bound forBelgraviaIn a wordHeavenly
Carol Bartz signs the Microsoft-Yahoo! agreement on search in July 2009. Photo byYodel Anecdotalon Flickr.Some rights reservedIt turns out that Flickr did not, after all, escape from thescythe now being swung among the Yahoo staff. (Well, at least it proves that Carol Bartz knows it exists.)Comparing the staff list on thecached page content of Flickr staffersfrom Tuesday with thattoday, it seems that what was a 56-strong team has been trimmed by five – Tara Suan Kirchner, Joe Mud, Adrienne Bassett, Cris Stoddard, Jenn Vargas. (Thank you opendiff!) Although I'm hearing separately that six people in all have either been laid off or quit (one of the names on the "present" list is gone, we understand).That's a 9% cut, deeper than the 4% that Carol Bartz announced across the organisation in her memo of Thursday.So what's the thinking with Flickr? "I don't think Bartz 'gets' Flickr, but she understands it's a big deal in some circles," says one person with connections in the company. It has struggled through indifference from Terry Semel (who always wanted Yahoo to become a sort of Hollywood of the internet).Even so Flickr does, we understand, "wash its face" financially – it's not a money hole by any means. And that means that if Bartz decides that it might as well be let go, or even more profitably sold off (we've separately heard a number of $500m as the price tag), then all those photos won't vanish into the internet ether.Don't overlook the importance of email, we're told: Hotmail and Yahoo's email is immense (in May, one of Yahoo's directorstalked about275m users worldwide; Microsoft claims 360m active accounts (though the number of users will be smaller). The biggest - surprisingly big - worldwide number we've found for Gmail is 146m,from January. That shows that by any measure GMail is still pretty small compared to the big two – although significantly bigger even than a year ago.We're hearing too that Yahoo does have a plan of sorts: try to create something social out of peoples' address books and integrate it all with the rest. But that remains largely handwaving.Oh, the Flickr selloff thing? Well, there are two obvious candidates: Google and Microsoft. Google of course already has Picasa, but it could integrate Flickr (one way or another). And what a thing it would be for Google to take over a profitable company (or division) and keep it going as a profitable company (or division).It might have to reckon with Microsoft, though, which is going to make a bigger push for the cloud in 2011, and already has that search tieup with Yahoo. Steve Ballmer could just poke his head around the door of Carol Bartz's office, say he happened to be passing by, as you do, and had she had any thoughts about Flickr?Into Bartz's mouth we'll put Craig Gannell'scomment from Twitter: "We know some of our products are prone to it, but we're working to ensure all Yahoo! products become visually rock solid."To which Ballmer could reply "let me take that problem off your hands." Done deal. Win for Microsoft. Win for the users too? Or is Flickr better inside Yahoo, or as an independent company?
When Christopher Graham, the information commissioner,ordered Google to delete dataincluding emails and passwords illegally collected from some public Wi-Fi networks, many thought the case was effectively closed.The Metropolitan Police hadended its investigation, Google had committed toimprove its data handling(PDF), and its compliance with the DPA would be audited in 2011.Buta Freedom of Information requestreleased on Friday reveals that Google is wary of deleting all of the UK payload data, due to outstanding actions inother countries.Update 1700: Google says it has now figured out how to do the deletion, which began today (Friday): "The vast bulk of the UK data was deleted in November, and this has been independently certified. There was some remaining data that was on the disks in the cars when we discovered our mistake."Because these disks could have contained data from countries where we have received preservation requests from the authorities, we had to make sure that in deleting the UK data we didn't disturb the surrounding data. We've been working hard on this and have now begun the deletion of this final remaining data."Although the majority of UK data was deleted on 26 November, seven days after the ICO directive, some still remained on disks that "could" contain data from other countries. As Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel, explains in an email to the ICO on 26 November:"While this deletion is now done, there is a wrinkle to the process, which I want to explain to you, for the sake of completeness. There is some data from the UK which we haven't been able to delete yet."This relates to data that was still on Street View car disks at the time we discovered our mistake in May. Because these disks could contain data from countries where we have received preservation requests from the authorities, we must make sure that in deleting the UK data we don't disturb the surrounding data."In the meantime, the data on these disks was never uploaded to our servers, and these disks have been and will remain securely stored as we work to complete the task."Google didn't intend to publicly announce the deletion, Fleischer goes on to say, but added that he "would welcome" an announcement by the ICO.Graham, in response, says the ICO saw "no need to give the story new legs" [meaning more publicity that would attract media attention] while the process remained incomplete.More intriguing than that, perhaps, is Graham's sign off on his response to Google: "I am glad we secured satisfactory undertakings and I look forward to meeting [REDACTED] in Wilmslow on Tuesday.I am sure the audit process next year will [be] a positive experience for both sides." (Emphasis added.)With eyebrows suitably raised, we leave you to flick through the emails between the two parties sent last month.The Freedom of Information request was lodged by P. John via WhatDoTheyKnow
The internet has created many problems in its young life – making various industries obsolete, enabling new forms of surveillance and control, exposing good, well-meaning people to crazy, vituperative trolls. But my internet problem is the surfeit of opportunity.If there's one thing the network does brilliantly, it's reducing coordination costs. The two best examples, of course, are the GNU/Linux operating system and Wikipedia. Whether you use these or not, whether you believe them to be of high or low quality, it's impossible to imagine how decentralised collectives could produce either an operating system or an encyclopedia without the internet.(I like to daydream fleets of Analogue Wikipedia lorries racing around the world with filing cabinets representing the day's edits, then racing back to the enormous Wikipedia Central Printing Office to retrieve a new load to deliver.)When I began writing, I imagined that the central problem of my working life would be figuring out which books to write, and how to produce the best books I could. These problems decompose into a lot of smaller problems: which books and music and movies should I consume to inspire my work? Which experts and artists should I seek out and converse with in order to improve my work?Once upon a time, the questions of which books, music, experts and experiences you should try were largely answered by circumstance. Which books to read? Which ones can you afford, which ones are on the library's shelf, which ones are in the shop, which ones can you discover? The pool of experts was limited to people who lived nearby or those to whom your immediate circle could introduce you. Half the problem was solved by default – the cost of seeking out a very rare book almost always exceeded the value you'd get from reading it.My internet problem is the one so many of us struggle with: how do you choose when the constraints of geography, income and circumstance disappear? What goes in a playlist when all the music ever recorded is one click away? Which experts' thought processes should you tap into when tens of millions of them are on Twitter? How do you choose a book from the millions that you can discover with a Google Books search?But as hard as it is to navigate the infinite universe of potential input, deciding what todowith all that information is even harder.For example, last week I became a book publisher. I'd reached the point where I had enough short fiction for another reprint collection. I'd done two before with small, reputable New York houses, and they had sold well. But, having looked around at the tools for publishing – print-on-demand presses like Lulu.com, automated ebook workflow tools like SiSu, and tools for publicising work like Twitter and blogs – I decided I could readily produce a collection myself with comparable reach and even more income.I decided that I'd give the ebooks away (as I've done with my other books); sell a variety of paperbacks with different covers (the net made it easy to tap artist friends for cover designs and work with them over long distances); and do 250 super-limited, hand-sewn hardcovers with all sorts of premium stuff – an SD card set into the cover with the audiobook and full text and unique endpapers made of original sentimental paper ephemera donated by dozens of writer friends from all over the world. The audiobook was read by voice-actor pals in three countries, and mastered by a talented engineer in Washington I've worked with before (I'm giving away the electronic version of this and selling the CDs on Lulu.com). There's lots of exciting stuff to be done with print-on-demand publishing – for example, if you find a typo and send it to me, I'll correct it straightaway and give you a footnote on the page, so you can buy a copy with your name in it (I jokingly call this "monetising the typo").Here's where the choice problem begins to manifest itself in earnest.There'sso muchthat you can do to elaborate on a project of this nature: limited edition covers, pricing experimentation, novel forms of audio distribution … While this sort of thing was once constrained by the inherent capital costs of trying them, no such costs obtain today: all of these things can be done for "free", costing only the time spent in trying them out.So much of our sensibilities are honed by evaluating the cash outlay for various courses of action – it's hard to tamp down the elation at discovering that some formerly expensive action now can be had merely for the time it takes to seize on the opportunity.I'm not sorry I decided to become a publisher. For one thing, it's been incredibly lucrative thus far: I've made more in two days' worth of the experiment than I made off both of my previous short story collections' entire commercial lives (full profit/loss statements will appear as monthly appendices in the book). And I'm learning things about readers' relationship to writers in the 21st century.But more than ever, I'm realising that the old problem of overcoming constraints to action has been replaced by the new problem of deciding what to do when the constraints fall away. The former world demanded relentless fixity of purpose and quick-handed snatching at opportunity; the new world demands the kind of self-knowledge that comes from quiet, mindful introspection.An abundance of opportunity is a funny kind of problem to wrestle with, but it is a problem – and a hard one, since abundance manifests itself as noise that must be ignored in order to stop reacting and start introspecting.But don't get me wrong: I'll take the "too many great possibilities" problem over the scrabble for opportunity any day.
It used to be that games consoles were for just one thing. Gaming. But ever since the PlayStation 2 shipped with an internet connection and the capacity to play DVDs (Sega's earlier Dreamcast had the former, but not the latter), manufacturers have had their beady eye on the living room. Now it seems, the leading machines have completed their arduous and extremely expensive journey from teen bedroom to family lounge.New findings from giant research company Nielsensuggest that PS3 and Xbox 360 owners spend over a third of their console time doing thingsotherthan playing games.As Gamasutra reports:Nielsen's latest game industry survey found that Xbox 360 users spend 62 percent of their console time on games -- with their playtime evenly split between online and offline play. PlayStation 3 users spend a little more than half of their console time doing things other than gaming -- and when they play, it's "relatively more" offline versus online play than its rival.That's a lot of screen time going on non-interactive pursuits. With these two machines, the next most favoured use is watching DVDs and Blu-rays, followed by streaming video content. Sure, users could still be doing all this other stuff while their consoles are stuck in the bedroom, but at least the platforms are moving into the traditional territory of 'the first screen' – i.e. the TV.As for online play, Xbox has always been more heavily marketed on its Live multiplayer system, and has tended to attract more 'hardcore' gamers. PlayStation 3, meanwhile, was aggresively pushed for its multimedia potential – Sony didn't spend a billion dollars fitting the thing with a Blu-ray player for nothing.Meanwhile, despite a lot of fuss over Twitter and Facebook support, social networking is a low priority across all three consoles. And it's also interesting that the Wii, the machine most often credited with pulling gaming into the family space, is the one that's used most traditionally, with 57% of time spent playing games offline.The figures may be slightly different in the UK, thanks to less reliable broadband speeds, and the longtime lack of a major third-party video streaming service like Netflix. But does this vaguely match your console-using habits?
Amid the mild media (and police) frenzy that has gathered in trying to identify members of the Anonymous group (goal: maximise available lulzandinformation available to all, apart from names of Anonymous members), there was a report that Alex Tapanaris, a graphic designer based in Greece, had been arrested in Greece.We've been in touch with Tapanaris, who assures us that that is not the case: he has not been arrested, by Greek or any other police.Tapanaris's details appeared on a PDF released last week that was authored by Anonymous, the loose online collective (though with more structure than it appears: seeAnonymous hierarchy emerges).That does not, of course, mean that Tapanaris necessarily did it. However, the appearance of his name in the context of Anonymous meant that he was apparently judged to havebroken the first rule of Anonymous.They therefore descended on Pastebin, nominally a site for sharing code snippets but which is also popular for swapping insults, and made his name mud there. Go and see for yourself what appears if yousearch for his name on it."I appreciate your being a proper journalist, unlike some people who report everything they read on pastebin," Tapanaris told us when we sought confirmation of his "arrest" (given inone Pastebin posting.) "The only comment I can make right now is that I haven't been arrested."We'll see whether this stems the tide. Though we think the cause may be lost for some of the Pastebin users.
For the manyFalloutaddicts who read Gamesblog, here's a trailer of the game's first downloadable content, Dead Money. Available on Xbox Live from December 21, the new adventure has you toiling alongside three other captured wastelanders to recover, 'the legendary treasure of the Sierra Madre Casino'.According to the press release, "in Dead Money, your life hangs in the balance as you face new terrain, foes, and choices. It is up to you how you play your cards in the quest to survive." Sounds like it was written by whoever made all the trailers for those eighties Chuck Norris movies.Anyway, take a look, apocalypse fans!Meanwhile, the developers of Fallout: New Vegas have happily agreed to answer YOUR questions about Dead Money, or anything else Fallout related you can think of. Stick them in the comments section below and at the end of the day, I'll send them off!
I was always a fan of EA's LOTR spin offs for maintaining the movie's epic feel within a decent, if linear, RTS. So I was keen to see how Warner Bros would fare with a very different approach.Initially, the signs aren't too bad. Graphically, there's a lot to admire in Aragorn's Quest – particularly the 3D world that fits the more soft-focus Shire locations best. Character likenesses are also good, albeit in that shrunken style we've come to expect from Wii games – and music and voice acting are above average.There are a couple of niggles, though. There's the camera perspective that continues to pan for a few seconds after your character has turned, creating an almost drunken feel to movement. And then there's the weedy crackle that emanates from the Wiimote when you pick up treasure or kill a significant foe, destroying most of the pleasure in doing so.In gameplay terms, Aragorn's Quest plays like an arcade adventure with RPG pretensions. Most of the time you're pursuing the main storyline quest, which weaves its way between set-pieces from the movies. Pressing the A button reveals the path to your next keypoint where a cut-scene or battle usually awaits but there are also side quests you can follow for extra gold, weapons or occasional artifacts.As an RPG, however, this is a seriously dumbed-down affair, with artifacts that can be picked up and viewed in your inventory but then have to be bought as if they were still in a shop. A bigger problem comes in the combat with an auto-targeting system that barely functions, meaning that most battles degenerate into frantic wiggling until a blow connects. It's a shame, because using the Wiimote for fighting and interaction and the Nunchuck for movement and blocking, promises far more finesse than it actually delivers.However, the overriding problem with Aragorn's Quest is with the way it treats Tolkien's hallowed story. For a start, in retelling key events from Sam's perspective you'll soon find that character, mythology and occasionally logic are largely dispensed with. Take the Palantiri; in the book these are priceless orbs entrusted only to Sauron's most valuable allies, in the game, they're left around the forest floor like lost Satnavs.Ultimately, it feels almost disrespectful that Tolkien's rich and evocative mythology should be reduced to collecting "Gandalf Tokens" and bowdlerising one of the 20th century's greatest mythologies. The pity is that that Aragorn's Quest works well enough to prove that LOTR does indeed have the makings of an epic RPG. Unfortunately, this isn't it.• Game reviewed on Wii
In which we dissect Carol Bartz's memo to the Yahoo troops, after many were given "pink slips" – the American equivalent of the P45 – on Thursday. Because the question is still: what is Yahoofor?Yahoos,Wait – "Yahoos"? How long have you been there again? Since January 2009? If you were Jerry Yang and you'd come up with the name, that would be one thing. But you're a long way down the line from those days. How about "Colleagues" or "Beleaguered coworkers" or even "Hey"?I want to share some tough news with you. Today, we began notifying some Yahoos that they will lose their jobs. Most of the reductions will come from the Products org and, when completed, will affect about 4% of the company.That's 4% of headcount, we have to assume. Not 4% of revenue. Or profits, presumably.I know this has been rumored for some time. It's disappointing when things like this leak, and it certainly doesn't make it any easier for anyone involved. This was a tough call, but a necessary one. We need to make these changes now to ensure that Products is structured and running the way we want as 2011 begins. And that means we need fewer Yahoos in some areas, and different types of Yahoos in others.It's not surprising though when layoffs are rumoured at Yahoo. There's only one direction that its headcount has been heading for years now, and it isn't up. All that promise in "Products" has just never been brought to fruition, yet it's not for want of the people in it wanting to make it happen.Delicious? Bought it from Joshua Schachter. Retained Joshua Schachter. At the Guardian, we could see that it was the future of search – social search. Wepointed it out in December 2005. And what have you done with Delicious? You've turned it into a mess of pottage, let its engineerscreate a less-good interfaceand now you'reshutting the damn thing down?To what end? How does that improve Yahoo's offering?There are several reasons for this. First, we've found a lot of duplication in work between Products and the regions.We'd love to know where Delicious.com is duplicated within Yahoo. Yes, there are rivals (Pinboard'steam will be rejoicing and high-fiving; and we may soon be migrating our Delicious account there) but inside Yahoo itself? Nope.Second, it's no secret that we're cutting investment in underperforming and non-core products so we can focus on our strengths (like email, the homepage, search, mobile, advertising, content and more). And lastly, we need to get the Products cost-structure in order so it aligns with our development plans for next year and beyond.Waitaminute. Yahoo email is a strength … well, perhaps, but only because lots of people who joined ityearsago got Yahoo addresses. These days they're just as likely to go for Google, because you get those crazy shareable documents and spreadsheets, or Microsoft's Live service, which offers the same combination of email and shareable documents. Plus Google and Microsoft make phone software that will integrate easily with either of those services. Yahoo presents a bit of a problem (though they'll manage it.)So if you were starting without an email, would you get a Yahoo one? Probably not. That means that email and its home page arenotthe core brand strengths that will let Yahoo grow.As for the other stuff – search (astrength?), mobile (mobile what? Oh, you mean your mobile offering), advertising (which actuallyisa core strength for Yahoo), content (um, Yahoo isn't a household name anywhere I go for itscontent, except for one product alone) – none of those is a strength.You've heard me say before that I didn't come to cut Yahoo! to greatness. That's still true. This decision is about more than cost savings. The changes are meant to get us into a position so we can invest more in the kind of products and technology we know we need to be successful. The process that begins today – along with Blake's past org changes and new Products operational plan – helps to get us there.We haven't been given any clues about the new Products operational plan, because what do we punters need to know about it? But leaks from within the company say that marked for "sunset" – ie, closure – are Delicious, Altavista, MyBlogLog, Yahoo! Bookmarks, and Yahoo! Picks. To be merged: Upcoming, FoxyTunes, Sideline, FireEagle, Yahoo Events and Yahoo People Search. And Yahoo Deals and Yahoo Calendar will be made into "features".It's never easy to say goodbye to Yahoos we know and work with, especially before the holidays. Please know that we're helping those affected with severance pay and benefits, plus services to help them find other jobs.Then again, some of them aren't weeping. The severance pay is reported to be good. But the news of so many closures suggests that while Bartz isn't, as she says, trying to "cut to greatness", she's certainly cutting. Yes, Yahoo has become a rats' nest of products that have been acquired or created, and then stuck together like a bunch of students. Who's to blame? Why, the previous managements, of course – including Terry Semel, who believed that Yahoo should be a "content" company and simply turned it into an advertising billboard. Because make no mistake, that's what it keeping Yahoo afloat right now: all those legacy users who came onto the net in the 1990s coming to check their email, who see the front page, and get shown billboard-style adverts.It's a model that is strictly limited, because Yahoo isn't able to get more people to use its email or come to its home page, and that's what Yahoo's revenues show: they peaked at the end of 2008, at around $1.8bn (£1.15bn) per quarter, and since then have been around $1.6bn. Profits have gone up – but we can see that that is the result of continual cost-cutting by Bartz.One last thing before I go: It's important to put this in perspective, and remember that we're making good progress on our turnaround. Margins have expanded. Revenue growth has stabilized after a long period of decelerating trends. Product rollouts are accelerating as we modernize our infrastructure. Our Search alliance with Microsoft continues on schedule, and more.Well, whoopee for the search alliance with Microsoft – which brings Yahoo some money, but gives Microsoft all the information about who's searching for what.We've got a lot of potential, but there is still a lot of work to be done. Let's stay focused and not lose sight of that.CarolSee, she goes through theentire memowithout mentioning the one thing that Yahoo has that everyone adores, yet doesn't realise – mostly – is a Yahoo property: Flickr. And you know what else? It's acontentproperty – even if it's content that Yahoo hasn't generated in its own right.OK, it has been overtaken as the biggest photo-sharing site by Facebook (and was probably always smaller than Photobucket). But it is a stellar example of how to do the internet right. When Yahoo bought Flickr in March 2005, lots of people worried that it would screw it up. It didn't. People worried that it would turn it into a pay-to-play-fest. It didn't – in fact, it relaxed some of the fees. But it hasn't reallydoneanything with Flickr. It's just let it sit there, not adding value to the entire Yahoo catalogue. That's pretty much what you see withYahoo's acquisitions: it's hard to see quite how it has built them into the offering.Dan Catt, a deveoper who worked at Flickr early on (he's now at the Guardian), was really quite angry: "Del.icio.us + Upcoming + Flickr was an incredible (and smart) set to acquire together just at the right time," hetweeted, "and utterly squandered."Thomas Hawk, the professional photographer,lays into Bartzin an open letter, calling the above a "demoralizing letter" (her stuff, not mine).He notes:On the day that you were announced as the new incoming CEO of Yahoo, January 14, 2009, Yahoo's stock price closed at $12.41 per share. Now on the one hand that price vs. today's price of $16.46 looks pretty good. In fact that's over a 32% return since you've been at the helm. But the thing is that you took charge coming off the worst year in the stock market in recent history so we can't really credit all of that to you.In fact while Yahoo has been up +32% since you took over. Your competitors have been up quite a bit more. Google is up almost +100% in the same time period. Apple is up +275%, even the old slowpoke Microsoft is up +51%. The Nasdaq Composite is up +79% and the S&amp;P 500 is up +53%. In short, Yahoo's stock performance under your tenure thus far has been a laggard – but you already know this.He sees the absence of Flickr in that letter as a negative – though I'm not sure I do; there haven't been any reports, for example, of job losses from the Flickr team. (Though if there are, do tell us.) He says to Bartz:"Do you even realize what you have with Flickr? It's the largest well organized library of images in the world. Not only that, it has a very strong social networking component. In fact, Flickr may represent (if managed correctly) your single biggest opportunity to launch a much larger and more lucrative social network (and stock photography agency as well). Have you spent any time in any Flickr groups? They are addicting. People live in them. They play games in them. All kinds of activity goes on in them every day. And if you took the time to really explore the social side of Flickr, you'd learn this, and figure out a way to grow it."He points out that she doesn't even have an account on Flickr (ouch). He points out that she was the highest-paid chief executive (once you take into account stocks options and pay). Recall that Steve Jobs famously paid himself a salary of $1 when Apple was in the dumps – though of course he could afford to: he was already a billionaire (through the flotation of Pixar) and had tons of stock options. Butdamn, that sort of salary works well when people are having to swallow the medicine.But here's the tough question for Hawk (which is asked in the comments on his post): how do you make money out of Flickr? Well, there's the simple one: charge people who want to use more than a certain amount of storage. Charge for more than a certain amount of upload bandwidth. Perhaps encourage people to put popular photos there by offering discounts against their upload/storage costs if photos prove popular. (Find a way to beat spammers, but, you know.) Make more of the tieup with Getty. And emphasise the social, because the last thing that Yahoo has going for it now is its users.Hawkoffers his own– become the world's stock photo agency (a $2bn market dominated by Getty and Corbis); sell commercial accounts; allow self-publishing in the manner of Blurb etc; openphysicalgalleries (strikes me as a great idea); automate the community management.The trouble with all this? It's on the internet, so Carol Bartz isn't going to see it. If only there were some way to make it physical so she could read it …Update:on the delicious blog, the"team" saysthat "No, we are not shutting down Delicious. While we have determined that there is not a strategic fit at Yahoo!, we believe there is a ideal home for Delicious outside of the company where it can be resourced to the level where it can be competitive."And we all know how much you can command on the market for a bookmarking site. They're so damn hard to build. Plus: "In a Thursday e-mail to The Associated Press, Delicious founder Joshua Schachter said he regrets selling his creation to Yahoo [in 2005]."
Nokia has opened up a new front in its patent war with Apple, launching 13 fresh complaints in the UK, Germany and the Netherlands.The Finnish phone maker now accuses Apple of infringing 24 of its patents, including the technology behind touchscreens and on-device app stores.Nokia's fresh complaint – its fourth against Apple –marks an escalation in the 14-month legal battle between the two companies. Apple is also counter-suing Nokia for alleged patent infringements in the UK and US.The rapid adoption of Android smartphones have compounded Nokia's loss of market share, thanks largely to Apple's iPhone. Some analysts see the legal route as a means of "striking back" at the California-based technology leaders.Nail Mawston, head of wireless device strategies at Strategy Analytics research group, said: "Nokia is on the back foot and may see any potential legal fight as a way of striking back at Apple. Wars over patents have become "an increasing part of the [smartphone] landscape", he added."This is part and parcel of the patent wars in the industry where the market is really crowded. Nokia does have a pretty big patent portfolio and they want to keep that as strong as possible."Symptomatic of theindustry-wide wrangles, Apple is also suing manufacturers Motororola, HTC and multiple vendors running Google's Android operating system. Motorola last month announced that it is also suing Microsoft in the tangled web of smartphone litigation.Nick Jones, a mobile analyst at research firm Gartner, said Nokia is playing to its investors by claiming that its technologies were developed more than a decade before the launch of Apple's iPhone. "We have to assume that this escalation in the patent wars is a conscious policy of Nokia's new CEO Steve Elop because you don't sue Apple without telling the CEO," he said.The dispute could rumble on for years, Jones said, adding: "What's Nokia's goal? Money or cross licensing, or both? Probably both, but the timing is interesting."Nokia tell me they have been unsuccessfully attempting to negotiate with Apple for years. But every year you wait Apple's mobile business grows, and my naive view suggests that the potential damages get larger."Nokia spokesman Mark Durrant said he did not expect a quick result and that the first case likely would not go to court until late next year, probably in the Hague, Netherlands."We wanted to be sure that we don't just talk about these in dribs and drabs. There's obviously a lot of action going in some of these cases," he said.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Anyone who has made any attempt to manage their bills and online accounts in one place will know how hard that is, and how many clicks it takes deep inside a site to access all the information you need - let alone pulling that out to try and centralise your finances.brite:bill, which launched in January this year, is the perfect example of clean and efficient technology disrupting a outdated market. It's trying to address that problem for consumers, and it's tackling the problem from the inside out by striking deals with utilities and telecoms firms as well as banks.The back end of most traditional billing systems are based on old and very cumbersome enterprise software that delivers itemised bills often in PDF form, or similarly closed and incompatible systems. brite:bill initially began by focusing on tools for consumers, not unlike Mint.com, that would let users pull in data from their electricity, gas, phone and bank accounts to manage them more efficiently.As they developed the business they realised the best way to make money from their technology would instead be to white label that to companies themselves. Announcing series a funding of €1.2 today, chief executive Alan Coleman said the plans were to expand from eight staff in Ireland and five developers in Shanghai today to as many as 25 staff within 12 months. Marketing and expansion in the UK and Europe will be key, and brite:bill is already making in-roads in the US."The whole thing is about user experience. Firms have traditionally been constrained by their billing engines, but we try to create a more interactive and dynamic experience," said Coleman. "We felt the best way to monetise the technology was to provide that technology to brands, rather than be a consumer brand ourselves."The €1.2m investment was made by the Ulster Bank Diageo Venture Fund, managed by NCB. Seed funding of €400k came from Enterprise Ireland, as well as family and friends. This time next year Coleman said brite:bill is aiming for seven-figure revenues. The competition is two part: account management systems likeMint.com, and on the enterprise side stalwarts likePitney BowesandOracle.Handing over your online finances might seem risky, but Mint et al have been building a solid userbase for at least three years now - very aware that their businesses are defined by the strength of their security. brite:bill's approach is less high profile, licensing their technology behind the scenes. But chances are, with growth this fast, these tools will be behind your online balance some time soon.
Twitter has raised $200m (£128m) in new funds in a deal that values the microblogging platform at $3.7bn. Chief executive Dick Costolo tweeted that the new funding will "help grow Twitter to infinity and beyond'', fuelling rumours that the company may be among the first of the new generation of internet firms to join the stock market.The fundraising comes at the end of a year that has seen huge sums bet on social media companies. Analysts believe a number of them could float next year, generating fortunes for their founders and investors. At $3.7bn, Twitter would be valued as highly as mainstream US media groups such as Gannett and The Washington Post Company.The company has previously denied looking at an initial public offering. But analysts said the size of the new investment, which came mainly from the Silicon Valley venture capital house Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, and the current enthusiasm for social media companies suggested that Twitter was likely to go public sooner rather than later.Sandeep Aggarwal, internet analyst at Caris &amp; Co, said $200m was a lot of money but that, given the firm's phenomenal growth, Twitter would soon need more. "We expect a lot of social media companies will go public next year. These companies have a lot of traction not just with users but with advertisers," he said.Officially, Twitter is giving little detail on how it will spend the cash. In a posting on its corporate blog, the company said: "In the past 12 months, Twitter users sent an astonishing 25bn Tweets and we added more than 100m new registered accounts. In that time, our team has grown from 130 people to more than 350 today."Twitter now has 175 million users, up from 25 million in 2009. Some of the new money is expected to be used to upgrade its systems, recruit staff and expand its offices. The company is believed to be looking for offices in London; Britain is Twitter's second biggest market.At least five other internet firms have received more than $100m in new funds this year, including user-reviews site Yelp and games publisher Zynga, creator of the popular Facebook game FarmVille. Earlier this month, Google is believed to have offered $6bn for Groupon, a company that uses social media to offer group discounts to its users.Facebook, by far the largest social media site, is believed to be planning an IPO that could come as early as next year. Aggarwal said Facebook could be worth more than $40bn, making it more valuable than eBay, Time Warner or Thomson Reuters and putting it on a par with Boeing.The latest investment in Twitter is the second largest sum invested by venture capitalists this year after a $350m investment in Better Place, a company building a network of charging stations for electric vehicles.Twitter also added two new members to its board: Mike McCue who founded Flipboard, one of the hottest iPhone applications of the year, and David Rosenblatt, chief executive of internet advertising company DoubleClick.
Many gamers have already commented on the amazingly lifelike virtual acting in Rockstar'sLA Noire, the much-anticipated detective thriller due out next Spring on Xbox 360 and PS3. Created by Australian studio, Team Bondi, the game is set in and around the seedy underbelly of '40s Los Angeles. Players takes on the role of fresh-faced detective Cory Phelps (played by Mad Men actor Aaron Staton) as he investigates a series of gruesome murders. Raymond Chandler and James Ellroy have been namechecked as influences.This teaser looks into the technology behind the captivating movie sequences, already seen in previous game trailers. Developed byDepth Analysis, the technology powering the lifelike human characters is called MotionScan. It uses 32 HD cameras to surround the actor and record their facial expressions and gestures at 30 frames-per-second. Of course, this is similar to the 'full performance capture' used in games like Heavy Rain, Call of Duty: Black Ops and Force Unleashed II, but it seems Depth Analysis has taken the fidelity to the next level. Apparently, over 400 actors are taking part in the game.Anyway, take a look and let us know what you think.
The 'Google tax' proposed in France hasbeen pushed backby the country's government and will be introduced on 1 July, not 1 January, it has announced. The government said the delay would mean "more time for discussion with those concerned".But guess what? The crucial twist with this story is that until 23 November, the government had been working out how to apply the tax to Google and the other online ad firms in the French market.Until... they realised the tax could not be levied, because of the wayGoogle is registered in Ireland as its primary base. So being based in Ireland means that not only does Google pay a minimal amount of tax, but that it is also dodging this French initiative. Not so much a 'Google tax' then – but a tax onusingGoogle.Photo bySon of Grouchoon Flickr.Some rights reservedWorse, though, is that the government passed the legislation with an amendment that meansadvertisers, rather than ad platforms, will now pay the tax. Needless to say the scheme is deeply controversial, not least with France's small band of web startups. Companies trying to build their businesses through advertising will now be taxed for doing so, which will hit small firms particularly hard.Senator Philippe Marini toldFrance 24that it was felt online advertising should be brought in line with traditional print and broadcast media, which already pay an advertising levy in France. "We wanted to avoid a distortion in competition between other broadcasting means and the web, and this is the only operational means of reaching this value chain – though I am well aware this is not an entirely satisfactory solution."In the same report,Pixmaniaexecutive director Ulric Jerome didn't mince his words, saying "we are paying the price for the fact that the state can't lay its hands on tax evaders".Guillaume Buffet of the industry campaignersRenaissance Numeriqueadded that only 2.1% of the French economy was made up of digital business in 2009, and many of those struggle in the first two years. "Even 1% tax could make the difference between being positive or negative, so this could be leaving a lot of online businesses in the red just as they were about to break even."The government originally estimated it could raise €27m from the tax, which would be used to promote and finance arts and creative projects, but at one point also suggested taxing ISPs, which would increase the figure to about €50m. More recent estimates put that figure at between €10m and €20m.Enders Analysis estimates French online advertising spend for 2009 was €1.9bn for search, display and classified; the latter accounts for 40% in  France compared with 20% in the UK. Of that, it says, Google's 90% share of search advertising helped it gross €530m from French advertisers last year.So what's the solution? The French digital industry is lobbying hard, and appears to have had some success with the six-month delay added, presumably so that the government can try to find some way to get Google to pay.Whether it is fair to tax Google for its success is debatable, but taxing advertisers on the rebound – and penalising small businesses trying to grow –certainlyisn't.
Apple's experiment in bringing the iPhone experience of an "app store" to its computers will begin on Thursday 6 January, the company said today – neatly timing it to distract from any goings-on or keynotes that might be happening at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, whereMicrosoft's Steve Ballmer is expected to give a keynote address.Apple says that "the Mac App Store makes discovering, installing and updating Mac apps easier than ever" – and will do it across 90 (out of the world's 190-odd) countries from launch, featuring paid and free apps in categories such as education, games, graphics &amp; design, lifestyle, productivity and utilities.Apple announced the scheme at its "Back to the Mac event" in October, but didn't give a date for when it would offer the store."The App Store revolutionised mobile apps," said Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, in a statement. "We hope to do the same for PC apps with the Mac App Store by making finding and buying PC apps easy and fun. We can't wait to get started on January 6."Microsoft would probably bristle at that "PC apps" title, since it would regard itself as controlling PCs; Apple just has whatever slice you care to argue about of the desktop and laptop market.But in bringing a similar experience to the computer desktop as is already available on the iPhone and bigger iPad, Apple is going one step closer to Jobs's idea of the computer as appliance – which seems to be something that some developers, at least, like. Developers will be able to set their own prices, but Apple will – as on the iPhone app store – keep 30% of the revenue (though charging nothing for free apps).In return, though, developers get a direct line to the user, who may hope to be able to trust these better than those found all over the place online – although Apple apps still have an extremely low number of malicious (or even badly-behaved) apps.Apps you probably won't be able to buy through the App Store? Well, pretty much anything that uses Adobe's cross-platform AIR product, because of their demand for separate installers that would then run on the user's machine. Apple doesn't allow that. Apps have to be self-contained – there's even a ban on apps that have in-app purchases.So it may be a brave new interesting world. The success of the iPhone app store, though, suggests that it may attract many more developers who will see the 20m-odd Mac users as a potential captive market. And there's no doubt that whoever can produce the equivalent ofAngry Birdsfor the Mac is going to strike it rich. We wouldn't be surprised in fact if Rovio were working on that right now.
Keys swappedI wonder if you can explain an oddity on my keyboard. On occasions I try to type the pound sign (£) but instead it prints the hash/number sign (#). Also, when I use the hash/number sign, it prints a backslash which is non-existent on my keyboard. The only way out is to leave it until the next day and then things are normal.Jack GriffithsYou have accidentally switched from the UK to the US keyboard in Microsoft Windows. In fact, you can toggle between the two layouts by pressing Alt-Shift. It's easy to do this by accident so the problem comes up often. If you turn your PC off at night, it will restart with the correct settings, so the problem may appear self-correcting.Caps UnlockIs there an easy way to disable the caps lock, which is more trouble than it is worth?Brian NicolYou can disable caps lock by changing settings in the Windows registry, but it's a complex one. However, Kelly's Korner provides a tiny Basic program,caplock.vbs, that will do the job. Look for the right-hand entry on row 163:Disable/Enable Caps Lock or the Insert Key.Mailing lnksMy PC has suddenly started to add a .lnk extension to any attachments that I send by email. Can I reverse this, as the recipients can't open the attachments.Tom CorbyWhen you use the menu to insert a file attachment in Outlook Express, you must navigate to select the actual file on your hard drive. As it is, you're send people links to files, but the links only work on your PC, not on theirs. A simpler solution is to use Windows Explorer to find the file then drag-and-drop it into the message. However, Outlook Express is obsolescent: Microsoft replaced it with Windows Live Mail when Vista appeared. The desktop versions synchronises with Live Hotmail and other services, has a photo emailing feature, an RSS reader and many other features. It's part of the much-improvedWindows Live Essentials 2011suite. Think about upgrading.Registry cleanersAre registry cleaners/fixers any good at what they do? I've just tried three, including Comodo and CCleaner, and the results are all very different!Seymour PopeckI replied to a similar query aboutregistry cleaninglast year and I've not had reason to change my views. In fact, they're reinforced by Microsoft's Mark Russinovic, a leading expert on Windows internals (read the comment byBill Castner). I useCCleaner(free) and I would expect a Comodo product to be OK. TheWisecleaner is also worth a look. However, registry cleaners generally don't make much difference nowadays.Anti-spywareI have a four-year-old Dell D510 laptop. Can you please recommend any good reliable spyware removal software? My preference will be for a freeware if possible.SenthilMost if not all anti-virus programs now try to remove spyware and other types of malware, so there's less need for separate anti-spyware programs. However, if you think your current anti-malware software might have missed something, run the free versions ofMalwarebytes Anti-Malware(quick scan) andSuperAntiSpyware. Both programs come in free and paid-for versions.
What kind of year has 2010 been for Facebook?Well, for one, the bottom line is booming. Facebook has smashed its targets for 2010,Bloombergreports, with sales doubling since 2009 and set to reach $2bn by the end of the year. That puts Facebook on a par with the financial acceleration of Google, and ahead of Yahoo.Facebook has had no trouble attracting big name advertisers including Coke, Adidas and JP Morgan, and – with only a fewteething troubles– it is the poster child for the social media phenomenon that consumers love. For the established forms of web advertising, and the more imaginative engagement campaigns that Facebook does so well, there's already a mighty machine in operation.Perhaps more astonishing is that Facebook seems to have hardly begun exploiting the real potential of its network through targeted ads. We all regularly see uncomfortable and rather crudely targeted ads (I'm an unmarried mother and keep receiving ads for engagement rings... though that wasn't as bad as the baldness ones) but these are Facebook's way of gently training us; we're growing slowly accustomed to better targeting. Facebook's attempts to 'step up' activity in this area have never gone down well – likeBeacon, which tracked the activity of users on third-party sites and shared it. Assuming Facebook can eventually successfully navigate the many privacy concerns around use of private data – and that's a big assumption – there's billions more to be made.As Screen Digest analyst Dan Cryan described it this week, there are three key areas in online advertising: display, where value is generally declining in all but the most premium video ads; search, where Google is pre-eminent; and social. "There is vast potential in distributed targeting of ads and Facebook shows every sign of positioning itself to take control of that market."It has hardly begun. Like Sarumanspawning his armyof Uruk-hai in Lord of the Rings: Two Towers, Facebook is still building its army."The old world will burn in the fires of industry... a new order will rise!"Moving on – two major notches for Facebook's PR bedpost.Zuckerberg: Time's person of the yearThe first is that founder Mark Zuckerberg has topped Time's list ofperson of the year.The whole conceit seems strangely dated, and is arguably more highly prized by PR professionals than anyone else. In Zuckerberg's case, those tense and highly managed media interventions (remember that agonisingsweaty interview?) seem to have become ever more bland and ever less revealing, but that hasn't diluted the power of Facebook to fascinate the press. If anything it intensifies the interest for the media, who battle to find new angles and 'the real story' from a company becoming more corporate. Zuckerberg is now media trained to the extent where little he says has much insight because it's all so safe.In any case, whatever the Team Facebook PR strategy, the power of the (largely unflattering) Social Network has propelled Zuckerberg's star ever higher.The gossip had been that Julian Assange would win Time's person of the year. It's a shame, though no surprise, that Time bottled it.Far less controversial and strategically traffic-generating to do orgiastic coverage with photo galleries ofFacebook's offices, theyoung Zuckerbergand (my own personal favourite) inside aFacebook server farm. There's alsoanother of those interviewswith Zuckerberg where he says all that stuff about 'helping people connect' and 'social graphiness'. He ventures dangerously near something interesting by starting to talk about WikiLeaks ... but then backs off.This is all topped off with a surprisinglyzingy front cover portrait: like Zuckerberg, but with turquoise eyes and major freckles. Easy with the Photoshop, people.Scroll a littlefurther down the page, and you might splutter into your coffee when you see the losers left in Zuckerberg's wake:Assange, along with theTea Party,Hamid Karzaiand theChilean miners. Did anyone think it might look a little farcical to line these horses up in the same race?Photo byBob Jagendorfon Flickr.Some rights reservedStealing more of Google's thunderRemember how those surveys about the world's best places to work always used to be topped by Google? The Google with that free canteen, gym, dogs at work, blah blah blah? Not any more, because now – adding to Google's steady loss of Silicon Valley kudos – Facebook is now the best place to work in the world.Glassdoor has published its list annually for three years now: last year Southwest Airlines won, with Apple at 20 and Google at 30. Zuckerberg himself was given a 96% approval rating by employees, and Facebook scored 4.6 out of 5 based on scores covering morale, benefits, work/life balance, communication, career opportunities, fairness and feedback.Former Google staffer David Braginsky, now at Facebook, wrote recently how Google has some problems of scale, and that Facebook is younger, more agile and&nbsp; your work can have more impact. Google has roughly 23,300 employees – Facebook has about 1,700.Facebook's super-fast ethos was summed up well by a former Google staffer who left to join Facebook. "I had checked in code on my first day there, and it was pushed to the live site the next day," he wrote in an online discussion. That ethos runs throughout the company, as epitomised inthis photoof a wall in Facebook's Hyderabad office with the slogan: "Done is better than perfect."It's not all perfect though. Braginsky says the perks are better at Google, which is where the scale shows. Google has about 30 cafes on campus, gyms, a dance studio, ski trips and mobile giveaways. Facebook has a subsidised laundry service.Must try harder.Photo byRob Boudonon Flickr.Some rights reserved
The film industry opened a new legal front in the battle against online piracy in the UK yesterday, filing an injunction forcing BT – the country's biggest broadband provider – to block access to a website that links to sites hosting illegal copies of movies and TV shows.The Motion Picture Association, the trade body representing Hollywood studios outside the US, is attempting to force BT to block access to Newzbin2, an offshore website that allows users to access pirated content via its Usenet indexing service. Newzbin2 does not host the illegal content itself, but links to sites that do.The MPA is using section 97A of the UK Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, which provides for possible injunctions against internet intermediaries. Section's 97A is the UK's implementation of article 8.3 of the EU Copyright Directive, which has not previously formed the basis for legal action in this country.It has been used to force ISPs to block sites involved in distributing pirated content in Denmark and there are cases pending in Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium.The move represents a new legal avenue being used by copyright owners' in their battle to force UK ISPs to co-operate in cracking down on internet piracy.ISPs such as BT and TalkTalk are opposed to parts of the Digital Economy Act, which could force them to hand over the IP addresses of suspected illegal filesharers to rights holders, once they obtain a court order.In March the MPA won a high court copyright infringement case against Newzbin, a UK-based Usenet indexing website that was ordered to pay damages and to filter out all links to pirated movies and TV shows owned by the companies represented by the MPA.After this ruling the operator of the site, Newzbin Ltd, went into administration without paying any damages. Financial details revealed during the high court case showed that Newzbin had a turnover of more than £1m, a profit in excess of £360,000 and paid dividends on ordinary shares of £415,000, in 2009.Shortly after Newzbin went into administration Newzbin2 launched, a site that appears to be a copy or clone of the original, but is now based overseas with anonymous operators and is charging for premium subscriptions. The new site is hosted in Sweden and apparently registered in the US.The owners of Newzbin claim they have nothing to do with the new site.A group known as Team R Dogshas claimed to be behind Newzbin2, according to the filesharing news website TorrentFreak.Chris Marcich, the president and managing director of the MPA in Europe, said the continued operation of Newzbin2 "flies in the face of the previous judgment by the high court"."Therefore we feel it is necessary to invoke 97A to seek the co-operation of the internet service provider, in this case BT, through a court order to stop the infringing activity via their services," Marcich added."Like all other content providers, we need co-operation from key stakeholders to ensure that a legitimate content market can flourish. Legitimate content markets help everyone: they enable the creators to keep their jobs and protect their work, provide tax revenues and ensure the content provided to consumers is high quality," he said.A BT spokesperson said: "We can confirm that we have received the papers from the MPA and are reviewing them. We will respond in due course."In March the high court judge, Mr Justice Kitchin, limited the injunction granted to the MPA against the original Newzbin operation to removing indexing of copyright-infringing content posted on Usenet that was owned by the UK film body's members.Kitchin declined to accept the MPA's bid for a wider injunction banning all pirated content. This may prove to be a hurdle for the MPA in securing an order to block internet access to Newzbin2.
Yes, I know. But I thought this was quite amusing, if only for the trend it may start. A London gym has started some workout classes based on the new Tron Evolution game. The, er, Tronjitsu class is, "heavily influenced by the free running and martial arts movements featured in the video game".I've not played Tron Evolution yet, so can't comment on how accurate the moves are, but maybe this is the start of a new game workout trend. OK, probably not, but let's pretend for a moment. What other game brands would serve as the basis for a gym class? Maybe a Gears of War class could see you lunging into "cover"? Maybe an Enslaved based climbing class? Anyway, what do you think?
The Grammys, America's foremost musical awards institution, has no Best Video Game Soundtrack category – and Steve Schnur, worldwide executive of music at Electronic Arts, isn't happy. Quotedon MCV yesterdayhe exclaimed,I've been spearheading a campaign to get the Grammy Awards to recognise 'Best Video Game Score' as its own category rather than its current position in 'Best Score for a Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media'," said EA's music boss Steve Schnur.This generalisation of 'Other Visual Media' isn't merely an insult to the games industry, but a blatant dismissal of these musicians and composers. Hopefully, NARAS will take a page from BAFTA and give games the respect and recognition they deserve.Does he have a point?In this context, I'm not sure. For a start, the Grammy Awards already has a buttock-deadening109categories, so further sub-dividing one of them will only add to the suffering of the audience. Plus, it will inevitably lead to claims that Film and TV should be separated from each other, too, and then other genres might get in on the act, with enraged Bluegrass Gospel proponents demanding a separate category from those noise merchants over in the Southern Gospel camp.As for the generalising 'Other Visual Media' tag, Schnur's indignation is academic unfortunatley as all the nominations come from films anyway – just as they did the year before. And this is possibly the real meat of the compaint: is game music really genuinely getting a proper look in beside movie soundtracks?There have of course been some beautiful video game soundtracks over the last 30 years. Square Enix, the creator of the Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy adventure titles, takes enormous pride in its audio, with composers like Koichi Sugiyama (widely considered the godfather of orchestral game music), Nobuo Uematsu and Hitoshi Sakimoto producing lavish CD albums to accompany major releases, often including different instrumentations. The music has been performed live by orchestras all over the world, most notably perhaps in the officialDistant Worldstour. The most recent title in the series, Final Fantasy XIII, even featured a track by Leona Lewis, which can be viewed either as cultural high or depressing low depending on your standpoint.The Square Enix titles are far from alone in their native Japan, where game soundtracks are treated, you know, seriously. Almost all music, comic and book stores will have sections dedicated to game music, and major pop stars of the region regularly provide vocals. There's a huge diversity, too, from the sweeping orchestral works of Sugiyama and co (and while I'm at it, track down a copy of Kō Ōtani's Roar of the Earth, the lovely soundtrack to Shadow of the Colossus) to bubblegum J-pop and weird electronica. Just compare, for example, the work of Uematsu with the demented soundtracks to Katamari Damacy or Vib Ribbon – though none of this will come anywhere near the Grammy radar, of course.Since the dawn of CD Rom technology licensed soundtracks have tended to prevail in the West. Before this, we had amazing composers like Martin Galway, Rob Hubbard and Tim Follin, squeezing beautiful sounds from the limited chipsets of ancient 8bit computers. Later, there was game music superstar Tommy Tallarico, who cranked out hundreds of soundtracks during the nineties. And even amidst our licensed compilation era, there have been some astounding pieces, including soundtrack composer Barrington Pheloung's music for the Broken Sword games, British musician Richard Jacques' huge body of work for Sega, Hans Zimmer's debut video game effort for Modern Warfare 2, and James Hannigan's highly cinematic scores for the Harry Potter games. Hannigan recently oversaw an amazing performance of his game audio at the ancient St Mary's Church in Nottingham as part of the GameCity festival.Elsewhere, we've had Trent Raznor's typically industrial clangings for legendary shooter, Quake; Kyle Gabler'scalming ambience for his own game, World of Goo; and Anamanaguchi's crazed chiptune punk for Scott Pilgrim vs The World. And this year saw an utterly evocative score for Rockstar's Western adventure, Red Dead Redemption, written and performed by Bill Elm and Woody Jackson of experimental Texan group, Friends of Dean Martinez. The fact that this brilliant US-made soundtrack, created for a massively successful US-developed game, failed to even earn a nomination is the most damning indictment of the Grammy set-up. (BTW, You can ready my feature about the making of the Red Dead soundtrackhere.)Really, what this puffed up old awards ceremony needs is not a separate category for games, which would be an admittance that game scores can't compete with their movie counterparts, it's a greater understanding and appreciation of game audio as an artform. As the composers and sound engineers at LucasArts explainedwhen I visted Skywalker Ranch earlier this year, writing game compositions is a complex undertaking, because the music needs to be modular, it has to match the player actions, which means moments of calm have to segue, in an instant, into emotional highs as an interactive battle takes place. Movie composers know exactly what the audience will be seeing at any given point. Game composers have to think, like game artists do, in three dimensions.But then this is the Grammys where Katy Perry is up for Best Album of the Year with Teenage Dream. I think Steve Schnur would be better off setting up his own award ceremony.So anyway, I've got to ask: what have beenyourfavourite game soundtracks? And which have been deserving of wider recognition?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
But did you zero the hard drive? Photo byyoungthousandson Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAppinions Offers App to Automatically Analyze Torrent of WikiLeaks Documents &gt;&gt; PRNewswire"Obviously, we hope that no additional harmful information is released," says Larry Levy, Appinions' co-founder and chief executive. "However, we should be prepared for the deluge that is threatened. We have configured our W3 application to extract the emotive information contained in these cables in real time so it can be acted upon immediately."Obviously, we'd be fascinated to know what Senator Joe Lieberman thinks of its plans.Non-personal computing: sketching a multi-user UI for the iPad &gt;&gt; Blog – BERGThe iPad is caught in a strange netherworld: it seems like it should have multi-user facilities, but iOS isn't really about that. It's only just got multitasking.Destroying disk drive data: No sledge hammer required &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityYou know that stuff about having to write over the hard drive multiple times to properly wipe it? Hasn't been true since 2001. A single write with zeros will do it.Haters Gonna Hate: The Psyche of the Tech Zealot &gt;&gt; SavageLook.comObviously, this doesn't apply to anyone who comments here. But just in case you ever visit another site...Hackers steal McDonald's customer data &gt;&gt; ComputerworldThis report has been binging around the web for a couple of days now, and it still makes no sense: the details include the home address and phone number. No credit card or SSN or other data.What are the hackers going to do - ring the people up and slurp through a straw at them?Raceonline ONS figures are a con! &gt;&gt; I Don't Feel 50Fascinating bit of detective work that makes the point that some of the unconnected will simply die before they ever connect to the net. This doesn't, of course, get around the problem of people in low-income families who can't afford access. That's what Race2012 is really aimed at - but that aim isn't helped by statistics-tweaking numbers in press releases.Smartphone Browser Landscape &gt;&gt; A List ApartVery detailed look at the differences between the smartphone browsers. Bet you don't guess which is the most used browser on smartphones worldwide. Guess first, no peeking.London Healthcare Benchmarking Tool &gt;&gt; London NHSAnother outgrowth from the London Datastore, this time letting you find out how your local hospital measures up against national standards. If you're in London, that is.Some Symbian Sanity - why Nokia will not join Google Android or Microsoft Phone 7 &gt;&gt; Tomi AhonenThe slightly exhausting Tomi Ahonen, a longtime Nokia flagwaver: "There is overlap yes, between Apple's and Nokia's businesses, but only covering a small part of the businesses - of either rival."Nokia's main rivals are the other 'big 5' handset makers, which used to be Motorola, LG, Samsung and Sony Ericsson (about 18-24 months ago, just in the last year, RIM, ZTE and Apple have been juggling to fit into the Top 5). The other former Big 5 handset makers were all big giant makers of 'dumbphones' before the smartphone was invented (by Nokia). So that is where Nokia's main competition is. If Nokia focused only on its smartphones, Nokia would abandon 300 million basic phones per year to the competition - notice, that amount of Nokia branded 'dumbphone' devices is as big as the global PC industry."True, though I don't think he's right in saying that Symbian was developed from the ground up for mobile phones: you'd think he'd know it evolved from Psion's EPOC.Forecast: 19 Million Notebooks Lost to Tablet Cannibalization (Meaning iPad) in 2011 | John Paczkowski &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"During its last earnings call, Apple noted that over 65 percent of the Fortune 100 have deployed or are piloting the iPad. With that in mind, some analysts have begun to reassess the cannibalization rate of tablets on the notebook industry, and the numbers that Goldman Sachs analyst Bill Shope has come up with are pretty interesting."He figures tablet unit shipments will jump to 54.7m in 2011, with 35% PC unit cannibalization, and to 79.2m in 2012, with 33% cannibalization. Overall, he expects 19.1m notebook units to be lost to tablets in 2011, and 26.1m to be lost in 2012."The really interesting thing being that this cannibalisation will occur principally in the US and Europe, where the PC market is already pretty saturated. PC makers' growth markets are in the east noInafune founds new studio | Games Industry | MCVThe internet goes to war &gt;&gt; Arbor Networks SecurityWhile the Wikileaks and retaliatory attacks may not represent the start of "cyberwar", governments clearly view cyberspace as the battlefield of the future. The trend towards militarization of the Internet and DDoS used as means of protest, censorship, and political attack is cause for concern (the world was a simpler place when DDoS was mainly driven by crime, irc spats and hacker bragging rights). Overall, DDoS fueled by the growth of professional adversaries, massive botnets and increasingly sophisticated attack tools poses a real danger to the network and our increasing dependence on the Internet.Design disaster: Coventry Health Care My Online Services: User RegistrationAnother reason not to get ill in the US: you might have to fill out forms like this incomprehensible one.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
ClassicsGaming familiesFor familes who already own an Xbox console the Kinect (£129) will be the obvious extension – with fitness games such as Your Shape (£32.69) and kids' games such as Kinectimals (£32.99), it extends the Xbox's appeal. Beware, though: if you've got less than 9ft in front of your TV, the motion controller doesn't work properly.Traditional gamersFor the more traditional gamer, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood (£36.99) has the stunning visuals and gameplay expected of the series. It does have a 15 certificate, but if you're a parent buying it for a teenager you can console yourself that they'll learn a little bit of history – or at least historical architecture – along the way.Gamers who have everythingHowever serious you are about games,  there are always one or two you've missed. Some careful inquiries should establish whether the gamer in your life owns brilliant compilation The Orange Box (£10-13), Batman: Arkham Asylum (£10-13 Platinum edition), Grand Theft Auto IV (£13-21 Platinum edition) or Uncharted 2 (£21.19 Platinum edition), a great one to play before the release of the third game in the series next year.Reluctant gamersIf there's still a working PlayStation 2 in the house, there are a slew of classic titles they might have missed, chief among them the astonishing, Ico (around £25 used) and Shadow of the Colossus (around £18 used). A digital remaster of both games for the PlayStation 3 is coming in spring 2011, though: it's never too early to get ideas for next Christmas.Naomi AldermanNew releasesOlder teenagersCall of Duty: Black OpsPC, PS3, Xbox 360, £55This year's must-have shooter: exhilarating non-stop action and  a decent cold war plot.Younger teenagersDance CentralXbox 360, £40Brilliant dance simulator, which tests Microsoft's new Kinect controller to the limit.Little brother or sisterDisney Epic MickeyWii, £40An unexpectedly well-crafted action adventure, buzzing with Disney magic.MotherProfessor Layton and the Lost FutureNintendo DS, £40Another fiendish adventure puzzler, perfect for fans of classic crime fiction.FatherFootball Manager 2011PC, Mac, £40An incredibly in-depth management sim – no armchair Alex Ferguson should be without it.Keith Stuart
Certainly one of the games I am really looking forward to in 2011, Deus Ex: Human Revolution is looking very promising. The latest trailer gives an idea of the story and has a nice Blade Runner vibe. The voiceover feels a bit Alan Wake too. Anyway, will it live up to my - our? - expectations? We'll find out next summer.
In one year "HMU" has gone from a handful of appearances a month on Facebook to 80,000 a day. It has spread like wildfire among American school kids and college-goers, but what doesthe social networking site's fastest-growing status updatemean? And how come no one  I know has ever heard of it?Is it a dress code: Hitler  Moustaches Unsuitable? An  imperative: Hide My Underwear? Or is it a call to arms for freelance detectives: Heinous Murder  Unsolved? Might it be, as the  website Urban Dictionary  suggests, a male fashion item: Hot Man Underpants? (Citation: "Omg! Freddie is wearing hmu!")Could the answer lie in some  of the other trending topics:  Justin Bieber (His Mother's  Unforgivable? His Music's  Unlistenable?); the World Cup (Hitler's Myopic Umpire!); the Chilean Miners (Hola Miners  Underground)?Alas, the answer is altogether duller. It stands for Hit Me Up. Which, of course, raises a second question: what on earth does Hit Me Up mean? Wake me violently? Send me popular songs from the 1980s? Beat me into a state of arousal with a cricket bat like  the naughty little boy I am? We're getting sidetracked here.Once again, the answer is a lot less interesting. According to  a Facebookblog, it just means "get in touch". Wildly popular during summer break when  "the demographic" was "looking to hang out most nights", once term time started again it became a less used "weekend-oriented request".So now we know. But if you do fancy a bit of S&amp;M, HMU.
The Metropolitan police is to investigate recent online attacks on companies – including Visa, MasterCard and PayPal – that have cut ties with the whistleblowing site WikiLeaks.Scotland Yard today said that for several months it has been examining a number of alleged criminal offences by Anonymous, the loose-knit group committed to bringing down sites perceived to be acting against WikiLeaks.Downing Street was this week preparing to face a major attack on its sites from the group after Swedish prosecutors challenged the decision to grant bail to the WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange, over charges of alleged sex crimes in Sweden.TheSwedish prosecution office's website, aklagare.se,was attacked for 11 hoursovernight on Tuesday after itmaintained it would press for Assange to be extradited.The so-called "distributed denial of service" (DDoS) attacks, which bring down sites by overpowering them with repeated requests to load, are illegal in the UK.The Met said today: "Earlier this year the Metropolitan police received a number of allegations of denial of service cyber attacks against several companies by a group calling themselves Anonymous. We are investigating these criminal allegations and our investigation is ongoing."The Metropolitan police service is monitoring the situation relating to recent and ongoing denial of service attacks, and will investigate where appropriate."Anonymous leapt to the support of WikiLeaks after Amazon and other companies terminated business links with the site. The1,000-strong group of activists launched what they called Operation Payback, vowing to give perceived anti-WikiLeaks firms a "black eye".Visa, MasterCard, PayPal and the company that hosted WikiLeaks were all brought offline after cutting ties with the whistleblowing website.Although WikiLeaks has been careful not to support or admonish the cyber-war being waged on its behalf, Assange this week called for all supporters to defend WikiLeaks from "instruments of foreign policy", among which he specifically named the credit card companies.At least three people, including two Dutch teenagers, have been arrested in the past week on suspicion of participating in the attacks. Most of those involved in the group are believed to be teenagers, based around the world including in the UK.Experts estimate that about 90% of the group launch their attacks using an application called Low Orbit Ion Cannon (LOIC), downloads of which grew substantially last week. Although the group affects to have no hierarchy, operating in what it calls "organised chaos", documents have come to light that suggest a nucleus of decision-makers decides which sites to target.An attack that exposed the email addresses and passwords of 1.3 million Gawker usershas been linked to an Anonymous splinter group. The FBI is to investigate the incident.• An earlier version of this article mistakenly identified EasyDNS as the hosting provider that cut ties with WikiLeaks. This should have referred to the hosting provider EveryDNS.
Tuesday, 08 September 2009, 05:22UNCLAS SECTION 01 OF 04 STOCKHOLM 000569SIPDISSENSITIVEEO 12958N/ATAGSENRG, EUN, ECON, EIND, KGHG, SENV, SWSUBJECT:  SWEDISH DEPUTY PM URGES SENIOR USG VISITS TO SWEDEN DURINGEU PRESIDENCY; WANTS TO LAUNCH U.S.-EU ALERNATIVE ENERGY PARTNERSHIP AT U.S.-EU SUMMITThis is an Action request. Please see para 2.1. (SBU) Summary: On September 2, Deputy Prime Minister Olofsson pressed for the strong U.S.-Sweden cooperation in alternative technology to show results. She urged a ministerial-level U.S. official come to the October 14-16 Informal meeting of EU Competitiveness Ministers to present U.S. efforts to transform the United States into an eco-efficient economy -- or another event during the Presidency. Olofsson's State Secretary Altera explained that Sweden wants to expand the U.S.-EU alternative energy partnership to the EU level, and needs to work intensely to launch this effort at the US-EU summit planned for early November. The meeting ended with a conversation of the challenge of convincing young people not to share files illegally via the internet. End Summary.2. (U) ACTION REQUEST: The USG is currently batting 0 for 8 in responding to Swedish invitations for minister-level attendance at EU meetings. Post requests Washington's help in securing a senior USG official visit to a suitable Presidency event in Sweden during this fall. End Action request------  -Plea for Senior U.S. Official to Attend EU Informal Ministerial on Competitiveness-------3. (SBU) On September 1, the Ambassador paid a courtesy call on Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Enterprise and Energy Maud Olofsson, the Swedish official at the forefront of the robust U.S.-Swedish cooperation in alternative technology through the "One Big Thing" alternative energy partnership, and related programs. Olofsson explained the main theme of Sweden's EU Presidency, transformation to an eco-efficient economy, i.e. achieving economic growth while reducing green house gas emissions. (Comment: Sweden is a proven leader in this area having grown its economy 46 percent between 1992 and 2008, while reducing its green house gas emissions by 9 percent.)4. (SBU) Sweden has held a series of EU-related meetings and Informal Ministerials to promote eco-efficiency, including a July 2009 meeting of Ministers for Energy and Environment. The Swedish government has invited White House, cabinet-level and sub-cabinet level U.S. officials to these events to present U.S. efforts to the informal gatherings of European Ministers, but so far none have been able to come. (Comment: It is unprecedented for an EU Presidency host to invite USG officials of any level to their informal ministerial meetings. During the Swedish Presidency, there have been a flood of such invitations. This may have to do with Foreign Minister Carl Bildt's personal predilection, now shared by his fellow Ministers, to shake things up and to do things differently. While USG officials may have been surprised by such invitations, we should seriously consider taking advantage of the unprecedented opportunity the Swedes have given us. End Comment)5. (SBU) Olofsson said it is time to see results from strong U.S.-Swedish cooperation in clean technology in line with efforts toward a climate change agreement in Copenhagen and the new U.S. Administration's investment in new alternative energy technology.6. (SBU) Olofsson noted that Sweden would have liked a senior U.S. official to attend some of the meetings at the July 2009 EU Informal Ministerial in Are of Energy and Environment Ministers in order to be part of the dialog on eco-efficiency and tell the EU Ministers what is happening in the United States.7. (U) Olofsson said her priority is to have a Ministerial-level U.S. official attend the Informal Meeting of EU Competiveness Ministers in Umea, Sweden on October 14-16. She stressed the importance of showing European Ministers that developing a green economy is a U.S. priority.8. (U) Note on Invitations Extended to USG officials:The Embassy is aware of the following USG officials being invited by the Swedish EU Presidency to present to EU Informal Ministerial meetings in Sweden:Secretary of Energy Chu Deputy Secretary of Energy Poneman Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Browner Secretary of Labor Solis Secretary of Health Sebelius Secretary of Homeland Security Napolitano Secretary Clinton Deputy Secretary Lew Special Envoy SternSTOCKHOLM 00000569 002 OF 004Of those, the invitations Secretary Clinton, Deputy Secretary Lew and Special Envoy Stern to attend EU Development Days October 22-24 are still pending. The other invitations were declined.In addition, Sweden has invited Assistant Secretary-level and other U.S. officials.Assistant Secretary of Energy Zoi invited to the EU Strategic Energy Plan conference October 20-21, invitation still pending.Assistant Secretary of State for Africa Carson represented the USG at the U.S.-EU Troika Meeting on Africa July 14Assistant Secretary for European and Eurasian Affairs Phil Gordon represented the U.S. at the U.S.-EU Political Director Troika on July 3.Department of Homeland Security Deputy Secretary Lute visited Sweden at the U.S. initiative for bilateral discussions, which was much appreciated by the GOS.Other U.S. officials who have visited recently at the U.S. initiative for bilateral consultations with Sweden related to the Swedish EU Presidency include:Special Envoy for Eurasian Energy Morningstar Special Advisor for the Great Lakes Region of Africa Wolpe Treasury Assistant Secretary CohenEnd Note-----Need to See Results From U.S. Interest in Green Technology-----9. (U) Olofsson said she discussed eco-efficiency with U.S. Energy Secretary Chu. She noted that there was a lot of "low hanging fruit" where the U.S. and Sweden could get results, such as cooperation in building technologies and transport systems. She said the challenge was to find proactive cooperation between U.S. and Swedish businesses on concrete projects in the U.S. and Europe. She said possible areas for business collaboration included building sustainable cities, and rebuilding in older communities, such as the sustainable development project in Stockholm's formerly run-down Hammarby district. Olofsson invited U.S. officials to call her to propose projects.10. (U) Olofsson suggested that Sweden could perhaps arrange an eco-efficient activity in the years ahead to promote business and innovation. Altera noted that the way to do this was to ask for practical advice from businessmen on productive areas. The U.S. side noted that U.S. firms are in the forefront of many of these areas, such as energy efficiency and improved housing construction.-------Taking the U.S.-Sweden Alternative Energy Partnership to the EU Level-------11. (U) Olofsson noted that U.S.-Sweden cooperation included extending the U.S.-Sweden Alternative Energy Partnership to the EU level. Her State Secretary Ola Altera explained how said Sweden was ready to launch the Next Big Thing (NBT), the U.S.-EU Alternative Energy Partnership, and wanted to launch it at the U.S.-EU Summit planned for early November.12. (U) Altera said he had consulted his State Secretary colleagues, Gustav Lind in the PM's office and MFA's Frank Belfrage, and everyone agreed that Sweden should be talking to the European Commission about NBT.13. (SBU) Altera said the Swedish EU Presidency is positive to both U.S. energy initiatives, NBT and the U.S.-EU Energy Council, and to the broad approach behind both efforts. He said Sweden's priority is NBT, technology, research, entrepreneurship of alternative technology, and being results-oriented. He said Sweden does not want to see these efforts bogged down by geo-political discussions of the security side of the energy issue. Therefore, he said, if NBT can be part of the U.S.-Energy Council that would be good, but we should drop that link if it would bog down work on NBT.14. (SBU) Altera also noted the value of the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC), but said Sweden wants to avoid the risk of bogging down NBT if it is "run through people in Brussels."15. (SBU) Altera said we need to work intensely to get NBT as aSTOCKHOLM 00000569 003 OF 004result of the U.S.-EU Summit. He said it would be important for the NBT, U.S.-EU Energy Council or "whatever we call it" to meet before Christmas 2009 in order to set the course, and get the effort started.16. (U) Altera said his Ministry was taking a pragmatic approach to launching the NBT, listening to various views. When the U.S. side suggested that NBT needed to be distilled down so it could be absorbed into the systems of other countries, Altera referred to practical meetings on the U.S.-Sweden Alternative Energy Partnership held between U.S. and Swedish business that helped shape the successful bilateral U.S.-Sweden alternative energy partnership. Olofsson said Sweden could arrange meetings to connect companies as part of the US-EU alternative energy partnership, and even co-finance projects if that is needed. Referring to her government's report on eco-efficient economies (which is at the link www.se2009.eu/polopoly_fs/1.6629 !menu/standard/file/A%20European% 20Eco%20Efficient%20Economy.pdf), Olofsson said we should pick out areas in the forefront of this effort for such cooperation.17. (U) Finally, Altera noted that NBT does not replace the strong U.S.-Sweden bilateral cooperation on alternative energy.18. (SBU) Comment: Following the meeting, the Embassy got additional details about Swedish plans for launching the NBT from Maria Brogren at the Energy Division of the Ministry. She noted that the European Council had ordered the Commission to give its opinion on the U.S.-proposed U.S.-EU Energy Council. She repeated that her government's first priority and preference would be to launch NBT at the U.S.-EU Summit with participation by Secretary Chu, Secretary Clinton, Minister Olofsson and Foreign Minister Bildt. She said Sweden would like to see that foursome present for the first meeting of the Energy Council. But, she said, if geopolitics bogs down the Energy Council, Sweden would want to move on the technology sub group effort of the Energy Council by launching the Next Big Thing and later folding it into the technology working group of the Energy Council. End Comment.-------Bridging the Gap on Illegal File Sharing------19. (SBU)The Ambassador concluded the meeting by raising intellectual property rights, since Olofsson's party (the Center Party) is the one member of the ruling coalition least supportive of U.S. efforts to improve Sweden's efforts against illegal file sharing. Olofsson said there are discussions within the government about putting more legislation in place against file sharing. While legislation is needed, and Sweden follows European level legislation, she argued that a solution should not only be left to politicians via legislation. The problem was a market failure, the lack of a product that people could easily access at a reasonable price. Many young people, she said, think that all file sharing is free. It is hard to change their perception of the rules. Olofsson said she wanted artists and creative people to be paid for their ideas, but we need to create a market solution that is easy for people to follow.20. (SBU) The U.S. side countered that as knowledge-based economies, both the U.S. and Sweden have a lot to loose from illegal file sharing. We need to make this public debate about the artists being stolen from.21. (SBU) Olofsson noted that Nokia and Ericsson have introduced new services to share products while paying the artists, which is good. We need to find a way to pay artists property, not just to pass legislation, she repeated.22. (SBU) Olofsson said we need to understand how young people see the problem. We should talk about what is happening now, not just pass legislation, she stressed.She pointed to the success of Sweden's Pirate Party in the European Parliamentary elections as an example of that young people "do not trust us." She said the Pirate Party attracted voters from both the right and the left, and the Pirate Party MEP now has two advisors, one with a background in the Left Party, and one from a neo-liberal party.------Final Comment-----23. (SBU) The request for help in securing a senior USG official visit to Sweden during the remaining months of the Presidency was a direct plea for help. Olofsson said that she is hopeful that the USG will be able to demonstrate the importance it attaches to the bilateral links in the Alternative energy area by actually sending a senior official to a meeting where the Swedes host its European partners. End comment.BARZUN
Wednesday, 10 June 2009, 13:42UNCLAS SECTION 01 OF 02 STOCKHOLM 000355SIPDISDEPT PLEASE PASS TO USTR FOR DAVID WEINEREO 12958N/ATAGSPGOV, PINR, PREL, ECON, KIPR, SWSUBJECT:  AARGH! SWEDISH PIRATES SET SAIL FOR BRUSSELS1. Summary and Comment: Sweden's two largest political parties, the ruling Moderates and opposition Social Democrats, saw little change over their 2004 levels of support in the June 7 European Parliament (EP) election here. Instead,the Greens and the pro-EU Liberal Party were the big winners -- along with the new Pirate Party, which found support from young voters unhappy with the government's decision to shut down The Pirate Bay, a file-sharing bit torrent site that had become a target of the Motion Picture Association of America (and USTR). The anti-EU Left Party, on the other hand, suffered catastrophic losses. Overall, voter turnout was up in the month before Sweden takes over the rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union, but at 43.8% still far below the regular 80% turnout for national elections. Comment: The EP election outcome has little predictive power for next year's parliamentary elections, given the self-selecting nature of those willing to go out and vote for Members of the European Parliament (MEPs). Perhaps the main lesson for the larger parties relates to the need to court the youth vote in more effective ways. End Summary and Comment.The Results-----------2. Sweden's EP election was a bit disappointing for the two largest parties, the Moderates (18.8% of the vote and 4 MEP seats) and the Social Democrats (24.6% and five seats). Although both parties matched the figures received in 2004, they did not manage any gains despite active campaigning. Rather, the Greens (10.9% and two seats) and the Liberal Party (13.6% and three seats) were the big winners. The Left Party suffered disastrous defeats; the party dropped to 5.6%, compared to 12.8% in 2004, and now has one seat. The Centre Party (5.5% and one seat) and the Christian Democrats (4.7% and one seat), both part of the four-party ruling coalition, performed slightly worse than in 2004, though both surpassed the 4% threshold necessary to qualify for a seat. The elections attracted more voters than in 2004, with turnout up 6.7% to 43.8%, differentiating Sweden from other Member States' downward trend.Victory for the Pirate Party----------------------------3.The big winner was the Pirate Party -- which campaigned on reformation of copyright and patent law and opposition to a wiretapping law proposed by the Swedish security services. The Pirates secured a whopping 7.1% and one seat in Parliament. The party, founded in January 2006, attracted young voters angry over the guilty verdict in the Pirate Bay trial, the unpopular EU Ipred directive, and new national laws criminalizing file sharing and authorizing monitoring of emails.The party has not yet announced what EP party group it would like to belong to, and the current thinking espoused by Pirates is that the classic political right-left scale is outdated. Rather, the Pirates see themselves as an historic movement analogous to working-class and the green movements. The party is now looking to negotiate with both the liberal ALDE group and the Greens/EFA group.4. A side effect of the Pirates' success is that it most likely reduced the chances for the far-right nationalist Sweden Democrats to gain representation in the EP. The Pirates have some of the same voter base -- young men with mistrust for politicians. Although the Sweden Democrats tripled their results to 3.3%, up from 1.1% in 2004, they remain below the threshold for representation in either the EP or Swedish Parliament. In any case, the Pirate's landslide among younger voters caught the attention of the larger parties, our contacts tell us, who are now scrambling to come up with policies to woo the youth back to the mainstream.Personalities Rule------------------5. Over all, the four party governing center-right Alliance won with 42.6% of vote and nine seats over the leftist opposition with 41.1% and eight seats. For what was essentially a mid-term election in Sweden, the continued strong showing for the ruling coalition suggests to some of our contacts no loss of momentum going into next year's general elections. Others note that parties with clear and positive EU policies, like the Greens and the Liberals, did surprisingly well, while the euro-skeptics suffered. But those who could be bothered to vote in EP elections on the first sunny day in several weeks were likely a self-selecting group with pro-EU views, not necessarily representative of the wider Swedish public.6. Results of the preference vote - where voters can mark the candidate they would prefer to be elected - came out June 10. Strong and charismatic personalities have overtaken the top candidates proposed by each of the parties. To be elected on a total number of preference votes, a candidate must have received at least 5% of the votes cast for the party. Alf Svensson, former leader of the Christian Democrats, and Anna Maria Corazza Bildt, the wife of Foreign Minister Carl Bildt, were nominated low on their respective parties' lists but will now claim seats in parliament.STOCKHOLM 00000355 002 OF 002HILTON
With Christmas approaching, parents everywhere are being hassled for the latest heavily marketed must-have toys – and the games industry, like the toy industry, is in there vying for your cash. The run up to the festive season always sees an explosion of child-friendly titles, many of which are tie-ins to familiar movies and cartoons, and so will be irresistible to our quaintly impressionable offspring.Buy are any cartoon games any good? Usually, it has to be said, children's titles are not much cop – and those based on TV series' tend to be the absolute worst. They're often bashed out by small studios on tight budgets in a fraction of the time major releases will demand – and there seems to be a general consensus that, 'oh, who cares? It's just for kids. They won't know the difference.' And while I know from first-hand experience that there's some truth to this (my two sons played the scrappily jumbled together I Did It Mum titles for months), I wish publishers would invest a bit more time, effort and cash into these things.After all, I come from a generation that grew up with video games based on cartoons based on toys – I loved the Transformers, MASK and Zoids, and I'm more than happy to watch animated trash on TV with my kids, then try the games. I'm already indoctrinated, I get it. I'm not like my parents who wouldn't know one end of a Decepticon from another (although my dad was a keen gamer in later life, thanks to the fact that I asked for the likes of Leaderboard, Paradroid and Way of the Exploding Fist, rather than TV tie-ins). So when I buy kids' titles, I expect to get something out of them, because I play too.And I'm not alone. The success of Nintendo's Wii games has shown that parents are willing to engage with family titles, as long as they're inclusive and solidly designed. This message doesn't seem to have reached the makers of movie and cartoon licenses. Here, it's still very much about knocking this stuff out as quickly as possible before the kids move on to their next advertising-guided obsession.With this in mind, I grabbed a whole load of recently released cartoon games, sat down with my sons (Albie, who's three and Zac, who's five) and played through them. I stuck with DS games, as portability is quite handy at this time of year, thanks to endless driving around to see relatives. Also, I'm not sure how many young children have Sony PSPs…Anyway, this is what we discovered…I'll start off with the two related games from the Nickelodeon stable:Dora's Cooking ClubandDiego's Build and Rescue. The former (2K Games,  £34.99) is a big disappointment. I was expecting a child-friendly take on the Cooking Mama series, but this is essentially an incredibly repetitive counting game, lazily skinned as a cook-'em-up. On each of the four recipes, you need to carry out actions like chopping vegetables and stirring or folding your ingredients, but having to carry out each action dozens of times in a row quickly bored my three-year-old. There's no sense of actually learning the recipes or the cooking procedures involved, and repeating menial kitchen tasks while Dora shouts at you soon begins to feel like being made the most junior chef at the latest Gordon Ramsey eatery. Except Dora swears less.Diego's Build and Rescue(2K Games, £34.99) is a tie in with Mega Bloks and suitably feels like a budget version of Lego Indiana Jones. The shouty animal lover must yell his way through a series of 2D platform environments, rescuing animals and returning them to their proper habitats. He can occasionally use Mega Bloks to build bridges and steps, while his backpack transforms into a pogo stick, parachute, spade or  zip slide handle when the situation demands it. The graphics are bright and reasonably detailed and my sons really enjoyed the vehicle driving sections. However, the control system – which allows for both d-pad and touchscreen input – has some slapdash inconsistencies, and although there are a few alternate routes to discover, the whole thing lacks any sort of real care, attention or, lord forbid, depth. My sons haven't asked to play again – but this could be because we don't get the Nick Jr channel so they're not being bombarded by Diego messaging.On toThomas and Friends: Hero of the Rails(Barnstorm Games, £19.99), in which our cheeky tank engine discovers a rusty old train named Hiro on an unused section of track and vows to rebuild him. My sons have lost interested in the TV series – I suppose there are only so many times you can listen to the same heavy-handed moral message about not showing off, even if itisdelivered by a range of passive aggressive railway vehicles. They were similarly unconvinced by this game, which features eight mini-challenges including giving Thomas a wash, racing along the tracks, playing snap and shunting trucks, all of which are awkwardly and unconvincingly wedged into a short story mode. Wise players can, however, chose to skip the story and just select the mini-games.My sons were disappointed that they didn't get to direct Thomas around a track like they can onthe website, and weren't really that interested in painting or washing him. The set-up is similar to thePeppa Pig DS games, but totally bereft of humour, style or visual appeal. It's definitely one for absolute Thomas apologists, and even they will be disappointed they don't get to interact with any of the trains or locations in any meaningful way.Toy Story 3: The Video Game(Disney, £29.99) has a similar structure – a narrative adventure interspersed with mini-games – but it's a much more polished and cohesive experience. The main story mode follows the plot of the movie with Woody and co desperately trying to get back into Andy's affections before heading out on their prison escape drama. The main game sections work as 3D platformers allowing you to explore environments, gather useful objects and pick up tokens that can be used to unlock goodies. We get a convincing if highly simplified take on the Toy Story world, and the locations are fun to explore. The mini-games are hit and miss: the decent Tower Defence clone is fine, but my sons just couldn't get the hang of Buzz's space shoot-'em-up sequences which require deft and simultaneous use of the stylus and d-pad – a bit much more the under-sixes.It's not a particularly long game, but all the areas become accessible through a series of game modes in the intro section so there's some replay value. It would have been great to see a few more extras – collectible character cards, for example – but this is definitely one of the better Pixar titles. (And judging by the overt anti-gaming message in Toy Story 2 I always assumed they made them crap on purpose.)Batman: The Brave and the Bold(Warner, £29.99), based on the latest animated TV incarnation of the super hero, is also rather good, though. It's another 2D platformer, this time pitting Batman against a series of classic villains hiding out in a range of locations from space stations to dinosaur infested jungles and the streets of London. Each stage is intricately drawn and filled with staple old skool genre elements like moving platforms, disintegrating platforms and pixel-perfect leaps across deep chasms. Batman unlocks a range of weapons and items as he progresses, and gets a different helper on each stage who can be tag-teamed in when necessary.It's not particularly imaginative, but it's slickly crafted and relatively challenging – too challenging, in fact, for my five-year-old who was continually having to hand it over to me for some of the more demanding sections. The end-of-level boss battles are particularly tough at times, with some multi-stage fights that take a while to work out. Definitely worth a look, this is one for slightly older children who love the animated series or who have already leapt their way through superior platforming fare like New Super Mario Bros.Finally,The Penguins of Madagascar(THQ, £24.99) is really quite a nice little 3D puzzle adventure, in which players guide the four military-minded birds through a series of short missions, pulling levers, leaping chasms and collecting ice creams. Each of the characters has their own skills, so Kowalski can build contraptions to access new areas, while Private can crawl through tunnels and Rico can blow things up; the challenge is in working out how to employ these to reach the end point of each stage.It's all neatly designed and clearly sign-posted, and the 3D visuals are simple, but fine. Plus, the missions do actually become quite complex later on, demanding some logic deduction and sequential planning. As they progress, players are able to trade in the ice creams they've collected to open up mini-games and challenges, and all the characters repeat little phrases from the Madagascar films (and spin-off cartoon series) which amused my boys.  I actually found myself taking this on the train to Brighton last week, which is a good sign. Possibly my favourite of the bunch.So, there you go. I think out of all of those, only the ones aimed at older children – Toy Story, Batman and Penguins – were any good. The good thing is, most of these are already heavily discounted online and can be picked up for less than a tenner. If that buys you a few hours of peace after an extravagant Christmas dinner, it's probably money well spent.Do you have any favourite DS children's titles? Let us know in the comments section.
Another December day, another end-of-year round up.These are the most played singles and albums in the UK this year according to Spotify, though it's rather diasappointing there's so little alternative stuff here. Shouldn't the internet offer us a bit more than the mainstream? (I'd like to see what the most popular tracks onthesixtyone.comwere in the UK this year, for example.)Top tens here; top 100 listson Spotify.Top tracks1Lady Gaga – Telephone2Bob – Airplanes [feat. Hayley Williams of Paramore] - explicit album version3Lady Gaga – Bad Romance4Mumford &amp; Sons – The Cave5Rihanna – Rude Boy6Mumford &amp; Sons – Little Lion Man7Florence + The Machine – You've Got The Love8Jason Derulo – Ridin' Solo9Usher featuring will.i.am – OMG10Iyaz – ReplayTop albums1The Fame Monster by Lady Gag2Lungs by Florence + The Machine3Sigh No More by Mumford &amp; Sons4xx by The xx5Rated R by Rihanna6Jason Derulo by Jason Derulo7Animal by Ke$ha8THE E.N.D. (THE ENERGY NEVER DIES) by Black Eyed Peas9The Element Of Freedom by Alicia Keys10The Blueprint 3 by Jay-Z
Mark Zuckerberg, the billionaire co-founder of Facebook, was todaynamed Time magazine's 2010 person of the year.Zuckerberg, 26, beat a string of notable personalities to the accolade – including WikiLeaks editor-in-chief Julian Assange and the president of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai. The 33 rescued Chilean miners and the rightwing US Tea Party movement were also named as runners-up.Time magazine's annual accolade is given to the person or thing judged to have most influenced the culture and the news during the past year for good or for ill.Zuckerberg was honoured "for connecting more than half a billion people and mapping the social relations among them; for creating a new system of exchanging information; and for changing how we all live our lives", Time journalist Lev Grossman said.The Time editor, Richard Stengel, announced the winner on NBC Television's Today show. Ben Bernanke, the cerebral American economist,took the prize last year, following US president Barack Obama in 2008 and Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin in 2007.The most notable runner-up is Assange, who is currently in prison pending an appeal against a decision yesterday to grant him bail over sexual allegations in Sweden.Assange comfortablywon the readers' choice awardfor Time's 2010 person of the year, announced earlier this week. He beat Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the prime minister of Turkey, by more than 230,000 votes to scoop the prize.Time's decision has not gone down well among Assange's supporters. Many commenters on Time's official announcement are critical of the magazine's choice.Matthias, for example, says: "Why do you let people vote if you just pick your own candidate? Assange was first! Shameless cowards." Nello Margiotta commented: "Mark Zuckerberg who? it's only a political choice of the director of Time Magazine; obviously for people in the net the person of the year is Julian Assange."But Zuckerberg, a Harvard dropout, is marked out as one of the world's youngest billionaires – and now one of the youngest recipients of Time's prestigious accolade."In less than seven years, Zuckerberg [has] wired together a twelfth of humanity into a single network, thereby creating a social entity almost twice as large as the US," said Grossman."We have entered the Facebook age, and Mark Zuckerberg is the man who brought us here."Zuckerberg is also an unlikely philanthropist. Earlier this month, hepledged to give away at least half of his fortuneto charitable causes as part of a campaign led by Microsoft founder Bill Gates and businessman Warren Buffett. In September, Zuckerbergpledged to donate $100m(£63m) over five years to the Newark and New Jersey school system."People wait until late in their career to give back. But why wait when there is so much to be done?" said Zuckerberg last week.Zuckerberg's dormroom creation registeredits 500 millionth userearlier this year. Now thought to have about 600 million registered Facebook users worldwide, the cocksure computer scientist says it is "almost guaranteed" to reach 1 billion users eventually.Asked whether the outcome of the readers' poll is taken into account during the decision-making process, a Time spokeswoman said: ""Time's editors gather ideas and feedback from a number of sources, including Time correspondents around the world, former people of the year, and our readers via our online poll."More than 1.5 million people voted in our Time.com poll this year; ultimately though, Time's person of the year is an editorial choice."
Google is feeling more than a little French resistance this week, beginning when the French competition watchdogindicated closer scrutinyof Google's business in the country yesterday and said the company might have abused its dominant market position.The Autorite de la Concurrence said that Google could face sanctions if found to have abused that power, but suggested what it called "targeted responses" rather than formal penalties.Photo bySpen Hon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe authority spent 10 months investigating the market on the instruction of the French government. Google is estimated to hold a 90% share of the search advertising business in France, and accounted for 43% of the global ad market – worth $16.4bn in the third quarter of this year, according to Strategy Analytics.The authority's president told journalists yesterday it wanted to warn Google where it risks crossing the line, and the conditions attached to certain practices. It had identified "possible exclusionary conduct intended to discourage, delay or eliminate competitors through procedures that do not consist of merit-based competition".But it said it had found "possible operational abuses, whereby the search engine apparently imposes exorbitant conditions on its partners or customers, treats them in a discriminatory manner or refuses to guarantee a minimum degree of transparency in the contractual relations that it establishes with them".Google's statement is that: "Search ads are one of many options for advertisers. If the price of search ads rises, advertisers can and do switch to other formats, both online and offline. That's the sign of a competitive and dynamic industry."• The French government also decided that it will introduce a1% tax on online advertisementsfrom 1 January. The proposal is part of the 2011 national budget but now looks likely to be passed. Dubbed the "Google tax", companies based in France would pay 1% of the net spend on online advertising and will raise around €50m; Google's 90% search market share will see a payout of around €45m.• Both those developments follow a separate antitrust investigationlaunched by the EC, which heard complaints from internet companies including vertical search specialistsFoundemandejustice.fr. The EC will look at four areas: whether it lowered the rankings of some services while boosting links to its own tools; whether it lowered the ranking of rival vertical search providers; whether it imposes exclusivity obligations on advertisers; and whether it restricts advertisers from using campaigns on rival ad platforms.What does it all mean?Given the money Google has in the bank, even a €45m (£38m) tax bill won't hurt much. Google's revenues in France are estimated to be around €800m. What will be a concern is if other governments, particularly those in the regulation-heavy EU, follow suit.The French governmentinitially proposed the taxfollowing complaints from media companies that it was benefiting from ad revenues based on exploiting publishers' content for free. The tax could be diverted to the creative sectors struggling to develop their businesses online, it had suggested.Google has said the best way to develop support those businesses would be to encourage innovation rather than introducing a new tax. Fellow web businesses defended Google, saying it was too easy to make Google a scapegoat for the failure of traditional businesses to adapt to the internet.While it is unlikely this rather clumsy tax will be introduced elsewhere, Google will be more concerned that regulators in other countries, particularly in the EU, will scrutinise Google more closely. The findings by the Autorite de la Concurrence could influence, however unofficially,  the EC's investigation which ultimately questions the core part of Google's business operation.
The iPad could revolutionise the live music experience with the first gig to be streamed in its entirety via an app.Everything Everything, the hotly tipped funky art-rockers, will pioneer the new technology when their concert at London's Union Chapel today is streamed live in HD to Apple iPad and iPhone users via a free app.Web broadcasting of gigs is not new. Last year, U2 streamed a show from LA live over YouTube. Many artists have tried sending images down buffering mobile phones but the picture was jerky.However the iPad's 9.7in high-resolution screen has already made consuming music videos on the go one of its most popular uses."We wanted to try something unique," said Jonathan Higgs, Everything Everything's singer. "The concert sold out and we wanted to do something special for fans who couldn't get tickets. We couldn't hijack a TV channel but now we can play live to people on the bus, or wherever they want to hear it."Video production company LoveLive will film the band using six cameras and promises to deliver a mixing-desk quality sound experience. An outside broadcast truck is also required for bands who want to try this at home.However the company predicts that live app gigs will become within the reach of musicians without U2's deep pockets, as the cost of streaming app technology is reduced.Tim Dellow of LoveLive said: "This will be a new income stream for record labels. Fans could pay an extra £3 with their gig ticket for a live app stream and bands can upsell music and merchandise back via the app."Everything Everything promise a fully interactive experience, answering fan questions sent by the app in a video interview before the gig. The special show, featuring a 13-piece orchestra, will be available to view for three months and then removed.Are Everything Everything iPad addicts? "We've got iPhones but not iPads," admits Higgins. "We considered getting some and watching ourselves play live on stage. It's great to think that people anywhere in the world could be watching your gig. But the live experience is important and we'd still like people to come and see us in the flesh."The gig will also be streamed live on the band's website.
Mobile network 3 is bidding to win "data-hungry" smartphone users with a new "all you can eat" offering, which it says will trump the 500MB per month download caps imposed by rivals such as Vodafone and Orange by having no limits at all on data downloads.Unlike other networks, whichcut back in the summer on data allowances for smartphonessuch as the iPhone and Google Android phones, 3 says that "unlimited really does mean unlimited" and that people will be free to download as much data as they like while the SIMs remain inside the phones.3 is aggressively pricing its "One Plan" offering for the iPhone on a £35 per month contract, where it offers a lower upfront price than Orange or Vodafone - £69 against £119 - and with 2,000 minutes' inclusive calls to any network rather than 600.But what marks it out is its offering of an "all you can eat" plan, months after those were revoked publicly by the mobile operators and in the US by AT&amp;T, which has the exclusive contract there to sell iPhones, ahead of Apple chief executive's Steve Jobs introduction of the iPhone 4 at WWDC in June.The 3 offer will also apply to other smartphones.In June operators said that the 500MB cap would suit the "vast majority" of users, claiming that 97% of users use less than 500MB and thatjust 0.1% of users used 36% of total data– suggesting that they were using it for constant streaming or ultra-cheap Wi-Fi hotspots ("tethering") by installing the SIM in other devices than the phone.At the same time overall data use was doubling every four months, according to O2, on of the bigger users, while the number of iPhone users on its network had doubled in the past year. That suggests that smartphone users may be consuming more data with each passing month.Now though 3 believes there is a gap that it can exploit: "other networks were talking about how they were going to have to start charging more," said a spokesman. "We will allow tethering, and as long as someone isn't doing something illegal then we will allow it."Presently 3 has roughly 10% of the UK mobile handset market, with 6m users. "Everything Everywhere" - the merged T-Mobile and Orange - has 31%, O2 has about 27%, Vodafone has 22%, with Virgin and Tesco making up most of the rest."We think from the consumer perspective, even if you offer a big data allowance, people are unsure how much they've used and they get nervous. So we remove that concern. From a business perspective, we have had a big run of growth off the back of smartphones. We're looking to grow our business using data, as it's increasingly important to mainstream consumers."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byMikeBlogson Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFibre rates – time to repeal the modern equivalent of the window tax - 12/14/2010 - Computer Weekly"Why would anyone tax windows? Well it seemed like a good idea to some in late 17th century England and in both 18th century Scotland and France, as it was thought to be less intrusive than income tax but would still scale progressively according to property assets."The more windows you have over a base number, the more light enters your house, the more you pay. Although it was easy to assess, it was intensely unpopular and controversial, causing windows to be blocked up and is probably the origin of the phrase 'daylight robbery'."A similarly troubling tax exists today, but for light that passes underground rather than overhead - fibre rates. Not everyone realises it, but there is a tax to pay for each metre of previously dark fibre when it is lit. For those in the business of providing networks, this is a problem."How to handle an account security concern &gt;&gt; Asa DotzlerLinkedIn did it right, proactively getting people to change their passwords, but not including a link in the email.Gawker Password Mess Spreads World of Warcraft And Possibly Yahoo | Arik Hesseldahl &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIt simply gets worse, and will probably keep bouncing around the web for weeks.Shakespeare's London for iPhone is the best way to experience the Bard's Great Britain &gt;&gt; The Next WebVic Keegan, formerly of this parish, has a great new app, of which The Next Web says "The app itself is simple to use, extremely well-designed, and a pure delight." But it thinks £1.79 is too much to pay, while using on your £500 iPhone. Uh?Rejoice! Download Katy Perry From Amazon to Your BlackBerry Without Waiting! &gt;&gt; Peter Kafka | MediaMemo | AllThingsD"You know how everyone you know who owns a BlackBerry is always complaining that they can't buy and download MP3s from Amazon directly to their phone? Problem solved!"At least theoretically: I just tried to download the new app to my year-old Tour, and got an error message. And BlackBerry's support link for the app gave me a 404 error."And as Kafka points out, Apple has been offering over-the-air downloads since 2009. Not that anybody has much cared about those either.DDoS Attacks Make Headlines, But How Common Are They? &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"In fact, almost every network admin working on a large site reported at least one DDoS attack a month; some reported dozens. And over 60% said they'd experienced DDoS attacks larger than 1 Gbps. So not only are DDoS attacks quite frequent, finds the Arbor Network survey, they're becoming larger as well. Over the last six years, service providers have reported a near doubling in peak DDoS attack rates year-over-year, increasing from 400 Mbps in 2002 to 40 Gbps in 2008. This year the peak was "only" 49 Gbps, just a 22% growth from last year."A Key Figure in the Future of Yahoo &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com....is Masayoshi Son, the 53-year-old "serial entrepreneur" who owns big chunks of Yahoo's stakes in Yahoo Japan and Alibaba group in China, which make up about half Yahoo's value."As he spoke, he got more and more agitated: 'I said from the very beginning, Yahoo should position itself as a technology innovation company, not as a media company.'" Oh well, too late for that.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's my fault again. OneDaveofMany delivered this round-up to me over a week ago, and it has sat in my in-tray giving me the evils, while I've 'met' several pressing deadlines. But now, finally, if you want to know what happened in the Chatterbox pages between November 30 and December 3, here's your chance.Gran Turismo 5 dominated the game chatter, but the real meat of the conversation involved the definiton of 'board game', the cure for afternoon lethergy, daughters and dating, and old skool remedies for childhood ailments.If you weren't there, or simply can't remember it all now, discover the magic here...Monday November 30Oh the weather outside is frightful,But the fire is so delightful.And since we've no place to go,Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow...It's deep and crisp and even out there, and with snow days for northern schools and "working from home" (is that a proper use for air quotes?) instigated by many Chatterbox regulars, the blog settles down to anticipate Christmas and the quest to find that perfect movie for the big day.Of course that movie doesn't have to be about Christmas (Die Hard), or have actual actors in it (The Muppet Christmas Carol – say what you like about Michael Caine...), but it certainly shouldn't have any schmaltz. Something like Bad Santa would fit the bill. Although for those with young children, Home Alone 1 or 2 may be a welcome relief from those screaming, demanding, don't-feed-after-midnight-and-don't-ge- them-wet Gremlins.Of course, if you're feeling really mean spirited you could always get tips from The Grinch Steals Christmas, The Nightmare Before Christmas, Lethal Weapon (with our blog favourite actor Mel Gibson in it) or The Long Kiss Goodnight.Best[worst? – Dave]Christmas film suggestions – Groundhog Day and Planes, Trains and Automobiles - both films set at Thanksgiving, revealing the blogs' true understanding of American holiday festivals. Just because they have snow in them, doesn't make it Christmas!Enough of frivolous and festive cheer; what about gaming? This was the first full weekend of Gran Turismo 5, topping the bestsellers list, and the bloggers were keen to show off their shiny new cars, before the damage kicks in at level 10. There was Kart racing over the weekend, with UncleBen again being accused of Tactical Braking – a similar tactic to the one he uses in Call of Duty, with slightly less foliage.Keen to help Santa out, Goody84 prepared the list of who's been Naughty or Nice, and divided the Bloggers accordingly – or it could have been the rankings for next year's PES2011 leagues: seemingly the veterans league was not dependent on age, but more on reliability.But that was not enough to send the whole Blogger community into uproar, not enough for lines to be drawn and sides to be chosen (seemingly Timthemonkey versus the world), however when the blog attempts to define exactly what a board game is, then it is Armageddon time.Firstly, it seems you need a board. So no matter how hard you look at it Bucking Broncos is out. Chess, you would think would be simple, but caused a paper argument between the warring sides (appropriately). Monopoly causes families to split apart, games with dice inside of a plastic dome just aren't real games, so Run Rabbit Run is out of the chase too. But what really caused a stink was the declassification of Hungry Hungry Hippos from the pantheon of board games by uber-pedant, Cunning.If you're still interested in board games, then resident cloth bound folded along the middle board gamer Beard of Bees recommends Puerto Rico, San Juan, Race for The Galaxy, and expansion packs for Carcassonne.You can't have a whole weekend of fun without some fallout when the bloggers get back to work on Monday. Let's see what Tuesday brings!Quote of the day"We're sorry to bother you at such a time like this, Mrs. Twice.We would have come earlier, but your husband wasn't dead then."HereComesTreble channelling the recently deceased Leslie NielsenTuesday November 30The blog is a friendly place, a safe little backwater where waifs and strays sometimes come seeking advice, wisdom and life lessons. It was toward this spirit of philanthropy that Sorbicol aimed a request for help regarding falling asleep at work: "I find it very difficult to remain conscious in the afternoons mostly."Sage advice was quickly forthcoming, with Agony Uncle Limni offering up the following to our sleepy friend:"...you could actually try seeing your doctor – maybe you do have a problem? Or, amphetamines?"Minor excitement erupted over the rumour that Uncharted 3 is to be set in the desert, vexed Humofevil was less impressed:"Bah! Uncharted 2 is still the most over-rated game of this generation. Also regardless of the game's quality, you can't possibly claim they have a shred of originality. F*****g stupid Yetis"This lead to major discussion of what constitutes 'original', whether a game needs to be original to be good and probably something about original flavoured Pringles or somesuch…After Sorbs issues at work, talk turned to the blog's more positive influence with Seren, Cunning and Treble all praising the Chatterbox for its raise and promotion-giving qualities, as Treble put it:"The blog really is the best means of fast-tracking your career. They don't tell you that in any self-help book. Trust me, I've read them all. Hell, I wrote most of them."Our illustrious leader BeardOfBees started to have doubts regarding whether the recent addition to the Bees household was actually his progeny or that of the (very) long-lived lover Henrypootle:"Actually, she's also toothless.... I demand a full account of your whereabouts throughout the last week of January this year."…the oldest living organism having been found out duly came clean:"Gah. Busted. Would a Sorry I fathered your child bear suffice?"Quotes of the day"I bought a pink Dodge Charger yesterday. Its acceleration is rubbish and it handles like a blind, rabid swamp-donkey. Did I mention it's pink?"Pink you say Seren?"Nothing like a game of Pro Evo to take your mind off of a loved one having fallen victim to a violent crime."Treble keeping things in perspective as ever."Can I survive on a one sentence limit?"Asks Bloatboy….not a chance I'm afraid.Wednesday December 1On this, the first day of Christmas month, talk of being snowed in was abound, Battlefield Map Packs, GT5 and slidey cars (real ones – not the ones in GT5).Later, following a comment from HappySocks – "Battlefield is the best online FPS I've ever played…" – chat turned to Battlefield vs CoD.  Arguments for CoD were how great Modern Warfare 1 and 2 were, but the dreadful PS3 online problems with Blops went against it.There were many votes for each and it was just too close to call. Nothing to do with the fact I didn't have the inclination to actually count them up.Later, there were some grumbles about the general state of the NHS – lost prescriptions, lost blood samples, etc.  This country...  This upset Sorbicol though who decided to counter-rant about cutbacks and understaffing.  Bloatboy then counter-counter-ranted about an NHS situation involving his mother.  This went on for some time and was, all-in-all, great fun.Talk naturally moved on to Beef Wellington. CountGinula was planning to make one for the family and so sought advice from the resident food experts on the blog.  Great advice followed, including this sweet piece of cookery love from RedDread: "The secret is to use a pancake (crépe, if you will) as one of the layers around the beef. I think it was over the mushroom mix, but under the pastry, so you spread your mushroomy mix over the crépe, then wrap it around the sealed beef, then encase the lot in the pastry. They are f***ing lovely, thinking back."  Yummy!Whiskeyblog made a welcome reappearance. This one has even made 'Best of' before – sometime in the dim and distant past! I think however that it was exciting enough then not to warrant any more detail now.The merits of stew were also discussed – a particular favourite it would seem in this 'orrible weather.  Always better the next day of course.The day tailed off in the afternoon with a reappearance of diceblog – a favourite topic for some but hated by most.  Somebody had the good sense to try and divert the conversation towards the 2010 Chatterbox Awards with the result of utter shock from some of the relative newbs that Hayers won funniest blogger last year.  Stranger things have happened – just not many…For reference – the categories for the awards will be revealed by the glamorous Mr. Limni in a couple of weeks. Will BeardOfBees retain his title of Blogger of the Year?  Will I receive another exciting accolade after my Lifetime Achievement Award of last year?  Will Limni look as handsome doing the award ceremony as he did last year?  Only time will tell.Quote of the day"Santa lives and breathes in the Armory of Vault 34. Makes you work for it but my god I gots me some sweet gats to ratatatt tatt and indeed kaboom. Can't remember the last game I got a bounty pile like that. Almost feel like I wasn't meant to do it so early on. Some of those feckers were nails. In a group lethal."Nope, no idea what St1lted is on about here, but it entertained me.Thursday December 2ndTop Gear blog returned for another day as chat was dominated by Gran Turismo 5. This time, conversation pieces included the Toyota Dome concept cars, "Comfort" Tyres and adjusting gearbox ratios. The smell of engine oil and testosterone was broken only by Wee Cooper's thrilling tale of rushing to be one of the first 100 customers in his new local Aldi and so win a coveted Aldi "Golden Ticket".  The result?"101st! xxxxxxxxxx 101st!! On a positive note I did get the milk and apples I was after."Quite the consolation prize.If you thought that wasn't much of a highlight then you had better brace yourself as the box jumped into the abyss known as "going out with a fellow blogger's daughter blog".  The blog fathers were consistent in their approach to this, and once again Wee Cooper hit the nail on the head:"My daughter is 10 so only a few years until she starts the dating game. I'm looking forward to meeting prospective boyfriends. I plan on showing them some of my photos from warzones, especially the gory ones, regaling them with tales of action and adventure and explaining how I can make my own explosives. Throw in my 6'6" 19st frame and my Scottish accent for good measure. That should sort the wheat from the chaff."The afternoon hit a lull before the World Cup announcement. Normally this would be filled with baiting of Timthemonkey but he was absent from Thursday's blog. Nevertheless, Limni brought to the two together effortlessly:"WC Bid - I am quite excited. Cue the inevitable letdown. Tim's wedding night again, or just the lot of the England supporter?"And inevitably it was a letdown, unless you are Russian. The box, always a bastion of fair and balanced comment, cried "foul", "corruption" and "backhanders!".  Until Sheep2 brought some perspective:"… RBS is innocent? Slid that one out on a heavy news day to hide it.'we did not identify any instances of fraud or dishonest activity by senior individuals or a failure of governance on part of the board.' I'd say driving your entire bank bust by hundreds of billions might be considered a failure of governance... Looks like Russia may actually have been the financial integrity candidate."Cartoon of the day!GT5 blog goes artisticFriday December 3I've started, so I'll finish.The Big Freeze of 2010 continued on Friday with WeeCooper recording -9C in Worcester. Fortunately there was enough fuel in the Chatterbox engine to warm the cockles of every blogger. Discussion was dominated by talk of GT5 with Team NaN taking its first big outing on the night before.Ailments, undoubtedly caused by the harsh weather conditions, sparked discussion on childhood remedies of yore. Most involved alcohol in some shape or form and probably explains a lot about the current state of many bloggers. RustyJames' experience seemed to reflect:"I always thought it was vodka and Kahlua in the milk and cocaine on the gums? That's what my mum was doing anyway."The end of the first week in December heralded in a festive discussion about the best Christmas presents. Killerbee, Smellavision, Limni and others reminisced about presents they had received under their respective Christmas trees as children including the Amiga 500+ cartoon pack, Raleigh Chopper, Zoidzilla and Heroquest.Those Chatterboxers familiar with the menu screen of BlackOps may find it interesting to know that it was his interrogation as a PoW during World War II that inspired Bill Wright to devise Mastermind. The Friday Question saw many bloggers take a virtual seat in that black leather chair to reveal what their specialist subject would be if they ever entered 'Mastermind'. Topics ranged from the absurd ('The Teletubbies' – Catzilla) to the even more absurd, when Limni decided his specialist topic would be 'Guardian Gamesblog Chatterbox 2006-2010'. The discussion revealed some of the strange blog occurrences of the last four years with questions including:"Which blogger cooked fish curry in an attempt to sleep with a member of his own family?" (Asked by davefalse)Send your answers (saying Umboros… oops – Dave) on a postcard please.Quotes of the day"I bet that loads of people who used to post here are dead. Loads. That's why I always carry a card in my wallet, with instructions of which internet sites to post a short message on, announcing my death, whenever they find my body. So far it's only this place and the forums over at Nuts Magazine."HereComesTreble on blogger bereavement."The life and times of henrypootle. I'd probably still struggle though."Henrypootle picks a subject spanning 1000s of years as his Mastermind specialist subject.Quote of the Week"Tell her 'At least he had a good innings', that way you can neatly move the conversation onto chatting about the Ashes."RustyJames advises HappySocks on how to console a flatmate suffering bereavement.Other stuffGames:GT5, COD Black Ops, World of Warcraft, Assassins Creed Brotherhood, Rock Band 3, Fallout New VegasFilms &amp; TV:The Walking Dead, the TripLinks:Chromaroma– gaming with your Oyster card!Delurks:ZtoxEnd gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – Live and Let Live by Love (thanks WeeCooper…)Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'best of' was written by FoolsGold, SerenVikity, Smellavision, OfficePest and Tjvs. It was edited by OneDaveofMany"Humans do not engage in activities that are meaningless. If you think you see people doing things you find meaningless, look again and try to understand what the activities mean for them."Henry Jenkins
This week we turn the whole programme over to the extraordinary events that have taken place on the web over the past fortnight.Since the Guardian and four other newspapers around the world printed the details of US diplomatic cables that were leaked to whistleblowing website WikiLeaks,major internet companies and services have been taken offline in a battle between hackers and governments– all over the principle of the freedom of the internet.In this programme we'll discuss whether this could be the first global cyber war, as well as looking at what has happened so far and how the attacks took place.We'll hear how Tom Cruise's video on the virtues of Scientology helped spawn online activists Anonymous, and an expert on electronic transactions gives his view of the success of the Operation Payback attacks.The programme is presented by Jemima Kiss, who is joined by the Guardian's technology editor Charles Arthur, Professor William H Dutton of the Oxford Internet Institute and Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at security experts Sophos.You may also want to listen to our recentGuardian Focus podcastwhich looks at the future of US diplomacy and thePolitics Weekly podcastwhich discusses whether governments can - and should - keep secrets from their voters.Don't forget to ...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
No, the little pins are not foreign special agents following Julian Assange around London. They are instead real, live London Underground tube trains, and they can be seenactually moving around on Matthew Somerville's site- having come alive again earlier on Tuesday.The live map was originally brought into being in June this year, after Transport for London set up an API ("applications programming interface", allowing computers to query for data it holds) that could also generate live information about where trains on its network were.But the sheer demand for the APIquickly ran into millions per day, overwhelming TfL's capacity. Early in July had to shut down the live tube data feed - and the pins stopped moving on Somerville's map.Following an examination of precisely what was needed, TfL has nowgone with Microsoft's Azure cloud computing service, which should be able to expand its service to meet the growing demand of developers. It's a significant win for Microsoft, which will have an example it can show around the world.Other services that will now be available through the API include:• Live traffic  disruptions;• Realtime road  message signs;• Barclays Cycle  Hire docking station locations;• Timetable of  planned weekend Tube works;• Station locations  (for Tube, DLR and London Overground);• River Thames pier  locations;• Findaride  (licensed private hire operators);• Oyster Ticket Stop locations.Others are planned too.The decision has been greeted with delight by developers. Malcolm Barclay, who recentlyexcoriated the (private) National Rail Enquiriesover its intransigence on its API, wrote "TfL u Rock!":"These [overloading] problems have been well &amp; truly solved now; Microsoft have dropped in an industrial strength cache in front of the operational systems and you can now easily access all this data for free."I am told this is just the beginning. The system is modular, TfL plan to bring a full blown Journey Planning API online next year as well. Who know's maybe iBus will follow on from this too? But no firm announcements on that yet."This is ground breaking for open data &amp; public transport in the UK &amp; very forward thinking of TfL. Now that the data will be easy to access, we can expect to see some creative &amp; useful applications across many devices &amp; the web."Writing at the Data.gov.uk blog, the Mayor of London's economic development advisor Anthony Brownealso hailed the move:"TfL is increasingly being recognised, not just in the developer community, but by the British and other national governments, as a pioneer in freeing the data - something that wouldn't happen without the genuine commitment of its management. The benefits are clear - riding one of the "Boris bikes" last week to meet a US delegation from Twitter for dinner, I wouldn't have found a free docking station in Shoreditch without the bike hire apps that are made possible (at no cost to the public) by the simple expedient of TfL publishing the cycle data."The London Datastore wasonly launched in January- but it's already starting to lead the pack in openness. It will be interesting to see how far it can push open data. Even now, though, it is showing that free data can generate commercial value, and reduce costs.And now, if you'll excuse me, I'm just off towatch the tube trains moving...
Hot on the heels ofTwitter's 2010 trends, Facebook today revealed the most popular topics of discussion for its hundreds of millions of users worldwide.And as with Twitter, global news events like the World Cup and Haiti earthquake dominated the social messaging sites for a period. Intriguingly, the Gulf oil spill is entirely absent from Facebook's trending topics, despite beingthe most-discussed topic on Twitter.Facebook says that "first-hand reports" of the Haiti earthquake – which came fifth in the global trends – peaked five minutes after the first tremor, at a rate of 120 updates a minute. The following day people discussed the disaster at a rate of 1,800 posts a minute.The 33 trapped Chilean miners missed out on being Facebook's most discussed person/group of people, falling two places short of Justin Bieber's crown. The graph below shows 33 minor peaks in popularity – one for the release of each miner – before a huge spike when Luis Urzúa, the last remaining miner, waslifted to the surface.Graph of Facebook status updates relating to Chilean miners rescue shows a spike for the release of each minerAnd "HMU", for the uninitiated, is short for 'hit me up'. Globally, HMU generated 80,000 mentions a day at its peak in the summer. Neither expression appeared with any regularity in the UK. Thankfully.Global top trends1HMU [Hit me up]2World Cup3Movies4iPad, iPhone 45Haiti6Justin Bieber7Games on Facebook8Mineros/Miners9Airplanes102011In the UK, the World Cup – which we won't be talking about over here, thank you very much – was the most popular talking point. Yes, that is X Factor's Wagner you see next, the second most-discussed topic on Facebook in the UKall year. Elections? Snow? Coalitions? Student demonstrations? "That woman"? Wikileaks? Never heard of 'em.X Factor winner Matt Cardle was only the fourth most-discussed contestant (despite havingwon the phone vote in all but one of the final weeks), you may be interested to hear. Brazilian bizarro Wagner ("the hairy dog man" - &copy; John Plunkett) beat Cher and One Direction to the, er, crown.Facebook's top UK status tremds for 2010UK top trends1World Cup2Wagner3Cher4Rooney5One Direction6British soldiers7David Cameron8John James9Tinie Tempah10Celebrity Juice
Steve Ballmer at next year's CES showing off the Windows tablet PC that wowed the world in 2010. Photo byMicrosoft Swedenon Flickr.Some rights reservedShall we call it a tablet reboot? Thewell-informed rumourssuggest that Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer will unveil a raft of tablets at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas in January.Or as the New York Times's Bits blog put it:"Next month, at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Microsoft will give it another try, presenting a slew of new slates that it hopes will offer some competition to the Apple iPad, which has quickly become the leader in this space."According to people familiar with Microsoft's plans, Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, is expected to announce a number of these devices when he takes the stage at C.E.S., showcasing devices built by Samsung and Dell, among a number of other manufacturing partners."OK, let's play flashback! Party like it's January 2010 and you're in CESwatching a "snooze-athon"(&copy; Jack Schofield) presentation by Steve Ballmer: "while Ballmer did show three tablet or slate computers, including a slick-looking multi-touch HP model, again he showed them only briefly. The HP slate appeared to be running Amazon's Kindle software for Windows, which means you can have a decent ebook reader with a colour screen."Or as PC World put it at the time, "HP Slate lowers the bar for Apple's Tablet PC". Ouch. Remember, the iPad hadn't been launched at that time, so nobody knew what it would do or be able to do. There weren't a plethora of tablets from Android handset makers; in fact the idea of them hadn't been floated. It was, all in all, a more innocent time.PC World was unrelenting: "If revealing the HP Slate at Ballmer's keynote was, in fact, a scramble to try and steal Apple's thunder and be the first out of the gate with a hot new tablet...I mean slate PC, it backfired. Exploiting such a high profile event as Ballmer's keynote speech at CES for an underwhelming presentation of a mediocre device just lowers the bar for Apple."And now, Ballmer is coming back to do it all over again, except that this time HP has abandoned Windows 7 on tablets because it hasbought Palm. Then again, Dell is pitching up again (despite having done a mini-tablet in the form of theStreak). Oh, and Apple will have sold around 10m of those iPad things, compared to zero when Ballmer was last on the stage.The question remains, though, of why on earth Microsoft is yoking its tablet wagon to the three-legged donkey that isWindows 7 on a tablet, rather than going with its consumer-facing and potentially very elegant Windows Phone 7 interface, which (I keep saying) could be a knockout on a tablet.But the tablet fumble, and the fact that Ballmer is having to do it all over again, is making some analysts uncomfortable. The Seattle-basedTechflash reportsthat"Goldman Sachs technology analyst Sarah Friar sees challenging times ahead for Microsoft in 2011 as it attempts to address the threat from tablet computers such as the iPad and mobile operating systems such as Android. In a research note released this weekend, Friar wrote that it will be a 'more challenging year' for Microsoft with top-line growth slowing from 12% to 7%.""Only" 7% is the sort of growth that most would be happy with, of course, especially if they're already the size of Microsoft. Techflash continues, quoting Goldman Sachs:"A tablet response is still not forthcoming and our early read on Windows Phone 7 has not yet changed our view that Microsoft's share in mobile OSes will remain at only the single-digit level," Friar wrote. "For an unlocking of shareholder value, we continue to look for a more aggressive dividend, a more focused consumer strategy, and stronger Cloud-Azure traction."Again, ouch. Though there's a good contract win for Azure today withTransport for London using it for its live data feeds.However Joe Wilcoxthinks that this is too hasty a dismissal of Microsoft- and particularly that the leak about the CES announcements was a reaction to the "bad" Goldman Sachs news:"Microsoft doesn't need to sell bazillions of Windows tablets to leverage its cloud. The company can tactically offer cloud services/apps for Android and iOS tablets. It's a sensible way to help businesses to maximize their investment in existing Microsoft software and/or hosted services. Ideally, Microsoft should control more of the applications stack, but "not ideal" doesn't mean the Titanic sinking. Yes, 2011 looks challenging for Microsoft, but it's also chock full of opportunities. "Just don't expect them necessarily to be in tablets running Windows - at least, not Windows 7.
This is doing the rounds at the moment, so you may well have encountered it on another site, but just in case... It's the latest Lego-based parody fromCustard Productions, previously responsible for the Heat-inspiredLego Street Shoot-outand eco spoofMoney Isn't Green. It's Black Ops multiplayer – with Lego men! Forget the recently announced Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean,thisshould be Traveller's Tales' next big tie-in.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 11 DecemberPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (39)Wii (5)PC (4)52 (2)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (36)Wii (10)PSP (7)113 (–)World Of Warcraft: Cataclysm(12+)PC (100)14 (3)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)45 (4)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)36 (5)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)97 (7)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)Wii (2)PC (1)48 (13)Donkey Kong Country Returns(3+)Wii (100)29 (10)Professor Layton And The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)810 (9)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)54Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, ©2010UKIELtd
How long before Yahoo finally implodes? The latest signs aren't good. Lack of growth is being blamed for the latest round of job cuts – which, at the worst time of year, will represent as much as 5% of Yahoo's workforce, or 650-700 people.A formal announcement, afterseveral weeksof speculation, is expected later today when staff are officially notified.Over the weekend, senior developer Zach Gravestweeted: "The number of people carrying boxes out of yahoo tonight is not surprising, nor the last of it."Photo byYodel Anecdotalon Flickr.Some rights reservedThis is the fourth major round of staff cuts in three years and is expected to focus on US-based staff in Yahoo's products group, which is responsible for the company's consumer and advertiser-focused products. Blake Irving was recruited to run the group in April this year.TechCrunchrecently claimed the firm would be recruiting internationally, including in Bangalore, to cover some jobs being cut in the US.After heading off thatMicrosoft takeoverand recruitingCarol Bartzto rejuvenate the company, Yahoo has failed to show any significant signs of a turnaround. Bartz's contract expires in 2013, and she'll be under pressure to leave if she can't reverse Yahoo's fortunes by then. Its share price fell on Monday to $16.70 when markets closed; Google, in contrast, closed up at $594.62. Realistically though, Yahoo's problems are bigger than Bartz.As Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg reminded us in that CBS interview last week, Yahoo had theopportunity to buy Facebookback in 2006, and way back when even had the chance to acquire Google. Things could have been so different.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Richard Stallman. Photo byjeanbaptisteparison Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle's new cloud computing ChromeOS looks like a plan "to push people into careless computing" by forcing them to store their data in the cloud rather than on machines directly under their control, warns Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation and creator of the operating system GNU.Two years ago Stallman, a computing veteran who is a strong advocate of free software via his Free Software Foundation, warned thatmaking extensive use of cloud computing was "worse than stupidity"because it meant a loss of control of data.Now he says he is increasingly concerned about the release by Google of its ChromeOS operating system, which is based on GNU/Linux and designed to store the minimum possible data locally. Instead it relies on a data connection to link to Google's "cloud" of servers, which are at unknown locations, to store documents and other information.The risks include loss of legal rights to data if it is stored on a company's machine's rather than your own, Stallman points out: "In the US, you even lose legal rights if you store your data in a company's machines instead of your own. The police need to present you with a search warrant to get your data from you; but if they are stored in a company's server, the police can get it without showing you anything. They may not even have to give the company a search warrant."Googlegave ChromeOS a "soft" launch last week, showing off aspects of the software and providing developers and some journalists with Cr-48 laptops set up to run it, while saying that it won't be widely available until mid-2011.Eric Schmidt, Google's chief executive,praised it in a blogpost: "For me, these announcements were among the most important of my working life – demonstrating the real power of computer science to transform people's lives. It's extraordinary how very complex platforms can produce beautifully simple solutions like Chrome and Chrome OS, which anyone can use from the get-go – as long as you get it right," he wrote. "As developers start playing with our beta Cr-48 Chrome OS computer, they'll see that while it's still early days it works unbelievably well. You can build everything that you used to mix and match with client software—taking full advantage of the capacity of the web."But Stallman is unimpressed. "I think that marketers like "cloud computing" because it is devoid of substantive meaning. The term's meaning is not substance, it's an attitude: 'Let any Tom, Dick and Harry hold your data, let any Tom, Dick and Harry do your computing for you (and control it).' Perhaps the term 'careless computing' would suit it better."He sees a creeping problem: "I suppose many people will continue moving towards careless computing, because there's a sucker born every minute. The US government may try to encourage people to place their data where the US government can seize it without showing them a search warrant, rather than in their own property. However, as long as enough of us continue keeping our data under our own control, we can still do so. And we had better do so, or the option may disappear."The accountability of cloud computing providers has come under close focus in the past fortnight afterAmazon removed Wikileaks content from its EC2 cloud computing service, saying that the leaks site had breached its terms and conditions, and without offering any mediation in the dispute.Stallman only sees one aspect of ChromeOS to applaud: its GNU/Linux heritage. "In essence, Chrome OS is the GNU/Linux operating system. However, it is delivered without the usual applications, and rigged up to impede and discourage installing applications," he told the Guardian. "I'd say the problem is in the nature of the job ChromeOS is designed to do. Namely, encourage you to keep your data elsewhere, and do your computing elsewhere, instead of doing it in your own computer."• Stallman warns would-be hackers not to download the LOIC software being pushed as a method of expressing anger with sites that have acted against Wikileaks - not because he thinks the protest is wrong, but because the tool's code is not visible to the user. "It seems to me that running LOIC is the network equivalent of the protests against the tax-avoiders' stores in London. We must not allow that to constrict the right to protest," he notes. "[But] if users can't recompile it, users should not trust it."Update:Richard Stallman writes: "ABBC article reportedsomeone from Sophos said that LOIC was "unknown software" and I thought that meant it was proprietary, but I was mistaken. It turns out LOIC is actually free software, so users can see and change the source code.  Thus, its workings are not a secret like those of Windows, MacOS and Adobe Flash Player, so nobody can impose malicious features through it, the way that has been done in those packages."(Note: deleted a duplicate paragraph at end of story. Added clarification from Richard Stallman re LOIC.)
A different sort of hash (browns). Photo byjeffreywon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPwdHash &gt;&gt; Stanford University"PwdHash is an browser extension that transparently converts a user's password into a domain-specific password. The user can activate this hashing by choosing passwords that start with a special prefix (@@) or by pressing a special password key (F2)."And it can stop phishing because the password hash is generated from the domain. Great! Er - but what if you use a different browser or a different machine that doesn't have it installed?SOCIAL FIGURES: A cunning way to find cool Facebook stats &gt;&gt; The Dan Slee BlogIt is indeed cunning: pretend you want to book adverts to find out how many of various types of people there are. Smart.Welsh government lays out broadband plans &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"According to the Welsh Assembly, only 35 percent of the Welsh population is likely to get super-fast broadband without public subsidy." But the Welsh parliament has declared it must be achieved by 2020. Interesting.Cloud computing: the latest chapter in an epic journey &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogEric Schmidt: "With Chrome OS, we have in development a viable third choice in desktop operating systems. Before there was no cloud computing alternative—now we have a product which is fast, robust and scalable enough to support powerful platforms. It's something computer scientists have been dreaming about for a very, very long time. The kind of magic that we could imagine 20 years ago, but couldn't make real because we lacked the technology."Not that this has prevented companies announcing it about once every three years for the past 20.Google's Motion to Dismiss Paul Allen's Patent Infringement Complaint Granted &gt;&gt; GroklawOur suspicion is that Groklaw is being too triumphal, and that Allen's company will come back with a better lawsuit.Suspended death sentence for Chinese official in anti-virus kickback plot &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityOur nomination for headline of the week. The criminal's name is Yu Bing. We are not making this up.Why we think we need the Grace programming language &gt;&gt; gracelang.orgBecause there isn't a static-typed simple language. Durr. Let's see if this goes anywhere.Mobile Opportunity: What's really wrong with BlackBerry (and what to do about it)Fantastic analysis both of RIM's business model, and the flaws in it (it would be interesting to see similar ones for the iPhone and for Android, if the latter could be done) plus the usability nightmare of the BlackBerry Torch's contacts system. Having tried - and failed - to do a phone reset on a BlackBerry, or to find a way to mass-delete contacts while using the phone (so it could be given to someone else), it has to be said that RIM has a long usability road ahead of it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
What was hacked into?Nine websites owned by New York-based Gawker Media, including the media and technology site Gawker and popular gadget site Gizmodo.What was exposed?The emails and passwords of around 1.3 million registered users – including those of Gawker Media owner Nick Denton and its employees – were accessed and subsequently published online. The group's publishing system and source code were exposed. All of these details were made available on filesharing sites, BitTorrent and The Pirate Bay.The hackers managed to crack more than a quarter of a million passwords in the Gawker database. Within this group, more than 2,600 used the word "password" or "qwerty" – the first six characters along the top line of English-language keyboards – as their login. One of these users is registered with a government email address, while other accounts trace back to Nasa.Who carried out the attack and why?A group calling itself Gnosis claimed responsibility for the attack, apparently in response to a series of disparaging Gawker blogposts about the internet messageboard 4Chan. One Gawker post apparently described 4Chan users as "script kids", dismissing a number of internet attacks by groups borne out of the forum.Gnosis are unrelated to the thousand-strong group, known as Anonymous, which last week crippled the websites of a number of companies that cut ties with WikiLeaks following the release of confidential US diplomatic documents.How did they do it?Probably by hacking into an external server rather than into the site content management system (CMS), say experts, because of the privileged access the hackers achieved. They were able not only to copy the contents of all the databases, but also the programs that are used to serve up the sites, known as their source code. The hackers also seem to have accessed its production and development servers, finding source code with extra details that would be removed from those servers users access.To gain access to users' passwords, Gnosis used what is known as a brute force attack. This method tries every possible combination of letters and numbers against each other until the correct match is found. It is inevitable that the correct match will be found, of course, but the strength of the password lies in how long it will take.Didn't Gawker encrypt users' passwords?Yes, but not well enough. Gawker made the hackers' task simpler: if a user entered a password with more than eight characters, it dropped those after the eighth – dramatically limiting the scope of the attack required.Gawker users with a password of more than eight characters can rest easier than those with eight or fewer characters. The encryption method apparently employed by Gawker enabled the hackers to decode only the first eight characters of a user's password, meaning that longer passwords were unable to be decoded in full.Has the Gawker hacking led to any other problems?On Monday morning a Twitter scam posting more than 10,000 tweets a minute surfaced from the accounts of people who had registered using the same passwords for both Twitter and Gawker Media. Opportunistic fraudsters had used them to gain access to Twitter users' accounts and began posting scam tweets advertising "acai berries".How safe is your password?Unless you have different passwords for multiple websites, the likelihood is that it's not very safe. Just under a third of us still use a single password for a number of websites, according to recent research by computer security firm Sophos. If one of these accounts falls into the wrong hands a user's entire online profile may become compromised. Experts recommend that people don't use "dictionary" passwords at all, instead taking a memorable sentence and comprising a password based on the first letter of each word in it.How do I know if I've ever created an account with Gawker Media?If you have registered with Gawker.com, Fleshbot, Deadspin, Lifehacker, Gizmodo, io9, Kotaku, Jalopnik, Jezebel, Gawker.tv, Valleywag, or Cityfile at any point in the last seven years there's a chance your email address and password have been exposed.Gawker advises that all users change their passwords for the site and any others where the same password is used.You should do this on Gawker.com, and not on any links in emails you might receive: they might be legitimate, or they might be phishing scams.
Over the past week several big corporations, from MasterCard and Visa to PayPal and Amazon, have come under attack from loosely co-ordinated networks of hackers operating in support of WikiLeaks under the codename of Anonymous. But over the weekend a new kind of victim fell foul of the hackers' attentions – the hyper-fashionable, super-tech-savvy Gawker websites.The 24-hour attack penetrated deep into Gawker's computer systems, shattering its security shield and catching its executives off guard.The hackers cracked more than a quarter of a million passwords in the website's database, dumping the information on the internet, where it could easily be found – including the personal details of Gawker's British founder and mastermind, Nick Denton."We understand how important trust is on the internet, and we're deeply sorry for and embarrassed about this breach of security – and of trust,"a contrite Gawker management said, admitting that the integrity of all its nine sites had been compromised.Within hours of the attack being launched on Saturday the assailants had gained access to Gawker's database of usernames and passwords as well as the programs that are used to serve up the sites, known as their source code. The first sign of the attack was a tweet posted to the Twitter account of the Gawker gadget site, Gizmodo, which said "Support WikiLeaks" and added "Gawker.com hacked, 1.5 million usernames/emails/passwords taken."The use of Gawker's own Twitter feed by the hackers to announce their ploy was a breathtaking act of defiance.Even more audaciously, they then went on to post real-time email exchanges between Gawker staffers that they had hacked into, in which the employees discussed how they were coming under attack.The attack took the recent flurry of mass hacking escapades into new territory. Previous corporate targets such as PayPal and MasterCard have been selected for their failure to support WikiLeaks as part of the so-called Operation Payback launched by fans of the whistleblower site.Gawker by contrast has had no special involvement in the WikiLeaks events and appears to have been singled out more for its past tussles with the hacking fraternity than for anything to do with its reporting of the embassy cables.The cyber attack wasclaimed by a previously unknown group of hackers going by the name of Gnosis.In an email exchange with the website Mediaite, one of its members said it had attacked Gawker because it wanted to expose the "outright arrogance" of Gawker's management by highlighting the site's inadequate security. "Gawkmedia has possibly the worst security I have ever seen. It is scary how poor it is," the correspondent said. The complaint of arrogance appears to have been a reference to a feud that has been running for more than a year between Gawker and 4Chan, an image board frequently used by hackers, including those who orchestrated the Anonymous pro-WikiLeaks attacks over the past 10 days.A sub-board on 4Chan, known as /b/, acts as a meeting house for some of the most dedicated hackers.Among its many actions was the memorable prank in which it hijacked an internet poll asking fans of the teenage pop star Justin Bieber to decide which country he should tour next. 4Chaners latched on to the vote and swamped it, pushing North Korea into prime position.The image board has been the subject of regular posts on Gawker written in the site's trademark snarky and forthright style. Gawker has called 4Chan the "ground zero for internet mischief", "[home of] the internet's worst trolls", and likened the experience of reading it to consuming "heroin mixed with fibreglass".Last July,Gawker accused the wholly anonymous frequenters of 4Chanof hounding an 11-year-old girl so ferociously that she required police protection.Within hours 4Chan hit back, organising agroup attack on Gawker that succeeded in slowing, though not bringing down, the site.Gawker writer Ryan Tate in turn ramped up the war by calling their assailants "script kiddies", ridiculing them as "3Chan" and goading them with the combative words: "The best response to dumb young guys trying to intimidate their enemies online is to refuse to be intimidated. If any of you sad 4chaners have a problem with that, you know how to reach me."It took five months but it seems that the "sad 4chaners" have now indeed reached Gawker, with a vengeance. Though the Gnosis correspondent denied any formal link with 4Chan, it is clear that Gawker's sustained and critical coverage of the image board was an important motive for the cyber attack.In the 500MB file the hackers placed on the file-sharing system BitTorrent, containing the information hacked out of Gawker's database, the attackers left a clear reference to Denton's earlier challenge. They wrote: "Hows this for 'script kids?' Your empire has been compromised … You wanted attention, well guess what, You've got it now!"The attackers also posted snippets from email exchanges between Gawker staff reporters that they stole, having broken into Gawker's private back channel. Several of the emails referred to 4Chan, with Gawker staffers composing joke headlines such as "Suck on This, 4Chan", "We Are Not Scared of 4chan Here" and "Nick Denton Says Bring It On 4Chan".In the wake of the attack, Gawker has brought in an independent security company to vamp up its protection. Denton is keeping uncharacteristically silent about 4Chan, though nobody expects his restraint to last for long.• The original headline on this piece contained an erroneous reference to WikiLeaks - this error has now been amended. Thanks to the commenters below for bringing this to our attention.• This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original stated that Denton in turn ramped up the war by calling his assailants "script kiddies".  This has been corrected.
