The Xperia Z3 Compact is Sony’s second attempt at a premium small Android phone. Its stellar battery life, powerful processor and camera all make it a standout choice - especially at the £400 price.Sony’s first attempt last year at a “compact” (rather than a cut-down smaller and cheaper “mini” smartphone with a poorer specification– as Samsung, HTC and others create from their flagship smartphones) was theXperia Z1 compact. It was a fully featured phone, but its bulky, almost chubby design looked dated quickly.Sony ishaving its struggles in the smartphone sector– but that hasn’t interfered with its ability to make an excellent product.Compact by name, compact by natureA year later, the Z3 Compact’s design is a big improvement. The 4.6in screen fills most of the front of the phone with small bezels at the sides, top and bottom. It is 8.6mm thick (0.9mm thinner than theZ1 Compact) and weighs 129g. For comparison the4.7in iPhone 6 is 6.9mmthick and weighs the same 129g, while the theiPhone 5S is 7.6mm thickat 112g.The waterproof doors are fiddly to remove, and cover the microUSB port which is needed for charging.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe rounded transparent plastic sides feel solid, while the whole phone is easy to fit in the hand and use one-handed – something that has been lost in the pursuit of larger and larger screen sizes.The phone feels hollow when tapped, but is built well with little twist or give in the body. It is also waterproof to IP68 standards - that is, to a depth of 1.5m for 30 minutes; small fiddly doors protecting the ports. Only the headphones port is exposed.The headphones port is exposed; the rest are held behind fiddly waterproof doors.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe 4.6in screen has a 720p resolution, giving it a pixel density of 319 pixels per inch (ppi), slightly below Apple’s iPhones with 326ppi, but significantly lower than the 424ppi of Sony’s larger5.2in 1080p Xperia Z3. Regardless, the screen is crisp, colourful and bright with wide viewing angles - and the PPI count means it qualifies as “retina”, to use Apple’s phrase: at normal viewing distance, you won’t see the individual pixels.The front-facing stereo speakers are loud, but distort slightly at maximum volume.SpecificationsScreen:4.6in full HD IPS LCDProcessor:2.5 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 801RAM:2GB of RAMStorage:16GB plus microSD card slotOperating system:Android 4.4.4 “Kitkat”Camera:20.7MP rear camera, 2.2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPSDimensions:127 x 64.9 x 8.6 mmWeight:129gThe power of a flagship smartphone in a smaller bodyRounded, transparent plastic edges feel good in the hand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Z3 Compact will handle anything from graphically intensive games to video and image editing. It has the same processor and power as itsbigger brother the Xperia Z3, but 2GB of RAM rather than 3GB. When you tap an app icon to launch it, there’s none of the lag that you can see on older or cheaper, underpowered phones; the apps start loading at once.Effectively, it’s the same as most of the other flagship Android smartphones, and considerably more powerful and faster than any of the “Mini” variants from HTC, Samsung and LG.Sony’s built-in noise-cancelling technology is also as effective as most dedicated active noise-cancelling headphones costing over £100, though it requires a special headset – costing £51 – to use.As with the Z1, Sony’s focus is on extended battery life. Without battery saving features the Z3 lasted two and a half days of use, with push email, hundreds of notifications, three hours of browsing and three per day of music streaming over Bluetooth, and 30 minutes of gaming.Battery life on the Z3 Compact was over a day longer than most other smartphones.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIn fact the Z3 Compact lasted longer than the Z3 by half a day, which makes it the longest lasting premium phone I have ever tested – and that’s without activating any power saving modes. With Stamina mode active, 85% battery lasts over 13 days of estimated use and Ultra Stamina mode extends that to 15 days eight hours.Android mostly left aloneThe Z3 Compact’s software isidentical to the Z3, with Sony’s small additions to standard Android including themes and the power-saving modes.Sony’s version of Android resembles the standard Android experience with small tweaks and removable Sony widgets.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianIt includes Hi-Res audio support and compatibility with the Remote Play Android apps for PlayStation 4 gaming, although the small screen may make playing games less satisfying. The app was not available for testing at the time of this review.CameraThe augmented reality camera modes are fun.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe camera is the same as the Z3: Sony’s excellent 20.7-megapixel sensor, which is one of the best camera phones available. The smaller screen makes lining up the shot slightly more difficult, but the dedicated camera shutter is excellent.The camera lens is also positioned closer towards the centre line of the phone, making it easier to take photos without blocking the lens with a finger.PriceThe bright orange looks particularly good in real life.Photograph: SonyThe Xperia Z3 costs just over £400 without contract in black, white, bright green and luminous orange, making it £139 cheaper than the iPhone 6, but approximately £50 more than theHTC One Mini 2.VerdictThe Z3 Compact is the best small Android smartphone available. It is light, easy to hold and use and has all the power of a full-sized flagship phone with fantastic battery life.It has fiddly waterproof doors, but a great camera and a decent screen. It blows any smaller Android handsets like the “mini” variants of the HTC One and Galaxy S5 out of the water.It is a harder sellagainst the iPhone 6, which has stronger name recognition, but those looking for a smaller, more compact Android phone that is every bit a flagship phone but not 5in or bigger finally have a phone worth buying.Pros:compact size, waterproof, great battery life, great camera, built-in noise cancelling tech, PS4 Remote Play supportCons:fiddly doors for ports, no fingerprint sensor, no wireless charging built-in, thicker than some competitorsOther reviews•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•HTC One mini 2 review: selfie-camera ready for action•Samsung Galaxy Alpha review: a direct iPhone 6 competitor•iPhone 6 review: thinner, faster and slightly cheaper•Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphone•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic•Nokia Lumia 930 review: the best Windows Phone yet
Facebook says the huge psychological experiment itsecretly conducted on its usersshould have been “done differently” and announced a new set of guidelines for how it will approach future research studies.In ablogpost on Thursday, Mike Schroepfer, chief technology officer, said the company had been “unprepared” for the negative reactions it received when it published the results of an experiment in June.Facebook published the results of a 2012 study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Unbeknown to users, Facebook had tampered with the news feeds of nearly 700,000 people, showing them an abnormally low number of either positive or negative posts. The experiment aimed to determine whether the company could alter the emotional state of its users.News of the research sparked outrage from people who felt manipulated by the company.“What many of us feared is already a reality: Facebook is using us as lab rats, and not just to figure out which ads we’ll respond to but actually change our emotions,” wroteanimalnewyork.com, a blogpost that drew attention to the study in June.The experiment was designed to assess whether more positive or negative comments in a Facebook newsfeed would impact how the user updated their own page. Facebook used an algorithm to filter content. Researchers found those shown more negative comments posted more negative comments and vice versa.“It is clear now that there are things we should have done differently,” Schroepfer writes. “For example, we should have considered othernon-experimentalways to do this research. The research would also have benefited from more extensive review by a wider and more senior group of people. Last, in releasing the study, we failed to communicate clearly why and how we did it.”He also announced a new set of guidelines for how Facebook will approach research in the future. Research that relates to content that “may be considered deeply personal (such as emotions) it will go through an enhanced review process before research can begin. The guidelines also require further review if the work involves a collaboration with someone in the academic community,” he said.A review panel consisting of engineering, research, legal, privacy and policy teams will assess projects falling within these guidelines. Research practices have been added to Facebook’s six-week training “bootcamp” and the company’s academic research will be available for public scrutiny at a single location and regularly updated“We believe in research, because it helps us build a better Facebook. Like most companies today, our products are built based on extensive research, experimentation and testing,” said Schroepfer. “We want to do this research in a way that honours the trust you put in us by using Facebook every day,” said.
Apple’s chief designer, Jonathan Ive, is fun to have a pint with – and insists on his children building physical, not virtual, objects, according to an in-depth profile in Vogue magazine.He also thinks that design schools should focus more on the physical, not the virtual.Ive also showed off the company’s new Watch to a journalist from Vogue three weeks before its launch, in a guarded room under conditions that the writer said felt “like a matter of national security”.The revelation comes as part of aprofilein the October issue of the fashion bible, and points towards the iPhone maker’s intent to position its smartwatch not as a piece of technology, but as an item aimed at the fashion-conscious.The 3,500-word profile provides a rare insight into the biography and thinking of Ive, who rarely gives interviews and hardly ever speaks in public. The article, by Robert Sullivan, suggests Ive – who has been at Apple since 1992 – is a polite, humble and thoughtful man with an incredible focus on detail.It also reveals that he was the broker for who resuscitated a deal between Apple and U2 on the original Project Red scheme when he was sent by Steve Jobs to talk to Bono in an Irish pub. Of Ive, U2’s frontman says:“Jony is deadly serious … He is also serious fun to be around. When you go out for a pint with Jony, it’s kind of like going for a pint with the future, which is cool except you know he’s not telling you what they’ve really got planned.”Sullivan quotes Ive, who suggested he “struggled” with computers when at school:“Isn’t that curious?” he says now. “Because if you tasted some food that you didn’t think tasted right, you would assume that the food was wrong. But for some reason, it’s part of the human condition that if we struggle to use something, we assume that the problem resides with us.”Sullivan reveals that Ive is trying to follow his father by working with his twin boys on physical designs of things:“My boys are 10, and I like spending time with them doing stuff that I did, which is drawing and making things – real things, not virtual things.”In that, Ive – the designer of gadgets of distraction such as the iPad and iPhone - sounds like Steve Jobs, who banned his children from using iPads. According to Sullivan, Ive thinks design schools should keep a focus on traditional skills with physical objects, as he did:“I think it’s important that we learn how to draw and to make something and to do it directly,” he says, “to understand the properties you’re working with by manipulating them and transforming them yourself.”Of the as-yet unreleased Watch, Sullivan describes Ive’s enthusiasm for a product which has been in development for three years:As you watch Ive walk off, politely thanking people, you recall that he closed up his private presentation by asking you to listen closely to a watchband as it is pulled off and then reconnected. “You just press this button and it slides off, and that is just gorgeous,” he was saying. He encouraged you to pause. “But listen as it closes,” he said. “It makes this fantastick-chit.” He was nearly whispering. And when he said the wordfantastic,he said it softly and slowly – “fan-tas-tic!” – as if he never wanted it to end.Ive also spent much of his meeting with Sullivan discussing his enthusiasm for classic timekeeping pieces:He describes the trajectory of clocks to watches: from a public clock in a Bavarian square to timepieces owned by royalty, to military chronometers, to the watch’s arrival, only at the beginning of the twentieth century, on the wrist. “It’s fascinating how people struggled with wearing this incredibly powerful technology personally.”Jonathan Ive with Sarah Andelman of Colette, Chanel director Karl Lagerfeld, US Vogue editor Anna Wintour, and the designer Marc NewsonIve’s friend, Hong Kong-born businessmanDavid Tang– a cigar lover – recalls how Ive once gave him “finely crafted wooden boxes, containing large, engraved Ive-designed ashtrays” for his birthday.The profile also reveals that Ive was “delighted” when he was given a goldBlue Peterbadge – the highest honour from the British children’s TV programme.Apple’s Watch was previewed at this week’s Paris Fashion Week, with Vogue US editorAnna Wintourand Chanel creative directorKarl Lagerfeldchecking out the wearableat high fashion store, Colette.British Vogue editorAlexandra Shulmanhaspreviously reviewedthe iWatch, which will be on sale sometime in early 2015.•Smartwatches: from Apple Watch to the Moto 360, what’s on offer?
Microsoft Windows has seen nine major versions since its first release in 1985. Over 29 years later, Windows looks very different but somehow familiar with elements that have survived the test of time, increases in computing power and – most recently – a shift from the keyboard and mouse to the touchscreen.Here’s a brief look at the history of Windows, from its birth at the hands of Bill Gates with Windows 1 to thelatest arrivalunder new Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella.Windows 1The first version of Windows.Photograph: WikipediaThis is where it all started for Windows. The original Windows 1 was released in November 1985 and was Microsoft’s first true attempt at a graphical user interface in 16-bit.Development was spearheaded by Microsoft founder Bill Gates and ran on top of MS-DOS, which relied on command-line input.It was notable because it relied heavily on use of a mouse before the mouse was a common computer input device. To help users become familiar with this odd input system, Microsoft included a game, Reversi (visible in the screenshot) that relied on mouse control, not the keyboard, to get people used to moving the mouse around and clicking onscreen elements.Windows 2Windows 2 with overlapping windows.Photograph: WikipediaTwo years after the release of Windows 1, Microsoft’s Windows 2 replaced it in December 1987. The big innovation for Windows 2 was that windows could overlap each other, and it also introduced the ability to minimise or maximise windows instead of “iconising” or “zooming”.The control panel, where various system settings and configuration options were collected together in one place, was introduced in Windows 2 and survives to this day.Microsoft Word and Excel also made their first appearances running on Windows 2.Windows 3Windows 3.0 got colourful.The first Windows that required a hard drive launched in 1990. Windows 3 was the first version to see more widespread success and be considered a challenger to Apple’s Macintosh and the Commodore Amiga graphical user interfaces, coming pre-installed on computers from PC-compatible manufacturers including Zenith Data Systems.Windows 3 introduced the ability to run MS-DOS programmes in windows, which brought multitasking to legacy programmes, and supported 256 colours bringing a more modern, colourful look to the interface.More important - at least to the sum total of human time wasted - it introduced the card-moving timesink (and mouse use trainer)Solitaire.Windows 3.1Windows 3.1 with Minesweeper.Photograph: WikipediaWindows 1 and 2 both had point release updates, but Windows 3.1 released in 1992 is notable because it introduced TrueType fonts making Windows a viable publishing platform for the first time.Minesweeperalso made its first appearance. Windows 3.1 required 1MB of RAM to run and allowed supported MS-DOS programs to be controlled with a mouse for the first time. Windows 3.1 was also the first Windows to be distributed on a CD-ROM, although once installed on a hard drive it only took up 10 to 15MB (a CD can typically store up to 700MB).Windows 95Windows 95: oh hello Start menu.As the name implies, Windows 95 arrived in August 1995 and with it brought the first ever Start button and Start menu (launched with a gigantic advertising campaign that used theRolling Stones’ Start Me Up, and a couple of months laterFriends stars Jennifer Aniston and Matthew Perry. Could itbeany more up-to-date?)It also introduced the concept of “plug and play” – connect a peripheral and the operating system finds the appropriate drivers for it and makes it work. That was the idea; it didn’t always work in practice.Windows 95 also introduced a 32-bit environment, the task bar and focused on multitasking. MS-DOS still played an important role for Windows 95, which required it to run some programmes and elements.Internet Explorer also made its debut on Windows 95, but was not installed by default requiring the Windows 95 Plus! pack. Later revisions of Windows 95 included IE by default, as Netscape Navigator and NCSA Mosaic were popular at the time.Windows 98Windows 98, the last great DOS-based Windows.Photograph: WikipediaReleased in June 1998, Windows 98 built on Windows 95 and brought with it IE 4, Outlook Express, Windows Address Book, Microsoft Chat and NetShow Player, which was replaced by Windows Media Player 6.2 in Windows 98 Second Edition in 1999.Windows 98 introduced the back and forward navigation buttons and the address bar in Windows Explorer, among other things. One of the biggest changes was the introduction of the Windows Driver Model for computer components and accessories – one driver to support all future versions of Windows.USB support was much improved in Windows 98 and led to its widespread adoption, including USB hubs and USB mice.Windows MEWindows ME was one to skip.Photograph: WikipediaConsidered a low point in the Windows series by many – at least, until they saw Windows Vista – Windows Millennium Edition was the last Windows to be based on MS-DOS, and the last in the Windows 9x line.Released in September 2000, it was the consumer-aimed operating system twined with Windows 2000 aimed at the enterprise market. It introduced some important concepts to consumers, including more automated system recovery tools.IE 5.5, Windows Media Player 7 and Windows Movie Maker all made their appearance for the first time. Autocomplete also appeared in Windows Explorer, but the operating system was notorious for being buggy, failing to install properly and being generally poor.Windows 2000Windows 2000 was ME’s enterprise twin.Photograph: WikipediaThe enterprise twin of ME, Windows 2000 was released in February 2000 and was based on Microsoft’s business-orientated system Windows NT and later became the basis for Windows XP.Microsoft’s automatic updating played an important role in Windows 2000 and became the first Windows to support hibernation.Windows XPWindows XP still survives to this day.Photograph: Schrift-Architekt/flickrArguably one of the best Windows versions, Windows XP was released in October 2001 and brought Microsoft’s enterprise line and consumer line of operating systems under one roof.It was based on Windows NT like Windows 2000, but brought the consumer-friendly elements from Windows ME. The Start menu and task bar got a visual overhaul, bringing the familiar green Start button, blue task bar and vista wallpaper, along with various shadow and other visual effects.ClearType, which was designed to make text easier to read on LCD screens, was introduced, as were built-in CD burning, autoplay from CDs and other media, plus various automated update and recovery tools, that unlike Windows ME actually worked.Windows XP was the longest running Microsoft operating system, seeing three major updates and supportup until April 2014– 13 years from its original release date. Windows XP was still used on an estimated 430m PCs when it was discontinued.Its biggest problem was security: though it had a firewall built in, it was turned off by default. Windows XP’s huge popularity turned out to be a boon for hackers and criminals, who exploited its flaws, especially in Internet Explorer, mercilessly - leading Bill Gates to initiate a“Trustworthy Computing” initiativeand the subsequent issuance of to Service Pack updates that hardened XP against attack substantially.Windows VistaWindows Vista, arguably worse than Windows ME.Photograph: MicrosoftWindows XP stayed the course for close to six years before being replaced by Windows Vista in January 2007. Vista updated the look and feel of Windows with more focus on transparent elements, search and security. Its development, under the codename “Longhorn”, was troubled, with ambitious elements abandoned in order to get it into production.It was buggy, burdened the user with hundreds of requests for app permissions under “User Account Control” - the outcome of the Trustworthy Computing initiative which now meant that users had to approve or disapprove attempts by programs to make various changes. The problem with UAC was that it led to complacency, with people clicking “yes” to almost anything - taking security back to the pre-UAC state. It also ran slowly on older computers despite them being deemed as “Vista Ready” - a labelling thatsaw it suedbecause not all versions of Vista could run on PCs with that label.PC gamers saw a boost from Vista’s inclusion of Microsoft’s DirectX 10 technology.Windows Media Player 11 and IE 7 debuted, along with Windows Defender an anti-spyware programme. Vista also included speech recognition, Windows DVD Maker and Photo Gallery, as well as being the first Windows to be distributed on DVD. Later a version of Windows Vista without Windows Media Player was created in response to anti-trust investigations.Windows 7Windows 7 was everything Windows Vista should have been.Photograph: WikipediaConsidered by many as what Windows Vista should have been, Windows 7 was first released in October 2009. It was intended to fix all the problems and criticism faced by Vista, with slight tweaks to its appearance and a concentration on user-friendly features and less “dialogue box overload”.It was faster, more stable and easier to use, becoming the operating system most users and business would upgrade to from Windows XP, forgoing Vista entirely.Handwriting recognition debuted in 7, as did the ability to “snap” windows to the tops or sides of the screen, allowing faster more automatic window resizing.Windows 7 saw Microsoft hit in Europe with antitrust investigations over the pre-installing of IE, which led to a browser ballot screen being shown to new users allowing them to choose, which browser to install on first boot.Windows 8Windows 8 focused more on touch than a keyboard and mouse.Released in October 2012, Windows 8 was Microsoft’s most radical overhaul of the Windows interface, ditching the Start button and Start menu in favour of a more touch-friendly Start screen.The new tiled interface saw programme icons and live tiles, which displayed at-a-glance information normally associated with “widgets”, replace the lists of programmes and icons. A desktop was still included, which resembled Windows 7.Windows 8 was faster than previous versions of Windows and included support for the new, much faster USB 3.0 devices. The Windows Store, which offers universal Windows apps that run in a full-screen mode only, was introduced. Programs could still be installed from third-parties like other iterations of Windows, but they could only access the traditional desktop interface of Windows.The radical overhaul was not welcomed by many. Microsoft attempted to tread a fine line between touchscreen support and desktop users, but ultimately desktop users wanting to control Windows with a traditional mouse and keyboard and not a touchscreen felt Windows 8 was a step back. There were also too few touchscreens in use, or on offer, to make its touch-oriented interface useful or even necessary - despite the parallel rise of tablets such as the iPad, and smartphones, which had begun outselling PCs by the end of 2010.Windows RT, which runs on ARM-based processors traditionally found in smartphones and non-PC tablets, was introduced at the same time as Windows 8 with the Microsoft Surface tablet. It looked and felt like Windows 8, but could not run traditional Windows applications, instead solely relying on the Windows Store for third-party apps.Windows 8.1Windows 8.1 and the great reappearance of the Start button.A free point release to Windows 8 introduced in October 2013, Windows 8.1 marked a shift towards yearly software updates from Microsoft and included the first step in Microsoft’s U-turn around its new visual interface.Windows 8.1 re-introduced the Start button, which brought up the Start screen from the desktop view of Windows 8.1. Users could also choose to boot directly into the desktop of Windows 8.1, which was more suitable for those using a desktop computer with a mouse and keyboard than the touch-focused Start screen.Windows 10Windows 10 brings back the Start menuAnnounced on 30 September 2014, Windows 10 has only been released as a test version for keen users to try. The “technical preview” is very much still a work in progress.Windows 10 represents another step in Microsoft’s U-turn, bringing back the Start menu and more balance to traditional desktop computer users.Some interesting features include the ability to switch between a keyboard and mouse mode and a tablet mode, for those computers like the Surface Pro 3 with a detachable keyboard.Windows 10 – despite being the ninth version of Windows – is designed to unify all Windows platforms across multiple devices, including Windows Phone and tablets, with universal apps that can be downloaded from the Windows Store and run on all Windows devices.It won’t be available until 2015, likely after Microsoft’s Build developer conference in April, so for now Windows 8.1 is the latest version of Windows.•Microsoft unveils Windows 10: ten things to know•Microsoft unveils Windows 10: ‘It wouldn’t be right to call it Windows 9’
This is the second part of Cara Ellison’s look at the Japanese indie games scene. Inpart one, she visited Tokyo Indies, a get-together where lone developers and small studios can show off their latest projects.What is “indie”? What do we mean, when we talk about indie game development? It’s something developers and writers in the west have pondered on a lot lately, as the nature and business of game development evolves.In Japan, too, the demarcations between development types and identifying labels have become arbitrary and unclear. For example, The Touhou Project, a series of “bullet hell” scrolling shoot-’em-ups by one-man outfit, Team Shanghai Alice, is considered a successfuldōjingame series – in other words, a hobbyist development project. However, people refer to the Japanese-developed Cave Story – a clear homage to Nintendo’s Metroid titles by lone developer Daisuke Amaya – asindie.An interesting preview video of this year’s Comiket, a hobbyist manga and game development event held annually in Tokyo. It’s a key showcase for dōjin games.“Now why is that?” asks Alvin Phu, game developer and organiser of the regular Tokyo Indies gatherings. “I can’t really answer these questions. I am not Japanese.”Instead, I ask independent developers Makoto Goto and Mika Maruyama what they think.“It’s difficult to give an explanation because the perspective is different,” Goto says. “Almost always, the dōjin creator has a daytime job and their hobby is making dōjin games. But with indie games, the importance is on making money.”Maruyama expands a little on what she thinks the indie philosophy is: she tells me thatdōjincreators take their inspiration from manga and anime that they admire, but indie games are more often a reflection of something more centred inside the creator.Maruyama’swebsite, for example, is a showcase of her original artwork and enchanting music, the sort that excites me about her forthcoming first game, as yet unnamed, which I hope will be the crossroads of all her many talents.“Indie games are based on the self,” Goto says. “They are different in that manner.”Goto thinks that the Tokyo Game Show didn’t really care about indie game makers until this year when the media became interested in them. There has also been a change of environment surrounding developers Goto says, with Valve’s Steam platform and start ups making a big difference.An illustration by artist and game designer, Mika MaruyamaPhotograph: public domainIn 2009, heavyweight Japanese developer Keiji Inafune, the “father” of Capcom’s legendary platform gaming series Megaman, made a famous remark. “Personally when I looked around [at] all the different games at the TGS floor I said ‘Man, Japan is over. We’re done. Our game industry is finished.’”Though he teaches game design and speaks regularly on games in Japan, Inafune has reinforced this opinion of the Japanese games industry since, saying there aretoo many sequels on the TGS floor. But I wonder if he might have been excited this year by the number of original Japanese indie games at TGS, including the intriguingVane, developed by ex-members of Team Ico, the creators of Ico, Shadow of the Colossus and the long-awaited, Last Guardian. Onion Games’Million Onion Hotel, a brilliantly funny puzzle game studded with Yoshiro Kimura’s poetry, was also a highlight of the indie booths. I think Inafune would loveDownwelltoo.“It’s such an exciting inspiration,” Goto says on the rise of the Japanese indies. He thinks all kinds of game makers in Japan will take full advantage of the opportunities provided by the rise of the indie community, and that it’s possible the dōjin community will also benefit from this new emphasis on small budget developers. Patel hopes that Japanese student game makers will take over running Kyoto Indies and invite new people into the fold. There’s a sense here that Japanese developers are taking ownership of their future; they are becoming less afraid of the risks of going it alone.“The spirit of indie game makers and dōjin game makers is the same,” Goto says. “We can make our own games.”Six interesting Japanese indie games to try todayCherry Tree High Comedy Club – a super cute school adventure from Nyu MediaPhotograph: public domain1.Recettear:a dōjin role-playing adventure, translated into English and available on PC.2.La Mulana:critially acclaimed “metroidvania”-style exploration platformer. It’s available on PC and Wiiware and a Vita version is planned.3.Shipponeko and the Disappearing Fried Shrimp:completely loveable flash game in which you control a cat looking for dinner and avoiding feline enemies.4.Cherry Tree High Comedy Club:A charming and funny high school adventure, available on Steam.5.Hatoful Boyfriend:And in a similar style, this is a high school dating game, but with pigeons instead of boys.6.Astebreed:visually gorgeous hardcore sci-fi “schmup” from Edelweiss, available in an English translation on Steam.
“It’s a little village!” shouts my five year-old son, waving the innards of theKanocomputer in the air. “No! It’s like Lego!”He eyes it with the expression he usually gets before pulling apart a Lego building and enthusiastically scattering its pieces around the house. We opened the Kano box two minutes ago.I distract him with one of the enclosed sheets of stickers long enough to retrieve the motherboard, only to find my seven year-old son knocking the keyboard off the table, cracking the corner of his chair on the way.“This is Kano. It’s a computer – and you make it yourself,” is the London-based startup’s slogan. My children appear much more likely to break the review unit that the company has supplied themselves, before it even gets made.Still, 10 minutes later we’re sat in front of the TV, with the kit’s speaker, case and Raspberry Pi Model B computer slotted together neatly, SD card and Wi-Fi USB dongle in place, and powered on.The stickers – intended to decorate the £99 computer – have mostly been attached to noses, foreheads, backsides and random items of furniture. But both children are fascinated by the computer’s insides. Of course they are: they’ve never seen inside a tablet, a smartphone or the all-in-one computer that I work on at home.Kano’s stickers are intended for decoration...Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianMuch of the buzz around Kano, whichraised $1.5m on crowdfunding website Kickstarterin December 2013, and started shipping its first kits out to buyers in September, focuses on what it does: programming, games, multimedia and more.Actually, though, the device may be less important than the human relationships around it. Setting aside a couple of hours on a Saturday to make and use a computer was about time with my sons, just like a good walk, football in the park, bundling onto the sofa for a story and so on.The technology isn’t important; the time together is. It reminds me of when I was a boy in the early 1980s, going to a Saturday-morning computer club with my dad to fiddle about with BASIC, LOGO drawing turtles and innards that may well have looked like villages. Or Lego.Raspberry Pi is already sparking some wonderful projects that remind me of those days, and Kano is one of several projects building on it in a sensible way for parents who might be intimidated by the idea of getting a Raspberry Pi up and running from scratch.Kids, tsk...Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian“Hello! I’m KANO. Thanks for bringing me to life. What should I call you?” asks the computer, on-screen.My seven year-old starts hunting and pecking keys to type in his name, before having the keyboard kicked out of his hands by his brother, who holds down the ‘k’ key for the next two minutes, then remembers that he knows how to type “BUM”.We finally settle on a serious name, and hit the return key. An ASCII rabbit gallops across the screen, to general hysteria. Then we defuse a virtual bomb by typing “startx” within a 15-second time limit – the seven year-old manages to terrify himself by being too slow first time round, before realising it’s not a real bomb.We log on to our home Wi-Fi network (“so that’s what the box near the front door is!”) and run a test ping to Google (“I know Google, it’s where you go when you don’t know the answer to my questions daddy”) and then wait for 15 minutes while Kano downloads a software update.“Why are software updates so boring, daddy?” asks the seven year-old, who is learning this computing lark fast. The five year-old, meanwhile, is taking advantage of the lull to practise WWE-style splashes from the top of the sofa onto my shoulders. “I’m going to do this until the computer is ready!” he says, cheerfully.Kano’s orange keyboard is instantly recognisable.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianKano is shipping around 18,000 kits out to pre-orderers from 86 countries – around half to the US according toa recent TechCrunch report, which noted that while educational publishing firm Pearson had put in a bulk order of 500, most are going to parents.“We are shipping the product, and it works as promised to the backers. Those were the two most important things for us,” says Kano’s co-founder Yonatan Raz-Fridman, when I visit the company’s office a few days later.“There were 33 components, so many design, engineering and production deliverables. A lot of things could have gone wrong, and this is a young people: for a lot of them, it’s their first real startup experience. And we’ve shipped our first product as we promised.”Kano’s Twitter account has been retweeting photos of beaming children brandishing their newly-built computers, posted by their parents. Feedback from the latter on extra features they’d like is already pouring in and being acted on.When I visit, armed with a question about whether my children can have separate user accounts on Kano – it’s not obvious from the startup process – it turns out a tutorial is being written on exactly this point, because it’s been a common question.My seven year-old plugged the Kano computer in.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianA few days earlier, the software update is over, and we are exploring Pong, which is one of the preloaded modules on Kano. I’m unsure how this will go, given that my children’s previous experiences of gaming has been Minecraft, Skylanders and countless slick tablet apps. Arcade games from the 1970s... less so.I’m surprised at how eagerly they take to fiddling about with Pong’s settings using the Kano Blocks programming language, though. The ability to change the ball’s speed, size and colour provokes near-hysteria.“Make it brown, make it brown! GREAT BIG POO BALLS!” shouts the five year-old, as his brother fiddles with the settings. By now, Pong is unplayable because the ball is just too big, and fast. The seven year-old is roaring with laughter, and can barely type.“NOW MAKE IT A BIG GREEN BOGEY!” I say, unable to help myself. Both children look at me, semi-scandalised. “Sorry, I was just joining in.” My wife, passing through the room, shakes her head with a look that conveys both sorrow and a complete lack of surprise.We end up spending an hour tweaking Pong parameters, eventually with more serious intent, as the seven year-old concentrates hard on finding the correct combination of speed and ball size that will make the game playable for his brother. When he succeeds, his eyes are sparkling with pride.Kano as it’s shipping out to 18,000 pre-order customers.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianCoding for kids – or programming, if you don’t like the ‘c’ word – is a controversial topic at the moment, as I’ve found when writing about it on this site.Supporters say that encouraging children to learn programming skills and computational thinking will benefit them whatever they do later in life: less about finding the next Ada Lovelace or Mark Zuckerberg, and more about developing problem-solving and other transferable skills.Some critics think young children would be better off spending time on other disciplines; and others argue that the way coding has been introduced into the English schools curriculum has put too much pressure on teachers who may be new to the subject themselves.Raz-Fridman puts Kano’s view. “We’re trying to empower a new creative generation to emerge in today’s world. That involves learning to code, but it’s not just that. Some people will grow up and want to become programmers, and some won’t,” he says.“But even those who don’t will know how to be creative with technology: how to make and play with it, in a way that can serve them in different purposes. But the fun, empowering, playful part is what comes across strongly: it’s not about coming and saying ‘today you will learn to code’.”“It’s a little village!”Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThe important thing about the first couple of hours my sons and I spent using Kano wasn’t learning to code. It was laughing together; working together to solve some problems; one son doing something nice for the other. And yes, a new platform for GREAT BIG POO BALL fun, obviously.None of this is specific to Kano, or even specific to technology. Parents and children don’t need a computer kit (or a tablet, or a games console) to have fun with one another.This sounds obvious, I know, but it’s worth stating – if only as a reminder that praising a digital product isn’t mutually exclusive with seeing books, bikes, walks and any other family activity you can think of as important too.What appeals to me about Kano is that both my children want to continue using itwith me, as a thing we do together. And with modules on programming music and customising Minecraft to come, there’s plenty of fun yet to have, with a community forming around it to come up with more projects.“This is my favourite computer,” announces the five year-old, as we turn the Kano off after our first session. “Can we make it into little pieces again? I want to play with the little village...”•Seven kids coding projects that crowdfunded their first steps
Nintendo; 3DS; £35; Pegi 12The stage is set. Bowser squares up to Pikachu, one stock remaining, and each fighter on 200% damage. One smash attack will be the difference between victory or defeat. The classic theme tune blasts out of the speakers.Yes, the latest instalment of peak Nintendo nostalgia, Super Smash Bros, is back. The multiplayer brawling game, which pits favourite game characters including Mario, Link and Donkey Kong against each other in hilarious skirmishes, has only ever been on consoles before. Now, you’re able to smash on the go via your Nintendo 3DS.Fans were originally concerned when Nintendo announced that this version would be developed, not by an in-house team, but by Namco Bandai, under the direction of series creator, Masahiro Sakurai. However, the collaboration doesn’t disappoint – it is little wonder that Super Smash Bros has alreadysold over a million copies in its opening weekend in Japan.As ever, players are able to choose from a list of characters before going in to battle. However, this is the biggest roster the series has ever seen: 49 characters drawn from Nintendo’s rich history, as well as outsiders Sonic the Hedgehog and Pac-Man. 37 are immediately available at the start and the rest unlocked through playing the game.It’s also the first time you can create characters based on your own Mii avatar, with the choice of being a gunner, brawler or swordsman. The characters are pitted against each other in a wide variety of locations, from the lush Gaur Plains to the ominous Final Destination.Smashing timeIt’s the mechanics of defeating your foes which sets this series apart from other traditional fighter games. Director Sakurai-san calls SSB an “opponent based action game”. The basic aim is to knock your opponents off the stage using your attacks to rack up damage, displayed simply as a percentage. The higher a character’s percentage, the further they will fly when hit with a powerful attack.A bubble-like shield is your primary method of blocking attacks. However keep your shield up for too long and it breaks – leaving your character in a helpless dizzy spell. This keeps the game moving. Attacks come in the form of a special and standard moves, and the strength is determined by the how much you tilt the analogue circle pad on the 3DS console. It’s a simple enough system for novice players and yet deep enough to keep the series’ veterans coming back.This game is faster than its predecessor Super Smash Bros Brawl thanks to the renewed “hitstun” feature, which lengthens the time it takes to recover from attacks, and so allows more consecutive fighting combos to play out. It’s a mechanic that should please the more competitive fans who enjoyed the demanding Super Smash Bros Melee on Nintendo’s GameCube console (and disliked Brawl, which lowered the impact of Hitstun, allowing more casual players more time to avoid attacks).Fighting chancesSuper Smash Bros provides play modes for every occasion. Solo and group matches still provide the main ways to engage in battles, but old favourites such as “Target Smash” and “Home-run Contests” return.The new “Smash Run” is an adventure mode that you can play solo, against the CPU or against others online. Players are given the chance to strengthen their characters by throwing them into a labyrinth-like world full of dangers, including familiar enemies such as Bullet Bill. It’s perfect for those who want to play a quick session of Smash, and is a nifty addition for the first portable Smash Bros.The online mode has improved since the last game. Players can now record their wins and battle in two modes – “For Fun” or “For Glory”. The former keeps all the chaos of Smash Bros, with stage hazards and items galore, while the latter removes these options by creating flat versions of each stage and without any items for assistance. This allows for more competitive gameplay for those wanting to remove as much luck from their matches as possible.Fluid movesSmash bros 3DS looks as wonderful as it plays. Characters move in fluid 60 frames-per-second allowing for a dynamic and visceral experience. Graphically, this is as good as you will get from the 3DS hardware. Sakurai and his team have managed to produce visuals on par with the Nintendo Wii’s SSB Brawl, while the lighter, bright colour palette actually enhances the experience.The menu layout is a bit chaotic, though. The “Smash” icon takes you right into action, yet the icons are haphazardly spread out in different colours and sizes, and could seem daunting to some players. Also, because it’s a small screen, the characters seem tiny, and having four characters fighting with all sorts of items being thrown at you can make it a real challenge just to see what’s happening – although this does add to the frantic charm of this game.Perhaps a bigger issue is the 3D capability in Smash Bros 3DS. I played through the game with the 3D turned on and off, and didn’t see much enhancement during matches. But at least you can appreciate the added depth and pop-out effect in the trophy gallery.Audio bullysWhether it is the immensely catchy main theme that perfectly encapsulates the Smash Bros charm, or a remake of the classic Mario Bros tune, the soundtrack does not disappoint. Each stage has multiple songs that you can listen to while fighting, ranging from retro favourites to sweeping new rearrangements. The dedicated fan can also listen to the soundtrack while the system is in sleep mode, pushing those tiny 3DS speakers to the max.This is a slick and energetic game. With it’s trophies, stages, characters and customisation, there is always a possibility that you will discover something new. And if you get tired of collecting, then the multiple modes are designed to keep you coming back for more. The online option and the added portability of the 3DS are real bonuses, too.Whether you’ve grown up watching your older siblings play Star Fox on the Super Nintendo, were glued to Pokemon Red on your Game Boy, or are a casual gamer occasionally playing Wii tennis, this is a game that anyone can play and get into instantly. For button-mashers and hardcore smashers alike.Super Smash Bros is available from 3 October for the Nintendo 3DS.
Digital music serviceBaboomhas “severed all ties” with its founder Kim Dotcom, in an attempt to cultivate more positive relationships with the music industry.The former Megaupload boss launched Baboom in 2013, promising it would provide musicians with a new way to distribute their music directly to fans, and be paid for it.Dotcom quit his role as head of cloud storage firm Mega to concentrate on the new venture, but as Baboom prepares to launch early in 2015, he will no longer be involved, having sold the 45% stake in the company that he controlled through a family trust.“In the evolution of every company, a change of leadership, direction and focus is needed and this tipping point had been reached,” said Baboom’s chief executive Grant Edmundson, in a statement.“Kim is moving on to focus on other projects, and both camps wish each other well with future plans.”The separation appears to be amicable, with Dotcom providing more details on the reasons in a tweet shortly after Baboom made the announcement:Good bye@Baboom. I was holding u back. The music industry hates me. You&#39;ll do better without me. Good luck my love.http://t.co/eByCsUizmR&mdash; Kim Dotcom (@KimDotcom)October 2, 2014In its current, soft-launched state, Baboom is a cross between SoundCloud and iTunes, providing artists with a way to make their music available to fans as streams or downloads, from their profiles on the site.Baboom went live in January 2014with a single artist – Kim Dotcom – and his album Good Times. The company is now in the process of striking more deals with artists and labels.Many of the latter may have been put off by Dotcom’s past, with Megaupload regularly accused by music rightsholders of being a haven for piracy before it wasshut down in January 2012. Dotcom has since regularly criticised the music industry publicly.Edmundson said Baboom is pressing on with its launch plans now. “We plan to launch in the first quarter of 2015 and both music fans and music makers alike have plenty to look forward to,” he said.“Baboom’s distinctive design is a world away from the cookie-cutter streaming music services. The platform will be open to artists of all kinds, will support high-quality FLAC files, faster downloads and analytics that have artists connect with fans around the world.”It is unclear what today’s news means for Baboom’s plans for a stock market flotation on the Australian Securities Exchange at the end of 2014, which wereannounced earlier this year.The company was planning to raise AU$4.5m (£2.5m) to help fund its launch, but its prospectus admitted that Dotcom’s reputation might be a hindrance to its business.“Owing to Kim Dotcom’s Megaupload heritage, some users and music suppliers may not favour using or engaging with Baboom, and labels may be reluctant to license material,” explained the prospectus in its risks section.“Baboom intends to assure labels and collecting societies they will be appropriately recompensed for all material used. Baboom will also acquire music from friendly major artists and will host original independent artists who choose to upload their own material, creating a new repository of music no matter how much major label material is available.”•Kim Dotcom: from playboy entrepreneur to political firebrand
Angry Birds maker Rovio is laying off 16% of its staff, admitting that the company’s headcount had swelled based on ‘assumptions of faster growth than have materialised’.Chief executive Mikael Hed announced the news publiclyin a blog post, revealing that a maximum of 130 staff will be affected in Rovio’s native Finland.“We are an entrepreneurial company and have been exploring multiple areas. We have been building our team on assumptions of faster growth than have materialised,” wrote Hed.“As a result, we announced today that we plan to simplify our organisation around our three key businesses with the highest growth potential: games, media, and consumer products.”This may not be good news for Rovio’s educational arm, including theAngry Birds Playgroundinitiative that has seen the company working with the University of Helsinki to develop an educational programme based around maths, science, music and other subjects.“It is never easy to consider changes like this, but it is better to do them sooner rather than later, when we are in a good place to reignite growth,” added Hed.“At Rovio we live to delight our fans. This year we have more launches and news than ever. As we consider these painful measures, we keep our eye on always delighting our fans with products they love.”AsThe Guardian reported earlier this week, the Angry Birds games still have 200m active players, but that’s down from 263m at the series’ peak at the end of 2012.Rovio reported revenues of €156m(£128.4m) for its 2013 financial year, a slight increase on the €152.2m from 2012. The company’s profits halved from €55.5m in 2012 to €26.9m in 2013, as it invested in its ToonsTV animation network and the Angry Birds movie, which will be released in 2016.Rovio added 300 staff in 2013, taking its headcount to 800 at the end of the year. The company has faced unavoidable comparisons with fellow Finns Supercell, whichmade $892m of revenues in 2013from just two games with a headcount of 132 staff.Supercell’s startling success – like that of Candy Crush Saga publisher King – came from “free to play” games that make their money from in-app purchases of virtual items.Rovio has moved into that market too with games including Angry Birds Go!, Angry Birds Epic and Angry Birds Stella, but has yet to generate a hit as big as those rivals, even if its consumer products business – from magazines and books to sweets and clothing – is more advanced.Hed has already announced that he will step down as Rovio’s CEO at the end of 2014, to be replaced by former Nokia marketing executive Pekka Rantala. Hed will become a board member, while chairing Rovio’s animation division.•Why Angry Birds are slightly miffed: mobile gaming in 2014
How much will the most expensive Apple Watch cost? Latest speculation suggests that the top-tier Edition collectioncould cost more than $5,000 (£3,080), which is certainly a luxury price. Its solid gold case doesn’t exactly make it a diamond-encrusted Rolex (that’s about $27,000), but Apple would have you believe that it’s closer to one than any other smartwatch on the market.So it’s the world of luxury fashion, not the tech industry, that we should be looking at to explain its latest campaign - which most recently saw the device, still with no announced release date,put on show at high-fashion boutique Colette for one day onlyduring Paris Fashion Week.People look at the Apple Watch at the Colette store, Paris, France in a one-day showcast during Paris Fashion Week.Photograph: EREZ LICHTFELD/SIPA/REX/EREZ LICHTFELD/SIPA/REXFirst, the most important thing to know about luxury wristwatches is that their primary function has been completely displaced by mobile phones. As a time-telling device, they are redundant; yet this has had scant impact on their sales. Why? Because there’s a currency operating here that always trumps utility: fashion. The desire to separate ourselves from the pack, and signal our status, lifestyle and good taste will always win out over rational assessments of efficacy.It’s therefore an interesting twist on the phone/watch story that Tim Cook’s Apple Watch looks as though it aims to restore the primacy of the wristwatch over the iPhone as a timepiece, and simultaneously enter into the market of luxury watches. The company’s campaign has conspicuously avoided the term “smartwatch” - its staff haven’t uttered the word, it doesn’t appear in any literature - in a bid to avoid comparisons with its technology competitors. Instead, Apple is aligning itself with the traditional world of mechanical watches and jewellery.It seems an odd move for a 21st-century tech company, but it’s undoubtedly a smart one.Where wearables went wrongTo understand why, we must first grasp where other wearable technology products have gone wrong, because Apple has clearly learned from the story of smart fashion’s stunted success in the marketplace.Wearable computing has been around since the early 1980s, withSteve Mann’s early maverick experimentsin wearing his own clunky cyborg garb (though the relationship between the body and technology dates back to the early industrial era). Since then, there’s been a lot of interest in wearable technology from the electronics industry and academia, but very little uptake in fashion.Only in the past decade or so has the development of “smart fabrics” pushed wearable technology into fashion’s court.Hussein Chalayanis the most prominent early example of a fashion designer who embraced wearable technology on the runway in a sophisticated way. But his work is a conceptual, rather than a commercial, gesture, a meditation on the relationship between technology and the body.A model shows off Richard Nicoll’s ‘optic dress’ design at London Fashion Week.Photograph: Yui Mok/PAIn a similar vein,Richard Nicoll’s optic dress– a collaboration with Studio XO, who has been working in the fashion/technology space for a while, producing dazzling costumes for Lady Gaga, such as the elaborate jet-pack “flying dress” – debuted at London Fashion Week in mid-September. It was ethereal and beautiful, but again, was obviously designed as a showpiece for the runway, not your wardrobe.This year, we are told, London Fashion Week went digital. Tellingly, it was more about using social media and online shopping to boost sales than about wearable technology. The reality is that wearable technology is still very much on the margins of fashion.Glass, interruptedWe’ve recently seen some commercial gadgets try to bridge the gap between electronics and fashion, but are there any true crossovers from gadget to fashion accessory? Not yet. The recent collaboration betweenDiane Von Furstenberg and Google Glassis a case in point. Evidently, the idea was to extend the aura of the fashion designer to the Google Glass to make the clunky gadget therefore fashionable.A model displays new product “Glass by Google” at the Diane von Furstenberg Spring/Summer 2013 collection show during New York Fashion Week September 9, 2012.Photograph: Andrew Kelly / Reuters/REUTERSBut fashion doesn’t quite work like that. Von Furstenberg’s frames are fine, but they don’t enhance or thoughtfully integrate the gadgetry, which is still an inelegant, bulky and lopsided appendage. No fashion brand alignment will fix the awkwardness of the technology. Until it can address that, Google Glass is always going to be more Steve Mann thanSteven Alan.In a small way, fashion has incorporated some technological enhancements, particularly in textiles, with digital printing and antimicrobial treatments the most common examples. But in terms of gadgetry or computing, very few fashion designers are making technological innovations, and most fashion designers aren’t even interested. Their criteria for good design tend to be about aesthetics, and elusive concepts like style, glamour, romance, cool, and nostalgia. It’s less about what a garment can do for you, and more about how it makes you look and feel. Wearable technology won’t be at odds with these aims once the gadgets become so small that they disappear, or become so ubiquitous that it necessitates a shift in thinking. But we’re not there yet.Mummy, let’s go to the World’s Fair!The World Fair in Brussels, Belgium - Apr 1958.Photograph: REX/Isopix/REX/IsopixAt this point, the majority of wearable technology takes its cues from 20th century science fiction, with technologists pursuing outmoded ideas about what fashion of the future should look like. In this pursuit of a retrograde future, wearable technology developers have failed to recognise that consumers aren’t excited by the technological advances of smart fashion for the same reason that a World’s Fair doesn’t move anyone in 2014. Cynicism and disappointment with the failed utopian promises of 20th-century technology means that the futuristic narratives of science fiction are less desirable than the stories of unchanging tradition used by the luxury fashion industry.This is why Apple knows that the more important message about its, ahem, smartwatch is not its battery life, but that thebracelet took nine hours to cut and has been hand-brushed. It’s using the language of luxury fashion (expertly delivered by the former execs of Yves Saint Laurent, Tag Heuer, LVMH, and Burberry now in its employ): time-consuming artisanal processes honed to create a precise and beautiful product. It’s thehumanlabour and ingenuity, not the technology, that elicits an emotional response. And Apple wants people to have an emotional response to its products. (Some are strongly positive; some are negative. But for Apple, that’s better than indifference.)As each iteration of the iPhone has amply demonstrated, it’s not so much the advances in functionality that captivates consumers. What matters is the fashionable qualities of desire, novelty, status, and – as Apple would put it – a sense of “delight”. In other words, Apple recognises what other smartwatch makers on the market have overlooked: the critical importance of design, and the irrationality of fashion and consumer behaviour.The fashion gapThe Moto 360: a simple and classic approach.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianDesign has been a letdown of many of the smartwatches released this year, including theSamsung Gear Live and LG G Watch. At the better end of the scale,Motorola’s Moto 360, which runs Android Wear, offers a familiar round face and leather band, as opposed to the awkward, shrunk-down-tablet oblong face that dominates the market.The Moto 360’s simple and classic approach of a round face has proved to be quite popular, but there are some serious flaws from a style standpoint. The face is too chunky to be considered elegant, and the design concept of a circular interface is obstructed by a black band at the bottom. Fitness is still the top application for smartwatches, so lightness and durability are priorities, but given that activewear is huge in fashion at the moment, these practical considerations shouldn’t excuse poor design.The fickle concerns of fashion tend to upset the hard-headedness of the tech industry.Some commentatorshave rightly pointed out that the Apple Watch isn’t as futuristic or tech as some other wearable technology applications that have recently hit the market.But if you look closely, the wearable products they compare appear to be limited, one-note or single-use novelties.A polo shirt you can use to measure your heart-rate? You’d have to buy a number of these expensive gym clothes for a hygienic washing rotation, whereas there are many standalone portable devices available that offer this functionality and don’t require washing.Function and formIt’s not that the Apple Watch really offers much more in terms of functionality, but that the watch itself is a much more versatile fashion accessory. The fact that you can wear it all day, every day (except at night when your watch is charging!) helps consumers when they need to rationalise their decision to invest their hard-earned savings in one wearable technology product over another.Why is2014 touted as the year for wearable technology, when smart textiles have been available to fashion designers for well over a decade? Until now, wearable technology has not been taken seriously by the fashion world for the simple reason that it’s rarely fashionable. When wearable technology developers start to understand the way that fashion operates, consumers will too start to take notice. Fashion ultimately is about beauty, desire, identity, and social standing; increasingly wearable technology will also be about these things. Apple seems to understand that. The question is how quickly its smartwatch rivals will.Madeleine Kingis a fashion writer and researcher and the co-creator ofThe Fashion Archives, an online publication looking at the history of fashion in Queensland, Australia.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA new clickthrough rate study for Google organic results &gt;&gt; Marketing LandAdvanced Web Ranking has released a study showing fresh data on the click-through-rate from Google's organic search results. The data was taken from Google Webmaster Tools Search Queries reports from large accounts back in July 2014.On average, 71.33% of searches resulted in a page one Google organic click. Page two and three get only 5.59% of the clicks. On the first page alone, the first five results account for 67.60% of all the clicks and the results from 6 to 10 account for only 3.73%.In 2006, theAOL data showedthat the first page got 89% of results. So people may be going further for clicks - or tweaking searches. The new study is available as a PDF (linked in the article.)Amazon Fire Phone review &gt;&gt; Expert ReviewsKatharine Byrne:Ultimately, the Amazon Fire Phone is a deeply frustrating and woefully misconceived handset. Apart from being a cynical money-making machine for Amazon, its clunky OS is difficult to use and offers no benefit over Android or iOS. The Dynamic Perspective display is a needless gimmick and its Firefly camera isn't good enough to rival services elsewhere. It's also expensive, even if you do get a free year of Amazon Prime thrown in as a vague sweetener. It's not broken per se, but you should avoid this at all costs.Oh.How RAM scrapers work: the sneaky tools behind the latest credit card hacks &gt;&gt; WIREDAny business that allows customers to pay with a credit or debit card is also required to adhere to another set of standards known as the PCI security standards. Established by the top players in the payment card industry—VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express and JCB International—the standards require businesses to encrypt credit and debit card data any time it's stored on a business's network or crosses the public internet. The standards don't require companies to encrypt card data while it's in transit on the company's own network or as it's sent to an external processing company as long as the data is transmitted over a private network. But smart companies do secure these internal channels anyway to prevent intruders on their internal network from sniffing the data as it travels.But even when companies encrypt data on their internal network, there are moments in the transaction process when the card data is exposed. During a brief period after the cards are first scanned, the account number and accompanying data sit in the POS system's memory unencrypted while the system determines where to send it for authorization. That's where the RAM scraper comes in.Fully encrypted contactless payments can't come quickly enough.Research reveals brand hijacking habits in new gTLDs &gt;&gt; World Trademark ReviewOnly 11 of the 71 brands (15%) in our research have registered across all four domains (or have them appear on the block/collision list): Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, BMW, Shell, Siemens, iPhone, Rolex, Chanel and Hermes.56 of the 71 brands (79%) have at least one of their brand-related domains registered by a private individual that do not appear to be associated with the brand.37 (52%) of the 71 brands have at least two registered by private individuals - suggesting that, despite the popularity of these gTLDs, over half of the brands will have to take defensive moves if they want to regain lost domains.In the two generic TLDs, 4% of the domains are still available for registration, compared to 29%  in the geo-TLDs. A sign that third-party registrants are looking more towards generics when registering brand terms?New gTLDs are a boon to registries and those looking to cybersquat, but seriously - when was the last time you used a .info or .aero site intentionally?Four charged with stealing intellectual property from US Army, Microsoft &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe unsealed indictment—which was returned by a federal grand jury in April—alleges that starting in 2011, the four men targeted Microsoft and stole "Log-In Credentials, Trade Secrets, and Intellectual Property pertaining to its Xbox gaming system," specifically the still-in-development Xbox One.The four men also allegedly turned to Epic Games and used SQL injection attacks "and other incidents of unauthorized access" like stolen passwords to pilfer "unreleased software, source code, and middleware" from the upcoming Gears of War 3 title.The indictment goes on to say that Valve, Activision, and Zombie Studios were also broken into by the four men throughout 2011. Then the men apparently tried to up their game. "Beginning in or about October 2012, the United States Department of the Army was the victim of unauthorized access to and trespass into one of its protected computer networks that resulted in the theft of confidential data valued at more than $5,000." A Department of Justice press release accused the men of stealing Apache helicopter training software built by Zombie Studios for the US Army.Eventually, the lulz have to end.iPhone 6 advances display technology; panel shipments to exceed 100m in 2014 &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogThe iPhone 6 uses a 4.7", 1334×750 LTPS (low temperature polysilicon) TFT LCD at 326 ppi (pixels per inch); the panel suppliers are LG Display, Japan Display and Sharp. The iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5", 1920×1080 LTPS TFT LCD at 400 ppi; the panel suppliers are LG Display and Japan Display. The iPhone 6 panels use several new technologies, such as:• Negative IPS (in-plane-switching) liquid crystal mode, which enhances contrast ratio• A thinner color filter with new green elements, which enhances color gamut• An ultra-slim LGP (light guide plate) in the backlight unit, which reduces thickness• Two-in-one LED chip package in the backlight unit for higher brightness• New BEF (brightness enhancement film) structure that combines two films in one, which enables higher brightness and reduced thicknessThe use of new technologies and materials in the iPhone 6 displays entail production challenges for the panel makers. Shipments of iPhone 6 panels started at the end of June, and panel makers have been working to improve production stability and yield rate.The panel makers need to ramp up production quickly, as we estimate that Apple has ordered more than 100m iPhone 6 panels for 2014.Details apart, there's a prominent name not in that list of panel suppliers - which has been the same since 2012.Announcing Office Sway: reimagine how your ideas come to life &gt;&gt; Office BlogsToday we're introducing a brand new app to the Office portfolio. Say hello to Sway! Sway is an entirely different way to express yourself and bring your ideas to life. When your ideas are born, you want to explore, visualize and share them—quickly and easily, wherever you happen to be, and on whatever device you have. You want your ideas to be understood. Sway helps you do just that. It's a new way for you to create a beautiful, interactive, web-based expression of your ideas, from your phone or browser. It is easy to share your creation and it looks great on any screen. Your ideas have no borders, edges, page breaks, cells or slides. Your mind is a continuous canvas, and Sway brings this canvas to life. Sway helps you focus on the human part: your ideas and how they relate to each other. Sway takes care of the design work—a Sway is ready to share with the world as soon as it is born.  With today's announcement and Sway Preview, we are just starting our journey with Sway and want you to help us shape its future.Hard to know if this is the next Google Wave or the new PowerPoint, but you'll definitely be sick of the word "sway" if you read all through the blogpost in one sitting. Invite-only at present.Zoe Quinn's Depression Quest &gt;&gt; The New YorkerSimon Parkin:Depression Quest eschews the usual characteristics of most video games: there is no victorious ending and, as the developers warn in the preamble text, the game "is not meant to be a fun or light-hearted experience." It is, instead, one of a growing number of video games that hopes to broaden the medium's subject matter with depictions of life's darker aspects. That Dragon, Cancer, which will be released later this year, is an autobiographical game about living with a terminally ill child (David Osit and Malika Zouhali-Worrall, the director of "Call Me Kuchu," are filming a documentary about the Green family's journey while the game is in development). In Hush, you play a displaced Darfuri child trying to retrieve water while avoiding janjaweed militia patrols.This group of games shares few similarities with Super Mario's spatial-reasoning puzzles and Call of Duty's shooting-gallery tests of reaction speed, typical attributes of video games that dominate the medium. Some of the hatred directed at Quinn has come from video-game enthusiasts who think that the darker themes are not suitable for video games, which they believe should be playful and primarily focussed on entertaining.Rolls the whole topic (including #g_m_rg_t_) into one neat piece. Quinn has, you realise, been going through a quest of her own too.Lacoon discovers Xsser mRAT, the first advanced iOS trojan &gt;&gt; LacoonThe Lacoon Mobile Security research team has discovered a new mRAT it calls "Xsser mRAT." The Xsser mRAT specifically targets iOS devices, and is related to Androidspyware already distributed broadly in Hong Kong.A link to the Android spyware, disguised as an app to help coordinate Occupy Central protests in Hong Kong, was sent as an anonymous message to Whatsapp users there on Thursday. In its investigation of that spyware, Lacoon uncovered the Xsser mRAT hosted on the same Command and Control (CnC) domain with the project being named Xsser. Though called Xsser, this is not related to an XSS attack.Later:The iOS device needs to be jailbroken in order to be infected. Then with Cydia installed, the repository would be need to be added and then the package could be installed.The "must be jailbroken" requirement may not be that unusual in Hong Kong and China. (The Android RAT doesn't require the device to have been rooted.) Lacoon reckons it's the work of a "nation state". See if you can think which nation states might want to spy on Hong Kong protesters...Analysis of 222 smartphone patent assertions: more than 90% go nowhere, rest lacks impact &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsFour years ago to the day,Microsoft sued Motorola over Android. A few days later, Motorola sued Apple. Disputes between Oracle and Google, Apple and HTC, as well as Nokia and Apple were already ongoing. In early October 2010 I decided to focus on smartphone patent disputes (as a blogger and as a consultant). I saw some key IP issues that had to be resolved, and I thought it would take about a year and a half for most of these to be sorted out. A year and a half is roughly the time an ITC investigation used to take.48 months later, Motorola still hasn't taken an Android patent license from Microsoft, though more than two dozen other companies have. After more than 40 months of litigation, Samsung still hasn't paid Apple a cent. Nor has Motorola, whichagreed on a ceasefire with Apple, but not on a license deal. AndOracle v. Googleceased to be patent dispute about two years ago when Oracledecided to rely exclusively on copyright, which worked out so well that Googleis now on the losing trackandwill presumably file a last-resort petition with the Supreme Court next week.In other words, the smartphone patent wars mostly achieved nothing except bad reputations and embarrassing court disclosures of internal documents. Though Microsoft has benefited handsomely from those licences - which earned more than Windows Phone licensing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Desert Golfing is a straightforward video game. It is a golf simulation, set in a two-dimensional desert that rolls on forever. Using a catapult-style aiming mechanism, the sort you may remember from Angry Birds, you hit the ball toward the hole. When the ball goes down, you move on to the next hole. Then the next. Forever. There is no end. It has been called “the best worst game in the world”, by US news site Kotaku. Like other smartphone gaming smash hits, it is ridiculously compelling.Because, although Desert Golfing is a straightforward video game, the emotional journey for its player is entirely complicated. You begin with eager anticipation: the hope that you are about to be challenged, surprised and thrilled. For the first 18 holes, these hopes are quietly met, accompanied (for players of a certain age, at least) by a sense of nostalgia at the game’s eighties Atari aesthetic and impossibly simple control scheme.With confidence comes the urge to improve. It’s now not enough to merely land the ball into hole: you have to do it efficiently in as few shots as possible. You begin to read the power meter properly, to better judge the angles, to pull off the odd joyous hole-in-one. With mastery comes the desire to re-set the game and start over with your newly acquired knowledge. But here Desert Golfing defies convention: there is no restart button, no option to exit and begin again. In fact, there is no menu at all. Unlike other video games, which allow us to redo our history till we perfect our story, in this wilderness you must live with your mistakes. Your past scorecard cannot be undone; you only have power to change the future.So you learn to forgive your past self, that idiot who went for the thunderous hole-in-one when he should have putted his way to lesser, more bankable glories. Now, as you reach hole 150-odd, you find resolve. You’re lining up shots with care but the real game takes place in your mind. You obsessively divide your total number of shots by the number of holes you’ve completed. Can you maintain an average of three shots per hole? Or less? This state persists every time you slide out your phone to get a few tees in while standing at the supermarket checkout till, or in the post office queue, among the phalanx of texters.At some point you become weary of the grind. Yet there is the dim hope that maybe there is nobility in the fact you’ve made it to hole 1,687. You take to social media to share your progress. The preening only baits the other Desert Golfers out. In turn they post their screenshots, proving how much farther they’ve travelled down the rabbit hole. You head back into the wilderness and you persist. It is the gamification of survival.The origin of Desert GolfingThe inspiration for this strange game came to Justin Smith, an independent developer from Vancouver, while playing Journey, the elegiac PlayStation 3 adventure about death and religion in a vast ochre wasteland. “I wanted to add golf to Journey in the same way someone would draw a moustache on the Mona Lisa,” explains Smith. “The terrain in that game was perfect for golf, and I thought golf would add a quantifiable purpose.” Smith let the idea sit for a while before beginning to realise his vision in the bold 2D graphics of 1980s computer games. “The color palette for Desert Golf is actually borrowed from Journey, but I figured it would be best not to call it Journey Golfing,” he says.At first Smith wanted to create 1,000 holes. Rather than manually design these he wrote an algorithm to randomise their layout, “as a survival technique.” Smith already had the name for the game, and, taking inspiration from Desert Bus, thenotoriously lengthy bus-driving simulatordesigned by the American illusionists Penn and Teller, he decided to extend his game further to make it incredibly long and repetitive.Smith, who taught himself to programme by typing code listings from the back of magazines into the Sinclair 1000 that his grandmother bought him one Christmas, made the decision to prevent restarting the game early on. “Adding a way to start over would sap some of the fun out,” he says. “If you’re doing poorly, the temptation to hit the reset button would always be lurking over you. But with no way to restart, the player feels a sense of freedom and reconciliation with life’s past mistakes.”That sense of freedom and reconciliation was reflected in Smith’s own process of designing the game – which took just eight days from start to finish. The greatest challenge was, he says, to resist the temptation to add in “indulgent” features such as curved slopes, power-ups and wind. “Not all the holes are enjoyable,” he says. “There are some very repetitive ones. And I did nothing to ensure that an impossible hole wouldn’t be generated. In fact, there’s a hole in the late 2000s that I was certain was impossible, a sudden ending in the middle of the desert. Of course: never underestimate players. They got past it.”Since the game’s launch players have been “getting past it” in droves. The game has no end because Smith’s algorithm created infinite courses, but he never expected anyone to make it past the hole in the late-2000s. “What comes after is just patterns in white noise,” he says.This hasn’t stopped one player from making it past the five thousandth hole. “Nobody should go that far,” says Smith. “I’m saying it now so I don’t feel responsible for more wasted time: there is officially nothing of interest past three thousand.”Or is there? Because, much of what makes Desert Golfing interesting exists independently of Smith’s intentions. The player’s journey through resignation to resolve is one that takes place in the mind; the desert’s landscape is secondary, a mere backdrop. The story is about perseverance in the face of hostility or futility; Desert Golfing is about the urge that drives any human to endure.UK gamers: more women play games than men, report findsAngry Birds has lost 63m players since 2012 (but it still has 200m left)
Malcolm Turnbull has not ruled out breaking off and selling parts of the publicly owned national broadband network corporation but says “now is not the time” to do so.Splitting NBN Co into separate businesses – based on the different technologies it employs to deliver broadband – was among 19 recommendations for market-based reform inan expert review of the infrastructure projecthanded down on Wednesday.But in an initial response, the communications minister appeared to reject much of the panel’s advice, suggesting it would further delay the implementation of the network, increase industry uncertainty and lead to “large losses for taxpayers and the budget”.He said breaking up the company now “would distract its management and delay the provision of high-speed broadband to all Australians”, but said the move, aimed at fostering competition in the sector, “cannot be ruled out”.He told ABC Radio on Thursdaythe first priority was to finishing buildingthe troubled network. “Frankly this project has been in such a mess, it is such a big job to sort it out, we’ve got to get the thing built,” Turnbull said.“It’s up to the government of the day to work out whether they want to break it up. The time may come. You always have to have that optionality.”The panel, led by Dr Michael Vertigan, also recommended scrapping a ban on other internet infrastructure providers competing with NBN Co, the creation of a new industry-specific regulator, and asking property developers to meet the cost of NBN connection fees.But Turnbull said allowing companies such as TPG to construct competing broadband networks, which could cut up to 10% from NBN Co’s revenue, would “take time and inevitably involve uncertainty”.He said the government was not “proposing to go down the full cost recovery mode” by charging property developers to connect to the NBN, a cost he admitted would be passed on to consumers. But he said the government was “looking at other ways in which, without recovering the full cost, we can level the playing field”.Labor’s communications spokesman, Jason Clare, called on Turnbull to reject an “NBN tax” on homebuyers.“He hasn’t ruled this out,” Clare said. “If this goes ahead then it will mean people pay more for their new home than they otherwise would. It will mean that the cost of homes will go up and that’s not fair.”The government is expected to provide a full response to the report by the end of the year.
Facebookapologized to drag queens on Wednesdayfollowing a meeting with community members and queens who protested against the company’s order to use their legal names on the social networking site.Facebook’s chief product officer, Chris Cox, said: “I want to apologise to the affected community of drag queens, drag kings, transgender, and extensive community of our friends, neighbours, and members of the LGBT community for the hardship that we’ve put you through in dealing with your Facebook accounts over the past few weeks.”Drag queens challenged the social media giant in Septemberafter several received emails telling them that they must change their profiles to their “real names”.Cox said one Facebook user reported several hundred accounts as fake, which prompted their incorporation into the company’s weekly fake names report. He said that 99% of the accounts that make that report are “bad actors doing bad things” like impersonating and bullying, and said nobody at Facebook had noticed the pattern of one person reporting specific types of accounts.He said the policy has never required everyone on Facebook to use their legal name and that the company is building better tools to authenticate accounts for users who prefer not to, like drag queens. He also said Facebook is working to require better customer service for people whose accounts are flagged, which was one of the key demands made by the drag queens and their supporters.“The spirit of our policy is that everyone on Facebook uses the authentic name they use in real life. ForSister Roma, that’s Sister Roma. For Lil Miss Hot Mess, that’s Lil Miss Hot Mess,” said Cox. “Part of what’s been so difficult about this conversation is that we support both of these individuals, and so many others affected by this, completely and utterly in how they use Facebook.”Cox reaffirmed that the “real-name” policy is meant to differentiate from other parts of the internet that accept anonymity and to protect people from trolls and abuse conducted by those protected by anonymity.Wednesday’s meeting was the second between Facebook and the drag queen group, which also included San Francisco supervisor David Campos and other community members. They had condemned the company for asking them to use their “real names”, arguing that the policy is also unfair to transgender people, victims of domestic violence and political dissidents.“It takes a lot to impress a drag queen, but I’m beyond thrilled that Facebook has offered a genuine apology and agreed that our real names are the ones we make for ourselves,” said Lil Miss Hot Mess in an email to the Guardian. “This is a huge victory not only for us queens, but also for the countless others we’ve met along the way whose names don’t always match their ID cards, but allow them to express themselves with less fear and more fabulousness.”When the complaints were first brought to Facebook’s attention, the company encouraged people to consider creating fan pages under their preferred names or writing an alias under their profile name.As discussions between the parties wore on, some performers closed their accounts while others changed their accounts to their “real names” and changed their profile pictures to purple squares with: “#mynameis” written across as a mark of protest.Organisers had asked queens and performers togather at San Francisco’s city hall “in face” on Thursday for a rally against the policy.Before the meeting concluded on Wednesday, Lil Miss Hot Mess said the rally was still set to occur.More than 36,100 people have signed a petition asking Facebook to change its policy to allow performers touse their names on their personal accounts.
Microsoft has unveiled its next version of the Windows software which presently powers about 1.5bn PCs in use on the planet. Windows 10 will aim to entice users put off by Windows 8, whose lack of a start menu (introduced in 1995 with Windows 95) was more suitable for touch interfaces than a keyboard and a mouse – even though keyboard-reliant users outnumbered touch users by millions to one.Windows 8 was a radical departure from the tried and tested Windows interface introduced in Windows 95. Users were puzzled at best, and businesses were slower to update than usual. Microsoft hopes Windows 10 will bring users back and entice businesses to ditch the four-year-old Windows 7, seven-year-old Windows Vista and the now-discontinued 13-year-old Windows XP.1 Start menuThe start menu is back, but it’s still got Microsoft’s live tiles from Windows 8 bolted on to the side.Photograph: screengrabAftercomplaints from users about its absence, the start menu is back. Clicking the start button brings up a menu, which – although isn’t exactly the same as Windows 7 or those before it – is more familiar than the full-screen tiled interface of Windows 8. This should be much more useful for desktop users, but the tiled interface from Windows 8 is tacked on to the side.2 ContinuumWhen connecting or disconnecting a keyboard Windows 10 will switch between a touch-based interface and a mouse and keyboard-focused interface.Photograph: screengrabWindows 10 attempts to blend the best of Windows 7 with Windows 8. One of the smartest things Microsoft has added is Continuum, which detects the state of the computer and presents the right interface depending on whether a keyboard and mouse is being used or the screen is being touched.For machines like the Surface Pro (which has a detachable keyboard), when the keyboard is attached it behaves like a desktop machine; without it, Windows switches to a more touch-friendly interface with an on-screen back button and other touch elements to make things a bit easier with fingers on a screen.3 One Windows for all devicesMicrosoft is using Windows 10 to attempt to unify its various software platforms across different devices under one Windows brand and software.Photograph: screengrabMicrosoft has talked a lot about Windows being more than simply desktop computer software. Windows 10 is meant to unify desktop PCs, Windows tablets and Windows Phone smartphones with one interface, one way of operating and one account.Apple has taken a similar route with its iCloud accounts and the upcomingContinuityfeature between iPads, iPhones and Mac computers – although its iOS software on the iPhone and OS X on the desktop have been kept separate.4 Universal appsMicrosoft promises that Windows universal apps will run on any Windows product, including smartphones, tablets and desktops.Along with the “one Windows for all devices” idea, Microsoft is pushing what it calls “universal Windows apps”, which is the new name for apps downloaded from the Windows Store. The idea is that one app will be able to run on all Windows platforms, including Windows Phone. Microsoft has been talking about this for over a year.How it will work is not yet clear, but it is likely that new Windows apps will have a condensed version for Windows Phone and full-size versions for tablets and computers. Apple’s universal apps do something similar between the iPhone and iPad, but are not the same as the desktop OS X apps.5 No more full-screen; universal apps can be windowedNew Windows Store apps, which previously only operated in full-screen mode, can now be used in traditional windows on the desktop.Photograph: MicrosoftBringing back the start menu has given the traditional Windows desktop more prominence again. To help merge the Windows 8-style “modern” apps from the Windows Store with the traditional desktop, Windows 10 can now run the newly renamed “universal apps” in windows on the desktop, as though they were any other desktop app.6 Snap assistThe window Snap feature has been enhanced to size windows for better multi-window productivity.Photograph: MicrosoftThe snapping feature, which automatically resizes windows on the desktop to fill part or all of the screen, has been enhanced, allowing tiling of windows, snapping side-by-side and an array of new layouts to including virtual multi-desktop modes to try to help computer and tablet users be more productive with both universal apps and traditional desktop Windows apps.7 What will it run on? Is Windows RT dead?Is Windows RT dead?Photograph: AlamyWindows 10 will run on most things that Windows 8 can run on. That includes almost any new PC bought in the last couple of years, but will exclude some older PCs, as Windows 8 requires a 64-bit processor.Processors supporting 64-bit operation have been on sale from Intel and AMD since 2004, so most PCs still in operation will support 64-bit software.The fate of ARM-based Windows tablets (that is, not running x86 processors) is unclear. Windows RT powers the Microsoft Surface and Surface 2, Nokia Lumia 2520 and the Dell XPS 10, among others. Microsoft has yet to announce whether Windows RT, which only runs on tablets powered by smartphone-class ARM processors, will be upgraded to Windows 10. A question about RT’s future wasn’t answered at the introduction on Tuesday.8 When will it be available, and what will it cost?The technical preview of Windows 10 will be available soon, with but Windows 10 won’t be available to buy until 2015.Photograph: ScreenshotMicrosoft showed off Windows 10 on Tuesday, but it won’t actually be available to users until 2015, after Microsoft’s developer conference in April called Build. Microsoft will be courting businesses before consumers, but Windows 10 is unlikely to appear in most businesses until the end of 2015 at the earliest.Most consumers will buy Windows 10 with a new PC, but for those feeling adventurous and wanting to have a poke around Microsoft’s latest and greatest, the company is allowing users to sign up for early previews of the software still in testing.It is recommended only for those that are happy to deal with and tech savvy enough to cope with buggy software and the potential for data loss, but those interested can check out theWindows Insider Program.How much the final retail edition of Windows 10 will cost Microsoft hasn’t said. Windows 8.1 costs £100 from Microsoft, but a Windows 10 introductory discount is likely.10 What’s in a number?Terry Myerson and Joe Belfiore, Microsoft’s Operating Systems Group unveil Windows 10.Photograph: MicrosoftYes, Microsoft did skip from Windows 8 (or 8.1 to be precise) straight to Windows 10.What happened to Windows 9? Perhaps Microsoft has been using base 9, so 9 is 10. Or 10 just sounds better? The Xbox 360 (aka the Xbox 2) and its successor the Xbox One (aka the Xbox 3) are proof that Microsoft is happy to throw out conventional numbering when it feels like it.•Microsoft unveils Windows 10: ‘It wouldn’t be right to call it Windows 9’•Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yet
Protesters in Hong Kong calling for democracy reforms are being targeted by spyware that can affect both iPhones and smartphones running Google’s Android software, a security company claims.However the iPhone users among the thousands of protesters should be safe if they have not bypassed Apple’s security system to “jailbreak” their phones to install unapproved apps.The discovery marks the second time that the demonstrators’ phones appear to have been targeted since the protests began last week.Dubbed Xsser mRAT by Israeli firm Lacoon Mobile Security, the malware is being run from the same server asa malicious program targeting Android phones spotted last week. That masqueraded as an app for the Occupy Central pro-democracy movement and was spread via messages on the cross-platform Whatsapp messaging system which urged readers to “Check out this Android app designed by Code4HK for the coordination of Occupy Central!”. Protest organisers said none of its members had developed or distributed the application.Lacoon said the Chinese government, which has been accused of various digital attacks on activists in recent years, was likely coordinating the attacks – though there is no proof the iPhone malware has infected any of the protesters’ phones. Only those which have been “jailbroken” by the owner to circumvent Apple’s normal security against unauthorised apps are vulnerable. However some users in Asia have jailbroken their iPhones in order to install local apps that are not approved for Apple’s App Store, or run special software. The malware does not itself appear to be able to jailbreak the iPhones.The version targeting Android smartphones can spy on the user because it masquerades as an app for organising the protest - and requests access to the owner’s phone address book, web browsing history, location, text messages, and phone call log. It can also record audio. Those details can then be sent to a web server in South Korea which appears to be controlled by a source in mainland China. If successfully installed, the iPhone malware collects the same data.“Cross-platform attacks that target both iOS [iPhone] and Android devices are rare, and indicate that this may be conducted by a very large organisation or nation state,” Lacoon co-founder Ohad Bobrov said in ablog post. “The fact that this attack is being used against protesters and is being executed by Chinese-speaking attackers suggests it’s first iOS trojan linked to Chinese government cyber activity.”The US-based Electronic Frontier Foundation noted the likelihood of anyone involved in the Hong Kong protests getting infected was not high, given iOS devices had to be jailbroken and Android users still had to be tricked into downloading the malicious software, which was not on the official Google Play market and was not spreading on its own.The EFF also said that just because the iOS and Android malware are run from the same servers does not mean they are both are aimed at Hong Kong protesters.Claudio Guarnieri, a security expert now working to help activists across the globe, said over Twitter the iOS malware didn’t seem unique and was certainly not advanced as Lacoon had suggested, nor was there any evidence it was hitting Hong Kong protesters.But onlookers are still concerned about the range of malware targeting activists over different platforms. Security firm Kaspersky Lab confirmed it had also seen various examples of malicious apps for iOS and Android, as well as spyware samples for other platforms, related to the Hong Kong protests.“Since nearly every part of our lives now has a digital aspect to it, it’s no surprise, in a situation like this, to discover that there are those who wish to steal information from those involved. It is not the first nor the last attack of this kind. We previously observed both targeted and cybercriminal attacks against mobile users. This is unlikely to stop anytime soon, on the contrary, we are witnessing a steady growth of mobile malware,” said David Emm, principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab.Guarnieri told the Guardian attacks over mobile on activists “have been happening for a while already and certainly won’t stop”.“By experience I see many activists putting an inherent trust in their phones while growing a distrust in their computers, and that leads sometimes to irresponsible use of both those technologies.”In June, so-called “lawful interception” technology was seen posing as a genuine Android news app, whichappeared to be targeting people linked to political protest in eastern Saudi Arabia. Analyses of government-grade iOS malware date back to at least 2012.
Set decades after a nuclear apocalypse, Wasteland 2 is the sequel to the 1988 role-playing classic. After choosing a small group of differently skilled survivors, players must head out into the heat-blasted wilderness to investigate the murder of an important tribal leader. This is what happened in my first 10 hours.1. I want my team of rangers to be the best, most badass team of rangers ever, so of course, I base them on my friends. There are four of them: the pistol-toting medic with the silver hair, the Goth techy idly cradling an energy pistol, the tiny woman in big boots slapping a plank of wood in her fist, and the sharp-talking shotgunner.It takes me a surprisingly long time to work out what I want from my team, because there are so many strange skills, and I don’t know quite how the game’s going to use them. Do I really need both lockpicking and safecracking, or can I make do with one? What exactly is the surgeon going to give me that a field medic won’t? What’s “toaster repair” all about?I give them all religions and brands of cigarette. These things are important.2. On the way out of the starting area I come across a character, Angela Deth, who volunteers to help my team out with our first serious mission. She seems competent so I figure: why not.I discover that Angela is several levels ahead of my team. She’s got a pretty sweet gun and a pretty nice wrench for hitting stuff, and four times as many hit points as my tiny woman in big boots. She blitzes the battles my guys struggle badly to engage with.I imagine my tiny woman with the plank of wood would be pretty jealous of the newbie, given how much better Angela is at everything she was meant to be good at. I guess she’d make snide comments behind her back and be quietly happy that at least she’s better dressed. But that won’t happen in this game – she’s unvoiced and silent. A blank cipher.The desert setting is vast and unfriendly – rival gangs – and giant killer rabbits – lurk everywherePhotograph: public domain3. There’s a nice moment when my rangers come up against human aggressors for the first time, near a radio tower and I’m given the option of taking the non-lethal approach. My sharp-talking shotgunner steps up and outfoxes a none-too-bright grunt, and the tech takes advantage of his confusion to fix the radio tower and pick up a weird transmission or two. It’s a nice moment. It feels like I made a meaningful call.Then I get the option of going to Highpool, a town that’s being overrun by a gang, or the Ag Center, which is trying to get the desert to produce food again. I go to the latter to defend the scientists. It’s a blunt but bold choice for the game to force on me; it doesn’t give me much information, and it’s clear I’m not going to be able to just go back and do the second one afterwards. My decision has some weight.4. It turns out that, if I want to loot everything, Idoneed safecracking and lockpicking. I need computer science, too, because sometimes the safes have electronic locks. I need perception to be able to spot traps and diagnose locks, and alarm disarming to be able to bypass explosions. If I want to grab all the scrap and ammo I can – and I do, because that’s part of why I play shooty-looty games; for the joy of looting every last corner and kitting out my party with incremental upgrades – I need all the skills.But if I want to hit anything in combat, I need the combat skills too. My first-level party couldn’t hit the side of a barn. Angela’s fine; Angela’s swanning around the battlefield with her personality quirks and her 60% chances to hit enemies, and she’s keeping the whole team together. They’re rookies, my guys. They don’t work so well as a team. I wish Angela would show some leadership, and stop shouting at the enormous flies.5. At level four, I give my tiny woman with the big boots some points in safecracking, so she doesn’t feel completely useless.6. The wasteland map is a beautiful abstraction: a few buildings, mountains, a constantly-pinging radar attached to where my rangers are, and an X where my next destination is. I don’t get to walk through an open world, but here I think that’s not such a hardship; the world’s a vast desert, barren and bland, and traversing spaces in Wasteland 2 is a slow business. I know there will be secrets here.7. I have been slogging through the Ag Center for a long time. There are a lot of crates, a lot of strange machines, a lot of explosive pods that deplete my ammo or shatter inconveniently mid-battle. Sometimes there are scientists, trapped in plant matter. The characters are well-drawn and interesting, and I genuinely want them to survive.But the complex is large and confusing, and the logbook isn’t always clear enough for me to remember exactly where I’m going or what I’m doing. It feels sprawling and sometimes confusing. That’s OK, I think; I’m exploring; I’m new here; I’m learning my way around. But I suspect that backtracking will be hard.And I know there will be backtracking, because I have found a toaster, and currently I have no way to repair it.8. Wasteland 2 is set in a harsh place, and that’s reinforced constantly by the scarcity of everything I need. There are not enough healing items for me to feel comfortable. If my guys die, they die for real. That fosters great caution; I don’t want to get into another battle with giant rabbits unless I know for sure I can survive it.Skill points are scarce too: the balance between combat and looting skills is precarious. Without combat skills, my party bleeds out on the floor of the Ag Center, flailing to hit anything while pod zombies explode all around them. Without looting skills, my party can’t afford ammo, or armour, or medical kits; they bleed out for lack of cash. I play through one encounter three times trying to find a way to not die, learning to maneuver, to ambush, to hide.9. It’s tense, is what I’m saying. If one ranger goes down, the rest won’t survive. Every battle feels like it might be life or death.I don’t want my guys to die.Maybe I’m doing it wrong; maybe I should be fine with the party being disposable. But there aren’t enough rangers out there to replace them.Every battle is also an opportunity for something ridiculous to happen. Crucial shots at point-blank range, suddenly discovering that my tech was the only person who could damage high-armour enemies because of his energy rifle, watching my medic bleed out covered in giant rabbits. Most of the ridiculousness went against me, but it never failed to be entertaining.10. Recently I sank 70 hours of my life into Divinity: Original Sin, luxuriating in the freedom and the flexibility its environmental magic system offered. Wasteland’s systems have a correct answer and a correct skill to fit them. Combat can be exacting and measured, requiring inventive use of a limited toolset, careful planning and a healthy dose of luck. Skill use is fiddly.Wasteland 2 does not always feel like fun. At its best, it makes me feel clever. At its worst, I am tracking back through a complex I have already cleared to find the only man in the desert who can heal me, because I can’t afford to heal myself.Wasteland 2 is available now on PCand Mac
It’s a balmy night in Tokyo. I tap my nails against the bartop in Gallery Conceal, Shibuya. I’m jostled by a thick jam of game developers, all clutching laptops and chatting loudly.The gallery is a tiny minimalist studio with a quaint bar and a vintage shaved-ice machine nestled in the back. The eternally attentive server grins and hands over my beer.“Arigatou gozaimasu.”Game makers of every nationality and background intermingle. The diversity of the community here is heartening: Japanese developers andgaikokujinor “foreigners” are exchanging ideas and business cards.This is the fourth meeting of Tokyo Indies, an informal event set up for small budget game developers in the region. It’s busy tonight; the Tokyo Game Show, Japan’s largest video game expo, finished the day before, and many of the developers in attendance here were in town to show their game to the 270,000 attendees.The creators of intriguing games like Band Saga, Vane, and Barkley 2 are present, showing trailers and giving introductions. I strain to look over heads at the projected images. The responses from the gathered crowd are lively and interested. But this feels like something new.In the west, small-budget games have become increasingly visible thanks to Youtube, social media platforms and digital stores such as Xbox Live and Steam. Game makers have started developing more idiosyncratic, open-ended experiences, often without the help of a publisher. Minecraft is the famous example, but offbeat titles including Thomas Was Alone, The Stanley Parable and Fez have flourished in the new digital economy.The Tokyo Game Show is centred upon serving Japanese gamers and their commercial tastes. This has traditionally meant that giant publishers such as Capcom, Sony and Konami have dominated the show floor. But indie studios are now big draws at western video game expos like PAX, Eurogamer Expo, and Gamescom. Specialist events like Wild Rumpus, Rezzed and IndieCade are also flourishing.So what about Japan? Does “indie” really exist in the same way here?2013 was the first year that small-budget game makers were provided a space at the Tokyo Game Show. However, the indie section was inside the kid’s area, which was outside the main halls. This year, the indie presence was much more noticeable. The large Sony-sponsored indie booth was right in the middle of the floor between Konami and Capcom, indicating that the PlayStation manufacturer is serious about supporting independent design in Japan – just as it has been in the west.But the signs of a new indie developer community in Japan are strong outside of TGS too.Originally from Boston, USA, and now living and working in Tokyo, Alvin Phu started Tokyo Indies four months ago, and the meet-up has been growing in popularity. The games are interesting.I’m particularly impressed with Ojiro Fumoto’sDownwell, a 2D-platforming game for mobile platforms that takes its inspiration from Spelunky. It’s very literal: your character goes down a well and has guns for shoes. You press one button to jump, and whilst jumping you can press again to shoot. It’s funny and has a feeling of the labyrinthine lo-fi dungeon games of my childhood. Ojiro-san is developing it by himself whilst he studies here in Tokyo. He’s the young hope.Phu is excited about Ojiro’s game too. “Yeah, there are a lot of younger people like him with the talent,” he says. “It’s been two years to develop to this state. You know, in the beginning [small-scale games development] wasn’t that big in the US either – it’s taken 10 years. It’ll happen in Japan; there’s probably going to be a lot of big games coming out soon. And that’s why I’m still here. Everyone’s like, why are you in Japan? Why don’t you just go back to the States? I know a lot of discouraged foreigners who went back. But maybe I can contribute something.”The Canadian developer Sagar Patel, who lives and works in Kyoto, is here too. He just celebrated the first anniversary of Kyoto Indies, a similar event that he runs in, you guessed it, Kyoto. He explains that the catalyst for the indie community starting to form here was the success ofBitsummitin Kyoto, the first indie game festival in Japan. The event was started last year by James Mielke ofQ Games, the veteran Japanese studio behind the revered Pixel Junk game series. It encouraged collaboration, feedback and support for small budget or solo developers working throughout the country.“That started the chain,” Sagar says. “When Bitsummit happened, the people who run TGS were like, ‘Heeey, what’s this indie thing about?’”Sagar Patel, organiser of the Kyoto Indies event with Alvin Phu, who set up the Tokyo equivalentPhotograph: Cara Ellison/Cara EllisonBut the spirit – and financial realities – of “small budget” developers wasn’t immediately understood by the organisers of the Tokyo Game Show. “They were about to charge a thousand dollars for a booth until Sony swooped in and said, ‘Oh, we’ll cover it’,” Patel explains. “But it’s getting better. The fact that Bitsummit was so popular with press and foreign press is making them realise it’s something. The second Bitsummit was huge. The Kyoto government got involved as well because they liked it and they wanted more local businesses to partake. Then the TGS people came over and had some meetings.”Bitsummit, Tokyo Indies and Kyoto Indies all have one thing in common: the main instigators of these events are westerners interested in creating a community around games in Japan. But indie games as a cultural movement in the west encompasses many problems still being struggled through, including the idea that developers who strike out on their own are only legitimised by commercial success. There are huge risks in going indie, too, particularly in the US where healthcare can be very expensive, andgoodhealthcare is often attached to jobs within large corporations. Artistic experimentation is ostensibly encouraged, but largely, the community is predicated upon salable aesthetics. In the west, indie game making is still largely seen as product development, rather than creating something purely to express yourself.But Japan has already addressed this gap in expression in a way that the west hasn’t. Japanesedōjinor “hobby” game makers have already been developing small- to no-budget games from their homes for years, and a huge community has risen up around their distribution. Making adōjingame often involves taking another established creative work, like a comic, and creating a small-scale fan tribute to it. Games in this genre can vary in quality from little experiments to fully fledged, polished game experiences, depending on how dedicated the developers are – and the scene predates any imported western indie game culture. Dōjin has an extremely active and established community that is celebrated over a number of events such as Comiket, the word’s largest dōjinshi fair.Patel says dōjin games have a very different sensibility to the indie scene in America. “I feel like there are cultural things holding [a larger Japanese indie game community] back,” he says. “The shyness, the unwillingness to show things … but slowly it is changing. Some things, such as Madoka-inspired games are not really pushing the boundaries, whereas Downwell – the game with the guns for shoes – that’s really pushing the boundaries. It gives me hope.”It’s possible, however, that this “boundary pushing” is being observed by Patel and I from a very western perspective. Downwell is explicitly inspired by Derek Yu’s hit “roguelike” game, Spelunky (Ojiro displays Spelunky proudly on his laptop desktop), and because it comfortably sits in this pedigree, I can feel myself immediately warming to it.Is what we perceive as boundary pushing in this game just extending our own western tropes, prejudices and genres? How is that different from the way thatdōjinriff on previous work? Are we all just riffing all the time? Is “indie game” really an aesthetic in itself?In Part two tomorrow: what is the difference between dōjin and indie games in the Japanese development scene– and how optimistic are small studios about the future?Tokyo Game Show: Sneak peaks of Bloodborne and Final Fantasy 15
Social news platform Reddit has secured $50m (£31m) in funding from venture capitalists and investors including actor Jared Leto and hip-hop star Snoop Dogg, and is preparing to give 10% of the new shares back to the website’s users.The fundraising comes weeks after Reddit banned “The Fappening”, a community dedicated to posting the nude celebrity photos leaked over the summer – following widespread criticism accusing the company of being slow to take action.Yishan Wong, chief executive of Reddit, said that the timing of the closure of The Fappening and the greenlight on funding were not connected. “Fundraising cycles are much longer than nude celebrity photo cycles, and the two happened to overlap,” he said,speaking to Venturebeat. “We handled the two independently, just like we made statements around other events. If anything, I spoke with our investors before doing the final term sheet signing and told them: ‘Hey, this thing is going on, and we are going to handle it the way we always handle things. Here’s a chance to back out if you want,’ and they all stayed in. It was a nice chance to make sure they were really on board with how we do things”.The images were originally posted on anonymous image sharing site 4chan, but The Fappening provided a home of sorts reportedly attracting more than 250m views in days. Reddittried to shut the community, or subreddit,citing copyright issues rather than invasion of celebrities’ privacy.The recent funding was led by Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator out of which Reddit launched in 2004 before growing to attract nearly 115m unique users per month, with participation from Alfred Lin of Sequoia Capital and Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz.Others who participated in the round included tech industry entreupreneur Peter Thiel. Wongsaid in a blog postthat Reddit has traditionally operated with a “shoestring budget” which meant the company could only focus on essential features and was “always understaffed”.The money will be used to increase the company’s 60-odd headcount, product development, build better moderation and community tools, improve its advertising product and expand Reddit’s mobile presence.The investors involved have proposed giving 10% of their shares back to the Reddit community. While no detail is given on how this will actually work in practice, Wong says he and Advance Publications, the parent company of Condé Nast that spun off Reddit in 2011, have been looking at a way to do it “for years”.“We’ve long been trying to find a way for the community to own some of Reddit, because it is your contributions that help to anchor the site and give it strength,” he said. “The investors in this round have proposed to give 10% of their shares back to the community, in recognition of the central role the community plays in Reddit’s ongoing success. We’re going to need to figure out a bunch of details to make it work, but we’re hopeful.”“An investment like this doesn’t mean we’re rich or successful,” said Wong. “We have been entrusted with capital by patient, long-term investors who support our views on difficult issues. We believe in free speech, self-governing communities, and the power of voting. We find that this freedom yields more good than bad, and we have chosen investors based on this belief.”• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly “for publication”.• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
The DVLA’s new vehicle tax site has crashed due to the large volume of people attempting to renew their tax online after paper discs were abolished in favour of digital records.The site was experiencing more than 6,000 visits a minute at 9.43pm on Tuesday, according to the DVLA, but remained up but by Wednesday morning when the new rules came into effect it was overwhelmed.“We are currently experiencing high volumes of traffic to our online vehicle tax service please keep trying. Sorry for the inconvenience,” theDVLA said via its official Twitter account.The site labelled as a “beta” service despite alternatives to the new system not being in place, is part of the government’s new digital-first policy led by the Government Digital Service (GDS), which the head of the civil service declared was unlikely to change.The DVLA said that over 270,000 motorists had managed to renew their vehicle tax Tuesday, which was 30,000 more people than the same time last year.Despite the DVLA’s urges to “keep trying” the site was completely unresponsive when the Guardian tried to access the service. A renewal service via phone is also available, but customers on Twitter claimed both the site and the phone service were inoperable.@DVLAgovukive tried calling &amp; online. Both don&#39;t work. What am I suppose to do ???&mdash; Sabrina Rose ✨ (@IAmSabrinaRosex)October 1, 2014Others cried out as they had spent all night attempting to renew their vehicle tax as required by law.@DVLAgovukthis is an absolute joke - been trying to renew car tax since 8pm last night! Still not working, I guess I&#39;ll just not bother!&mdash; Matt Astbury (@mattsbury)October 1, 2014Inevitably, angry users frustrated by the site’s failure hit out at the DVLA and its new system.@DVLAgovukthis is an absolute joke. Got to the payment page then got kicked out! You would expect a government organisation to get it right&mdash; Lak Ubhi (@LakUbhi)October 1, 2014The new vehicle tax service relies on the DVLA’s digital records and a vehicle’s number plate, rather than a paper tax disc that must be displayed in the windscreen of the vehicle. The new system is meant to make vehicle taxation easier and less frustrating for road users as part of the government’s new customer-centric focus.“At the heart of all this change are the users: people who need to use government services, from the trivial to the life-changing. All these services, all the platforms, everything we build from now on should be focused on meeting user needs,” the head of the UK civil service, cabinet secretary Jeremy Heywoodrecently wrote in a blog postdiscussing the changes in the way UK citizens interact with and use government services.The plan is to put every service online that can be online. In its first three years, GDS prioritised six popular government services including voter registration, patent renewal and the booking of prison visits, and has 19 more in development not yet ready to fully replace older systems.The vehicle tax service is still in a “beta” phase of development as part of the DVLA’s wider digital transformation, which includes the work of the GDS on driving licence renewal and personalised number plate services.“We are currently experiencing unprecedented demand which means that some customers may be experiencing slow response times or having difficulty accessing the service,” said a DVLA spokeswoman told the Guardian. “We are of course very sorry for any inconvenience and we are urgently investigating to improve service quality for the minority of our customers that are experiencing issues.”At 16.45 a DVLA Spokeswoman confirmed that the DVLA car tax online service had been restored to full capacity.“We can confirm that the unprecedented demand for car tax online temporarily affected the services provided by Vodafone to DVLA,” said the DVLA spokeswoman to the Guardian. “Vodafone’s engineers worked hard with us to resolve the issue as quickly as possible and the service has now been restored. Vodafone will continue to monitor the service closely and will be carrying out a full investigation into the issue.”
Telephone users in five areas of the UK now have to include the area code when dialling local numbers from a landline – just like they do when ringing from a mobile.From Wednesday, people in Bradford, Middlesbrough, Aberdeen, Brighton and Milton Keynes will hear an error message telling them to redial if they omit the area code. The change comes after the telephone regulator, Ofcom, decided to introduce the measure “to safeguard the future supply of landline numbers”.Ofcom says the change will allow it to release 200,000 more landline numbers in each of the five areas.Dialling the code does not affect the price of the call. But it will irritate local business owners, who often advertise their phone numbers without the dialling code on signs or publicity materials.In a statement the regulator explained the logic behind the move: “The number of communications providers with landline numbers has increased significantly over recent years, leading to more competition and cheaper landline bills for millions of homes and businesses. But it has also led to increased pressure on the supply of phone numbers.“Currently, Ofcom cannot allocate phone numbers in which the first digit after the area code is 0 or 1 (for example, 01274 012 345 or 01274 123 456). This is because the network that is connecting the call may confuse the number with other existing dialling codes (such as a mobile number beginning with 075) or with a number reserved for special use (such as 118 for calls to directory inquiry services).““Dialling the code avoids this confusion and allows Ofcom to allocate numbers in which the first digit after the area code is 0 or 1.”In November 2012, Ofcom implemented the same change in the Bournemouth dialling code area, where the process ran “smoothly”, it said.Ofcom has been coordinating a local information campaign in the affected areas, including adverts in local media, leaflets and posters in public places and letters sent by telephone companies. Ofcom has also worked with councils to inform and prepare the local community, and is encouraging friends and family to lend a hand to someone who may need extra help.Telephone companies are expected to have implemented the change by late afternoon on Wednesday.
YouTube’s 100 biggest channels’ videos were watched nearly 10.2bn times in August, with gamer Felix ‘PewDiePie’ Kjellberg continuing his reign as the most popular YouTuber.Kjellberg’s videos were watched 449.2m times in August, according tothe latest chartpublished by online video industry site Tubefilter, and based on date from analytics firm OpenSlate. PewDiePie also added more than 1.1m new subscribers on YouTube, taking his total to 30.4m.In August 2013, Kjellberg’s channel generated 211.2m video views with 12.8m subscribers, so he has more-than doubled his audience and viewing year-on-year.The latest Tubefilter chart reveals an eclectic mix of games, music and toys as the biggest channels on YouTube. Brazilian toy-unboxing channel DisneyCollector was the second most popular in August, with 324.4m views.While PewDiePie’s views are driven by his huge number of subscribers, DisneyCollector operates differently. It has significantly less subscribers – 2.2m – but its viewing is more about parents and children searching for toy brands including My Little Pony, Disney and Peppa Pig.Pop star Katy Perry took third place in the August rankings, with 226.1m views edging her ahead of child-friendly Minecraft gamer Stampy’s 217.9m.Stampy and PewDiePie are both signed to multi-channel network (MCN) Maker Studios, as is sixth-ranked channel The Diamond Minecart (190.6m views in August) and ninth-placed Vegetta777 (163m), putting that company in a powerful position in the emerging world of YouTube games media.Another MCN, music videos service Vevo, fulfils an even more dominant role for music on YouTube, accounting for 23 of the 100 most popular YouTube channels in August. Besides Katy Perry, its biggest channels that month included Enrique Iglesias (202.2m) and Nicki Minaj (187.1m).Minaj’s YouTube views increased by 258% month-on-month, fuelled by her Anaconda music video. Released on 19 August, it has already been watched more than 217m times.YouTube’s overall growth – or at least, that of its biggest channels – is shown by the aggregated figures for Tubefilter’s chart. The top 100 channels’ 10.2bn views in August 2014 is nearly double the 5.4bn views of the top 100 in August 2013.•Views for top 100 YouTube channels up 80% in a year•YouTube MCNs stake claim to the future of TV•From YouTube to Vice: 10 trends changing our TV viewing
Cheryl Cole may have returned to The X Factor, but she’s brought a variety of viruses with her. But it’s internet users who need to worry, rather than her fellow judges on the TV talent show.Online security firm McAfee claims that Cole is the “most dangerous” celebrity in the UK in terms of internet searches that lead to sites linked to viruses, spam, phishing and other malware.The company claims that searching for terms including “Cheryl Cole downloads” and Cheryl Cole mp4s” result in a 15% chance of visiting potentially risky websites, calculated using McAfee’s SiteAdvisor ratings system.Musicians are prominent in the chart of the 10 most dangerous celebrity-related searches published by the company, with Cole joined by Jessie J, Alesha Dixon, Ellie Goulding, Pixie Lott, Harry Styles, Lily Allen and Rita Ora in the list.Only actor Daniel Radcliffe and retired footballer David Beckham make the top 10 from outside the music industry. McAfee notes that all four of Styles’ One Direction bandmates are inside the top 20, which has not been published.“The desire for consumers to have access to the latest celebrity information can often make them vulnerable to cybercrime,” said McAfee Labs’ product manager Samantha Humphries-Swift, as the data was announced.“Most consumers do not realise the security risks they are exposing themselves to when searching for celebrity videos and images online. But cybercriminals can exploit this desire for breaking celebrity news, leading consumers to sites that download harmful malware onto their devices and compromise personal data.”Searches for Cole may be risky, but she’s still less virus-ridden (in this sense) than US chat-show host Jimmy Kimmel, who has toppedMcAfee’s separate list of US celebritieswith a 19% chance of searches leading to malware sites.Such charts take the pulse of the celebrities that malware creators think are most likely to bring internet users flocking to their sites. It’s something that can be influenced by general popularity, but also by topical events: the recent spate of leaked nude celebrity photos being a prime example.•If you see these knickers in your Facebook feed, don’t click
A smorgasbörd of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft unveils the future of Windows &gt;&gt; Microsoft.comThe early technical preview of Windows 10 demonstrates new levels of flexibility, navigation and familiarity through the Windows experience. Features include these:• Expanded Start menu. The familiar Start menu is back, providing quick one-click access to the functions and files that people use most, and it includes a new space to personalize with favorite apps, programs, people and websites.• Apps that run in a window. Apps from the Windows Store now open in the same format that desktop programs do. They can be resized and moved around, and have title bars at the top allowing users to maximize, minimize and close with a click.• Snap enhancements. Working in multiple apps at once is easier and more intuitive with snap improvements. A new quadrant layout allows up to four apps to be snapped on the same screen. Windows will also show other apps and programs running for additional snapping, and it will even make smart suggestions on filling available screen space with other open apps.• New Task view button. The new Task view button on the task bar enables one view for all open apps and files, allowing for quick switching and one-touch access to any desktop created.• Multiple desktops. Instead of too many apps and files overlapping on a single desktop, it's easy to create and switch between distinct desktops for different purposes and projects — whether for work or personal use.The Start menu won the cage match with Windows RT. (Also, proofreading: saying "Features include these:" is prolix. "Features include:" would be perfect.)Microsoft skips Windows 9, heads straight to Windows 10 &gt;&gt; Re/codeMicrosoft on Tuesday gave its first detailed look at the next major update to Windows, which it has decided to call Windows 10.The software, expected to be released in final form next year, is designed to run across the broadest array of devices, with screens ranging from four inches to 80 inches, with some devices having no screens at all."Windows 10 will be our most comprehensive platform ever," Windows chief Terry Myerson said at a briefing with reporters in San Francisco. "It wouldn't be right to call it Windows 9."Because, as the Twitter joke went, 7 8 9.Sudoku, linear optimization, and the ten cent diet &gt;&gt; Google Research blogToday we're proud to announce two new ways for everyone to solve linear optimization problems. First, you can now solve linear optimization problems in Google Sheets with theLinear Optimization add-onwritten by Google Software Engineer Mihai Amarandei-Stavila. The add-on uses Google Apps Script to send optimization problems to Google servers. The solutions are displayed inside the spreadsheet. For developers who want to create their own applications on top of Google Apps, we also provide an API to let you call our linear solver directly.If you know what the Simplex algorithm is, you'll be delighted. (They only seem to have used four colours for the entire page.)Uber Optics &gt;&gt; The AwlMatt Buchanan:This post on Uber's blog almost feels like a parody. Surely, no modern, wealthy society—say, one in which an app-powered "your own private driver" service might thrive—would force professional, full-time teachers to also drive cars in order to make a living, nor would anyone celebrate that it was happening. Certainly you wouldn't expect corporations to rush to attach themselves to the phenomenon. And yet. Something, something, teachers, free markets, living wages, man.The problem with Uber self-seriously announcing that it "provides teachers with the flexibility and opportunity they need to continue creating a foundation of excellence for students across the country" is ultimately a matter of tone, not the literal fact that teachers are using Uber to supplement their incomes. (Lots of teachers work summer jobs!) Had Uber tweaked the language the slightly, with a pinch of outrage—"Every day teachers are asked to do more with less, constantly faced with new challenges and limited resources, and it astounding that they have to use Uber to generate those resources"—it would seem almost righteous, rather than crassly exploitative of the ills of the American education system.Historical maps, topography, into Minecraft: QGIS &gt;&gt; Electric ArchaeologyIf you are trying to recreate a world as recorded in a historical map, then modern topography isn't what you want. Instead, you need to create a blank, flat world in Worldpainter, and then import your historical map as an overlay.Then you can, for example, replay important battles from the American Civil War with zombies. (Seriously, though, this might have Google slightly worried if Minecraft becomes popular for such activity.)Samsung to switch to Microsoft Word for office software &gt;&gt; Yonhap NewsSouth Korean tech giant Samsung Electronics Co. said Tuesday it will switch to using Microsoft Corp.'s document and word-processing software from its own system starting Jan. 1.Samsung affiliates have been using JungUm Global, an office document software program developed independently, since 1994. The phaseout of JungUm Global will start with Samsung Electronics and eventually expand to the rest of the company, although a detailed plan has not yet been set, the company said.Samsung said the move came as Microsoft's flagship program, Word, dominates 90 percent of the market, and its usage will make communications with Samsung's other business partners easier. The program's compatibility with other document software, such as Microsoft Excel and PowerPoint, will also add to the convenience, it said."Since MS Word supports almost all operating systems, such as Windows, Android and Linux, our staff can also work in a smart manner through PC, smartphones, and tablets," it said in its release.Follows a visit by Satya Nadella. And let's not forget that patent lawsuit that's still not settled between the two over mobile royalties.Software withdrawal and discontinuance of support: Lotus SmartSuite , Lotus Organizer and Lotus 123 &gt;&gt; IBMSoftware withdrawal and discontinuance of support: Lotus SmartSuite , Lotus Organizer and Lotus 123Lotus 1-2-3 was released in January 1983. What other PC applications software is still going after all these years?The iPhone 6 Review &gt;&gt; AnandTechJoshua Ho, Brandon Chester, Chris Heinonen &amp; Ryan Smith contributed, but it's written in the first person. Here's a comment from the "Battery life" page:Normally, I would expect a 4.7" class smartphone to need a battery around the size of the HTC One (M7) or Motorola Moto X (2013) to keep pace with phones like the One (M8) and Galaxy S5, but Apple has pulled it off with a battery that is much smaller. There are two key factors that we can point to in this case. The first is the display, which can avoid pushing the LED backlight towards the higher current region that is much less efficient. This is because the amount of light-blocking circuitry is reduced and the active area of the display can be higher. The second aspect is the SoC, which is on a lower power 20nm process node. While TSMC's 20nm process doesn't have FinFET, improved silicon straining and high K metal gate make it possible to drive down active power and leakage when compared to 28nm processes. It's also likely that the A8's architecture is more efficient than other SoCs we've seen this year. However, it's important to note that without a capacitance and voltage table or something similarly concrete we can't really prove this statement.A good pointer to the detail that engineers of smartphones must have to think about. Also: more benchmarks than you can shake a stick at.PROJECT ARA NEWS &gt;&gt; Phonebloks.comProject Ara will use a modified version of Android L, developed in collaboration with Linaro. Thanks to this version, the modules, except the CPU and the display, will be hot swappable. This means you can change them without turning the phone off. The modules will be available on a new online store, like Play store.The next few months will be crucial for Google and its partners, we expect a lot of news about Project Ara, new modules and new partnerships.Seems unlikely that the RAM would be hot-swappable, but let's wait and see.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Hidden code within the latest iOS 8.1 beta software suggests that Apple’s next-generation iPads, expected to be announced in October, will have both the Touch ID fingerprint sensor and Apple Pay functionality, like the iPhone 6.Apple is also expected to introduce a larger iPad measuring 12.9in diagonally, which would have 76% more screen area, at 79.88 square inches, than the current 9.7in iPad Air if it retains the same 4:3 ratio for its width and length.Separate sources have suggested that Apple will introduce a “multi-window” split screen function for the larger iPad, like that used by Microsoft’s Windows 8 software on its tablets and Samsung on its Galaxy Tab range.With sales of iPads having slowed dramatically in the first half, and fallen year-on-year for two quarters in succession, Apple will be looking to tempt business users with its new devices. A deal with IBM,signed in July, could be crucial to reviving flagging sales as consumers have cooled on buying new tablets, replacing them far more slowly than they do their smartphones.Buried paymentsThe Touch ID and payment code,discovered by Hamza Sood, is buried in the latest developer test version of Apple’s iPhone and iPad software specifically states that users can “pay with iPad using Touch ID. With Apple Pay, you no longer need to type card numbers and shipping information.”Apple’s Touch ID fingerprint scanner was first introduced with theiPhone 5S, released in September 2013, but was not fitted to theiPad Airor iPad mini with Retina display released in November later that year.TheiPhone 6and6 Plus, launched this month, also have the Touch ID sensor, which integrates with Apple’s newpayments service Apple Payto allow contactless payments from an encrypted form of the user’s credit card, either in store or online. Apple has said it will activate Apple Pay with a software update in October.The code indicates that as many have expected, the new iPads - rumoured to debut in October – will include Touch ID fingerprint scanners. However it is unclear whether the new iPads would include NFC functionality for in-store contactless payments, as that would require wireless connectivity to complete the transaction, either via Wi-Fi or a mobile connection.Larger screens?Rumours have long suggested that Apple’s next iPadhave larger screensthan the current 9.7in and 7.9in displays on the iPad Air and iPad mini. An “iPad Pro” has been suggested by various sources close to Apple’s supply chain sources in Asia, with Taiwan’s Technews showing photos that appear to show a thinner device with a12.9in screen and more powerful processor, which it calls the A8X.An “iPad Pro” would resemble the 11in MacBook Air in size, but thinner and without a keyboard. Separate, but so far unconfirmed, rumours have suggested that Apple will offer an attachable keyboard as an accessory for the device.Apple’s iPad is currently used by the NHS, publishers and other office-based industries, where it is often used instead of a laptop with increased security, battery life and portability for a lesser cost than laptop alternatives.The 9.7in iPad Air is expected to get a faster processor and to get a RAM upgrade from 1GB to 2GB. Apple’s iPhone 6 and 6 Plus both have 1GB of RAM.The increased memory is expected to aid with the iPad’s multitasking capabilities. A split-screen mode that allows two apps to be used at once side-by-side on one screen haslong been rumouredin development at Apple. The increased RAM could help with support for that feature, which would likely feature on an iPad Pro too.Thin bezels and more storageThe next generation iPad Air is expected to maintain a similar design as the 2013 iPad Air. The Air, released in November 2013, was the biggest design change since the iPad was introduced in 2010, with thinner bezels around the screen and a significantly lighter and slimmer design.Apple is likely to change the storage available on the new iPads. The iPhone 6 and 6 Plus are available in three variants with 16, 64 and 128GB, up from the 16, 32 and 64GB storage options of the iPhone 5S.The new iPads Air is likely to follow suit with 16, 64 and 128GB options available, and possibly a 256GB version, up from the current 16, 32, 64 and 128 storage options. It is also possible that the smallest storage available will be 32GB on the iPad.A larger storage capacity will mean more apps and games, which have increased in size dramatically over the last couple of years with many taking up well over 500MB of space each, can be installed along with photos, videos and music.•iPad Air review: lighter, thinner and raising the bar for software•Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: a rival for the iPad?•Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a serious iPad Air competitor
Four men have been charged with breaking into the computer systems of Microsoft, the US army and leading games manufacturers, as part of an alleged international hacking ring that netted more than $100m in intellectual property, the US Department of Justice said on Tuesday.The four, aged between 18 and 28, are alleged to have stolen Xbox technology, Apache helicopter training software and pre-release copies of games such as Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, according to an indictment dating from April that was unsealed on Tuesday.Two of the hackers pleaded guilty earlier in the day, the DoJ said.“These were extremely sophisticated hackers ... Don’t be fooled by their ages,” assistant US attorney Ed McAndrew said after a court hearing on Tuesday.According to prosecutors, the defendants stole intellectual property and other proprietary data related to the Xbox One gaming console and Xbox Live online gaming system, and pre-release copies of popular video games. The Department of Justice (DoJ) claimed the technology was worth between $100m and $200m, a figure hotly disputed by one of those facing charges.The four charged in the US were named as Nathan Leroux, 20, of Bowie, Maryland; Sanadodeh Nesheiwat, 28, of Washington, New Jersey; David Pokora, 22, of Mississauga, Ontario, Canada; and Austin Alcala, 18, of McCordsville, Indiana. The DoJ also said a man faces charges in Australia in connection with the same allegations. It did not name him in the announcement, but he was identified by Australian media earlier this year as Dylan Wheeler, 19, from Perth.Pokora and Nesheiwat each pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit computer fraud and copyright infringement. They face up to five years in prison when sentenced in January.The four in the US had been jointly charged with with conspiracies to commit computer fraud, copyright infringement, wire fraud, mail fraud, identity theft and theft of trade secrets. They were also individually charged with individual counts of aggravated identity theft, unauthorised computer access, copyright infringement and wire fraud. The charges were based on a federal grand jury indictment returned in April.The hackers are alleged to have accessed the computer system of Zombie Studios, which allowed them to access a Apache helicopter training simulation program that the company had developed for the US army.Other targets of the alleged hacks included Microsoft, and game companies Epic Games and Valve, the DoJ announced. It said the US has seized $620,000 in proceeds “related to the charged conduct”.“As the indictment charges, the members of this international hacking ring stole trade secret data used in high-tech American products, ranging from software that trains US soldiers to fly Apache helicopters to Xbox games that entertain millions around the world,” said assistant US attorney General Caldwell.McAndrew said FBI officials in Delaware were alerted to the hacking operation in January 2011 by a confidential informant, and that the gaming companies cooperated in the investigation.Authorities began obtaining arrest warrants last year, and Pokora, who McAndrew said was looked to by other group members as a leader, was taken into custody in March at a border crossing in Lewiston, New York.A copy of part of the sealed indictment, obtained bythesmokinggun.comin April, detailed the charges against three of the four alleged hackers: Leroux, Nesheiwat and Pokora. Alcala was not mentioned in the leaked document.Pokora’s plea is believed to be the first conviction of a foreign-based individual for hacking into US businesses to steal trade secret information, authorities said.The DoJ also said that “an Australian citizen has been charged under Australian law for his alleged role in the conspiracy”. It did not name Wheeler, who attracted attention in 2012 when he listed a home-made development prototype of the Xbox One, which at the time was still in development by Microsoft, on eBay. He was 17 at the time.Wheeler is currently on bail awaiting trial for charges relating to these allegations. which he denies. He told the Guardian that he disputes the DoJ’s estimated value of the alleged thefts - $100m to $200m - as “meaningless”. He also said that the $620,000 seized was from an act of theft by a single hacker in an “extremely disorganised group.”“Apart from that, the group made nothing,” he said. “It was just curiosity.”
Microsoft is to put some numerical distance between its poorly received Windows 8 operating system and its replacement by calling the new version Windows 10.The new operating system, expected to be released next year, comes three years after the launch of Windows 8. It was announced at an event aimed at business users in Seattle.“Windows 10 will be our most comprehensive platform ever,” Terry Myerson, head of the operating systems group, told the audience. “It wouldn’t be right to call it Windows 9.”The launch is one of several pre-briefings expected over the coming months to sell the new system to different groups,many of whom were critical of the old system.Windows 8 introduced major changes in Microsoft’s operating system, aimed at improving the performance on tablets and other touch-operated devices. The changes came as the software giant continued to struggle in mobile against Google’s Android and Apple.The overhaul failed to impress many users and businesses who felt the new software did not deliver for desktop PC users, and who disliked its unfamiliar tile-based interface. Many declined to upgrade from its predecessor, Windows 7.Before the launch, some had speculated the company might signal a new era at Microsoft by dropping the Windows name altogether. Internally the project had been called Threshold.In an era dominated by mobile devices and cloud computing, Microsoft has been struggling to adjust. New boss Satya Nadella has been moving away from the aggressive focus on Windows and PCs that was the hallmark of his predecessor, Steve Ballmer.But the choice of Windows 10 acknowledges how the operating system remains at the core of Microsoft’s image and its bottom line. Myerson pointed out that there were about 1.5bn PCs in use on the planet, about the same as the total estimated number of Android devices. But Android’s growth rate far outstrips Windows.“It’s critical,” said Colin Gillis, analyst at BGC Partners in New York. Even with the declining PC business Gillis said about 30% of the company’s revenues came from Windows. But he added that Google’s Android was now the pre-eminent operating system on the planet.“This is the original platform,” said Gillis. “But every other Windows launch hasn’t worked for them. We had Vista, which was a dud, then we had Windows 7, which was great, then we had Windows 8.”Asked if he thought the hit and miss sequence meant the company had made a mistake missing 9, Gillis said: “Hey, let’s hope it’s just some marketing stuff.”
Online auction site eBay plans to spin off its PayPal business into a separate publicly traded company next year, the company announced on Tuesday.The surprise move comes after the company had rebuffed calls from billionaire hedge fund investor Carl Icahn to sell off its online payments business.The decision comes shortly after Apple unveiled a new mobile payment system, Apple Pay, that looks set to be a fierce rival to PayPal and Alibaba, China’s massive online marketplace,debuted on the New York Stock Exchange.“The industry landscape is changing, and each business faces different competitive opportunities and challenges,” eBay chief executive John Donahoe said in a news release.Donahoe won’t have an executive role at either company. Devin Wenig, current president of eBay Marketplaces, will be the chief executive of the new eBay, while American Express executive Dan Schulman will lead the PayPal. Schulman was the founding CEO of Virgin Mobile and was chief executive of discount travel site Priceline.com.Shares for eBay surged about 9% ahead of the stock market opening. PayPal accounts for almost half of the online marketplace’s revenues. In January, facing pressure from Icahn, Donohoe rejected a split.“We and our board believe the best way to drive long-term shareholder value is to keep eBay and PayPal together, to capitalize on the opportunities,” he told analysts, adding the “distraction and dis-synergies of separation would be happening exactly at the wrong time.”The fight was settled in April with Icahn adding a director to eBay’s board.“We are happy that eBay’s board and management have acted responsibly concerning the separation – perhaps a little later than they should have, but earlier than we expected,”Icahn said on his website.In a note, analyst eMarketer said the split would provide PayPal more autonomy to compete, particularly with respect to Apple Pay and other emerging mobile wallet providers.Apple Pay follows attempts by Google and startup Square to enter the mobile payment market. PayPal too has its own app. So far few of the technologies have caught on with consumers. But eMarketer predicts that the tipping point is near. In the US, mobile proximity payments - including payments made using a phone to make a physical transaction at the point of sale – will reach $3.5bn in 2014, according to eMarketer estimates. By 2018, that figure is expected to reach $118bn.In a note to investors analyst Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods said: “We are not entirely surprised by the separation announcement given investor activism coupled with a challenging operating environment and heightened perceived competitive threats (eg Apple Pay).”
It was always going to happen. Tetris is one of the most successful video games ever made –of coursethe movie industry waseventually going to buy up the rights and turn it into a film. Why let the fact that it is an abstract puzzler about falling shapes get in the way?After all, did mere logic stop Hollywood from making an action flick about the pencil and paper strategy game, Battleships? Did good sense prevent eighties movie execs from greenlighting a live action version of Super Mario Bros? Starring Bob Hoskins? And Dennis Hopper? As an interdimensional dinosaur? For heaven’s sake, no!But if Tetris is fair game for the big screen treatment, what seemingly unfilmable interactive entertainment mega-brand may be next? Perhaps one of these...PongPitch:Star Wars meets Wimbledon!Tagline:whoever misses the ball, misses their destinySet-up:Warring factions must end a bitter space conflict by competing in Pong, a deadly blood sport in which a square of photon energy is deflected between rival battle cruisers. It’s not just a high score at stake, it’s the future of the galaxy. Has Michael Bay written all over it.Flappy BirdPitch:Tron meets Kes!Tagline:Spread your wings and fly... to freedomSet-up:In this terrifying animated adventure, a young kestrel must navigate a seemingly impassible tunnel of death to escape a nightmarish avian distopia. John Lasseter to direct.The SimsPitch:Modern Family meets Saw!Tagline:The perfect house, the perfect family, the perfect nightmareSet-up:A family moves into a weirdly perfect suburban home, but a mysterious force soon tries to drown them in the swimming pool, blow up their kitchen and remove all the doors so that they’re trapped in the living room with no toilet.Temple RunPitch:Indiana Jones meets Inception!Tagline:He’s on the adventure of his life – forever!Set-up:Having stolen an ancient treasure, an adventurer is pursued by devil monkeys – until his inescapable demise. Christopher Nolan directs this exciting yet ultimately futile meditation on the inevitability of death.Candy Crush SagaPitch:Wizard of Oz meets the Werther’s Originals adverts!Tagline:Save the world, ruin your teethSet-up:The Candy Kingdom is in peril and only sweetie-scoffing hero Tiffi can save it. At key points in her adventure, she’ll run out of turns, necessitating the cinema audience to pay extra for power-ups, or wait until the following day to try and watch the movie again.Any better suggestions? Please do add them in the comments section...
Artists including Thom Yorke, David Byrne and The Black Keys have criticised streaming music services like Spotify over the size of the royalties that musicians are paid for streams of their songs.Ed Sheeran isn’t joining their ranks, despite having been on the end of a single-figure Spotify royalty cheque earlier in his career.Sheeran played a short set and answered questions from fans at Amazon’s London office earlier today, and fielded a question about his views on digital music, and his policy of making his songs available to stream as soon as they go on sale.“I’m in the music industry to play live. That’s why I make records, that’s why i do radio interviews, that’s why i do Amazon events, that’s why I put things on Spotify. having recorded music is fantastic, but playing live is where I buzz the most,” he said.Sheeran is on the promotional trail for his latest album X, for which his label Atlantic Records has been running a marketing campaign taking in exclusive elements for iTunes, Spotify, YouTube and Facebook, as well as an “interactive” TV advert where viewers voted (via Twitter) on which song he should play in a commercial break.X was released to stream or buy on the same day, unlike recently windowed albums from artists including Coldplay, Beyoncé and Taylor Swift. Sheeran is firmly behind the on-sale on-stream policy.“This album was streamed 26 million times in the first week on Spotify, and that means 26 million people have heard my album,” he said, although given the likelihood that many fans listened more than once, that number may be a bit high.“That means a tenth of them might consider buying a ticket or going to a festival, and that’s enough for me to tour very comfortably.”Sheeran didn’t duck the issue of artists criticising Spotify for its royalties. The company pays out 70% of its revenues as royalty payments to labels and publishers, and has said that its average “per-stream” rate is between $0.006 and $0.0084.“I know a lot of artists are a bit iffy about it, and to be honest, I did get a royalty cheque from Spotify that was about £4,” said Sheeran. “It’s one of those things, but for me, the more iPods, phones and computers that I’m on, the better, because I just want to play. That’s what I enjoy.”That £4 cheque is likely to have come a lot earlier in Sheeran’s career. Spotify’s public song-play stats show that X has so far generated more than 433m streams on Spotify, while his previous album + has notched up more than 435m.That’s a total payout of more than $6.2m to his label and publisher from those two albums alone, although how much of that Sheeran earns will depend on his contract terms and songwriting credits.All this, and he doesn’t have to pay for his own phone. “Apple gave me an iPhone 6 yesterday because I played the iTunes Festival,” he told fans at the Amazon event. “Has it bent yet? Not yet. I haven’t tried to bend it though...”•Spotify v musicians: 10 things to read to understand the debate
User reports and fears that the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus phonesare bending in trouser pocketsare overblown, according to independent testing by the US non-profit Consumer Reports.In fact, its tests found that HTC’s One M8 phone bent under the same force as the iPhone 6 - and that the “phablet-size” iPhone 6 Plus was stronger than both. The tests showed, though, that the new phones are substantially less strong than 2012’s iPhone 5, whose body is also used in 2013’s iPhone 5S.Consumer Reports testedthe iPhone 6, 6 Plus and iPhone 5 against the LG G3, Samsung Galaxy Note 3, and HTC One M8 using a compression testing machine to apply a “three-point flexural test”, where a metered force is applied to the centre of the phone while it is supported at each end.It concluded that “while nothing is (evidently) indestructible, we expect that any of these phones should stand up to typical use.”It found that the 4.7in iPhone 6, which is 7.1mm thick, would show permanent bending with the equivalent of a 70lb (31.8kg) weight placed on the centre of its back. The 5.5in iPhone 6 Plus deformed at 90lbs, and the 4in iPhone 5 - which is 7.6mm thick - at 130lbs.The 5in HTC One M8 also bends under a 70lbs weight, and its case separated at 90lb, while the iPhone 6 resisted to 100lb.The 5.5in LG G3 resisted bending up to 130lbs, the same as the iPhone 5, and the 5.7in Samsung Galaxy Note 3 150lbs.“While not the strongest smartphones on the market, fears of a serious structural design flaw in the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus seem overblown,” explained Glenn Derene, electronics editor for Consumer Reports in avideo of the tests.Most of the phones continued to work after deforming, and required an extra 20 to 30lbs to bend enough to separate the screen from the phone’s case.Consumer Reports bend testing the iPhone 6, 6 Plus and iPhone 5 with their Android competitors.Apple tests its smartphones using a similar method to Consumer Reports by applying 55lbs of weight to the back of the phones to test resilience to bending, or approximately the weight required to break three ordinary pencils.Apple said that itonly received nine complaintsabout iPhone 6 Plus phones bending and that it tested 15,000 smartphones during its own investigations.Previous smartphone tests, which showed theiPhone 6 Plus bending, have used a a less scientific method, with a reviewer applying pressure manually with thumbs pushed into the back of phones.‘I have a bent iPhone 6 Plus’Initial reports by users of bending iPhone 6 Plus phones were followed up by video tests displaying a bent 6 Plus. Some reviewers of the smartphone have also found that their iPhone 6 Plus phones were either bent initially or bent during the course of their testing. The Guardian has not seen bending during testing of the iPhone 6 Plus, though it was not carried in trouser pockets.“Like a lot of people, I have a bent iPhone 6 Plus. It’s almost imperceptible, but it’s there: a slight warp right at the buttons on the side. Put the phone screen down on a table, and it wobbles,” said Mat Hohan in areview of the iPhone 6 Plusfor Wired. “I haven’t purposefully bent it and I don’t recall sitting on it (but I probably have).”How many iPhone 6 Plus phones have been bent in users’ pockets is still unknown. Apple claims that it is not an issue for normal use, but phones from other manufactures have suffered similar bending issues.As smartphones become thinner and longer with bigger screens, their relative strength decreases while the force applied to them inside pockets can increase due to a lever effect.•Bend it like Apple: nine safe ways to carry an iPhone 6 Plus•How to pocket the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus without bending them – in pictures•‘Bending’ iPhone 6: Apple claims only nine customers have complained
Angry Birds remains one of the most popular game series in the world, with more than 200m monthly active players. But the franchise appears to have peaked in popularity two years ago.When the games’ publisherRovio announced its financial resultsin April 2013, it said thatAngry Birds ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players. The company did not update that figure in April 2014, when itpublished its financials for 2013.However, the new 200m figure was revealed this week in information sent to journalists ahead of Rovio’s visit to the Brand Licensing Europe conference in London next month.The Angry Birds games have been downloaded more than 2bn times since the first title’s launch in late 2009, while videos on Rovio’s Toons TV animation channel have been watched more than 3bn times since it went live in March 2013.The decline in popularity of the games, which have lost nearly 24% of their active players since the end of 2012, still leaves Rovio with one of the biggest aggregated audiences on smartphones and tablets.But the signs were there in the company’s last set of financial results. Rovio’s revenues more than doubled from €75.6m in 2011 to €152.2m in 2012, but then only increased slightly to €156m in 2013.47% of that income came from the company’s consumer products division, including sales of toys, books and other licensed products. That percentage was 45% in 2012, showing that Rovio’s games revenues actually fell slightly – by 1.2% – between 2012 and 2013.Making 1.2% less money from games played by 24% less people is arguably an achievement many rivals would be quite pleased with, although with Rovio having released more free-to-play games in recent times, its gaming audience might have been expected to grow, not shrink.2014 has seen Rovio’s chief executiveMikael Hed announce plans to step down, to be replaced as CEO at the start of 2015 by former Nokia marketing executive Pekka Rantala. Hed will remain on Rovio’s board, while also taking up a role as chairman of Rovio’s animation division ahead of the release of the first Angry Birds film in 2016.Meanwhile, Rovio is continuing to release new Angry Birds games, including the recent release ofAngry Birds Stellaand the upcoming launch ofAngry Birds Transformers, the company’s latest licensing deal.The company has also moved beyond its traditional bird-slinging gameplay with roleplaying gameAngry Birds Epicand racing titleAngry Birds Go.•Why Angry Birds are slightly miffed: mobile gaming in 2014
The music industry’s long-running battle with free music service Grooveshark has struck a blow to the heart of the company, after a judge ruled that its employees had infringed copyright.The ad-funded Grooveshark service lets subscribers upload music and stream tracks for free, but has been targeted by the music industry for years which says that the service impinges on copyright only licensing some of the music available on the site.Grooveshark relies on the “safe harbour” provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to insulate the company from the potentially copyright infringing actions of its 30 million users with 15m files uploaded, responding to take-down requests much in the same way as Google’s YouTube or other user-generated content services.‘It directly infringed upon plaintiffs’ exclusive performance rights’Judge Thomas Griesa of the US district court in Manhattan ruled on Monday in the 2011 case that despite provisions of the DMCA, Grooveshark and its parent company Escape Media Group were liable for copyright infringement by its employees who were directed to upload a total of 5,977 tracks without permission, including songs by Eminem, Green Day, Jay-Z and Madonna.“Each time Escape streamed one of plaintiffs’ songs recordings, it directly infringed upon plaintiffs’ exclusive performance rights,” the Griesa wrote in a 57-page decision.Chief executive Samuel Tarantino and chief technology officer Joshua Greenberg were both implicated. The company is liable to nine record companies including Arista Music, Arista Records, Atlantic Recording, Elektra Entertainment Group, LaFace Records, Sony Music Entertainment, UMG Recording, Warner Brothers Records and Zomba Recording.‘Manifest intent to foster copyright infringement’Griesa pointed to an internal memo sent in 2007 where Greenberg asked employees to “please share as much music as possible from outside the office” to help the service get off the ground.“By overtly instructing its employees to upload as many files as possible to Grooveshark as a condition of their employment, Escape engaged in purposeful conduct with a manifest intent to foster copyright infringement via the Grooveshark service,” Griesa wrote.Griesa gave the parties 21 days to reach agreement to stop further infringement.“Escape respectfully disagrees with the court’s decision, and is currently assessing its next steps, including the possibility of an appeal,” John Rosenberg, a partner at Rosenberg &amp; Giger representing the defendantstold Reuters.The ruling opens the door to a multimillion-pound damages suit from the record labels, who are keen to see the service shut down, calling it a “linear descendant” of file sharing services Grokster, LimeWire and Napster all of whom have been shutdown over copyright infringement.Grooveshark is also facing two other copyright suits from the music industry, including a 2010 case concerningmusic recorded before 1972, which are covered under New York state law where the DMCA safe-harbour provisions do no apply.•Behind the music: Why Grooveshark takes a bite out of artists’ earnings•Behind the music: Why won’t Grooveshark remove my music?
Helping scientists to discover the Higgs boson was, it seems, just one of the Large Hadron Collider’s talents. It turns out that CERN’s particle accelerator can write a decent tune too.Seven physicists from the facility have proved it by translating data collected by the Large Hadron Collider’s four experiments – ATLAS, ALICE, CMS and LHCb – into music using “data sonification” technology.What’s more, they then gathered at the facility to play the results on real instruments, in avideo commissioned to celebrate the 60th birthday of CERN, the European Organisation for Nuclear Research.The project was a collaboration with European research network GÉANT, whose arts and humanities manager Domenico Vicinanza handled the translation process from scientific data to musical notes.“I hoped it would be be a metaphor for scientific collaboration; to demonstrate the vast and incredible effort these projects represent - often between hundreds of people across many different continents,” said Vicinanza, as the video was published on YouTube.“Networks are the invisible glue that keeps data and collaboration working together, enabling scientists to exchange measurements, tools and experiences wherever they are.. And just as the magic happens when the instruments are playing together: the music played by each single players is the foundation for the others.”The participating scientists included Pippa Wells (who played the piece based on her research data on a violin); Mathieu Baudin (harp); Diego Casadei (clarinet); Antonio Uras (piano); Chiara Mariotti (flute); Piotr Traczyk (guitar); and Paula Collins (Higgs bassoonviolin), with their playing featured individually and as ensembles in the video.•Two years after the Higgs boson was discovered, what’s new?
The Every Second Counts Forum with Rolex, The Guardian and The ObserverShaping the future, when the future is already hereTo apply to attend,follow this link.13:30 - 14:00 Registration and networkingBattlebridge Room14.00 -14.10: Opening remarks from chairSamira Ahmed,journalist, writer and broadcaster, BBC14.10 - 14.40: Opening keynote sessionSir Tim Berners-Lee,inventor, The World Wide Web14.40 -14.55: Innovation Inspiration: Young Laureate Session #1Neeti Kailas,co-founder, Sohum Innovation Lab and the 2014 Rolex Young Laureate for Science &amp; Health14.55 -15.10: Innovation Inspiration: Young Laureate Session #2Olivier Nsengimana,volunteer, Gorilla Doctors and the 2014 Rolex Young Laureate for Environment15.10 -15.25: Innovation Inspiration: Young Laureate Session #3Francesco Sauro,geologist, explorer, expedition leader and the 2014 Young Laureate for Exploration15.25 -15.40: Networking and Coffee BreakBattlebridge Room15.40 - 15.55: Afternoon keynote sessionDr Maggie Aderin-Pocock,research fellow, UCL Department of Science &amp; Technology Studies and presenter, BBC’s Sky at Night15.55 - 16.10: Innovation Inspiration: Young Laureate Session #4Arthur Zang,founder and CEO, Himore Medical Equipments and the Rolex Young Laureate for Applied Technology16.10 - 16.25: Innovation Inspiration: Young Laureate Session #5Hosam Zowawi,clinical microbiologist and Rolex Young Laureate for Science &amp; Health16.25 -16.55: Closing Future Focused Keynote ConversationSir Tim Berners-Lee,inventor, The World Wide Web in conversationDr Maggie Aderin-Pocock,research fellow, UCL Department of Science &amp; Technology Studies and presenter, BBC’s Sky at NightInterviewer:John Mulholland,editor, The Observer16.55 - 17.00: Chair’s Closing RemarksSamira Ahmed,journalist, writer and broadcaster, BBC17.00 - 19.00: Cocktails and networkingIncluding a live performance from beatboxing legend BeardymanThe Every Second Counts Forum takes place on 15 November 2014 at Kings Place, London. Followthis linkto find out more and to apply to attend.
From space scientists, ancient cave explorers, endangered animal conservationists and beatboxing champions to microbiologists, front-line journalists and the inventor of the most important communication medium the world has ever known, the Every Second Counts Forum will challenge, captivate and inspire you. Find out who’s speaking below and then register to attend for freehere.Maggie Aderin-Pocock.Photograph: Richard SakerDr Maggie Aderin-Pocock, research fellow, UCL Department of Science &amp; Technology StudiesDr Maggie Aderin-Pocock MBE is a space scientist whose passion is presenting science to a general audience and demonstrating that you ‘don’t need a brain the size of a small planet’ to understand, participate in and enjoy science.An award-winning broadcaster, Maggie is currently presenting the new series of Sky at Night on BBC 4 and Mini Stargazing for Cbeebies. She also makes regular appearances on The One Show, Newsnight and Woman’s Hour and was a guest on Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs.Maggie studied at Imperial College where she obtained her degree in Physics and her PhD in Mechanical Engineering. Since then she has spent much of her career making novel, bespoke instrumentation ranging from hand held land mine detectors to an optical subsystem for the James Webb Space Telescope.Samira Ahmed.Photograph: Jeff Overs/Public DomainSamira Ahmed, journalist, writer and broadcaster, BBCSamira Ahmed is an award winning journalist and broadcaster, and a visiting professor of Journalism at Kingston University.She presents Newswatch on BBC1 and regularly presents a wide variety of BBC Radio programmes including Front Row and Free Thinking. She also presents television coverage of the Proms on BBC4.Samira writes regularly on culture and politics in newspapers including The Guardian and The Independent. She has a monthly column in The Big Issue.Samira was previously a presenter and correspondent at Channel 4 News, where she won the Stonewall Broadcast of the Year award for her investigation into rape in South Africa. She was also a reporter on Radio 4’s Today Programme and Newsnight.Beardyman.Photograph: Public domainBeardyman, musician and beatboxing championBeardyman is a pioneer of improvisation and live looping, taking what’s possible with the human voice to unchartered territories. He is regarded as the best Beatboxer on the planet, has over 50 million views of his performances online and has scored global top 10 chart success with Fat Boy Slim with his track entitled “Eat Sleep Rave Repeat” (which took him 14 minutes to improvise in one take...). He has just made a series of albums, each within an hour’s worth of studio time with collaborators and friends Jack Black and Tim Minchin amongst others and ironically has spent the last three years making his next studio album, aptly entitled ‘Distractions’...Nothing in the world existed for Beardyman’s need to record and produce his voice and other instrumentation live and in the moment, so he formed his own software team, included some of the world’s best music software developers, to realise his vision. He was a key speaker at the global TED conference and unveiled his game changing creation, the BEARDYTRON_5000mkII, a self-designed musical spaceship that allows him to improvise and produce cutting-edge, studio quality music, in real-time. Now he has completed the BEARDYTRON_5000mkIII, the world’s most advanced live music production system and is bringing it and his immense talent to the Every Second Counts Forum in association with Rolex, the Guardian and Observer. Come and get involved, it’s going to be special!Tim Berners-Lee.Photograph: Andrew BrussoTim Berners-Lee, inventor, World Wide Web and founder, World Wide Web ConsortiumSir Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web in 1989 while working at CERN, the large particle physics laboratory near Geneva, Switzerland.Since that time, the Web has changed the world, arguably becoming the most powerful communication medium the world has ever known - it has fundamentally altered the way we teach and learn, buy and sell, inform and are informed, agree and disagree, share and collaborate, meet and love, and tackle problems ranging from putting food on our tables to curing cancer.In 2007, Sir Tim recognized that the Web’s potential to empower people to bring about positive change remained unrealized by billions around the world, and so announced the formation of the World Wide Web Foundation. In doing so he once again confirmed his commitment to ensuring an open, free Web accessible and meaningful to all where people can share knowledge, access services, conduct commerce, participate in good governance and communicate in creative ways.A graduate of Oxford University, Sir Tim is a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Southampton, UK, as well as director of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), and author of Weaving the Web and many other publications.Neeti Kailas.Photograph: Ambroise TézenasNeeti Kailas, co-founder of India’s Sohum Innovation Lab and a 2014 Rolex Young Laureate in Science and HealthA gifted designer on a mission to improve health care in India, Neeti Kailas, age 29, has devised a portable, inexpensive device to screen babies for hearing impairment. Kailas has a Graduate Diploma in Product Design from the National Institute of Design, India, and a Master’s in Industrial Design from the Art Center College of Design, California. After studying at INSEAD near Paris in 2011, she joined Nestlé as a designer in Switzerland and later worked with the company in the United States as a design strategist. She also designed an award-winning sustainable electric-hybrid scooter for the TVS Motor Company in India.Olivier Nsengimana.Photograph: Ambroise TézenasOlivier Nsengimana, veterinarian with Rwanda’s Gorilla Doctors and a 2014 Rolex Young Laureate for EnvironmentGrowing up in post-genocide Rwanda, Olivier Nsengimana, age 30, is determined to help rebuild his country by conserving its biodiversity and ensuring the survival of its endangered grey crowned-cranes. After graduating with a Bachelor’s degree in Veterinary Medicine (2010) at the Higher Institute of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry in the Northern Province, he began working as a field veterinarian with Gorilla Doctors. He also works for the USAID-funded Emerging Pandemic Threats PREDICT programme. Nsengimana is currently studying for a long-distance MVetSci in Conservation Medicine at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. He expects to graduate in 2015.Francesco Sauro.Photograph: Bart MichielsFrancesco Sauro, explorer of ancient quartzite caves in the massifs of South America and a 2014 Young Laureate for ExplorationFrancesco Sauro, age 30, began caving around his home in northern Italy at age 13. Since joining the La Venta exploration association expedition at age 19, he has taken part in 23 expeditions in Asia and Latin America, leading 12 of them in Mexico and Venezuela. A geologist, with a BSc and MSc in Geology from the University of Padua (2007/2010), and a Ph.D in Geology from the University of Bologna (2014), Sauro has also written the script for an award-winning documentary,L’Abisso(The Abyss), later turned into a book. In 2012 and 2013, he acted as scientific consultant for the European Space Agency’s astronaut training programme.Arthur Zang.Photograph: Ambroise TézenasArthur Zang, founder and CEO of Himore Medical and a Rolex Young Laureate for Applied TechnologyArthur Zang from Cameroon, age 26, the inventor of the Cardio Pad, believed to be Africa’s first medical tablet computer, which will help diagnose people with heart disease, is part of a new generation of high-tech orientated, African social entrepreneurs. Until recently, Zang was chief IT engineer of the Catholic University of Central Africa in Yaoundé, where, in 2007, he received a Bachelor’s in Computer Science and, in 2009, a Master’s from the National Advanced School of Engineering (2009). In 2011, he was a semi-finalist in Microsoft’s Imagine Cup, and, in 2012, he won medical innovation awards from the Cameroonian Association of Engineers, Computer Scientists in Germany, and from the Junior Chamber International.Hosam Zowawi.Photograph: Ambroise TézenasHosam Zowawi, microbiologist and a Rolex Young Laureate for Science &amp; HealthSaudi Arabian Hosam Zowawi, age 30, a scientific entrepreneur with a social conscience, is developing rapid tests to detect and identify antibiotic-resistant bacteria, considered a major global health threat. Since 2007, he has been a microbiology teaching assistant at the College of Medicine, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, in Riyadh. Zowawi is currently studying for a Ph.D at the University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia, but envisions that he will eventually return to Saudi Arabia to run a research laboratory and biotechnology company, undertaking rapid testing. He is also planning a public-awareness campaign warning of antibiotic overuse and misuse.The Every Second Counts Forum takes place on 15 November 2014 at Kings Place, London.Follow this linkto find out more and to apply to attend.
Shaping the future, when the future is already hereThe Guardian and Observer are launching a half-day forum, sponsored by theRolex Awards for Enterprise, aimed at aspiring future leaders in the fields of science and health, applied technology, exploration, the environment, and cultural heritage. If you’re aged between 20-30 and can demonstrate a working interest in one or more of these areas, you could attend.The Every Second Counts Forum takes place on the afternoon of Saturday 15 November at Kings Place, London and will celebrate the work of pioneering individuals who have helped to change the world, among them Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web, and space scientist Dr Maggie Aderin-Pocock.These leaders in their respective fields will take to the stage to discuss the formative moments that have shaped their careers. In doing so they will aim to inspire our audience - the next generation of world changers - to realise that while anyone can change everything, to be successful you need to make the most of the time you have.The event will be chaired by BBC journalist and broadcaster Samira Ahmed and will also include presentations from the five 2014 recipients of the Rolex Awards for Enterprise, all under 30, who will provide insight into the early stages of embarking on a career that will change the world for the better. There will be a cocktail and networking reception at the end of the day with a performance by musician and beatbox legend Beardyman.To learn more about all our speakersfollow this link.For a full programme for the eventfollow this link.Want to come along?To attend this unique gathering you will need to be between 20 and 30 years of age (we’ll need to see photographic ID as proof of age at the event) and will need to be pursuing, or actively engaged in a career in one of the following five areas:Applied technologyEnvironmentExploration and discoveryCultural heritageScience and healthYou’ll need an entrepreneurial spirit, a vision of how your life’s work will change the world and a desire to engage with and learn from your peers.Just fill in the form below and tell us why you should be on the guest list.Please sign in to complete this formClick here to open the form.If you are having difficulties with viewing this form it may be due to your browser. Please try using Google Chrome or Firefox. If you continue to have difficulties, please contactevents.enquiries@theguardian.comIf your application is successful you will be contacted directly by a member of the Guardian events team to confirm your attendance. As we anticipate a high level of interest, we will not be able to contact those applicants who are not successful.For profiles of our speakers,follow this link.For a full event programme,follow this link.
When Shinji Mikami was a very young boy, his elementary school teacher sat in front of the class and read out the well-known Japanese ghost story, Yotsuya Kaidan. This chilling tale of betrayal and supernatural revenge (no doubt an indirect influence on the Ring and Grudge movies) was Mikami’s first experience of horror. He never forgot it.Twenty years later, as a rising star at the Osaka-based game development studio Capcom, he was asked to design a spooky adventure game for the Sony PlayStation and Sega Saturn consoles. It would update a previous hit title, Sweet Home, about treasure hunters exploring a haunted mansion. Mikami retained the setting, but swapped the loot seekers for a Swat team, and the ghosts and monsters for zombies. Inspired by the movies of George A Romero, he concocted a story about a devastating virus, created by the sinister Umbrella corporation, and capable of turning humans into undead murderers – the ultimate bio-weapon. The result was the multimillion selling Resident Evil series, and a whole new sub-genre of game: survival horror.Revenge of horrorAlthough out of favour for the past few years, thanks to the arrival of more accessible fare like Assassin’s Creed, Grand Theft Auto and Uncharted, the gaming style that Mikami invented is creeping back from the grave. Cult Japanese studio From Software has prepared the way, reigniting interest in esoteric and difficult games with its Demon’s Souls and Dark Souls titles. Now, after leaving Capcom to work on a series of interesting projects with idiosyncratic studios like Grasshopper Manufacture and Platinum Games, Mikami has his own team, and a new horror project. It is called Evil Within. It is pure survival horror, updated for modern tastes certainly, but pure nonetheless.“Video game design has changed quite significantly since Resident Evil,” says Mikami, sitting in the pristine conference room in his new Tokyo office. He’s in his late 40s but doesn’t look it. Relaxed in his trademark baseball cap and polo shirt, he has a boyish, but thoughtful demeanor. I’d been warned that he is not exactly garrulous in interviews, but with the game almost complete, he seems open and affable.“Back in the 1990s, games rarely provided free camera movement,” he continues. “But now players are used to being able to move both the characterandthe camera; we need to cater to what they have become accustomed to. Also, the pace, the locomotion speed of player characters, is faster now – and the cut-scenes need to be seamlessly integrated, both in terms of graphical style and continuity of action. I had to bear all of this in mind with Evil Within.”Certainly the game’s set up is classic survival horror. Downbeat detective Sebastian Castellanos is called to an abandoned mental hospital, where dozens of police officers have been slaughtered by an unknown force. Gradually, a sordid tale of human experimentation unravels, leading Castellanos to the gothic mansion of a disturbed young scientist named Ruvik, and eventually inside his twisted mind.I ask Mikami about his approach to horror game design. His characters, for example, are always strong but also vulnerable. They’re not gung-ho meatheads, packing enough heat to take down a whole army of the dead, they are confused, afraid – and usually very low on ammo.“I’m interested in vulnerable characters, in normal human beings,” says Mikami. “The horror experience is most scary when the player really isn’t sure whether their character is going to live or die – death and survival need to be on a constant see-saw. If there’s a situation where you’re not 100% sure that you can avoid or defeat the enemies, if you feelmaybethere’s a chance you’ll make it – that’s where horror lies. Creating that situation is vital. Also, I don’t want to just stand there shooting dozens of enemies. Die! Die! Die! I don’t have the energy for that.”Instead, Mikami has an understanding of horror imagery and symbolism: the use of relaxing classical music in extremely tense moments; the way enemies seem to reflect our deep-seated fears of death and transmogrification. Is he a student of psychology?“Back in the early days, when I was making the first Resident Evil, I spent three months studying the psychology of horror,” he says. “But what I’ve learned is, horror is instinctive - the things that scaremetake precedence over any theory of horror. With Resident Evil, we went with human and human-shaped enemies because people are generally more interested in and scared by other people, rather than some obscure creature that we don’t recognise. Evil Within is the same.”Women, horror and video gamesAside from gothic architecture, lumbering monsters, sparse resources and jump shock, Mikami’s games have always been known for something else: strong female characters. The likes of Jill Valentine and Claire Redfield fought alongside their male counterparts in the Resident Evil games, dressed in similar combat fatigues, rarely succumbing to the usual overtly sexualised stereotypes.It’s something Mikami is clearly passionate about. “I don’t know if I’ve put more emphasis on women characters, but when I do introduce them, it is never as objects,” he says. “In some games, they will be peripheral characters with ridiculous breast physics. I avoid that sort of obvious eroticism. I also don’t like female characters who are submissive to male characters, or to the situation they’re in. I won’t portray women in that way. I write women characters who discover their independence as the game progresses, or who already know they are independent but have that tested against a series of challenges.”I think he’s done with this, but as I’m about to ask another question, he interrupts. “If I had to name the woman character I most disliked in my games it would be Rebecca Chambers,” he says. “She’s submissive, she’s not independent. I didn’t want to include her but the staff wanted that kind of character in the game, for whatever reason. I’m sure it made sense to them. And in Japan, that character is pretty popular.” He shrugs despondently.Evil Within will be out within a few weeks; who knows what is next for Mikami and his studio, Tango Gameworks. If things go well, it’s likely this will be a series – this is no doubt what Zenimax had in mind when it bought the studio four years ago. But then Mikami has been successful in every genre he’s tried. Since Resident Evil he has been a director or executive producer on critical hits like Devil May Cry, Vanquish, Killer 7 and Viewtiful Joe. It’s a fascinatingly disparate and offbeat back catalogue.Despite all that, he seems much more grounded than other well-regarded game directors. When we arrive in the studio to meet Mikami, he is standing with junior members of staff in the vast open working area, watching one of them play the game. He converses quietly with the other spectators, exchanging observations and ideas. This is, apparently, how he works. Although horror is such an idiosyncratic thing, he seems to have found a way to make it while staying collaborative and approachable.“I am open to ideas from staff,” he says. “If it fits the scope and tone of the game, then I’ll accept most of the ideas that come in.”He then turns to his translator and says something else. They both laugh. “Mikami has added that if he were to start the production of Evil Within again, he would probably accept less ideas,” he says. Looking at Mikami again, it’s obvious – he isn’t relaxed, he’s exhausted. The game has been in development for over three years.And yet, he has talked enthusiastically about the process of development, and about horror. He chats about the influence that the Hellraiser films have had on both him and his lead concept artist, Ikumi Nakamura. When he talks, the spark is obvious; whatever it was that the ghostly tale of Yotsuya Kaidan ignited in him all those years ago is still alight. While Mikami is making games, there will always be horror and survival, and all that creeps up on us in between.Evil Within is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 14 October.Keith Stuart attended a press trip to Tokyo to visit Tango Gameworks, with accommodation and travel expenses met by Bethesda.Shock and gore: why video games are failing at horror
Two women’s social media profiles unwittingly became part of a sexting sting which led to the resignation of a Conservative MP this week.The Sunday Mirror’s editor-in-chief Lloyd Embley has since apologisedfor the unauthorised use of the women’s pictures, which were used by a freelance reporter to create a fictional 20-something Tory PR woman on Twitter. “Sophie Wittams” convinced Conservative MP Brooks Newmark to send explicit photos of himself after exchanging several DMs over Twitter.In fact, “Sophie” was a male reporter, her Twitter profile picture actually of a Swedish model. It has also transpired the pictures she was sending Newmark came from another woman’s Twitter account.The story has re-emphasised just how easy it is to take photos from social media and use them for arguably unethical purposes. There are often reports about both men and women finding their pictures or online identity used by other people, whether it’s on a social network or via a dating site.There are several things you can do if you find someone is using your pictures or your identity online.First off, how do you find out if your pictures are being used by someone else in the first place?A quick way to do this is by usingGoogle’s Reverse Image Search.If you’re using Chrome,you can download a pluginwhich allows you to do this just by right clicking the picture you want to search. It’s not always completely reliable – we searched some pictures we knew were on dating sites for example and nothing came up – but it’s quite a useful tool nonetheless.If you do find someone is using your profile pictures online, here’s what you can do:TwitterAccording to Twitter, impersonation is a violation of their rules. While parody accounts are allowed to remain so long as they clearly state they have no affiliation with the person they’re parodying, pretending to be someone else is a big no-no.So if an account appears to portray you in “a confusing or deceptive manner”, the network may well suspend the user permanently. When it comes to pictures, it often depends on the circumstances, but another way to get one of your pictures taken down is byfiling a copyright complaint.FacebookOn Facebook, users are required to use their legal names as it would appear on their passport or driving licence. It’s a policy whichhas drawn criticism of latefrom people who use Facebook and don’t necessarily want to use their real names. But it, at least, means it may be easier to report a profile of someone who is impersonating you if they happen to be using your legal name too.Here’s what Facebook says you need to report someone who is impersonating you online:Scanned or digital image of a government-issued ID (ex: driver’s license, passportNotarized statement verifying your identityCopy of a police report about your claim“Incomplete” or “inaccurate” claimswon’t be processed.InstagramInstagram also takes impersonation very seriously.Here’s where you can file a reportif someone is pretending to be you, a friend or one of your businesses on Instagram by either using your pictures or your name.Google PlusGoogle says you can’t use its products to impersonate others, but welcomes parodies – so long as they state they have no affiliation with the actual person. Like other networks, when youcontact them about said impersonation, you need to provide some sort of ID to prove you are who you say you are.TinderTinder’s terms of service explicitly states its users cannot “impersonate any person or entity”.The dating site has yet to get back to us on what users can do if they believe they are being impersonated by someone on Tinder, but theirsupport emailis listed on their website.Plenty of FishOn Plenty of Fish, you can report users via their profile pages if you find someone who is using one of your images. The site says it will immediately remove the offending pictures and possiblyclose the account entirely.OkCupidThere’s nothing in OkCupid’s terms and services which specifically mentions impersonation. We contacted them for their policy but have yet to receive a reply. They do, however, have the following guidelines:You agree to create only one unique profile. In addition, in order to maintain the integrity of the Website, by joining, you agree that your use of the Website shall be for bona fide relationship-seeking purposes (for example, you may not use the Website solely to compile a report of compatible singles in your area, or to write a school research paper). From time to time, we may create test profiles in order to monitor the operation of our services.You can report any suspicious activity to them via theirsupport email.---We’d like to hear from anyone who may have experience with someone taking their pictures or identity online. How did you find out? What action did you take? Are the profiles still out there?Let us know using the Google form below.Loading...• This article was amended on Monday 6 October 2014 to correct the spelling of the fictitious Sophie Wittams.
Wales has achieved independence - of a sort. The first of the new .wales and .cymru internet domains will go live on Tuesday as the Welsh National Assembly unveils its new assembly.wales and cynulliad.cymru websites.Wales Online, Daily Post, the Welsh Rugby Union, Golwg360, Bloc, Gwalia, Atlantic PLC, Orchard and Portmeirion will join the National Assembly on the new internet addresses.The launch “heralds a new era for Wales in the digital world,” said Ieuan Evans MBE, chair of internet domain controller Nominet’s Wales advisory group. “In the next phase of the project, this opportunity will be extended to all businesses and individuals.”‘An enormous help to Welsh organisations’The new domains will be available to buy for businesses in November, and for the wider public in March 2015.The Welsh domains follow in the footsteps of the Scottish .scot domain,launched in July, which saw both the yes and no independence referendum campaigning groups adopt the patriotic domain.“Brand recognition is essential for organisations and businesses to successfully promote their work and interests,” said Dame Rosemary Butler AM presiding officer of the National Assembly. “A .wales/.cymru brand will be an enormous help to Welsh organisations as they strive to make their voice heard around the world.”All four main political parties in Wales, the Welsh Government, S4C, Wales Federation of Young Farmers Club, Only Men Aloud, Remploy, Royal Welsh Agricultural Show, Cowbois and Traveline Cymru will all join the .wales/.cymru domain at a later date.•London gets its own domain name starting new .london property boom
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWe Take Your Privacy and Security. Seriously. &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs got one of *those* letters:I called the number on the back of the letter, and was directed to Stephen Boggs, director of public affairs at Cox.Boggs said that the trouble started after a female customer account representative was "socially engineered" or tricked into giving away her account credentials to a caller posing as a Cox tech support staffer. Boggs informed me that I was one of just 52 customers whose information the attacker(s) looked up after hijacking the customer service rep's account.The nature of the attack described by Boggs suggested two things: 1) That the login page that Cox employees use to access customer information is available on the larger Internet (i.e., it is not an internal-only application); and that 2) the customer support representative was able to access that public portal with nothing more than a username and a password.Boggs either did not want to answer or did not know the answer to my main question: Were Cox customer support employees required to use multi-factor or two-factor authentication to access their accounts? Boggs promised to call back with an definitive response. To Cox's credit, he did call back a few hours later, and confirmed my suspicions.» "Visions of 2000″ &gt;&gt; RetronautFrom 1900: looking forward 100 years. Pretty accurate - at least the first image.Mobile web has now overtaken PC in 40 nations, including India, Nigeria and Bangladesh &gt;&gt; mobiThinkingIn 40 countries Webpage views from a mobile phone now outnumber those from a PC, according to StatCounter (August 2014). That's just browsing with mobile phones; if you consider tablet computers to be mobile, then that number increases to 48 countries. Of the 40, three countries stand out particularly being members of the 100 million (mobile subscriber) club: India (797.1 million mobile subscribers), Nigeria (130.6 million) and Bangladesh (116.9 million). And we're not talking mobile Web being a bit bigger than PC Web – in India, Nigeria and Bangladesh mobile phones now account for around 70% of Webpage views.If mobile Web continues to grow at the present phenomenal growth rate, up 67% in a year, we should expect to welcome plenty more countries to Mobile Web Majority, as mobiThinking now calls them, over the next year or so. The stats suggest that future additions may include Indonesia and Pakistan, also members of the 100 Million Club.Not clear whether mobile web use is additive, or whether it's replacing desktop use. (StatCounter hasn't responded to it.)Mining Bitcoin with pencil and paper: 0.67 hashes per day &gt;&gt; Righto.comKen Shirriff takes a break from disassembling transformers:I decided to see how practical it would be to mine Bitcoin with pencil and paper. It turns out that the SHA-256 algorithm used for mining is pretty simple and can in fact be done by hand. Not surprisingly, the process is extremely slow compared to hardware mining and is entirely impractical. But performing the algorithm manually is a good way to understand exactly how it works.You can get chips that will do up to 3bn hashes per second, but where's the sense of participation?YouTube Loses Key Operations Executive &gt;&gt; WSJTom Pickett, vice-president for YouTube content, is going:More than a dozen top managers and executives have left YouTube this year. The unit's chief executive, Salar Kamangar, was replaced by Google veteran Susan Wojcicki in February; he remains in another role at Google.Soon after, the executive who had been overseeing product and engineering teams, Shishir Mehrotra, left to run a startup. Shiva Rajaraman, a key Mehrotra lieutenant, recently joined music-streaming service Spotify to run product development. Rajaraman had a knack for bridging disagreements say people who worked with him at YouTube, a useful skill in a company known for spirited internal debates.The Information reported recently that Google has set YouTube very ambitious growth rates for time spent watching, and that they're not being met.Adobe joins the Chromebook party, starting with Photoshop &gt;&gt; Google Chrome BlogToday, in partnership with Adobe, we're welcoming Creative Cloud onto Chromebooks, initially with a streaming version of Photoshop. This will be available first to U.S.-based Adobe education customers with a paid Creative Cloud membership—so the Photoshop you know and love is now on Chrome OS. No muss, no fuss.This streaming version of Photoshop is designed to run straight from the cloud to your Chromebook. It's always up-to-date and fully integrated with Google Drive, so there's no need to download and re-upload files—just save your art directly from Photoshop to the cloud. For IT administrators, it's easy to manage, with no long client installation and one-click deployment to your team's Chromebooks.The European Commission is not about to fine Apple; nor even to accuse the company of anything &gt;&gt; ForbesTim Worstall:There has been no finding of fact and no finding of illegality. That just isn't the way that European Commission investigations work. Just not how they do their public policy.The FT claimed:Apple will be accused of prospering from illegal tax deals with the Irish government for more than two decades when Brussels this week unveils details of a probe that could leave the iPhone maker with a record fine of as much as several billions of euros.Preliminary findings from the European Commission's investigation into Apple's tax affairs in Ireland, where it has had a rate of less than 2 per cent, claim the Silicon Valley company benefited from illicit state aid after striking backroom deals with Ireland's authorities, according to people involved in the case.This simply isn't so. And over and above the error concerning the content of the reports there is no possibility of a fine upon Apple whatsoever. For in cases of illegal state aid there never is a fine levied upon the company or recipient of such aid. The government that allowed or paid out the aid must recover it, that's true, but there's no fines over and above that even if there's a finding of said illegal aid. Again, this just isn't how the Commission undertakes its public policy on these matters.Damn fact-based reporting.Triple-A: Android, Anchoring and Apple &gt;&gt; ForbesMark Rogowsky:In choosing two models to fill the void, Apple is playing a clever game. It can satisfy customers who feel the need to have among the largest screens while also creating an "anchor" that makes the basic iPhone 6 seem less big. The effect here might best be understood by way of example.Several years ago, Sharp introduced the first mainstream 70in televisions. While they did manage to sell some, customers were intimidated by the size and buying the "biggest thing out there." Not long after, Sharp brought an 80in model to market. With sales almost a secondary goal, a major reason for the larger model was to make the 70in look less intimidating in showrooms. It worked quite well, Sharp execs told me at the Consumer Electronics Show. Sales of the 70in rose nicely and the effect was so successful the company later started selling a 90in model which boosted sales of the 80.The iPhone 6 Plus similarly helps sell the iPhone 6.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Until this week, spoof mash-up videos such asEd Miliband and the hip-hop star Drake, orNigella Lawson talking dirty, could land their creators in hot water.However,changes to the laware to be introduced which allow the use of copyrighted material “for the purposes of parody, caricature or pastiche”, without first seeking permission from the rights holder.Spoof videos, including mash-ups (usually the combining of two separate pop culture elements), are widespread and popular on in the internet, especially on platforms such asYouTubeandVine.The videos, which are edited, dubbed or montaged, are intended to be humorous and mostly satirical, and often poke fun at celebrities or politicians.The issue of copyright, however, has seen many spoofs pulled from the internet. Changes to the law will allow parodists to use copyrighted material, as spoofs will now fall under “fair dealing”.Fair dealing is an element of the law which allows a limited amount of copyrighted material to be used.But if the creator of a spoof mash-up is taken to court then it will be up to a judge to decide whether or not it achieves its aim of being amusing.The worry is that humour is a subjective quality and what tickles one judge’s funny bone may leave another stony-faced.Aaron Levitt, of music blogStamp the Wax,told the Telegraph: “I think [the new exception] will encourage more freedom as creative people are no longer working under the risk of prosecution.“But it’s risky to put this in the hands of judges, who are out of touch with the generation who are creating the content and the audience it is aimed at.”
A year ago, BlackBerry looked in peril.An attempt to sell it to Canada’s Fairfax Holdings had foundered- and there were questions about what might happen to users of its phones if the sale did go through.Since then, a lot has happened: then chief executive Thorsten Heins was thrown out and replaced by John Chen, a turnround specialist who had previously brought Sybase back to profitability. The company has refocussed on its government and big business (“enterprise”) base.On Friday, itannounced its second-quarter financial results(for the three months to the end of August), and Chen had anearnings callwith analysts.So what’s the story with BlackBerry now? Here are the ten things you need to know to understand the company’s situation - and prospects.1: Revenue is still falling, and doesn’t seem to have quite bottomed out. At $916m, it’s the lowest quarterly figure since the September-November 2006 period (which was $835m), and down 42% compared to the year-ago quarter.BlackBerry revenues by source (hardware, services, software) by quarter, $millionPhotograph: Guardian2: The number of BlackBerry subscribers is still falling: there are now about 46m, down from 50m the previous quarter. About 80% - that is, 36m - are business users, according to Chen’s comments in the analyst Q+A, where he said:on the sub count… we were down a little bit. I think the rate of decline has slowed. We were 50 last quarter. We’re definitely less than 10% down I would say. But in terms of the ratio, I think that 80% of that is business…BlackBerry accounts by quarter to August 2014: from a high of 80m, they are now just over 45m.Photograph: GuardianAt its peak, in the July-September 2012 quarter, BlackBerry had 80m subscribers.Note that BlackBerry subscribers aren’t the same as BBM users - where the company says it had 91m monthly active users , up 6% from the previous quarter and up 44% from a year before. (The latter figure isn’t surprising: a year ago, BBM was only available on BlackBerry, not iOS or Android.)The subscriber number is important, because BlackBerry gets a per-account payment each quarter from carriers and other customers known as the “Service Activation Fee” (SAF). Fewer subscribers mean less money from SAFs - and that gets worse if…3: The amount that BlackBerry gets per subscriber is falling, and this is a big part of the company’s revenue problem. BlackBerry used to get paid handsomely by carriers for taking the load off their networks to transport BBM and email data, which it would transfer via its own Network Operations Centres (NOCs). But the carriers have improved their infrastructure, and now don’t see the point in paying BlackBerry to do what they already can.It could also charge per-user for its BES systems. But now it faces competition from companies willing to offer similar services much more cheaply.BlackBerry service revenue per account: it keeps falling, which is a problem when allied to its falling subscriber numbers.Photograph: GuardianAs a result, the per-subscriber amount that BlackBerry gets is falling rapidly. Based on the service figure in its accounts, in 2002, it was getting over $80 per subscriber. By 2010, that had fallen to just over $15. In the past quarter, it was under $9.50 if we assume a 45m subscriber base; if you assume the subscriber base is about 47m, as Chen seemed to imply, the per-subscriber figure is only just over $9.The problem with this is that as both subscriber numbers and per-subscriber payments keep falling, Chen will have to find some other way to keep revenues up. He is talking about making software into a $250m business - but that’s small beer in the context of its annual revenues.4: Losing subscribers and per-subscriber revenue hits profits really hard. BlackBerry built the infrastructure for its NOCs over the course of years, so they’re well-suited to carry enormous amounts of data - and the more data they deal with, the more economic (and profitable) they are. Services (especially the Service Activation Fee, or SAF) are the really profitable side of BlackBerry - arguably more so than handsets, which were a way to get subscribers on board. As that dwindles, profits become harder to find.The bad news: BlackBerry is expecting that SAF per-subscriber revenue to keep falling - by 10% to 15% next quarter. If subscriber numbers fall too, the revenue and profit hole at the core of BlackBerry starts to get bigger. Handsets aren’t a great source of profits; they’re expensive to make and there’s continual downward price pressure. Software and services are far more profitable.5: The handset business still isn’t out of the woods.Chen made great play of the reception for the latest Passport handset, shown off on Wednesday. But let’s be clear: the 200,000 figure he quoted was pre-orders ahead of the launch. Those are almost certain to be from carriers, in which case they could be on sale-or-return. (It’s also notable that Chen said he hadn’t been involved in the Passport’s design - that’s because the typical phone takes two years to go from design to production.) His saying (and anyone repeating) that the Passport was briefly the best-selling phone on Amazon means nothing. So was theAmazon Fire Phoneonce. In any case, the Passport isn’t intended for consumers. That business simply isn’t coming back.BlackBerry handset shipments and sell-through by quarter. ‘Shipments’ are to carriers and other outlets; ‘sell-through’ means the number of handsets that reach end users. (Sell-through numbers not recorded in previous quarters.)Photograph: GuardianMore to the point, the handset business - which generates roughly half of the company’s revenues - is recovering, but slowly. BlackBerry shipped 2.1m phones in the financial quarter, of which 70% (or 1.47m) were running BB10 - which means 630,000 were the BB7-based BlackBerry Bold or similar. The average selling price across all the phones was just over $200 - slightly less than same period the year before, when it shipped 1.8m BB10 devices.In other words, the company shipped fewer BB10 devices in the summer 2014 quarter than in the summer 2013 quarter - despite having more devices, such as the Z10, Q10 and Z3 to offer.One encouraging note is that “sell-through” (the number of handsets reaching end users) is now almost the same as “shipped” handsets, meaning a huge wodge of unsold handsets has been worked out of the system. That should mean that shipments and end-user sales will come into alignment; that usually means higher selling prices, because the devices are current, not written down.And carriers have cleared a lot of inventory: sell-through has been 22.7m in the past six quarters, against 17.4m shipped, meaning 5.3m excess handsets (almost certainly BB10s) have been cleared. For BlackBerry, that’s good news.6: the Z3 doesn’t seem to have done as well as the publicity suggests.Ehud Gelblum at Citibank asked some sharp questions on the call, pointing to the fact that BlackBerry’s revenues in Asia fell quarter-on-quarter, and also that in the previous quarter the number of BB7-based units shipped had been a lot lower - so why did they rise?The Z3 wasn’t sold in the US - which was the only region that recorded revenue growth. “Asia was down, and Z3 went into Asia,” Gelblum asked. “So I guess all these things I’m trying to go at and trying to understand are, why was Asia down if the Z3 was there? Why was North America up? And why does it look like your BB7 devices were up very strongly to 700,000 this quarter for probably no more than 3, 4, 500,000 last quarter, and are they all related?”James Yersh, the chief financial officer, responded in a roundabout way that North American buyers seem to have been buying BB7 devices: “I think your math on the units is right. And if you think about what’s popular in North America would be like 900 in Bold which would drive more BB7 type of units going through there as well. You right that the Z3 wasn’t there, but effectively I think all those story hang together and drive in and around or explain the uptick in BB7 and some of the strength in devices for that.”In other words, businesses and governments in North America which still use BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) seem to have laid in stock of BB7 handsets so their staff can keep using them for the next few years.7: February 2015 is going to be an important quarter for BlackBerry- perhaps even crucial. In February this year, it announced “EZ-Pass” - a scheme that allowed businesses to upgrade to its BES 12 platform for free, for a limited time.In February, that offer runs out - and at that point, the people using the system will have to decide whether to stick with BES 12, or go to some other MDM (Mobile Device Management) service. This might not be such a foregone conclusion: Yersh told Todd Coupland of CIBC that when you’re trying to sell software, you typically need between six and eight potential customers to get one certain sale.This might be different for people who are already using BES 12 (though under EZ-Pass, BlackBerry effectively isn’t getting any revenue at all for now; it needs to convert them to paying customers), but it does point to a busy time for the company’s sales team after Christmas.8: BlackBerry really, really isn’t interested in the consumer market.Chen hascut backthe sales, marketing and administration drastically - from $400m the previous quarter to $195m in the reported quarter (and from $548m and $355m in the previous quarters to those). With so little being spent pushing the company, it is clear that it’s not trying to find new customers; it’s clinging on to the ones it has.9: Even with all those cuts, it still wasn’t profitable.For the quarter, it made an operating loss of $198m - although that is enlarged by an adjustment in the value of its debentures, which are effectively a$1bn bondissued last year when it looked like everything could to go hell in a handbasket.If you strip out the variation in debenture valuation (and inventory writedowns, including a gigantic $3.7bn writedown of the value of unsold BB10 devices when Chen took over), over the past four quarters BlackBerry’s operating performance has been, respectively:• $1,200m loss• $248m loss• $267m loss• $24m loss.Clearly, Chen is getting the company to a point where it’s nudging towards being consistently profitable - but if services revenue keeps falling, and if there are any more missteps with handsets or inventory, it could fall hard.10: The customers who reallylikeBlackBerry are in the Middle East and Africa- though those whichdependon it are governments and businesses around the world. The mystery to many might be that BlackBerry’s finances show that the Europe/Middle East/Africa segment generates the most revenue, not North America. That’s becauseit sells really well in south Africa- and the Middle East, where BBM is still popular as a means for teenagers to communicate without family oversight. But it’s the BB7 models, not the new BB10 ones, which do well there.BlackBerry revenues by geographical segment to August 2014. The “Europe, Middle East and Africa” region remains its strongest - because of the popularity of older handset models in Africa and the Middle East.Photograph: GuardianThe question is - for how much longer?Certainly, John Chen has made enormous strides in getting BlackBerry out of the morass it had fallen into. He’s put in all the right disciplines - and has the advantage of its core business and government base to rely on. The problem still is: is that core business enough to keep the company going at this size, or will Chen have to cut again? And if he does and that doesn’t work, the question comes back to the same one that was asked when he came aboard: will the company be able to keep going?BlackBerry launches unconventional Passport smartphone
The UK government has set up a review of the effects of “sharing economy” companies such as Airbnb, TaskRabbit and Uber to see what effects it could have on the UK - and consider potential risks to consumers and established businesses.But it will not address the possible effects on people who provide labour or services for such companies, or how to guarantee their working conditions or safety.The Tories said that they want to make the UK a “global centre” for sharing-based businesses before the end of the next Parliament, which on current timetables would be 2020.Thereview, which will report by December, is being led by Debbie Wosskow, founder of Love Home Swap, a home exchange company which claims to be the world’s biggest, and one of the companies that could be affected by any government regulations around such businesses.The “sharing economy” is reckoned to be worth up to £9bn globally, and builds on the premise that people have surplus time or property which they can make available to others via the internet – either for free, or for remuneration.A number of companies have sprung up - mainly in Silicon Valley near San Francisco, California - to act as middlemen between those with such “surpluses” and would-be users. Airbnb connects people who want to rent out rooms or houses with those who want to rent them; TaskRabbit lets people outsource small jobs and tasks to others nearby through an auction system; Uber connects people with cars to people who want a car ride. The companies take a proportion of the value of each transaction in return for trying to guarantee certain quality levels of both providers and clients.But “sharing economy” businesses have also proven controversial. Airbnb hasbeen criticised in a number of citieson the basis that local ordinances forbid sublets under certain times, while Uber has facedregulatory ire in Germanyand its home city of San Francisco, as well asresistance from established taxi servicesand drivers in many cities who are concerned that it will lead to lower standards and payments.In addition, companies built around “sharing economy” ideals are frequently criticised for failing to focus on the rights of those who are providing the “surplus” that they need. Uber drivers cannot create a union because they are not officially employed by the company, but provide a ride for hire. Their fees, however, are set by the company.But the UK review does not include “providers’ rights” as part of its terms of reference. Its only nod to wider effects is that it will “investigate the main regulatory and policy issues from the perspective of consumers, sharing economy businesses, and established businesses”.Nor does it aim to seek the experiences of those who have provided their labour or services through such companies. Instead, it says it will seek views from “consumers, businesses operating in the sharing economy, [and] established businesses that are facing increased competition from the sharing economy.”The review was outlined by Matt Hancock, the Tory business and enterprise minister, at the Conservative conference in Birmingham. Hetoldthe Sunday Telegraph: “These new business models put money into households the length and breadth of the country. I want to make sure that the UK is front and centre of that, competing with San Francisco to be the home of these young tech startups.”
The head of the UK civil service, cabinet secretary Jeremy Heywood, has admitted that the service’s use of technology has lagged behind the business world for too long, and stated its commitment to the work of the Government Digital Service.Heywood pushed the idea of “government as a platform” – a central service that links all aspects of customer-facing government instead of running a series of disjointed silos as it has done in the past.“Things are changing in the Civil Service. Government is adopting new ideas and new ways of working to make everything we do better for users, and more efficient,” said Heywoodin a blog post. “Many in the world of business understood this and adapted to it years ago. The Civil Service lagged behind. Now we are changing that.”The Government Digital Service (GDS), a unit of the Cabinet Office tasked with rebuilding the government’s services online, has been methodically overhauling and simplifying hundreds of government websites which handle 700 services from 24 government departments and 331 agencies for the whole UK.‘At the heart of all this change are the users’GDS has established a set of standards and practices for the design and use of various government sites, withgov.ukthe highest profile model for new services. It aims to be more focused on the needs of users, making the processes of applying for a tax disc or passport, for example, more efficient and easy to use.“At the heart of all this change are the users: people who need to use government services, from the trivial to the life-changing. All these services, all the platforms, everything we build from now on should be focused on meeting user needs,” Heywood wrote.Technology companies including Amazon have been using this customer-centric ideal for years, making sure that the customer gets what they want with the minimum of fuss, removing roadblocks that infuriate.‘Government as a platform’Throughgov.ukthe GDS, Heywood is pushing “government as a platform” as a way to unify services but also to cut costs and increase efficiency, crucial in the post economic downturn tight budgetary environment.“If one department needs a service for publishing information to the web, so will other departments – so why should they all pay money to different people to achieve the same end? Why not just build a publishing platform they can all use and share?” wrote Heywood.The government is also building two new platforms, one for monitoring the performance of government’s digital services and the other a way to verify their identity, which is crucial for use of government services like voting registration, tax and other identity dependent facilities.Heywood also talked about the possibility of opening up government data to third-parties – something companies like Google and startups looking to turn data into innovative new services have requested for years.The plan is to put every service online that can be online. In its first three years, GDS prioritised six popular government services including voter registration, patent renewal and the booking of prison visits, and has 19 more in development not yet ready to fully replace older systems.•Government Digital Service: the best startup in Europe we can’t invest in
A new Bitcoin bank called Circle opens its doors to the public on Monday, following a stealth development period which saw it raise $25m from some of Silicon Valley’s biggest venture capitalists.The service, which launches its web app worldwide on Monday and promises to follow-up with Android and iOS apps in the near-future, is one of the most aggressive attempts so far to take Bitcoin payments mainstream.Founded by Macromedia alum Jeremy Allaire and long-running collaborator Sean Neville, Circle’s offering is, on the surface little different from a number of other Bitcoin “wallet” services, such as those provided by competitors such as Blockchain or Coinbase. Users can transfer cash in using a bank account or debit card, which is then converted into bitcoin by Circle; and they can spend their bitcoins online or in physical shops with ease.But Circle is trying to compete with those competitors by offering a level of professionalism unusual in the bitcoin world. For a start, every user’s deposits are fully insured, putting paid to fears of a collapse similar to that at outfits such as notorious exchange Mt Gox. And its slick interface, which abstracts away much of the confusing technical aspects of the crypto-currency, appeals to users tired of conventional internet banking as much as it does those already involved in Bitcoin.From Monday, “anyone can enrol, and they need to go through very basic security set-up and verification,” Allaire told the Guardian. “Once they do that, they really have a cloud wallet: a service where they can send, receive and store Bitcoin very easily with a very simple interface in their own language.“The benefit is going to be for people who want to use an online service, and don’t want to worry about managing and securing private keys and so forth. They can store as much as they want, there’s no fees, and it includes all the offline storage we provide as well as full insurance on all deposits.”The promise of no fees, as well as the ease with which anyone can open an account and deposit cash into bitcoin, reveals Allaire’s longer-term goal for Circle: to provide genuine competition to the legacy banking model, proving bitcoin services to the underbanked, as well as those underserved by existing banks.Also square within the firm’s sights are companies such as PayPal, which enable transactions between individuals as well as from users to merchants: “We’re firmly focused on consumers,” he says. “We’re very interested in how bitcoin is used for person to person payments, and we see our apps making that very instant, very secure and no fee for people.”But while Circle is going after PayPal, the latter isn’t resting on its laurels. The company, which already accepts bitcoin payments through its Braintree subsidiary, has also announced that it will partner with bitcoin processors BitPay, Coinbase and GoCoin, to let its customers take bitcoin as payment for digital goods.While those moves make it easier to take bitcoin from those already in the ecosystem, however, they do little to grow the market larger. That’s something Circle, and the other companies sure to follow it as the second wave of bitcoin firms take off, will have to do for itself.http://www.theguardian.com/news/video/2014/apr/30/bitcoin-made-simple-video-animation
In 2014, children’s books are facing more competition than ever from other forms of entertainment, particularly digital: games, apps, YouTube and social networking.Does this mean that the children’s publishing industry is feeling downbeat? Actually, no. This week’s The Bookseller Children’s Conference in London was a notably positive affair, with buoyant sales figures and excitement – but not hyperbole – about digital opportunities.One of the topics discussed was whether children’s book-apps can ever deliver stories as well as printed books. I’vepulled that out as a separate article, but here are some of the other main talking points.Some of them aren’t technology-related at all, but they reflect the discussions that engaged me as a technology journalist (and a parent). Also seeGuardian books writer Imogen Russell Williams’ take on the dayfor her perspective as an expert on the children’s books world.Children’s books are selling wellReally well, actually. John Lewis, who runs the charts and analysis section of publishing industry magazine The Bookseller, gave a presentation outlining the latest sales figures, which suggest that 2014 is a storming year for children’s (printed) books in the UK.Last year, children’s book sales fell by 3.5% to £308m in the UK, but that was better than the 6.5% decline in overall book sales. And in the first eight months of 2014, sales of children’s books are up 10% year-on-year, with 37m of them sold so far.If this continues, a 10% rise for the whole of 2014 would make it “the best year for children’s books on record” according to Lewis. “All in all, the children’s book market is doing spectacularly well this year: it’s up by 10% when the entire printed book market is down by about 2%,” he said.He was backed up by Ann-Janine Murtagh, publisher at HarperCollins Children’s Books, in her keynote speech.“It’s probably one of the best moments to be working in children’s books,” she said. “We speak often about the golden age of children’s literature, but I would actually say that we’re experiencing something of a gold-rush in the children’s book market.”Walliams, Donaldson and MinecraftWhat’s fuelling that gold-rush? Some big authors and brands. David Walliams has sold £3.4m worth of children’s books in the first eight months of 2014 alone in the UK, and that’s without counting his latest book Awful Auntie, which came out this week.Diary of a Wimpy Kid author Jeff Kinney had sold £3.3m of books by the end of August, but both pale in comparison with Gruffalo author Julia Donaldson, whose £8m of sales this year have taken her to £89m since records began. Again, remember all of these figures are for the UK.What else? Minecraft. More than 1.3m official Minecraft books were sold in the UK in the first eight months of this year:The Bookseller’s breakdown of Minecraft book sales in the UK in the first eight months of 2014Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianOverall, £25m of children’s non-fiction books had been sold in the UK by the end of August, and £6.6m of that was Minecraft.Lewis also talked about the popularity of Young Adult (YA) fiction, whose sales are up 24% to £20m in the first eight months of 2014. And that doesn’t even include the £4m of sales for John Green’s The Fault In Our Stars, which is thought of as a YA title, but officially classified as an adult book.Also big: older books. £65m has been spent on pre-school and picture books so far this year. Lewis added that when he analysed sales of the top 4,097 picture books for 2014 so far, 43% of their sales came from “backlist” titles published before 2011.“If a child is coming to a book for the first time, there’s no such thing as backlist. Every single book is a new book if a child hasn’t read it before,” he said. Examples outside picture books include Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (more than 31,000 copies this year) and Enid Blyton’s The Enchanted Wood (nearly 12,500).Young people still read booksObvious, yes? Not everyone under 24 is staring at screens rather than pages when reading. But some research was shown at the conference to dig deeper on this, including a survey of more than 1,000 16-24 year-olds in the UK – so “young people” rather than children – by research firmVoxburner.It asked its respondents how many books they read a year (excuse the quality/perspective: these photos were taken from my seat):Voxburner’s research into how many books 18-24 year-olds read a year in the UK.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianAnd also how much time they spend reading compared to other activities like watching TV, listening to music and browsing the internet:Voxburner’s research into how British 18-24 year-olds spend their time.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianWhen asked how they prefer to read, 73% said a printed book, 27% said ebooks and 5% said audiobooks.“These digital natives genuinely prefer to read a printed book. Why? Ebooks are too expensive compared to print. This is a generation that is militant about value for money. They expect ebooks to be much cheaper,” said Voxburner’s Luke Mitchell.That was backed up by another survey question on how much 18-24 year-olds would pay for print books versus ebooks:Voxburner’s research into what British 18-24 year-olds would pay for print books versus ebooks.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianMitchell suggested there were other factors influencing the preference for print among this age group. “They want to feel the product in their hands: smell the pages, see the creases in the spine,” he said.“And ebooks do nothing for your status: they like to show off the titles they’re reading. And they resent being enslaved to technology. Digital natives don’t want to spend any more time looking at a screen than they already have to.”There may be different tribes of digital natives, though. Separate research from theNational Literacy Trustwas also presented at the conference, which surveyed 34,000 8-18 year-olds in 2012 – note the younger age range.It found 68.7% saying they regularly read on a computer, smartphone and/or tablet outside school, while only 61.8% said they read regularly on paper. It’s the first time this survey has found screens ahead of print for this question.The Trust is kicking off its next research project to understand how things have changed since 2012, but also – crucially – it wants more research into whether reading on screens is better or worse than reading on paper when it comes to comprehension: actually understanding what’s been read.Some research in the past suggested that it might be worse, but the Trust’s research manager Irene Picton pointed out that this tended to look at reading on a computer, rather than tablets and smartphones. She also said that children who’ve grown up with touchscreens may respond differently.“Will this younger generation of children, who have less history reading in print, show the same impact on comprehension as some of the older students involved in those studies?” she said.Sanne Vliegenthart is building an audience of book lovers on YouTube.There’s a thriving ‘BookTube’ communityCan social media fuel a love of books and reading? Publishers and authors hope so. Hot Key Books’ digital coordinator Sanne Vliegenthart is also a vlogger on YouTube, where herBooksAndQuills channelhas more than 110,000 subscribers and 5.7m total views.“There are so many people on YouTube who are really interested in talking about books,” said Vliegenthart during a conference session on social media, in which she encouraged publishers to explore the “BookTube” community.AuthorAlice Osemanagreed that YouTube is an exciting opportunity for writers and publishers to connect with young readers.“I think YouTube is the best, purely from how much I think John Green’s popularity has risen seeing as he does all those YouTube videos,” she said. “YouTube is like the ultimate personal social network: you can see the author and listen to them speaking.”While authors and publishers are flocking to YouTube, Twitter, Instagram and other social networks, Oseman talked enthusiastically about the potential of Tumblr, while warning that it’s not as easy to build a following there as some think.“It’s the most difficult one to crack. It’s its own little community with its own personal jokes and idioms. It’s very difficult for someone who hasn’t been on Tumblr very long to understand the thinking,” she said. “You have to really understand the mentality of the people on there.”Vliegenthart agreed that it’s worth the effort, though. “There’s a huge book community there, tens of thousands of people who love books, and post pictures and videos and text about books.”Ann-Janine Murtagh of HarperCollins, speaking at The Bookseller Children’s Conference.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianPublishers as ‘the natural custodians of children’s content’Murtagh’s presentation was very bullish about the role children’s book publishers can play, and in the importance of them responding positively to the competition posed by various forms of digital entertainment.“In a volatile and fast-moving world, our children are growing up with more access to information and communication than ever before,” she said. “The need for great stories for children has never been greater. Children will always want to explore the world in narrative form, to truly understand it.”One thing she said might be challenged, though: “Children’s publishers are the natural custodians of children’s content”.What I think she meant was that publishers should be very aware of their responsibility for keeping stories – “the authentic experience of words and pictures, created by one imagination to connect and ignite with another reader in whatever format” – engaging for children in a digital world.Her phrasing could have been taken to suggest that publishers are THE natural custodians of children’s content though: something film studios (Pixar, for starters), games developers, toymakers (Lego Movie being one convincing argument on this front) and others might argue with.Plus, with Minecraft and YouTube, you might argue that children are increasingly custodians of their own content, creating and sharing it with one another.Talking of Minecraft, Murtagh talked about the success of rival publisher Egmont with its Minecraft books, congratulating the company before adding an inevitable ‘but’.“Many of those books will bring new readers to our world, and they will lift and kindle the market, but they are not the books that ultimately will sustain our market,” she said.“They are not necessarily the books that will become classics handed down again and again. It’s our core publishing that provides the backbone of our industry... We must create the classics of tomorrow. We need to find those books that will endure, and which each generation as it passes will fall in love with.”Michael Acton Smith: ‘We’re finding it really tough to create kids’ apps that are not only magical, but also commercially successful’.It’s (still) really hard to have success with children’s appsBritish children are using devices in their millions. A presentation from Nickelodeon’s Alison York cited the latest stats from Ofcom in 2013: 51% of 3-15 year-olds in the UK have a tablet at home – a figure that has doubled since 2012 – while 55% of 8-11 year-olds own more than three devices.“They’re spending more time with screens than ever before,” she said. “This generation of digital natives have grown up with touchscreens as the norm.”The problem for children’s app publishers is that they (and their parents) aren’t necessarily spending money on children’s apps. Michael Acton Smith of Mind Candy – the creator of Moshi Monsters – reprisedhis speech from the Children’s Media Conference earlier this yearon this point.“We’re finding it really tough to create kids’ apps that are not only magical, but also commercially successful,” he said.“We’ve created many different Moshi apps over the years.. we’ve had paid for, free, in-app purchase apps. Although we get quite a lot of downloads, we haven’t been able to find the secret solution to create very successful commercial products too. We need to do both.”Smith pointed out that children have access to everything on the app stores, not just children’s apps, and that many are choosing to play “grown-up games” like Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans, even though those make their money from in-app purchases worth up to £69.99 at a time, which many parents disapprove of.It’s not just developers finding app stores challenging. In a separate talk, literacy and technology consultant Bev Humphrey talked about another set of people: school librarians, who are interested in using educational apps with pupils, but struggle to find the best ones.“I can see the appeal of using exciting devices and exciting apps as a way of getting kids into reading or writing, but how do you find these apps? It’s never easy,” she said. “What most app stores need is a librarian to sort them out.”The Beano sold 2m copies a week at its peak, but is now reinventing itself as a digital brand.Photograph: BBC/D.C. Thomson &amp; Co. Ltd./BBCThe Beano has “made a balls-up of digital” but is still tryingMoshi Monsters is struggling to cope with digital disruption, but so are some more traditional children’s brands. Tim Collins, head of commercial at DC Thomson, gave a talk on his company’s work with The Beano.The British comic sold 2m copies a week at its peak last century, but in 2014 it sells 32,000 copies, albeit with an estimated readership of 500,000, and an annual that sells around 250,000 copies.Collins talked about the company’s mistakes: for example a Dennis the Menace TV show that launched in 2009, but “missed the sweet spot” of the character and his fondness for pranks, instead dumbing down for an audience of 4-7 year-olds.“There weren’t enough fart jokes basically, we lost our way a little bit,” said Collins, noting that the show’s most recent series has tried to get the balance back. He was just as honest about digital expansion.“We’ve made a balls-up of digital. Most of us probably have, although most of us don’t admit it,” said Collins, addressing the room of publishing executives. “But we also haven’t lost our shirts on it.”He talked about DC Thomson’s attempts to launch digital comics as PDF replicas – “nobody’s interested” – as well as a digital version of The Dandy (“that didn’t work”) and a few apps.“The problem is we’ve tried to do it in-house, and haven’t embraced enough of the bright smart things out there who have a different way of looking at it,” he said.That’s changing, with arecent photo-sharing appand plans to launch a Dennis-themed game towards the end of the year – “a shooting game, but it involves catapults and mud-guns, not AK47s, as you might expect” – as well as a new YouTube channel that focuses on prank videos rather than animation.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s mediaDisclosure: Bev Humphrey, who is quoted in this article, is an expert in her field who talks regularly at conferences. She is also my aunt. Her quote is included for editorial reasons alone, but I thought it best to be transparent about the family relationship.
For the weekend of the Ryder Cup, we have been tracking how much interaction on social media each player has been getting during the course of their games.We recreated each matchup in the foursome, fourballs and singles matches and gave a point to whichever side generated the most traffic.During this exercise, the analysts at HP Explore, who were tracking the data for us said that:They registered1,592,516 total tweets.Of those,584,858 were linked to One Direction.Yessss! Get in ! Rosey and Stenson get the first point on the board for@rydercupEUROPE! Rock solid golf all day !&mdash; Niall Horan (@NiallOfficial)September 26, 2014As would be expected from the past two days results, Europe came out ahead on the social media stakes by quite some margin. For the final results look at the graphic and scores below. You can also look at what happened onday oneandday two.Graeme McDowell (34,474) beat Jordan Spieth (3,286) (Europe +1)Patrick Reed (10,554) beat Henrik Stenson (5,110) (USA +1)Rory McIlory (26,556) beat Rickie Fowler (6,472) (Europe +1)Justin Rose (4,534) beat Hunter Mahan (2,232) (Europe +1)Phil Mickelson (1,360) beat Stephen Gallacher (993) (USA +1)Martin Kaymer (3,842) beat Bubba Watson (2,228) (Europe +1)Matt Kuchar (616) beat Thomas Bjorn (361) (USA+1)Sergio Garcia (4,681) beat Jim Furyk (1,407) (Europe +1)Ian Poulter (7,791) beat Webb Simpson (812) (Europe +1)Jamie Donaldson (13,403) beat Keegan Bradley (2,197) (Europe +1)Jimmy Walker (591) beat Lee Westwood (503) (USA +1)Victor Dubuisson (2,753) beat Zach Johnson (831) (Europe +1)
