For my newUntangling the web seriesin theObserver New Review, I've already covered the topics of social change and hate by looking at howa generation of political activists have been transformed by new tools developed on the internetand askingwhether the internet encourages insidious and bullying behaviour.Next time, I'm looking at family: how has the web changed the family unit? Are family ties easier to maintain, or is the technology making us strangers to one another in our homes?Issues likely to be covered are: geographically distant families and emotional closeness, following your kids on Facebook, the parent-child knowledge gap.Issues I won't be covering in this column (saving them for another day): infidelity, privacy, online safety.What else is important to the 21st-century connected family? Leave your thoughts in the comments below, send your suggestions to me ataleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk, tweet using the#UTTWor#familyhashtags, orcontact me on Twitter at @aleksk.You can also follow the collection of interviews, links, photos, videos and brainstorms feeding into my thinking on Tumblr atuntanglingtheweb.tumblr.com.
EA chose the Spike Video Game Awards to announce Mass Effect 3, the latest title in the critically acclaimed science fiction action RPG series. Due for release on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in time for next Christmas, the project is described in the publisher's otherwise undescriptive press release as, "the pinnacle of Commander Shepard's emotionally charged journey." 'Pinnacle' sounds rather final doesn't it?Here's the teaser trailer that accompanied the announcement. Let us know what you think...
Once I get my new laptop I plan to spend some more time withWorld of Warcraft: Cataclysmand clearly I'm not the only one. Publisher Blizzard has announced that the third expansion for the game sold more than 3.3 million copies in its first 24 hours of release. This makes it the fastest-selling PC game of all time.  Digital sales are included too - reflecting the changing face of PC games sales. Cataclysm beat the previous record - 2.8 million copies sold in 24 hours - held by previous expansion pack Wrath of the Lich King.Of course, with over 12 million subscribers you would imagine this sales figure rising, especially if the radical changes to the original world tempt back curious lapsed players. Blizzard CEO Mike Morhaime touches on this in his celebration:We had to bring Azeroth to the brink of destruction in Cataclysm, but the result was our best expansion yet. We want to thank all of our new, existing, and returning players throughout the world for their incredible enthusiasm and support, and we look forward to hearing what they think about all the new content.Mike, I'm sure the forums are giving you all the feedback you could ever want. Personally I'm more interested in what the less hardcore fans think of the latest expansion. Anecdotally I'm hearing that lapsed players are being tempted back to WoW by Cataclysm. I certainly am. But what about you?
The Office of Fair Trading has fired a shot across the bows of marketing companies that buy blogposts and tweets for sponsored promotions without disclosing the fact, after finding that a London-based company broke its code on disclosure.But it declined to say whether it will be going after other companies in the next few months, despite the insistence of Handpicked Media, an 18-month-old startup based in Carnaby Street which the OFT censured on Monday, that the practice is widespread.The OFT would not say either whether it will apply the rulings demanding full disclosure of sponsored postings to newspaper or magazine articles that appear online, such as travel or equipment reviews, but it has set a precedent that will strengthen the hand of the Advertising Standards Authority, which will gain regulatory powers over UK internet advertising from March.Handpicked Media, founded and run by Krista Madden, provides text and content for sponsored posts for about 200 blogs. Madden said she was "quite happy" with the OFT ruling and insisted it had grown from a single tweet earlier this year which had failed to indicate that it was sponsored.In a press release, the OFT said: "The OFT has received undertakings from Handpicked Media, an operator of a commercial blogging network, requiring them to clearly identify when promotional comments have been paid for."In taking this enforcement action the OFT has confirmed its view that online advertising and marketing practices that do not disclose they include paid-for promotions are deceptive under fair trading laws. This includes comments about services and products on website blogs and microblogs such as Twitter."But Madden insisted that she has pushed clients to disclose when they are paid to blog or tweet. "I started this company because I wanted absolute disclosure because I knew that other people weren't doing it," she told the Guardian. "There's a lot of blogging going on which doesn't have full disclosure, a lot of places."She said she had suggested to the OFT that there were other organisations which would fall foul of its rules by not being transparent about payment.Robert MacDougall of the OFT declined to say whether the organisation will act on any of Madden's suggestions."We take each case on a case-by-case basis," he said, while insisting that the finding – which was determined by the OFT without reference to a judge – was part of a strategic aim of the organisation.
Opening an office isn't that much of a big deal, but such is the kudos of Twitter that the UK government has been rolling out its biggest guns to try and get the firm to base itself in London when it opens its European HQ next year.The Telegraphreported that Prime Minister David Cameron himself, along with London mayor Boris Johnson ad various ad execs, met Twitter executives at Number 10 on Thursday. Twitter's head of international strategyKatie Jacobs Stantontweeted afterwards: "Hugely impressed with PM Cameron@MayorOfLondon&amp; the@Number10govteams. #OpenGov is going strong in the UK. #Gov20 conf in UK?@timoreilly."The decision for Twitter will be between the UK, with whatever benefits the Government will have tried to lay out, and Dublin - which, as we know, has some singular charms when it comes to enticing multinational companies to set up shop there - ie. the corporate tax rate.It's unlikely Twitter would break out of the mould that the rest of Silicon Valley has used when moving into Europe; that is, having the Irish corporate base for the tax returns, and a London office that is strategically required to appear smaller while still being a more active centre for the company's business. That is the most likely scenario.During the recent Guardian Tech trip to Dublin, it was suggested by one source we spoke to thatTwitter hadalreadydecided to move there. When we asked for clarification, Twitter's spokesman replied by saying "we haven't got any local offices in Europe yet... we'll be hiring some folks in Europe in 2011."Photo byfutureatlas.comon Flickr.Some rights reservedAny appearance of being a little coy about the Dublin base will be down to that now tedious corporate sensitivity, in the current climate, about the risk of being seen in any way to be evading one's taxation responsibilities. Having that base in Ireland is entirely legal, of course, but the moredelicate accounting 'possibilities'that allow tax to be cut to as low as 2.4% are ethically problematic, to say the least.The again, maybe Twitter will use its considerable influence and slightly less conventional style to break the mould. Maybe.
As you may have seen last week, social games specialist Zattikka has just announcedThe Ministry of Silly games, a Facebook virtual world based around the surreal comedy genius of Monty Python. Set to launch early next year, it will include eight free mini-games including King Arthur's Knight Fight, a slice-'em-up against such foes as the Black Knight and the killer rabbit, and Gillaxian – a tribute to the classic arcade shooter Galaxian, done in the animated style of Terry Gilliam.To give you a taster, we've been provided with one of the games,Camelot Smashalot, an Angry Birds-style physics puzzler in which you catapult livestock, Holy Hand Grenades and other idiotic projectiles at a French castle. If you've ever wanted to re-enact that classic scene from Monty Python and The Holy Grail, rather than just drunkenly recite John Cleese's insults, here's your chance.Play the game!
"Just don't use my name, OK, please?" said the person on the other end of the phone. "I don't want this to get out." His cause for concern? He'd helped produce some innocuous content - nothing actionable legally in any way - for "Anonymous", the vague online groupspawned by 4Chan's /b/ forums.The real reason he was worried wasn't that he thought law enforcement might find out. He was worried about other people in Anonymous finding out - because in that group, to stand up and identify yourself is seen as the worst thing you can do. Stripping off the Anonymous mask is viewed as a form of betrayal by the wider group.How do I know? I spent a big chunk of Thursday inside theInternet Relay Chat forumswhere Anonymous makes its decisions - and what a mess that turns out to be. I was led there not by the person I was speaking to above, but by someone else who had got in touch because he felt that the group was being misrepresented, and that the public comments of "Coldblood" were rubbish, the commentary of someone who had no right to be called a "spokesman" for the group.One thing both my interviewees had in common is recent contact with higher education: one is still a student in the UK, while the other recently left a British university. They're living in completely different countries (one in the UK, one in the EU) but both frequent the same IRC channels, oblivious of each other.My main guide we'll call an0n (his chosen name for our conversation, though not his online handle). He's been using /b/ for about four years. He showed me how to get onto the IRC rooms where the chatter was trying to identify the next target - this at a time when the Mastercard web server had just been knocked offline.The choosing of a target is a messy process - you could barely call a process except that it has an outcome (or sometimes none). You have to know the right server, and the right rooms on those servers. Nobody entirely trusts anyone (you'll see accusations that people are "Feds") and about the only people who seem legit are the occasional journalists who've found their way there and are asking questions like "who are you attacking next?".They get lost in the flow: these chatrooms have up to 3,000 people, and the questions come in a stream and pass by in a river of commentary, observations, links and jokes. You wouldn't say that it's directed; more that it swings in various directions like a flock of birds, apparently aware of its own vector but unable to force it on any of its members.My guide pointed out that the Anonymous group is conflicted from its core, because it's an outgrowth of people who themselves have come from /b/, which means that many aren't that interested in morality. They're in it for the lulz - or they're into whatever Anonymous and its associated scenes are doing for the money. Which means that the idea of attacking Amazon, or PayPal, or Twitter, over a moral or ethical issue is something of a new experience for the group. Usually they're into tormenting people."I've seen some people do some fucked up shit 'for the lulz'," an0n told me. "People trolling RIP pages on Facebook, missing girls pages. It's the most racist, xenophobic place on the internet. It's addictive, and it pisses [outside] people off."And there's the money too. That can mean circulating cracked software, serial keys, keygen [licence key generating] software, logins and passwords for paid sites, and so on. Again, morals and ethics aren't uppermost."If you had a DVD of Harry Potter 7 Part 1, you would make 12-15 grand selling it to the [hacker] scene [on IRC]", my guide explained. He didn't want to give any details other than that he's a university student in the UK: "I've been pirating since I was 12", he says, when a sibling showed him how to pirate Nintendo 64 games.I did confirm, in a roundabout way, various details (he is a student, and certainly on /b/), but agreed not to reveal any more about his identity - not his age or real online handle - because, just like the other person I spoke to, he is worried about online retribution.The real thing about Anonymous, he says, is that it's like Fight Club, where you don't say that you're in it, and you certainly don't speak as if you're representing it, or know what it's going to do - as Coldblood (Guardian audio interview,BBC Today transcript) did last week. Coldblood's name is mud in those forums and on /b/. "He's a fraud," insisted my contact, who wanted to show what it's really like inside there. (Although the reality turns out to be that Coldblood isn't a fake; he's just someone who has offended the Anonymous hivemind by representing it. Which worker bee speaks for all of them?)An0n is disdainful of the people who are really behind Anonymous and on /b/: "In essence what we are dealing with here is a group of men with the brains of children, so naturally those of us looking to get something done are warring with a constant battle of one-upmanship."Certainly, the chatrooms are overflowing with classic aggressive-male posturing, the sort that's so easy to do online: anyone you don't like or has done something you think is wrong is a "fag", nobody else there caneverhave had sex, nobody cares about the outcomes of their actions. You're never going to mistake it for Mumsnet.But there's the jostling crowd inside the chatrooms - and then there are the serious people who are actually making a difference. Even with 3,000 people in the group, that's going to make little difference to a site like Mastercard or Amazon. But an0n pointed out that there are more serious players in there: "I know a guy who is using a botnet of 25k computers to do this," he observed. Hired, I asked, or his own creation? "No idea," came the reply. "He used to hack a lot, so it could well be his. He's a scene hacker, which is as good as you get."And he didn't think the attack on PayPal would really work, because it wouldn't garner the backing of those with the real hacker skills required: "we're all pirates - we all use PayPal on a daily basis. Plus [PayPal] met our demands [to release funds to Wikileaks]: the reason the attack took place was because they froze Assange's funds. They have unfrozen them due to Operation Payback." Plus, "there are plenty on /b/, largely American who wholeheartedly agree with the arrest of Assange."In fact it's difficult - perhaps wrong - to call Anonymous a group. It is, but only in the loosest sense; it's more like a stampeding herd, not sure quite what it wants but certain that it's not going to put up with any obstacles, until it reaches an obstacle it can't hurdle, in which case it moves on to something else.How long, I asked an0n, did he think the group would keep Amazon and PayPal in its sights? "One or two weeks," he guessed. In fact, it already looks like less than that - on Saturday a Twitter announcement seemed to suggest that it would instead try to distribute existing Wikileaks content via Bittorrent. So, three days of insurrection.The other intriguing element about the group is the fear - it's the only useful word - expressed by people "inside" it about being linked to it. You have to think that it's a strange sort of group that suppresses acknowledgement of membership while professing to favour freedom.But of course Anonymous isn't really about freedom; it doesn't have a manifesto as such. It's a loose collective mainly of teenagers with some time on their hands, and older people (almost all men) with more nous and considerably more technical skills.Some readers might, at this point, say "well, they'll have grown up - in four or five years' time they'll all be busy with jobs and real life will have intruded - it's a self-limiting proposition."However experience shows that the internet constantly renews itself: there's always a younger, impressionable generation joining which will push the barriers further than the previous ones. Before 1997, the problem was that every September the net would see an influx of new college and university students who'd not had internet access before, and would run around making stupid mistakes (often involving reposting "Make Money Fast" pyramid scams in the mistaken belief that they might work, and weren't illegal).Then in 1999 or so came the first generation of higher education students who'd already used the net at home. They were also the Napster generation. Since then, every successive year has pushed access to the net earlier and earlier, meaning that what was novel to the previous one becomes commonplace for successors. Peer-to-peer? Done it. Bittorrent? Everyone does. Swarming attacks on sites? It's new this year, but it will be standard procedure in a year or two.This generation of Anonymous members is going to grow up. But the idea won't go away.
Another December day, another end of year list. ThisTwitter top trends list, arguably more than the others, is a particularly well-rounded summary of the spirit of 2010, summarising all 25bn tweets sent this year and breaking down the biggest trending topics by category.After being accused of suppressing trends like #demo2010 for the student protests in the UK and even #wikileaks, Twitterlast week explainedhow its trending data is calculated. Rather than assessing the volume of mentions for particular subjects, it ranks the amount of new mentions, and so tries to represent the fastest breaking news.Overall trends give a fair mix of big news stories and major films, and the dash of tech interest can't be a surprise on a network like Twitter. Our German cephalopod friend also made the list, RIP. Wikileaks rightly made number seven in the top ten news events of the year, and no surprise that Justin Bieber topped the list of trending people of the year. Julian Assange snuck in at number four.&nbsp;Overall top trends1Gulf Oil Spill2FIFA World Cup3Inception4Haiti Earthquake5Vuvuzela6Apple iPad7Google Android8Justin Bieber9Harry Potter &amp; the Deathly Hallows10Pulpo PaulThe top ten hashtags of the year are a little less predictable, though the list is stuffed with the sentimental or faintly amusing stuff of true web time wasting; top was #rememberwhen, with #haveyouever and #icantlivewithout also making the top ten.Much likeGoogle's Zeitgeist, I can't help but thinkthe listwas a little sanitised - are we really all so well behaved on Twitter? Isn't there a dark Twitter top list of 2010?
Mine was limited this weekend but I did manage to get some time in with Assassin's Creed Brotherhood. The main single player game is great but I keep going back to the excellently tense multiplayer mode. It will be interesting to see if other big titles adopt the sneaky assassination style seen here as one of their multiplayer modes. Anyway, what about you - how was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Nick Denton's Gawker Media group of irreverent blogs has been forced to turn serious after its user database with 1.5m usernames and passwords were hacked and details of Denton's own logins to sensitive systems were released.A hacking groupcalling itself "Gnosis" claimed responsibility,For users, the logins would only have been applied to make comments, rather than containing sensitive data such as credit card details. That may explain why many used scarily easy-to-remember strings including "password" and "qwerty" (found on the top left line of British-layout keyboards - though harder to do on, say, a French or German layout).The details were released on a 500MB file on the file-sharing system Bittorrent which also apparently contained source code for the Gawker content management system, implying that the breakin went deep into the system. Gnosis also warned that it will continue its attacks.FTP logins, staff passwords and chats were included in the file.Gawker is suspected to have been targeted because it was dismissive about the online forum 4Chan, whose /b/ group is the source of many people involved in the Anonymous group, which has been aiming in the past week at companies reckoned to have failed to support Wikileaks. A number of the leaked chat transcripts included disparaging chats about 4Chan, suggesting that is why Gawker was targeted.The company said in a posting on its site that while the passwords had been encrypted, simple ones will be vulnerable to adictionary attack. That would in turn mean that people who have used the same password and email on other sites such as webmail systems - Hotmail, Yahoo or Google's Gmail - could be vulnerable to identity theft.The company said passwords on other sites should be changed if they were the same as the ones stored by Gawker Media."We're deeply embarrassed by this breach," aposting on gawker.comsaid following the hack. "We should not be in the position of relying on the goodwill of the hackers who identified the weakness in our systems."Gawker hasn't said how the hackers got in. It briefly stopped publishing new content to its sites, which include Gawker, Gizmodo, Lifehacker and Jezebel, after the hack. In anFAQ published on Lifehackerit noted that people who logged in via Facebook Connect need not worry, and admitted that it is not possible at present to delete accounts with Gawker.Rich Mogull, chief executive of Securosis, a security company based in Phoenix, Arizona, suggested that the attack is "kind of a juvenile thing. It's like spray-painting."Such attacks are very common and difficult to stop, as long as the hackers have enough time to try to breach the system, he said. "If someone is determined and knowledgeable, you can't keep them out," he said.The attacks probably are unrelated to recent cyberspace attacks over the WikiLeaks site's release of classified government documents, but Gawker could have angered some of the same people, Mogull said.
Amazon says that the outage which made its UK, Italian, German and Spanish sites unavailable for about half an hour on Sunday night was due to a hardware failure, and not an attack by online activists angry at its stance on WikiLeaks."The brief interruption to our European retail sites earlier today was due to hardware failure in our European datacenter network and not the result of a DDOS attempt," a spokeswoman for Amazon told Reuters. The different countries' sites are all served through systems there.Amazon was among the first American companies to stop providing services to WikiLeaks when it took the site off its EC2 cloud computing service at the end of November. That followed political pressure in the US, though Amazon insisted the decision was because WikiLeaks did not have the rights to the content.The loose grouping of activists operating under the name "Anonymous" had urged an online attack to crash the amazon.com site by overwhelming it with requests from users. But that fizzled out at the end of last week.Amazon.co.uk, amazon.de, amazon.fr and amazon.es were all down for more than 30 minutes until around 2145 GMT when they appeared to work normally again. Amazon.com's U.S. website was unaffected.The "Anonymous" activists briefly brought down the sites of credit-card giants MasterCard and Visa which had stopped processing donations to WikiLeaks.On Saturday, a statement apparently on behalf of Anonymous said it had changed its strategy and would now focus on spreading snippets of the leaked cables far and wide rather than on cyber attacks.On Sunday, neither the blog site that Anonymous had been using for its public statements nor the Internet Relay Chat (IRC) chat channel that organisers had been using was available.Update: Amazon'sAmazon Web Services Health Dashboard for Europefor Amazon EC2 in Ireland reports:[RESOLVED] Elevated error rates and latencies for EC2 APIs1:15 PM PST We are investigating elevated error rates and latencies for the EC2 APIs in EU-WEST-1.2:14 PM PST We continue to work to restore EC2 API connectivity in the EU-WEST-1 region. Running instances were not affected and are operating normally.2:59 PM PST Connectivity to the APIs has been restored. No running instances were affected. The service is now operating normally.Dec 13, 12:52 AM PST Here is additional information for the event that happened on December 12th. Between 12:37 PM and 2:32 PM PST the EC2 APIs in the EU-West region experienced significantly increased error rates rendering the EU APIs unusable for most customers. Running instances were not affected, but EU EC2 users were unable to launch new instances or describe their resources in the EU-West region. These errors were caused by the malfunction of a second network device carrying traffic that had recently been shifted off of another failed network device. The first device was nearly repaired but, unfortunately, was still unusable when the second device independently failed. Because full redundancy had not been restored to this part of our network, this second failure resulted in an interruption of connectivity for the EU EC2 API servers. Our networking team was able to re-route traffic to restore connectivity and, shortly afterward, complete repairs on both network devices involved. Though it's somewhat unusual to have two failures like this in this short a period, we will not accept this as a statistical anomaly. We're going to reassess our strategy for keeping spare devices to have better coverage in situations such as these.(Sorry, there's no hyperlink for it. Thanks@suppalpationfor the pointer.)
New logo for Gawker? Photo bySolexiouson Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGawker hackers release file with FTP, author &amp; reader usernames/passwordsIncludes Nick Denton's username, password for his Google Apps, Twitter and Campfire accounts. Let's hope his mobile is working, wherever he is.The Rise of the Stealth Cloud &gt;&gt; CIOUpdate.com"The term stealth cloud refers to the unauthorized use of a company's private or public cloud, be that by current or ex-employees or third parties." Does that include use where you allow it at first and then change your mind?Stephen Wolfram Blog : Programming with Natural Language Is Actually Going to WorkStephen Wolfram: "with the release of Mathematica 8—we've launched the first production example. It's certainly not the end of the story, but I think it's a really good beginning. And I know that even as an expert Mathematica programmer, I've started routinely using natural language input for certain steps in writing programs." He has an example that's really intriguing.FTC Hires Hacker to Help With Privacy Issues. It Didn't Last. &gt;&gt; Forbes.com"Chris Soghoian is an unlikely federal official." More like a prankster in some respects.The Truth About Google's Nexus S: It's Nothing Special &gt;&gt; Business InsiderActually, this slightly misses the point. The Nexus S is a 'reference' phone - showing how a vanilla Android phone with the annoyance taken out should look.Commenting Accounts Compromised — Change Your Passwords &gt;&gt; Gawker.comIf you've commented on a Nick Denton blog at any point then you need to change your password - and perhaps on other sites too. Quickly.Google Cr-48 for Coding &gt;&gt; John ResigA programmer has a go with a ChromeOS machine: "Right now I have my primary browser and my secondary terminal. In the terminal I have an SSH connection to my server where I run screen. Within that I split it into two vertical panes which gives me both a text editor and an IRC view (where I spend a vast majority of my day). Using this I can most likely get work done on a day-to-day basis."The major problem: This really only works if you're connected to the Internet. I know that this should be rather obvious since this is 'Chrome OS' and it is something of a netbook – but the lack of any filesystem access means that I won't use this machine for anything more than a hobby (certainly can't use it while traveling)."Still a long, long way to go if even coders aren't happy.Government departments encouraged to upgrade to Windows 7 &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyThe original headline said "told to upgrade", but it's not as definite as that: "CESG, the Information Assurance (IA) arm of GCHQ, has given the green light to Windows 7 and is encouraging government departments to upgrade to the operating system."Expect that Internet Explorer 6 will still stick around in some places though.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The online shopping site Amazon was briefly offline this evening in the UK, Germany, Italy and France and an unknown number of other countries, possibly after a denial of service attack launched by Anonymous, a loose group sympathetic to – but unconnected with – WikiLeaks.But others suggested that the failure was due to an internal error affecting the Irish data centre that runs the site in those four countries.In the UK the site was unreachable, and attempts to connect to the US site also failed initially, though that site rapidly came back online at about 9.30pm. The site was also reported to be down in Italy and France.MeanwhileMastercard's main site was also knocked offline, according to the web stats service Netcraft.Also today, in a separate incident, the gossip website Gawker announced that its encrypted database of 1.5 million user names and passwords used for commenting had beencracked by a "brute-force" attack. Although Gawker does not collect credit card details, the risk is that those of its users who use the same password and name on other sites could see their identities compromised."We're deeply embarrassed by this breach," said the operators of the site, part of a network of blogs owned by Nick Denton. "We should not be in the position of relying on the goodwill of the hackers who identified the weakness in our systems."Amazon could not be reached for comment on whether its sites' failure was due to an attack, or simply because it was one of the busiest online shopping nights of the year in the runup to Christmas. The sites in Canada, US, China and Japan were apparently unaffected.The monitoring service Netcraft said that "the problems seemed to affect other sites hosted with Amazon in Dublin" – suggesting it was an internal failure rather than a hacker attack.The Anonymous group, which draws many of its members from the forums of the 4chan website, failed on Thursday in an attempt to bring down Amazon, which is the world's largest online retailer. Disagreement within the loose-knit group meant the majority of attacks were directed at PayPal and left Amazon unscathed.Anonymous wouldn't confirm responsibility for the attack on Sunday evening.A message  posted on one of its primary Twitter accounts shortly after the sites went down said: "We can't confirm anything because we'll lose our accounts again." The social messaging site has removed a number of accounts linked to the group in the past week.A UK-based member of the group, known by his only pseudonym "Coldblood", told the Guardian that Anonymous had made "a brief attack" on Amazon earlier on Sunday, but said that all sites were shortly made available again.Discussion within the chat forums where the group attempts to co-ordinate its efforts suggested its members were surprised at the idea that Amazon had gone offline.The countries affected initially suggests that internal problems, rather than an external attack, might have caused the problem. Amazon's UK, Italian and French sites are all served froma data centre based in Ireland.The group targeted Amazon because it had withdrawn permission for WikiLeaks to serve pages via its EC2 cloud computing service, where WikiLeaks moved its services on 29 November to avoid a "distributed denial of service" (DDoS) attack from an unknown source, apparently to prevent it publishing thousands of leaked US diplomatic cables.On 1 December,Amazon announced it was dropping the controversial sitejust 24 hours after being contacted by the office of Joe Lieberman, chairman of the Senate's committee on homeland security.A statement put out later by a faction of Anonymoussaid attacking Amazon would be in "bad taste" at the height of the Christmas shopping season.Twitter also this weekend suspended a number of accounts linked to "Operation Payback", the Anonymous campaign to bring down the sites of companies that have cut ties with WikiLeaks.Biz Stone, the co-founder of Twitter, said it was a "terms of service and policy decision"to suspend the accounts.Both Facebook and Twitter last week separately closed down a number of accounts and pages linked to Operation Payback.WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange last week attempted to distance the whistleblowers' site from the illegal cyber attacks being carried out in support of the release of thousands of confidential US diplomatic documents.Assange expressed concern that "people have unjustly accused WikiLeaks of inspiring cyber attacks," according to his London-based lawyer Mark Stephens.
I remember the first time I logged into a chatroom. It was 1996, and I was using my mum's AOL account to mooch around the world wide web, which was still very much in its infancy. I was in that glorious, unrestricted period of life between college and reality, and the web seemed to offer splendid, unrestricted access to the outside world in a way that no generation had known before.So it was with cocky confidence that I joined the "general" room as "Dan" (of undisclosed gender) and instantly discovered the thrill of anonymity. Behind my digital mask, I began a brief but satisfying tirade of mockery, contrariness and antisocial behaviour. Of course, compared with the stream of epithets that Xbox Live users encounter playing online, my efforts were pretty tame – I didn't question anyone's sexuality, make any racial slurs or say anything particularly negative about anyone's mother. But the sense of release I experienced in 10 minutes of childishness has remained at the back of my mind ever since I started studying the web; it helps define our behaviour online.For some, this new technology not only facilitates, but actively encourages insidious and novel social ills. Blogs and forums are no-go zones for people who hope for rational conversation; cyberbullying has been blamed for several recent suicides; and white power, homophobic and jihadist organisations have colonised the web, preferring its potential to old-fashioned pamphleteering. It looks as if the web makes it possible for us to hate one another more easily, more efficiently and more effectively.My mantra is that the web is an agnostic communication platform: it candonothing to us except reflect who we are. However, as my own little descent into cyber-trollism attests, there are aspects of it that do encourage antisocial behaviour.The biggie is anonymity, according toDr Karen Douglasfrom the University of Kent, who studies the psychology of hatred online. We can log into a forum under a pseudonym, lob a hate bomb and then fade away into the digital ether. It's like playing a trick on Halloween; it's childish, it seems insignificant, and it's kinda fun. Unfortunately, such actions can have real-life consequences depending on who the hatred is directed at, how often it happens and whether there's support  in place if the victim needs it.But is anonymity alone the issue?Philip Zimbardo, professor emeritus at Stanford University, has been studying why people do evil since the 60s, and he says that environmental social cues are equally as important. In his famous Stanford prison experiment in 1971, a random selection of psychologically stable subjects were transformed into brutal prison guards after being given mirrored sunglasses and uniforms and told to play the role.To reindividuate anonymous members of online crowds, forums, blogs and news sites – including theObserver's – are increasingly asking commentators to register their real names before posting any material (even if they then do so using a pseudonym). It's believed that the forging of this simple link between the virtual and offline persona is why relatively few counter-normative attitudes are expressed on sites such as Facebook, where exposing yourself as racist can turn you into a social pariah. Unless, of course, your friends are racists too. And that's a more difficult problem to solve.Data traffic indicates that, online, we are increasingly talking to people just like ourselves, relying on our friends' directions to navigate the web. It's ironic that, rather than opening us up to an ever-greater number of opinions and attitudes, social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter may actually be narrowing our worldview, confirming what we already believe and reinforcing  attitudes we hold already.So what happens when we only communicate with people like ourselves, and the messages we share only reinforce our mutual hatred? It's a technique radical religious and racist organisations have always used to make sure their members conform, but now they're employing technological tools to create global communities of like-minded ideologues.Groups such as Stormfront.org and GodHatesFags.com use the web for networking, self-promotion and recruitment. They give support and intellectual ammunition to existing members, rarely explicitly inciting violence. Thankfully, it appears that efforts to convince non-believers to convert to their cause are rarely successful – although we have yet to see the impact of their children's zones (with links to games, and alternative information for schoolwork, that reinforce their ideologies).It's not all bad news, however. Just as the web is a powerful tool to get the message out, it's also a good vehicle to expose its flaws. The rampant opinions that dominate online life challenge users to be critical of the content they consume, and considerate in how they construct effective counter-arguments.Online hatred is real, and it can have a very real effect. But we are in command of the technology; it's not in charge of us. And as for anonymity, back in 1996, even though I hid behind a false name, I didn't throw a hate bomb into that chatroom and run away; no, I was booted out.  And frankly, my moment of humiliation was exactly what I deserved.
Price£16,375MPG44.1Top speed121 mphThis year the legendary Italian car manufacturer Alfa Romeo has been celebrating its centenary. Back in 1910 a group of entrepreneurs and a young Milanese aristocrat established ALFA – Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica Automobili. Their promising start came to an abrupt end with the outbreak of the First World War – the factory was bought by Nicola Romeo who turned it into a munitions plant. After the war, however, the renamed company, Alfa Romeo, returned to building cars that go with a bang (sorry, irresistible). The cars were technically ambitious and breathtakingly stylish. They accentuated the passion and romance of motoring and the boring stuff – rust, reliability, build-quality – took a&nbsp;back seat. Alfa, more than any other brand, knows true beauty is always flawed.To mark its historic 100th, the designers returned for inspiration to the sublime Giulietta Sprint of 1954 (pronounced Juliet-a). This trailblazing car pushed Alfa Romeo into the spotlight as a creditable mass manufacturer of performance cars.Like its predecessor, today's Giulietta is unmistakably an Alfa Romeo. It's a&nbsp;five-door hatchback, but the rear door handles are disguised in the window trim to give the car the lusty lines and lithesome road bearing of a coupe. It does look terrific, which is more than can be said for the advert which accompanied its launch. You may also have been stumped by its tag line: "I am Giulietta. And I am such stuff as dreams are made on." Eh?The fact that it is a clearly recognisable Uma Thurman delivering the line adds to the confusion. Why is she saying she is Giulietta when she's Uma? Has she lost her mind? Then there's the queasy sexual innuendo. I'm sure Uma features high on the list of raw ingredients from which dreams are made of (on?), but spelling it out so seems rather declassé. There's also something cringingly Berlusconi-esqe about using a woman to give a car sex appeal so blatantly – even if it is an Italian motor.And then of course there's that weird "on". It sounds like a classic piece of Google-translate gibberish which reminded one car blogger of an old Datsun ad: "We bring you teeth smiles, with car make racy-speed." In fact, it's a quote fromThe Tempest– Prospero, the Duke of Milan… ah, so there is an Italian link there, at least.Aside from its stop-and-stare good looks, the car is well-finished and boasts a handsome dashboard, decent head room and a driving position that lets you savour the car's vibrant performance. It comes with a range of five new engines – three petrol and two diesel – all of which are turbocharged, economical and clean burning. In fact, the Giulietta is top of its class for emissions, acceleration and fuel consumption.But while the handling is vivid, moving through the gears feels like stirring porridge with a spurtle. Finding first gear is tricky and the slack gearstick is as unsatisfying as the limp handshake of a well-meaning parish priest. The Giulietta is safe, in both the slang and true sense of the word. It's way out in front in its class and had the highest Euro NCAP score of the year. So, a dream drive – but it's highly unlikely you'll be drifting off at the wheel thinking on Uma.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
One of the most interesting aspects of the WikiLeaks controversy is the light it has shed on the providers of cloud computing. One after another they havefallen over like dominoes when the going got rough. First, some of the ISPs hosting WikiLeaks caved in; then EveryDNS, the company that mapped its domain names (eg wikileaks.org) on to machine addresses, dropped it; then Amazon, which had enough computer power and bandwidth to resist even the most determined cyber-attacks, took it off its computers; then PayPal and later Mastercard, the online conduits for donations, cancelled its accounts. The rationalisations these outfits gave for dropping WikiLeaks had a common theme, namely that it had violated the terms and conditions under which the terminated services had been provided.Amazon is the most interesting case. It provides so-called "cloud computing services" by renting out some of the thousands of computers used to run its online store. WikiLeaks moved its site on to Amazon's cloud to ensure that it would not be crippled by the denial-of-service attacks that had brought other ISPs to their knees. But then the company received a call from senator Joseph Lieberman, the kind of politician who gives loose cannons a bad name, who had been frothing about WikiLeaks being"implacably hostile to our military and the most basic requirements of our national security". Some time after that, Amazon terminated WikiLeaks's account.Liebermanthen declared: "I will be asking Amazon about the extent of its relationship with WikiLeaks and what it and other web service providers will do in the future to ensure that their services are not used to distribute stolen, classified information."Amazon denied that it had caved in to "a government inquiry" butdeclaredthat it had kicked WikiLeaks out because it was not adhering to the company's terms and conditions — which require that "you warrant that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to the content" and "that use of the content you supply... will not cause injury to any person or entity"."It's clear," pontificated Amazon, "that WikiLeaks doesn't own or otherwise control all the rights to this classified content. Further, it is not credible that the extraordinary volume of 250,000 classified documents that WikiLeaks is publishing could have been carefully redacted in such a way as to ensure that they weren't putting innocent people in jeopardy."The more you think about it, the more disturbing this becomes. What gives a US senator the right to ask anybody about "the extent of its relationship" with WikiLeaks? His declarationled theNew Yorker'sAmy Richardson to wonder"if Lieberman feels that he, or any senator, can call in the company running theNew Yorker'sprinting presses when we are preparing a story that includes leaked classified material, and tell it to stop us".And what about Amazon's assertion that WikiLeaks "doesn't own or otherwise control" all the rights to the classified cables that it published? As Markus Kuhn, a computer security researcher at the Cambridge Computer Lab, pointed out to me, any work "prepared by an officer or employee of the US government as part of that person's official duties" isnot entitled to domestic copyright protection under US law. So, in the US at least, the leaked cables are not protected by copyright and it doesn't matter whether WikiLeaks owns the rights or not.But, in a way, that's the least worrying aspect of Amazon's behaviour. More troubling is what its actions portend for democracy. Rebecca MacKinnon, a scholar who has written incisively about China's efforts to censor the net, wrote asobering essayabout this last week. "A substantial, if not critical amount of our political discourse," she points out, "has moved into the digital realm. This realm is largely made up of virtual spaces that are created, owned and operated by the private sector."As far as the law of contract is concerned, Amazon can do what it likes. But this isn't just about contracts any more. "While Amazon was within its legal rights," MacKinnon warns, "the company has nonetheless sent a clear signal to its users: if you engage in controversial speech that some individual members of the US government don't like… Amazon is going to dump you at the first sign of&nbsp;trouble."Yep. For years people have extolled cloud computing as the way of the future. The lesson of the last week is simple: be careful what you wish for.
Def Jam Rapstar, Nintendo Wii, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360The SingStar series has made karaoke into a videogame genre standard and turned an entire generation of non-gamers into PlayStation lovers. For those less keen on sugarcoated pop, there's Def Jam Rapstar, a tour of the last 30 years of rap from Public Enemy and Run DMC via 2Pac to Soulja Boy and Twitter-loving Kanye West. Words appear under the video with a bouncing ball to help you time your lyrical assassinations as you are scored both on timing and also the accuracy with which you say the words, rejecting the humming adopted by cheating SingStar players. Graphically, things are resolutely old school and the game's design means you'll have to rap and get good at songs you've never heard before, a process that's every bit as toe-curling as it sounds. It also features an online community area to help you become an actual rap star.4mm Games, £39.99-£54.999Gran Turismo 5, PS3Gran Turismo 5.After an excruciating five-year wait, Gran Turismo is back with thousands of cars, familiar tracks, and enough to tinker with to keep you busy for months. Again, winning races is as much about modifying cars until they're supercharged, engine-rebored, fire-breathing beasts as it is about driving skill. This is underlined by the game's leaning towards roleplaying game-style levelling up, gradually giving you access to faster cars, harder races, and more varied events. It's never less than overwhelming, with magnificent special events from go-karting to rally to Nascar competing for your attention with conventional races, car tuning, an HD photo mode, a race course creator, and a huge range of collectibles. Looking surprisingly glitchy, with cars' shadows dancing about as you wait for races to start and a painfully retrograde multiplayer mode, it's still the world's most fully-featured racing game, but one that is starting to look a touch creaky.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £49.99Splatterhouse Xbox 360, PS3Splatterhouse.Splatterhouse sees hipster Rick go looking for his kidnapped girlfriend by donning a satanic mask that turns him into a Hulk-scale, muscle-bound monster. As in previous instalments of the series (all of which are available to be unlocked as bonuses), you then set about the inhabitants of the game with anything that comes to hand, from lengths of 2x4 to the still-warm severed limbs of opponents. The resulting mess sees the floor, walls and screen so soused in gore that you regularly find 70% of your TV screen has turned red, with additionally lurid finishing moves becoming available on weakened enemies. The silliness, comic-book brutality and surreal asides from Rick would all be solidly amusing if there were a decent game under all that blood. Sadly, the action is as limited and artless as its characterisation, with battles won simply by furiously mashing two buttons.Namco Bandai, £44.99
Wonder TonicHow long will it be before everything in the real world comes with a Facebook "Like" button? You exit a movie, you press "Like" on your way out; you make a new friend, you press the thumbs aloft button on their forehead. Someone who's no doubt thought of such things is Mike Lacher, the man behind Like Fighter – a website that allows you to tell the world that, for example, you like nihilism more than Adam West as Batman. This blog is full of similarly inspired internet games and wit, such as the Film School Thesis Statement Generator, which informs us that "Step Up 3D masks the postwar crisis of masculinity"; the Michael Bay-ifier, which turns any photo into a Michael Bay film still; and a tool that translates any webpage into Webdings. Useful.George And LynneGeorge And Lynne.Cartoon strip George and Lynne has been dropped from the Sun, but that's no reason not to enjoy this commentary blog, which is as gently sardonic as the tales were gently erotic. For those unfamiliar with them, George and Lynne were a childless suburban couple whose three-picture "adventure" would usually conclude in one of two scenarios – an awful innuendo from George or Lynne's blouse falling off as she told a spectacularly dreadful joke. There really isn't much to explain but, rather magnificently, blogger William Hughes reads plenty of exposition and backstory into their tedious and occasionally kinky relationship while speculating on the mystery of what George actually did to earn a living and why his hair didn't move for three decades.Blog roll: PoliticsUncomfortable Moments With Putin.Uncomfortable Moments With PutinPoliticians experience palpable decrease in testosterone levels as Putin enters room.Parfait X AmourDave, Ed and all their Westminster chums looking adorable and sexy.Political ScrapbookWagner MP look-alikes, the Smiths' war against Dave liking them and Lembit's Celebrity terror.Kim Jong Looking At ThingsFrom a giant radish to colourful buckets. An astonishing collection of North Korea's leader doing what he does best.LoliticsThe disturbing world of Birmingham politics gets the LOLCAT treatment.DimblebotThe future of election data solutions and automated replacement for carbon-based Question Time lifeform.What we learned on the web this weekCelebrities Can Appear Anywhere.Celebrities can appearanywhereKids grow upso quickly these daysWhat to buya badly drawn cat loverWe loveHarry Hill singing the Smiths in the style of George FormbyThe man behindGoogle doodlesA scenefrom Wikileaks! The MusicalHow kebabsare madeHoroscopes are betterwith less waffleHow highthe tide is at London BridgeWhere to findsome classic Star TrekWhat comesafter cheese
You know when winter is coming. That's when the convertibles start turning up. Don't ask me why I spent the summer in stuffy saloons and steaming SUVs, yet the moment the mercury heads south, out come the convertibles, in all their useless glory.Actually, useless is a bit strong. There was a minute or two in which I sat stationary in the Mercedes E350 sport cabriolet beneath a weak autumn sun with the top down, after I'd finally discovered the switch for lowering the roof – the intrepid two-day search led to a discreet little flap in the central console. And very pleasant it was, too. But unfortunately I had to go somewhere, and as I wasn't dressed in a polar expedition outfit, that meant raising the roof or developing frostbite.Still, I have to report that in that all too brief sunny interlude, the roof went up and down without any trouble, a smooth and efficient operation of which one would be unlikely to grow bored – though I'd have liked to have had the weather to put that prediction to the test.But what about the rest of the car? Well, unsurprisingly, perhaps, it bore striking similarity to the hard-top version I drove a year ago, whose on-the-road price was six grand cheaper. I won't rehearse the hoary utilitarian argument about the utility of convertibles. The defining point about them is the spirit of romance, something that is supposed to be resilient to the crushing reality of grey skies and icy winds.What can also be said in this case is that there is no perceptible deterioration in performance or comfort with a change in aerodynamics. It's still an enormously agreeable driving environment and, indeed, an unruffled and powerful drive, albeit a little sticky on the throttle. The slight caveat might be that it's just a tad soulless. That seemed less of an issue in the hard-top coupe. In fact, more a confirmation of its high-end appeal.But a slightly soulless cabriolet is a more difficult concept to entertain, or to be entertained by. Nevertheless it's a classy piece of machinery that doesn't stint on the quality of its fixtures and fittings. Run your fingers along any surface in the cabin (a sort of alternative activity for bad-weather days) and you'll have little or no cause to wince.Perhaps the best thing about the cabriolet, by comparison with the coupe, is that it makes the most of the handsomely long bonnet. Whereas the hard top is all mouth and no backside in its trousers, with the roof safely tucked away in that tight little bottom, the line of the car becomes more evenly balanced and pleasingly slender. If you've got it, in other words, flaunt it – but perhaps not in December.Mercedes-Benz E350 Sport Cabriolet CDI Blue EfficiencyPrice£41,030-£51,655Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.9 secondsAverage consumption40.4mpgCO2 emissions189g/kmEco rating4.5/10Bound forThe tanning salonIn a wordCooling
You used to have to wait until you got home for someone to answer "does my bum look big in this?" but the popularity of smartphones is feeding a new mobile shopping culture where the balance of power is shifting in favour of consumers.Phone companies on the lookout for trends in the millions of texts, calls and internet searches made every hour have identified hotspots around store changing rooms as shoppers photograph themselves trying on new outfits then beam the images to friends for an instant verdict.This week Vodafone UK chief executive Guy Laurence told a gathering of senior retailers they had "lost control of their shoppers".He said: "A quarter of people now have internet-enabled phones, but among 16-24-year-olds that figure is 45%."He added that a fifth of young shoppers browsing in Oxford Street, London, on a Saturday were online at the same time, looking at social media sites such as Facebook as well as checking rivals' prices.Young fashion shoppers, added Laurence, "spend longer and longer in changing rooms … They go in and put on two or three outfits, take pictures, send them to friends and wait to get their opinions back. We know they are doing it because we can see messages going out from a particular corner of a store."Shoppers can now use their phone to receive coupons for the very stores they are walking past, with their screen presenting a virtual shopping mall with a list of the local discounts before they even get off the bus.Research from Motorola found 51% of consumers are using their mobile phones for in-store research while 61% want to be able to scan barcodes to access information on other stores' prices.Tim Greenhalgh, executive director at design consultancy Fitch, said: "A mobile used to be something for listening and speaking but now it's a lens to look through. It sends you offers when you are shopping and you can message friends asking 'does my bum look big in this?' "With smartphone ownership growing at 70% a year, three-quarters of UK consumers are expected to have one in 18 months' time. Their growing prevalence is expected to boost what is dubbed "m-commerce", with experts predicting that more consumers will connect to the internet via mobiles than desktop PCs within five years. Indeed, this Christmas the internet trade body IMRG is predicting that almost 20% of the £6.4bn due to be spent online will come via phones. The big chains are already seeing the shift, with Tesco expecting 10% of its sales to come via mobile this Christmas, while a similar figure is true for Ocado.Since M&amp;S launched its mobile website in May it has attracted more than 1m visitors and taken more than 13,000 orders – including, surprisingly, for two sofas. Tim Dunn, director of customer strategy at technology company Mobile Interactive Group, says: "If you go back 12 months ago it was only internet companies like eBay and Amazon that were involved in m-commerce. Now everyone from M&amp;S to John Lewis and Next is involved. Next year the entire high street will be enabled for mobile shopping."But the wealth of information at shoppers' fingertips presents a headache for retailers. Laurence argued that retailing used to be "about getting people through the door", but now shoppers were really in more than one shop at the same time."Shoppers have access to rivals and other consumers' views of the products they are looking at. They can see what it costs at an outlet up the road and whether it is in stock," he said.Tech-savvy shoppers are embracing so-called "augmented reality" apps such as RedLaser that turn phones into barcode scanners that glean extra information and gather online prices.Companies are trying to make the process more appealing to technophobes with apps such as Google Goggles suggesting a future where customers need only photograph an item to find out all they want to know.Businesses are also adapting the technology to suit their needs. Ikea's app lets shoppers use their mobile's camera to see how a piece of furniture fits in with their decor before they assemble it.Meanwhile, the coffee chain Starbucks has teamed up with the O2 network to offer a service that logs your location and pings you a voucher when you pass an outlet.Phil Gault, at mobile marketing agency Sponge, says the number of people using their phone to access the internet has jumped 50% this year.He says research shows that many consumers would rather use their phone to find out information than speak to a staff member: "We all want access and control of information so we can empower ourselves."The end point is that consumers will not draw a distinction between the mobile internet and being online at their desktop."
A 'hacktivist' claiming to be participating in Operation Payback, in New York.  Photograph: Sipa Press/Rex FeaturesIt is being described as the first great cyber war: an online collision between some of the world's greatest brands and a little-known, poorly understood group of "hacktivists" trying to bring down companies from the comfort of their bedrooms.The hacker group behind the attacks goes by the name of Anonymous. This week it declared its goal to be "infowar" and said: "In war, there are bystanders that get hit."As the name suggests, Anonymous is not a group with high-profile members. Its composition is multinational: a 16-year-old Dutch boy was arrested this week on suspicion of bringing down the websites of MasterCard and Visa in support of WikiLeaks. The family computer he is suspected of using has been seized.Although its attacks seem co-ordinated, it is not clear who is leading the group and its members have only the faintest of ideas about its goals. Its most audacious effort, an attempt to bring down Amazon, was thwarted after members could not agree which site to attack next.Described by one insider as "complex, puerile, bizarre and chaotic", Anonymous propelled itself into the public consciousness this week with a succession of attacks on major US institutions – but it has been striking fear into the heart of Scientologists and copyright enforcement agencies for years. Earlier this year, members forced the Ministry of Sound websites offline after the dance music group tried to prevent piracy of its catalogue.Anonymous was born on the influential internet messageboard 4chan, a forum popular with hackers and gamers, in 2003. The group's name is a nod to 4chan's early days, when any individuals who posted to its forums and chose not to identify themselves were automatically dubbed "Anonymous". But the ephemeral group, which picks up causes "whenever it feels like it", has now "gone beyond 4chan into something bigger", an active Anonymous member told the Guardian.Anonymous has no command structure. Members communicate using secure chat-rooms, the location of which constantly move to evade detection. The movement works through "organised chaos" where individuals post ideas and new targets to attack, and wait to see the response. Eventually popular ideas generate action.The technique is simple. Members target a website with repeated requests to load its pages until the site under attack can no longer cope. A site can be hit with thousands of requests a second, and this week MasterCard was among the companies that found its website could not cope. These are known as "distributed denial of service attacks" – DDoS, an acronym that is ubiquitous in the hacker community. Those wanting to participate download a special software package – LOIC, or low orbit ion cannon – which takes only a few minutes to be ready to use.Coldblood, a British member, set up chat servers for Anonymous so the group could plan attacks on the Church of Scientology in January 2008 when it attempted to remove from the internet parts of an interview with Tom Cruise, its most famous member."The Scientology stuff was a couple of thousand people at its peak. But we've just seen it spiral into what it is now. It's actually astounding me that it's grown this quickly," says Coldblood.Downloads of the LOIC software have grown 60-fold, from 390 to 23,479 in the last week.For the targets, which this week also included the Swedish prosecution authority – which is pursuing sexual assault cases against WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange – and the PayPal payments system, it can mean their business is halted for hours if not days.The Anonymous movement is approaching a tipping point in its campaign. So unwieldy, reactive and vitriolic is the group that members often turn their weaponry on each other. Factions  "attack each other regularly," Coldblood says.The group can swell and contract, splinter and re-form – then muster an illegal attack that severely disables expensively administered websites owned by multinational corporations. It is the newest form of anarchic rebellion."It is political activism to an extent," the 22-year-old hacker explains. "But lots of the people just do it for a laugh really – there's the whole mentality of 'did it for the lulz'." Lulz, for the uninitiated, is short for laugh out loud misspelt, but its meaning is closer toschadenfreude.However, Coldblood believes that the days of sheer anarchism are numbered, and that Anonymous is becoming more organised. "Now it's moved more to the political side, which wants to take things a bit more seriously. It already has effectively split inside but it hasn't on the outside. You cut one section off and it'll grow back."When their sites go down, multinational victims can do little but wait for the bombardment to subside – and invest in more attack-proof servers. Microsoft will next week release a tranche of security updates in an attempt to stem the propagation of DDoS attacks.More than 1,000 sites are mirroring WikiLeaks to ensure it stays online in the face of capitulation attempts. The "infowar" has pitted amateur hackers against some of the western world's greatest institutions. But a more significant, perhaps fearsome, war would be one that succeeded in marshalling the full muscle and might of Anonymous behind its campaigns.
In case you've not heard yet, worldwide sales of Gran Turismo 5 have hit 5.5 million. The latest title in Sony's long-running series of super realistic driving simulations was released on November 24, to considerable critical acclaim – even though the old bugbears (unconvincing AI and staid crash physics) are still present. Elsewhere,some ridiculedthe title's long install time, and others became enraged when massive demand for the online multiplayer modes brought the servers down and led to delays and slowdown. But everything seems to be working fine now.The impressive GT5 figures mean that the entire Gran Turismo series has now sold over 60 million units, with the original title (10.81m units), Gran Turismo 3 A-spec (14.6m) and Gran Turismo 4 (10.86) the strongest performers so far.In a day of big sales figures, the NPD Group has also revealed that Call of Duty: Black Ops shifted a whopping 8.4m copies in its first month on sale in the US. You can find outmore here. Plus, games news site MCV has just published the results of itsUK specialist retail survey, which shows that 85% of stores are optimistic about the health of their business going in to 2011.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I would say the vibrator, and it's done wonders for my marriage! No, my favourite piece of technology is the iPad. My wife has one, and I'm foolishly waiting for the next one to come out. I love technology, and I love new gadgets. I can no longer figure out how to use any of them, but I love them.When was the last time you used it, and what for?When I tried to grab it away from my wife, to get her to pay attention to me.What additional features would you add if you could?I think they've got to put a video camera in there, which I have a feeling they will. And probably even a telephone – why not, you may as well carry everything in the one gadget.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Of course. It's Moore's Law, everything will be obsolete in 10 years – I'll be obsolete in 10 years!What always frustrates you about technology in general?The most frustrating thing is that I want to always buy the best thing, the thing that does the most stuff. But then when I get it I just don't have the patience to figure out how to do all these things.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I would say to find someone who knows what they're doing, and get them to speak slowly while they show you how to use it. And don't use anything that's going to take more of your time than it's worth. With all these machines and stuff, we seem to have less time now – we're just doing more, and obsessed with all the technology. One needs to, at least occasionally, take a step back and free yourself from technology. My problem is that I like technology, but I always have to ask myself, "Now wait a minute, will I actually have any use for this?"Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm somewhere in between, as I guess everyone probably is, but I'm definitely not a luddite. I love gadgetry, so I think my basic personality is probably nerd. There was someone who said that everybody falls into one of two categories: either a nerd or an asshole. Hopefully I'm the nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I have a screening room at my house, which is quite wonderful. But I have these two beautiful 35mm projectors, and they're now practically obsolete – everything's now digital.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, definitely – I'm a big Mac guy. First of all, it's more intuitive. And I love the style of the Macs. Any time something new comes out, I can't wait – it's really a lust thing.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do a little of both, but I still do get hard copies. There's no question, though, that in a few years computers won't even have trays for CDs and DVDs any more. I think all your software and everything will be downloaded, and movies will be streamed. You won't need hard copies of anything. And I don't buy a lot of DVDs – I'll rent them. Also, I get a lot of movies from the Academy, because it's awards season. So right around now I'm starting to get all these movies sent to me, which is great, so I don't have to buy them. I don't remember the last movie I bought.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think that's a great idea, but I think they're a little way off.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Maybe a Virgin Galactic plane that goes up into space – that would be fun, I'd get a kick out of that.•Writer and director Jerry Zucker was in London for a 30th anniversary screening of Airplane! as part of theLondon comedy film festival
Uphill Rush is one of the most successful casual gaming brands on the planet. The 2D stunt sims, which provide a series of obstacle-laden courses to whiz over on skateboards, motor bikes and other vehicles, have been played by millions online – in the summer, Uphill Rush 2 surpassed 150m unique game plays, and was being access 400,000 times a day. The first two games have now attracted something like 400m plays.Like the Xbox 360 favourite Trials HD, the appeal is in the nicely tuned physics engine that gives you intricate control over the speed and angle of the vehicle as it ploughs over the ramps and loops. It's also weirdly hilarious to see your rider land face-first on the asphalt after having attempted an Evel Knievel-like trick fest.Today, publisher SPIL Games has released Uphill Rush 3, with a slick new front-end, impressive environments and a whole host of new tracks. This time you can compete on a horse or even a cow (both of which have to be unlocked as you progress through the cup competitions) as well as the more conventional motor bike, inline skates and skateboard.The circuits are typically well-designed, with alternate bonus-packed routes for skilled players, and there are even customisation options to personalise your bike and rider (one outfit looks like Solid Snake, which is rather cool). It's a pretty impressive showcase for the improving capabilities of Flash as a games platform.Anyway, we like it so much we've embedded the game below, so take a look and prepare to waste quite a substantial part of your day trying to unlock a stunt cow.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
While I'll always have a very big space in my heart for my first gaming love - the C64 - it was its successor the Amiga that really delivered games that still stand up today. Think Speedball 2, Lemmings, Sensible Soccer and many many more. So theannouncement of a fantastic looking Amiga emulator (iAmiga)for the iPhone (and soon iPad) is great news for both retro heads and younger gamers who may have missed out on the Amiga first time round.The demo shown on the video is the best place to get a feel of what iAmiga promises but the hands on preview sounds promising.After spending some serious time with the iAmiga system, I can tell you that, for an early build, it is truly impressive. While it's true that a few of the games that I tried glitched at some point, the vast majority ran perfectly and buttery smoothly on my iPhone 4. I'm talking about totally accurate sound, flawless graphics, glass smooth animation — just as if the games were being played on the standard config Amiga 500 that iAmiga emulates.Classic Amiga 500 titles from Cinemaware - think Defender of the Crown - are already signed up to appear on the emulator. Hopefully better stuff - IK+, Turrican - will join for launch. The preview has more details:As far as what we will be seeing in the way of iOS Amiga releases, Manomio has licensed various titles from Cinemaware, so Defender of the Crown, It Came from the Desert, Wings, and others are on the way. The studio is currently in licensing discussions with several other IP holders to secure additional titles for iOS release, including Factor 5 (Turrican I, II, III), The Bitmap Brothers (Xenon II: Megablast), Magnetic Fields (Supercars), Cope-Com (Battle Squadron), and Archer MacLean (IK+). Additionally, they are in talks with an unnamed major mobile publisher that's very interested in putting Amiga classics in the hands of today's gamers.If the developers can nail the controls the iAmiga could be something special.Obvious question for any fans here then - what Amiga games would you like to see appear on iAmiga? And which ones do you think would work best on the small screen?
The evolution of the software being used to try to target sites such as Mastercard, PayPal and even Amazon has been evolving rapidly in the past few days, security researchers note.During this week the software that runs the LOIC - LowEarthOrbitIon Cannon, which despite its name is in effect a participatorydistributed denial of servicesystem - has gone from being a manual program, to one that is server-controlled, to one that runs on Javascript off a web server (which might be located on the user's machine), says Impervas ADC.But the participants also seem to be highly concentrated geographically. Nearly one-third of the downloads of the manual file are from the US, and 85% of users are running Windows, roughly in line with the distribution of personal computers among domestic users in the US.Number of LOIC downloads by day. Source: Sourceforge/Impervas ADCThe number of downloads has rocketed in the past couple of days, the data shows. The US leads the pack with more than 9,000 downloads, though the UK comes second with more than 3,000. Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, France, Spain, Poland, Russia  and Australia follow with more than 1,000 - while the 11th country engaging in the attacks has been Sweden, where Wikileaks's systems are now housed, recording just 75 downloads.The LOIC software is used bythe Anonymous groupto coordinate attacks against targets - which are discussed and loosely coordinated through an IRC (internet relay chat) chatroom called #target, while the software is worked on individually and then linked to via a related channel called #hackers.Initially, LOIC was a piece of software that had to be used manually: you had to run it on your machine (from which it would attempt to generate a DDOS). But as the week has progressed, other programmers have tweaked it so that it's simpler to use - you let the server control it. That has seen 33,000 downloads at a rate of more than 1,000 per hour since it was developed.The Javascript version, where you simply choose a site to try to DDOS and press a button on a web page - possibly a web page on your own machine if you have a server running there - is the simplest, but possibly not the best, version. Its effectiveness is questionable: having looked at the code, it doesn't look as though it does anything smart such as randomising IP or disguising itself, which would mean that any competent network manager could block the IP of the server and carry on as normal. (More detailed examination welcome.)In fact the reality is that most of those people flooding into those forums are having barely any effect: there are a few thousand of them, which simply doesn't make a proper DDOS attack.Instead, what's making the difference is a small group of "admins" who are very much more skilled hackers - and who are able to commandbotnetsof tens of thousands of computers. We'll explore that in a later post about what happens inside the forums where Anonymous operates.
This is a commentary by Lilian Edwards, Professor of Internet Law,University of SheffieldLong ago and far away (ie 1998) Larry Lessig - yes, that Larry Lessig, long before Creative Commons and remix culture occupied his days - gotuptight about spam vigilantes. Lessig was unhappy that an increasingly popular approach to stopping spam - in 1998, a fast-growing but almost completely unregulated problem - was for groups of sysadmins to blacklist certain sites, on the say-so of other techie types who had evidence that those sites harboured spammers.Then and now, such blacklisting is one of the few effective ways to cut down spam. So why was Lessig against it? Part the reason was because of the potential for error - one lot of helpful techies had mistakenly blacklisted his own institution, Harvard, as a spammer, because it sent out millions of alumni begging emails. But Lessig's more serious reason for disliking the blacklist solution was this:"This is policy-making by the "invisible hand." It's not that policy is not being made, but that those making the policy are unaccountable. The self-righteous spam police may or may not be right about the solution to spam; that's not the point. The problem is that policy is being made by people who threaten that if you complain or challenge their boycotts through the legal system, then you will suffer their boycott all the more forcibly."Twelve years later we may be facing a less trivial vigilante war. As the Wikileaks conflict hots up,"Anonymous",the motley gang of pro-P2P anti-authoritarian hackers pursuing "Operation Payback", who previouslytook out ACS-Law,now threaten thatthey will "extend their campaign to anyone with an 'anti-WikiLeaks agenda.'"So are we living in a cyberverse where ordinary law and order has broken down and political and business decisions are being dictated by the threat of the mob?This week, Anonymous have already attacked Mastercard, Visa and PayPal for denying payment services to Wikileaks, and claim to have targeted the websites of the Swiss Post Office bank, the Swedish prosecutor's office pursuing Assange on rape allegations and the website of the lawyer representing two Swedish women in the case.Of course Anonymous can say, like a small boy caught fighting in the playground, that they didn't start it. "Patriot" hackers, who may or may not be organised by the US government or just not very keen on Wikileaks, have already subjected it and its various hosts to repeated DDOS batterings. One of the less spoken reasons Wikileaks went to Amazon as a temporary host, despite its US base,was not because the US needed a dose of free speech medicine,but because they are a big enough cloud host provider to have sophisticated anti-DDOS facilities, but still be cheap.EveryDNS, the domain name company who were pilloried for cutting access to wikileaks.org at the start of all this, may well have done so not because of US pressure but because their infrastructure wasn't up to the DDOS pasting they would receive, which would prejudice their their longer-standing clients. Interestingly, even EasyDNS, who were misquoted as the Wikileaks DNS provider in early reports, and suffered massively bad PR as a result, recognised thatsometimes avoiding DDOS is the better part of valour:"Having been there personally, I know how hard it is to face a DOS attack, and speaking for ourselves, any decisions made while a full-on shitstorm is being targeted at one's company and business are not political ones, they are ones of survival. I challenge anybody sitting in the comfort of their cozy little bubble existence at home, to sit on the receiving end of a full on DOS attack directed at themselves and then pontificate about 'cowardice' or anything else. Armchair quarterbacks."One reason why large scale cybervigilante war has never been taken very seriously is that the public still perceives DDOS attacks as limited to a small bunch of techno-literate sophisticated hackers. Nowadays this is very far from the truth. "Patriot" hackers are being advised to use "Low Orbit Ion Cannon" orLOIC, an open source free DDOS kit built for the perfectly legitimate task of stress testing networks but apparently also very good, according to one anonymous (ha!) reviewer for "many interwebz warz, like operation titstorm and the cleaning out scientology." I could download it and DDOS Wikileaks (or Mastercard) tomorrow - so could you. The black net economy has toolkits of all kinds for DDOs plus on line tutorials and handbooks. At a skill level, this is the cybervigilante version of throwing a brick through a window, not requiring a Stieg Larsson heroine.So, it's all very entertaining, but I am the only person who is beginning to feel there are places I'd rather this conflict was sorted out than in the back bedrooms of a few thousand hippies, students and Tea Party members? Like my colleague Andres Guadamuz,I have been thinking about what Wikileaks means for internet regulatory theory. Not for me the cyberspace theories we both know and love, but the older stuff about the role of law itself ; about how developed societies solve disputes using the institutions of law, not by who has greater force - or makes the biggest threats.War, the ultimate extension of settling disputes by force, has unsurprisingly never been over-regulated, but recently the prospect of cyberwar, in which the innocent might suffer through DDOS attacks on hospitals, power stations, media, banks etc, has been exercising the minds of military and diplomats. Some have suggested that like chemical and biological weapons,we need to keep a cap on unlimited cyberwar, with its potential for extensive collateral damage. Treaties have been mooted, though the international politics have long way to go yet.But no one ever suggested we needed a treaty to combat unofficial, amateur, cyberwar, because we allegedly didn't need one. We had law instead. Nearly every western country has laws criminalising DDOS and theCybercrime Conventionrequires its signatories to have such. The trouble is DDOS is near untrackable - whether it emanates from Russian masterminds or Hampstead hippies. We thus have a law enforcement vacuum, it seems, in which the opposing forces, like gangs from West Side Story will go on fighting their turf wars on, er, our turf.Because it is our turf. Issues like state secrecy, freedom of the press, corporate social responsibility, whistle-blowing rights, the public right to know, are all public concerns. We deserve to have these battles fought where they ought to be, in public, not settled by covert duress on everyone from payment services to DNS servers. To date, ethical debate has centred around the intermediaries who, for whatever reason, have engaged or been enrolled to take down Wikileaks: Amazon, EveryDNS, PayPal, Mastercard, the list goes on. They should have stood up and asserted their support for freedom of speech, many say. They are paying for their supposed spinelessness in DDOS attacks.But this is not their fight. As I said inan earlier post on my blog, it would have been amazingly foolish for Amazon not to have taken down Wikileaks, given the risk they would be personally running of breaking the US Espionage Act if they had not. Amazon is an e-commerce operator; not a journalist. Its chief executive and assets are within US jurisdiction. Its business is to protect its personnel and its shareholders from legal risk, not to bolster a free press which may or may not be too timid.This fight is really between the US government and Wikileaks, not between intermediaries and the Rest of the World. In an ideal universe, it would be settled by an open and transparent prosecution against Wikileaks, where a court could decide if laws had or had not been broken. If they had, the acts of intermediaries in blocking access or funds to Wikileaks would be completely justifiable and cold be enforced by court injunctions. Given however that this is unlikely to happen, if only because of extradition issues, there are other legal and democratic rather than vigilante actions that can help resolve this matter.The people currently anonymously attacking Mastercard and PayPal would do better to harass their MPs (or similar representatives) to get them to ask in public what the hell is going on. Shareholders in organisations like Mastercard could table questions at shareholder meetings. Citizens in the US and elsewhere could pursue the relevant authorities to demand security breach notification, and as relevant, punitive damages, from the government and military organisations whose security practices were clearly derelict.Likely, none of this will happen either. But I would rather see a cyber-truce and a legal war than what we're getting right now, which is the reverse.Lilian Edwards blogs atPangloss
So when's your birthday? Photo byCorruptKittenon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWikileaks &gt;&gt; Schneier on Security"..just as the music and movie industries are going to have to change their business models for the Internet era, governments are going to have to change their secrecy models. I don't know what those new models will be, but they will be different."18,000 Windows Phone developers promised payments in January alongside process tweaks &gt;&gt; WinRumors"Microsoft has promised that developers will be paid for Windows Phone 7 app sales in the fourth week of January 2011."Payouts will include payment for all sales of Windows Phone 7 apps and games that occurred from October 2010 through the end of December 2010. Microsoft says that after the initial payout in January 2011, developer payouts will be distributed on a monthly basis for all developers who meet the minimum payout threshold limits."Well, money is tight in Redmond.First Day Review: The Google Chrome OS Cr-48 Notebook &gt;&gt; Search Engine LaneBasically. ChromeOS at present is like an operating system where only the basics work.ACS:Law Take Alleged File-Sharers To Court – But Fail On a Grand Scale &gt;&gt; TorrentFreak"The Patents County Court in the UK has slammed a messy attempt by law firm ACS:Law to get default judgments against 8 internet connection owners who it is claimed infringed or allowed others to infringe copyrights."Intriguing: a lot of the detail was done incorrectly, and the judge ruled out the "purely administrative" method of filing complaints.Cory Doctorow: Defending free speech means ... &gt;&gt; TwitterPithy and worth reading.Estonia blames Russia for cyberwar of 2007 &gt;&gt; Wikileaks"For example, the Presidential website, which normally has a 2 million Mbps (megabits per second) capacity, was flooded with nearly 200 million Mbps of traffic." But Estonia admits there's no smoking gun - and likely won't be.Tantek Çelik on HTML5: 'I'm excited by it and a little afraid' &gt;&gt; Bobbie Johnson dot orgAn interview left over from his research for a longer piece for Technology Review. Intriguing.How People REALLY Use Twitter &gt;&gt; Business InsiderA lot of personal dates, a lot of retweets, a lot of work updates. It's a water cooler without water.Difference Engines &gt;&gt; MeccanoMeccano versions of Babbage's analytical engines. If only it had existed then..Flash Player for Chrome Notebooks « Adobe Flash Player Team Blog"In terms of Chrome notebooks specifically, as with many aspects of the device, Flash Player 10.1 support remains a work in progress..."The work we're doing on acceleration for video in Flash Player is a top priority because the vast majority of video on the web is delivered using Flash. As a matter of fact, adoption of Flash video streaming is on the rise with a more than 100% year-over-year growth over the past two years."Er, OK, apart from YouTube and Vimeo offering HTML5. Whatever.What happened in my birth year? &gt;&gt; Philippe LenssenNeat HTML5 site which also tells you what technologies were invented the year you were born, and which films sold best, and plenty more. Fun.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
A central facet of our contemporary global economy is the fact that consumers are usually only able to see commodities in the here and now of time and space, and rarely have any opportunities to gaze backwards through chains of production in order to see how a commodity was made.This detachment of material goods from information about the production of those goods allows many multinational companies to conceal production practices that are harmful to workers or the environment behind veils of distance. We don't have to look far to see the many ways in which companies adorn their products with images and narratives of smiling workers, harmonious communities, and healthy natural environments. But we are rarely able to know how reflective those narratives are of on-the-ground realities.There are isolated cases in which the media have performed a spectacular job in deconstructing corporate narratives and bringing issues like child labour and poor environmental management to much of the world's attention. Companies like Shell, Apple and Gap have been forced into altering their production practices by such exposés.However, there are limits to this kind investigative journalism. Stories aboutchild labor in clothing factoriessells papers. But less sensational stories about irresponsible corporate practices related to the more mundane everyday objects that we surround ourselves with are less likely to garner attention.We therefore need to ask what the global economy would look like if information about the production of commodities could be reattached to material objects. Would an increase in transparency change how consumers act? And more importantly, would a lack of opacity in production chains make companies less likely to engage in distasteful or unethical practices?These questions are more than just a hypothetical construct. A combination of smartphones, fast mobile networks, an explosion in user-generated content and the fact that almost 30% of the world is now online offers the possibility for a new kind of globalisation: a globalisation of information that would theoretically allow consumers to learn more about the things that they buy. In other words, it might now be possible to begin constructing an Internet-based framework that would allow user-generated content to be shared about any node on any conceivable production chain.It isn't difficult to imagine a multilingual, mobile-accessible framework that would allow anyone to submit information about wages, pollution, corruption, animal welfare and any number of other topics. In fact, there are already a handful of projects that aim to do exactly this.Howstuffismade.org, for instance, is a compelling visual encyclopaedia of the production processes of everyday goods.Ethiscore.org, a project run by the group behind the Ethical Consumer magazine, is similarly designed to rank companies based on a range of criteria that can be customised to each person's ethical, political and environmental preferences. A more open and user-generated approach is being attempted by the charityWikichains.com(a project that I currently manage). The site uses a wiki-framework to allow anyone to submit content that exposes distasteful production practices of any commodity or product.But will this kind of information-driven consumer activism work? Will new technologies and technological practices be enough to effect both social and economic change?There are certainly potential problems. First, there is the issue of reliability. Open platforms invite distorted representations from both corporate sources and overzealous consumer activists. However, the experiences of Wikipedia and other projects that rely on user-generated content demonstrate that a combination of detailed guidelines and active communities can eliminate a lot of inaccurate content.A second issue relates to the fact that there are always distinct geographies of user-generated content. Research has shown that your typical creator of content is most likely to be a young white male in a wealthy country. Hardly your typical farm or factory worker embedded in a global production network. The information shadows of objects will thus always be densest in the most highly networked parts of the world.These issues don't mean that user-generated content does not offer significant opportunities for information about the chains of commodities to transcend barriers of time and space. There is now the potential for a democratisation of spotlight effects that were formerly offered by a much smaller set of infomediaries.What this all means is that reattaching information to material goods as they traverse our planet can bring about a new kind of globalisation. Consumers could make more informed economic decisions and be more aware of their economic, social, political and environmental impacts. Producers could have a powerful platform to speak out against human and environmental exploitation. And most importantly, an increasing amount of international trade could be driven by understanding and compassion rather than branding and exploitation.Mark Graham is a Research Fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute and manages theWikichains.comproject. He blogs atZeroGeography.
Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has joined the band of billionaires who have pledged to give the majority of their wealth to charity.Zuckerberg  announced he had signed up for the Giving Pledge, an initiative set up by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates that asks signatories to commit to donating the majority of their wealth.The 26-year-old is one of 17 billionaires newly signed up to the pledge. According to Forbes magazine, Zuckerberg's fortune is worth $6.9bn ($4.4bn). He was joined in the latest round of 16 other pledgers including AOL co-founder Stephen Case, corporate raider Carl Icahn and former junk-bond king Michael Milken.Gates started the drive last year backed by Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor. He set up a series of dinners to try to persuade the world's wealthiest to give their fortunes to charity. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Oracle founder Larry Ellison, Star Wars director George Lucas and CNN media mogul Ted Turner were among early converts. A total of 57 of the world's wealthiest people have now pledged to give at least 50% of their wealth to charity."People wait until late in their career to give back. But why wait when there is so much to be done?" said Zuckerberg. "With a generation of younger folks who have thrived on the success of their companies, there is a big opportunity for many of us to give back earlier in our lifetime and see the impact of our philanthropic efforts."The money collected under the Giving Pledge is not pooled or targeted at a specific cause. It is considered a "moral commitment" and is not a legal contract.Philanthropy experts welcomed the move in principle but expressed concern about the lack of details. "It's really important that we look at not just who is giving but who is benefiting," said Aaron Dorfman, executive director of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy in Washington. "In general, wealthy donors do not give in ways that benefit under-served communities."Dorfman said the Giving Pledge was "vague" and lacked accountability. He said in general wealthy donors gave their money to the places they patronise, including arts centres and their alma maters. "Our survey found only $1 in [every] $3 actually went to the under-served, even when you define that group very broadly." Philanthropic giving has been hit hard by the weak economy. Dorfman said these latest pledges were "not the rebound the non-profit sector is looking for".But Peter Singer, professor of bioethics at Princeton University, said: "Research shows that when people know that others are giving, they are themselves more likely to give. So publicly pledging to give will encourage others to give. This holds true for billionaires and for those of us who aren't anywhere near that level of wealth. We can all make a difference, and play our part in making the world a better place."
Have you run across any software for "compressing" MP3 (or WAV) files? I'm looking for something that does "simple" gain riding – raises the volume of soft passages and lowers the volume of loud passages – so that when I'm playing music in the car I'm not alternating between ear-blasting highs and silent lows. It continues to amaze me that some enterprising manufacturer of car stereos hasn't produced something that does this, but I suppose since most customers listen to music with a dynamic range of a little better than 3dB, the market just isn't there.George HandWhen most music was still in analog formats, radios often had a "loudness" control that did what you want. The effects varied widely, but the general idea was to boost the volume of both low and high frequencies when you were listening at low levels. This worked well in  the sense that you could push the button and see if the music sounded "better".Today, cheap DSP (digital signal processing) chips make it easy to do, and a modern "loudness" control should be able to make far more accurate changes to compensate for changes in sound pressure levels at different volumes. DSPs can also change the sound to give different effects, so you could have a "concert hall" or a "car radio" type of sound. If you can't find a car radio with similar options (or if readers can't suggest any) then you can find them in portable MP3 players. Samsung models, for example, have included settings such as 3D Sound, Bass Boost, and Concert Hall. If you can plug an MP3 player into your car radio for playback, that might solve the problem.There's probably not much need for a "loudness" control nowadays because most pop and rock tracks are mastered with extreme loudness built in. This has lead to the so-calledloudness wars, where tracks have their dynamic range compressed and the gain increased so they always sound loud. Also, radio stations are well aware that car drivers are listening in a noisy environment, and even classical stations may increase the level of compression on "drive time" shows.Normally, music is recorded on the assumption that people will listen to it in a quiet environment: quiet passages will be quiet and loud ones loud. If you're driving a car, there's a high level of background noise, so the quiet passages have to be louder than that. Car radios therefore have to operate within a restricted dynamic range. That isn't usually a problem for "loud" genres such as pop, hip-hop and dance music, but can be a problem for classical music and jazz.If you can't find or don't want to pay for a suitable car radio or MP3 player, you could create some music files that are more suitable for in-car listening. This is more work, and will also mean you will need to keep two different sets of files. Also, the results can be unpredictable. Each of your tracks will have been recorded and mixed at different times for different types of playback (vinyl, cassette, CD etc) by recording engineers with different ideas about suitable compression levels. Each track will therefore require different set of adjustments. If you were a talented audio engineer, you could listen to each track and then reprocess it using a sound program such asAudacityto create an in-car version. However, very few people have the talent, and nobody really has the time."Dynamic range compression" (DRC) is different from "normalisation", which usually finds the peak amplitudes of a track then adjusts the volume of the whole track to a predetermined level. However, if you have a lot of MP3 files that have different sound levels, then it might help if you normalised them all usingMP3Gainsoftware. I'm mentioning this program for two reasons. First, it does a statistical analysis to work out how loud the file actually sounds, instead of just looking at the peaks. Second, it doesn't decode and then re-encode the MP3 file, so there should be no loss in sound quality. (Note: MP3Gain Pro is an entirely different program written by a different person: it used to be called SuperMp3Normalizer.) For more information on the proposed Replay Gain standard implemented by MP3Gain and variants such as AACGain, see theHydrogen Audio wiki.In terms of reprocessing files,SoX, "the Swiss Army knife of sound processing programs", will certainly do what you want. Its volume/level effects include compand (signal level compression/expansion/limiting), loudness (gain control with ISO 226 loudness compensation), mcompand (multi-band compression/expansion/limiting) and norm (normalisation). The key thing is multi-band compression, because you will want to treat the different audio frequency bands differently. However, SoX is a command line utility, which is unlikely to appeal to many ordinary users.Stereo Toolis a user-friendly graphicalWinampplug-in that is available in free and registered versions, and claims to deliver "professional quality audio processing". The site says: "The registered version is intended for commercial users of Stereo Tool, especially aimed at FM radio stations." The free version includes a 10-band compressor/limiter.But in practical terms, it's probably better to compromise on sound quality and use a tool that will enable you to reprocess a large folder of files without much effort. One suggestion from the excellent Hydrogen Audio site is to useFoobar 2000with theVLevelcomponent: this is "a dynamic compressor which amplifies the quiet parts of music", which is what you want.However, I reckon your best bet isChris's Dynamic Compressor, which is sometimes called "Chris' compressor". Chris Capel had exactly the same problem as you, so he wrote "a program that makes it easier to listen to classical music, or other music that has a wide range of volumes, at low volumes or in high noise conditions (such as in your car) so that you can still hear the soft parts. I've also written a plug-in version, designed to be used with the free audio editor Audacity."The standalone version works either as a command line tool or as a graphical program. It probably works best with WAV files but the site says it does allow you to "compress to/from MP3s (LAMErequired)".Chris' compressor seems to work well with most music files, and if not, you can always delete the tracks you don't like. It's free so you don't have much to lose, and (excuse the pun) everything to gain.
The Pew research centre'slatest report is on the use of Twitterand reveals some interesting trends, not least how mainstream the social messaging site (let's forget that 'microblogging' nonsense) has become. Twitter is now used by 6% of the entire adult US population and particularly young adults, minorities and city dwellers.Twitter users• Of the online population, 10% of women and 7% of men use Twitter.• 14% of 18-29 year olds use Twitter compared to 7% of those aged 30-49.• 18% of Hispanics use Twitter compared to 5% of white people and 13% of black web users.• 11% of those in urban areas use Twitter compared to 5% in rural areas.• 36% of Twitterers check the site at least once a day, but 41% also say they only check it every few weeks.Photo byRosaura Ochoaon Flickr.Some rights reservedContent posted to Twitter• 72% said their updates are about their personal lives and interests• 62% write about work life• 55% post links to news• 54% post humour• 53% retweet posts they like• 52% use direct messages• 40% share photos• 28% share video• 24% tweet their locationConclusionsAaron Smith, who co-wrote the report for Pew, told theSan Jose Mercury Newsthat the findings about use among minorities reinforce previous research, and reflect a young and social media-addicted demographic. "The findings... match really well with a lot of the other work we have done recently about how African-Americans and Latinos are very engaged in social media, and how they are very active in the mobile space," he said, going on to explain why use in rural areas is so much lower."What people are doing is using technology to maintain contact with their friends and family members. People are using technology not to withdraw from the world, but to maintain some contact with the people around them and the things they are interested in - even when they are pressed for time, and economically stressed."The results show the contrast between the number of heavy users and very occasional users isn't surprising; Twitter is a deceptively layered service that take a while to learn and it's not immediately obvious quite how it works. Given how much of a time sink it is (particularly for those who lack personal discipline with their time), it's not not for everyone.That only half the users retweet posts suggests that that piece of functionality isn't obvious; I get the impression users are often embarrassed to ask what 'RT' means when they start using Twitter. But in the context of the common web law of participation - that 90% lurk, 9% contribute a little and 1% are hyperactive - the level of engagement on Twitter is actually pretty impressive. Retweeting is a second level of engagement one step up from your own posts.Sharing your own videos isn't quite as easy as photo sharing on Twitter. Immediately posting your own photos through services like Twitpic is easy, but video equivalents like TwitVid have a slightly lower profile.Tweeting your location is interesting; does that 24% realise they are tweeting their location? "I'm in Air Street, Brighton" is different to having the automatic location tagging unwittingly added to every tweet.UK research on the same level would come up with very different results, I think.
We interrupt this Wikileaks extravaganza of a week to bring you this delightfully insightful tower graphic byFast Company's Doogie Horneron how to make money on the web. Notice the seemingly endless options for news content. Oh, where do we start?How to make money on the web, by Fast Company
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Twitter hasofficially posted on its blog about the fact that the #wikileaks hashtag has not been continually trending. The topic has been the source of anger among some people who have insisted that the company is censoring its "trending topics", possibly under pressure from the US government."This week, people are wondering about WikiLeaks, with some asking if Twitter has blocked #wikileaks, #cablegate or other related topics from appearing in the list of top Trends."The answer: Absolutely not. In fact, some of these terms, including #wikileaks and #cablegate, have previously trended either worldwide or in specific locations."The company explains:"Twitter Trends are automatically generated by an algorithm that attempts to identify topics that are being talked about more right now than they were previously. The Trends list is designed to help people discover the 'most breaking' breaking news from across the world, in real-time. The Trends list captures the hottest emerging topics, not just what's most popular. Put another way, Twitter favors novelty over popularity (as BuzzFeed noted in agreat article &amp; infographicearlier this week)."So what makes a trend a Trend? "Topics break into the Trends list when the volume of Tweets about that topic at a given moment dramatically increases. Sometimes a topic doesn't break into the Trends list because its popularity isn't as widespread as people believe. And, sometimes, popular terms don't make the Trends list because the velocity of conversation isn't increasing quickly enough, relative to the baseline level of conversation happening on an average day; this is what happened with #wikileaks this week."It remains to be seen whether that will satisfy the groups that have been grumbling at the lack of visibility for Wikileaks in Twitter's trends.Meanwhile the Anonymous group that has been targeting Wikileaks antagonists was kicked off Twitter and Facebook overnight - only to reappear, at least on Twitter, under a new name.Facebook warning after Anonymous page is taken downFacebook yesterday acted against the group by closing down its Facebook page.Not long afterwards Twitter suspended the "Anon_Operation" account immediately after it tweeted a link apparently to hacked MasterCard numbers which were being posted to the code sitePastebin.com.The account had around 22,000 followers at the time. But it rapidly reappeared under a new name,Anon_Operationn, offering links to the Internet Relay Chat servers where the members of theAnonymous grouphave been planning online attacks against sites and organisations deemed to be antagonistic to Wikileaks.The latest tweets suggest that Visa was targeted overnight.
European mobile networks have called on companies such as Facebook, Apple, Google to help pay for network upgrades as the growth in smartphone use has made data demand soar.The call from major operators, including France Telecom (owner of Orange), Telecom Italia and Vodafone, would require content providers such as Apple and Google to pay fees linked to the usage of their products, according toa report by Bloomberg.It is likely to meet stern resistance from the companies whose content is attracting people to buy smartphones, which will argue that the mobile networks are effectively trying to charge at both ends of the connection. The demands breach the broad principle of net neutrality, which suggests that companies offering connectivity should not charge providers for content passing over their networks.Meanwhile British users are being offered a free app to help them crowdsource the speed of 3G networks so that they can pinpoint the best coverage and choose between networks.France Telecom's chief executive Stepane Richard yesterday reiterated a call he had made last month for "service providers" such as Apple, with its iTunes service, and Google with YouTube, to pay for the use that users make of mobile networks' systems. "It's necessary to put in place a system of payments by service providers as a function of their use."The call was echoed by Telecom Italia's chief executive Franco Bernabe and Telefonica SA's CEO Cesar Alierta at the LeWeb conference in Paris. Bernabe said that the tension between user demand for data and the mobile networks' readiness "is set to compromise the economic sustainability of the current business model for telecom companies."IDC calculates that the number of mobile data connections in western Europe will rise by 15% annually to reach 270m in 2014, but that overall end-user revenues to networks will fall by 1% annually. Meanwhile the analyst Canalsy reckons operators' annual spending on network systems to support growing data and voice traffic is forecast to leap by 28% to about $3.7bn (£2.42bn) this year.Meanwhile British smartphone users can find out what sort of 3G connection speeds they can expect using a crowdsourcing web and smartphone app developed by a UK broadband site - produced in reaction to huge perceived variations in connection speeds.Devised by the comparison website Top10.com, the app is called StreetStats and the company says the web version has already had more than 2m users comparing fixed-line broadband speeds."The UK's 3G networks are notoriously patchy, with mobile data speeds varying wildly from provider to provider, town to town and even from street to street," said Harry Jones, a director of Top10.com. "Whilst consumers rely on their smartphones to access the internet and email, very little information exists to help them explore and understand 3G coverage in their area."Available nowfree for the iPhone, as well as on aweb page accessible from any smartphone, and from next year as an Android app, the program does a small network connection test and produces a crowdsourced map showing what sort of download and upload speeds people have managed to achieve on 3G networks at various locations."Armed with this information for the first time, consumers can now make a more informed choice about the phone network they sign up to, ensuring they achieve the best service available in their area," said Harry Jones, a director of Top10.com. "By making 3G speeds across the UK transparent for everyone, Top10.com hope to empower consumers to find the right service for them, and to put pressure on mobile phone networks to improve their services in slow areas."Like all crowdsourcing applications, it will depends on user input for its effectiveness: so far it has had a few hundred tests, almost all in London, although there have also been a handful of tests in Birmingham, Cardiff, Glasgow, Manchester and various other locations.The UK's 3G networks have come under increasing strain as sales of smartphones have rocketed. The iPhone in particular drove data use dramatically on its arrival in 2007 on O2's network, but Android phones added to the arrival of the iPhone on every networkRichard at France Telecom said that the explosion in data use is "good news.... but a challenge for carriers like us" and said it "raises the question of the business model of mobile data." In February Alierta said that content providers were getting a free ride on Telefonica's networks, "which is good news for them and a tragedy for us... that can't continue."At Top10.com, Jones said: "As the gap narrows between the tariffs and handsets offered by mobile networks, the quality of their 3G coverage is becoming increasingly important to customers. With the rise of data-hungry smartphones, tablets and netbooks, we expect 3G to become as essential as home broadband in the years ahead. With StreetStats 3G, we wanted to build a tool that would empower consumers to make the right decision when choosing a mobile network and, more generally, track the evolution of UK 3G speeds as they improve."The company already offers a system for testing fixed broadband lines via the web, which showshome broadband speeds for competing networks on an interactive map.
Wearing an anonymity net. Photo bywstryderon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMore WikiLeaks: The 24-hour Athenian democracy &gt;&gt; The EconomistGood piece about how Anonymous organises itself through IRC.Windows Azure – How Much Is It Costing Me? &gt;&gt; Musings of the Bare Bones Coder"Apparently my playing around yesterday had consumed over half of my free compute hours. When I had first started experimenting, I remember leaving my first deployment in a suspended state, despite having read a blurb somewhere that this still incurred charges. I certainly didn't leave it running for 16 hours; 2-3 tops. So what the hell is a compute hour?"Google: Chrome OS laptops won't dual boot with Windows, live customer support for Cr-48 owners &gt;&gt; Engadget"those Atom-powered laptops won't dual boot Windows. In fact, [Google VP Sunchar Pidai] told us that "certified" Chrome OS laptops won't support dual boot environments at all. Of course, the Cr-48 has a root feature so it will likely be able to run Windows (assuming there's enough flash storage), but it's clear that major manufacturers won't be shipping laptops with Google and Microsoft operating systems living side by side."Is that the ChromeOS future market share that I can see vanishing into nothingness? Good luck selling that in Dixon's and PC World.50 ISPs harbor half of all infected machines worldwide &gt;&gt; Net Security""The networks of just 50 ISPs account for around half of all infected machines worldwide," say the researchers. "This is remarkable, in light of the tens of thousands of entities that can be attributed to the class of ISPs. The bulk of the infected machines are not located in the networks of obscure or rogue ISPs, but in those of established, well-known ISPs."Why Counting Flaws is Flawed &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBecause, as Brian Krebs points out, it doesn't take any account of the severity of the flaw, or the time taken to fix it; nor, indeed, how widespread the software with the flaw is.Google Maps for Mobile to go vector, allow offline use &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"Google is about to release a version of its mobile Maps application that will allow users to use the free maps on Android devices with no data connection." As David Meyer points out, this means it catches up with Nokia's Ovi service, which has had this since January. But that's not good for Nokia: now it needs something else to distinguish it from Android.Google Chrome OS gets detailed, first laptops from Acer and Samsung coming mid-2011 &gt;&gt; Engadget"There's also offline capability -- Google Docs was demoed running offline, with changes synced when the machine reconnects. It seems like that's an app-specific feature though -- apps on the Chrome Web Store have to be built for HTML5 offline to work, obviously." No USB ports at present, which would make add-on mice a problem. No printers ever (cloud printing is your option).Android Button Comparison &gt;&gt; FlickrInteresting comparison of how there isn't a standard layout for the buttons on Android phones. Compare Microsoft's diktat that Windows Phone 7 phones must all have the same layout. And Apple's one front button, of course.All of your pages are belonging to us &gt;&gt; Internet Storm CenterThe intriguing tale of an "extremely aggressive" spidering program that seems to be recruiting machines to make an ad-hoc botnet. Or something.Quiz: are you cloud-based enough for the Chrome OS Pilot Program? &gt;&gt; GoogleIt would be interesting if this had been available before Wikileaks's latest onslaught, and then after.Twitter Blog: Now Playing on #newTwitter: Embedded Music, TV Shows, Slides and More"We're on a mission to give you more great multimedia content on Twitter, and today we're adding five new companies to bring you independent TV shows, photos, works of art, slide presentations and entire songs, all right inside the details pane. Twitter users can access embedded media from more than 20 partners in total."Adds five new partners: blip.tv, Instagram, Rdio, Slideshare and Dipdive.Average Salary for COBOL Programmer Jobs &gt;&gt; IT Jobs WatchAfter that Cobol joke yesterday, a reality check: in the past three months there have been a grand total of 7 full-time Cobol jobs advertised. Perhaps they only get popular every 100 years?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Google  publishes its annual Zeitgeist – the list of the year's most popular UK search terms – and it reveals that a fascination with Americana is in rude health, with gossip and news about"celebutante"Kim Kardashian and YouTube darling and teeny-bopperJustin Bieberin high demand.Both made the Zeitgeist list of the UK's fastest-rising search terms for 2010 along withNicki Minaj, a Trinidadian-born hip-hop artist who grew up in New York, California-born pop star Katy Perry and others whose names may well draw a blank with anyone aged over 35. For the Brits, musician Ellie Goulding makes the list, with fashion designer Alexander McQueen and presenter Kristian Digby, who both died this year.High-profile divorces earned their own category this year. British web users very actively sought gossip about Cheryl Cole, Tiger Woods and Eva Longoria. Even Hulk Hogan's three-year-old divorce from Linda Bollea was the subject of intense interest, assisted by photographs of Bollea partying on a new yacht, which she named Alimoney.Dr Mark Graham, research fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, said: "Zeitgeist is reflecting popular culture, but that's not to say Google doesn't have a hand in deciding what we consume online ... Through its elaborate ranking systems, Google is actively shaping what we have access to and what we know about the world."Zeitgeist also reveals some of the melancholy underbelly of the internet. Some of the most common searches were for "I feel lonely," "I want love" and "I hate love". "A lot of people trust their search engines to find other people going through the same thing," said "Chewy" Trewhella, Google's new business development manager, adding that the US search engine giant recently added the Samaritans' phone number to the results page for "suicide"."The internet is seen as a companion, something we speak to and expect answers from," said Graham. "Ultimately, artificial intelligence and the internet may be able to perform some of those functions. 'I feel hungry' may be possible, but 'I feel lonely' will be a bit&nbsp;harder."Google's list reveals surprising confusion about basic web search. Google, Facebook and YouTube are among the 10 most popular search terms in the UK, revealing that users are searching for those sites rather than typing their names into the address&nbsp;bar.Nearly 35 million people – 87% of the UK's web population – used Google in October, according to research firm Nielsen. But Zeitgeist omits the 27% of UK web traffic that Nielsen claims goes to pornographic sites.
One of my favourite gaming moments is in Monkey Island 2. Wannabe pirateGuybrush Threepwoodwants to tell his dream woman he loves her. You, the player, pick one of several declarations of love, but whichever you pick, Guybrush talks gibberish. This is a funny and familiar-feeling moment. It also expresses the distinction between player and character. You are playing Guybrush, a fool. Even if you are suave and sophisticated, he's not. Limiting the player's freedom to act teaches us about the character. In a sense, character is the limitations on our choices.This may be why"moral choice"  systemsin games are often unconvincing: they provide too much freedom. Someone who would shoot a passerby isn't usually someone who would help a stranger. This becomes more true the longer you play the character. If you've played through Red Dead Redemption rescuing kidnap victims, by the end,  logically, you shouldn't have the option to shoot a stranger for his horse. You might try to make the character do it, but, like Guybrush, he wouldn't respond.This may also be why many of us are suspicious of governmental emphasis on "increasing choice". Morechoice doesn't make us happy, and we understand that no one has infinite choices about how to live life. A person facing the genuine choice "commit armed robbery" is unlikely to also have the choice "inherit baronetcy". Character change – and choice – can happen, but it's slow and incremental, not sudden.Games and government need to  understand the difference  between giving a wide  variety of choices and  actually addressing character and circumstances.
World of Warcraft: Cataclysm has just launched and designersDave KosakandGreg Streetspeak about the game and how they plan to attract new and lapsed players. They also explain which class is best for new players and how they get the balance right between satisfying hardcore players and more casual fans.What are the main new features of Cataclysm and what can a new player expect?DK: We recently released a new content patch which really smoothed out the levelling process. So for new players there will be a much quicker and smoother entry into the game. We want to make sure the game is fun from the first five minutes. This is all live in the game now. For Cataclysm itself we have some new features. So we have two new races – Goblin and Worgen – and five new levels. We have a new trade skill called archaeology where players can go and dig up artefacts. We now have guild achievements so that players can level their guild and also ranked battlegrounds.GS: You can now fly around in the old world too. Fans have been asking for this for a long time and it took a lot of jiggering behind the scenes to make that possible.What was the thinking behind the huge changes made to the original game?DK: We have learned so much in the five years since launch, especially around the start of the game. We have learned how to guide players around content and always give a clear indication of what they need to do.GS: If you play the content in (the last expansion pack) Lich King it was really dynamic and exciting. But if you went back and played the original game it was clear that the older content simply wasn't as exciting. It felt years older. Cataclysm gives us the opportunity to apply the new technology and ideas to the old game. Level 1-60 seems like a new game now and obviously this is what new players will see when they first login.Were you worried about ruining people's memories and nostalgia of the original world?DK: That love of the original world is key to the Cataclysm. If you now go to a village and see that it is destroyed you get really emotional affected. Likewise with the factions. We changed some of the familiar maps so that now your old favourite town may have been burnt by the Alliance or taken over by the Horde. It really ups your level of engagement seeing the changes made to places that you love.Will this change the dynamic between Horde and Alliance?DK: If they didn't hate each other before they will now! Some of the quests really tug at the heartstrings.How have you changed the way that new players first experience World of Warcraft?GS: When we looked at focus groups or data we found that some new players didn't even accept a quest when they started playing the game. They would just go round killing monsters without realising that you need to do quests to get rewards. So we have learned to really put things on rails at the start of the game. We want players to feel heroic from early on now too. The player must feel that they are important early on.When do players really start getting hooked or engaged into WoW? Level 5, 10?DK: Normally if players stick around for more than hour then they play longer. We've done focus groups and once players get used to combat and how the camera works they soon start engaging with the game. I started playing WoW with my friends and we know players who play with friends tend to play longer and stick around. We definitely play up the social side.How do you get balance between hardcore and more casual players.DK: It's simple to learn and harder to master. We want new players to pick things up but don't want more experienced players getting bored. We offer tons of content. We have four or five continents now of content. There are lots of different ways to play, Some people use WoW as a social network to stay in touch with friends. Others play the auction house. Some are focussed on the end game, others on pvp (player vs player).GS: There are a lot of different ways to play. If you want to play for 30 minutes a week you can always do the quests. If you want to be challenged then there are some really difficult raids and other challenges for the more experienced player.How do stop time spent being more important than skill in a game like WoW?DK: We try to add a number of different elements to the dungeons so that players are not simply doing the metronome-style of play – pressing button 1, 2 and 3 constantly. We ask them to different things. To move out of the dragons fire on the ground for example.How important is the story to Warcraft?GS: We've developed a lot more gameplay tools to advance the story. You can really see the impact of what you are doing in the game world. We try and make places more dynamic. A few years ago you would have a town and there would be monsters roaming around outside. The player would go and kill these monsters and then go back into the town. Now you are more likely to have monsters swarming and attacking the town and you will need to fight them off. If your action in the game is telling the story then it sucks players in. You start to care what happens. We try to make the conflict between Horde and Alliance really come alive. We've got a whole lot smarter in doing this kind of story element over the last few years and that's why it is great to take these skills and apply them to the old world.Was driving the story through player actions one of the biggest developments since the original game?DK: We certainly learned a lot about how to tell a story and we are now much much better at doing it.What was the thinking behind the new races?GS: We spent a lot of time working on the starting zones for the Goblins and Worgens. The 15 or so levels really give the player an insight into the story of these races. Players will learn that Goblins are fleeing their homeland while the Worgen have this terrible curse that causes them to become werewolves. We expect a lot of players to roll new characters in either or both of these two new races.What about vehicles – will we see more use of them in Cataclysm?GS: They are one of our relatively new tools. We experimented with them in (the last expansion pack) Lich King and worked out where they would work and where they wouldn't. We learnt how not to abuse the tool. So in Cataclysm you see a lot of vehicles but generally used more smartly.Can time-short or lapsed players compete in things like PvP (player vs player) or do you have to spend a serious amount of time getting the right armour and weapons to stand a chance?DK: One of the nice things about PvP is that we reward players for just taking part. You earn a little bit each time you play and if you stick with it for a short wile then you will be able to upgrade your gear and stand a better chance of succeeding.GS: We try and have content for all skill levels. With pvp it is pretty easy to get points. All you need to do is participate in the battlegrounds with a team and you will get reward. If you are not very good you can still get rewards. Hardcore players will go to the arena and really hone their skills.DK: A year or so ago we launched a feature called Dungeon Finder which enables you to easily group up with friends to do a dungeon. Even though that feature has been out for a while we really expect it to come into its own in Cataclysm. Lower level players who may have skipped over level 15 dungeons on old characters – because it was too much hassle to find a team – will find it much easier now to find a dungeon and finish the story.What class would you recommend to new players?GS: We try to make the classes all pretty similar in terms of ease of play. Hunter is a popular class with new players as you have a pet that does a lot of fighting for you while you stand back and fire your bow. The warrior too is one of the most popular classes for new players to pick up but it always used to be really complicated. It was easy to play warrior badly as a new player. So we've revamped that over the years and now the warrior delivers much more how new players may expect. So you now dive into battle with your axe and start beating on enemies.What would be success for Cataclysm?GS: I'd love to see Cataclysm bring back lapsed players. They would enjoy the familiar but new content.DK: I want to see new players come in and stay around. Cataclysm has really refreshed the world and we can't wait for players to get started.
Microsoft's motion-sensing Kinect controller will push pre-Christmas sales of the Xbox ahead of rivals, including the Nintendo Wii, according to one forecast.The Wii, which became the fastest-selling games console in history when launched in the UKfour years ago today, is losing ground to the Kinect, which does away with the need for a traditional hand-held controller.Europe's leading high street retailer of video games, Game Group, today said the Kinect has been a "big hit" in its Game and Gamestation stores sincegoing on sale last month. Tesco yesterday said the Kinect had been "flying off the shelves" since its launch, and that it would be a top-seller this Christmas.Ian Shepherd, the Game Group chief executive, declined to say whether Kinect had helped sales of Microsoft's Xbox to overtake those of Nintendo – but some analysts believe that has already happened in the US, where it launched one week earlier.Analysts at Wedbush Morgan Securitiesthis week said sales of Xbox 360 consoles would reach 1m in November, up 31% on last year, while sales of the Wii are expected to reach 975,000, down 23% in the same period.Sales of Sony's PS3, which launched its cordless Move handset this autumn, will be down 8% year on year to 650,000, the analysts predict.Unlike the Wii and Move, Kinect uses an infrared emitter and camera, rather than a hand-held controller, to track gamers' movements. The Wii stole a march when it used the first wireless handset in 2006.The Kinect camera sensor was initially sold as an add-on for Xbox consoles, but is bundled with the newer Xbox 360 at a discounted price."We expect strong demand for the Xbox 360 due to the successful debut for Kinect, and believe that Kinect console bundles sold especially well," Wedbush Morgan Securities said.Nintendo, which is without a new product in the pre-Christmas market this year, is placing its bets on the yet-to-be-launched 3DS, ahandheld 3D gaming device. The company earlier this year predicted that profitwould fall to its lowestin five years for the year to March 2011.Microsoft last week said it had sold more than 2.5m Kinect systems worldwide in the four weeks that it had been on sale. Don Mattrick, head of Microsoft's Xbox business,said the companywas "on pace" to sell 5m units before Christmas. Sony's Movehas shipped 4.1m units worldwidesince its autumn launch.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Mike Lazaridis in 2008. Photo bytextladon Flickr.Some rights reservedMike Lazaridis, co-chief executive of RIM, has pitched up at the All Things D:Mobilized conference and confused utterly everyone, including possibly himself.Sample headline from Gizmodo: "Can You Figure Out WTF RIM's CEO Is Talking About?"Or Engadget, whoseliveblog of the eventis strewn with"Mike didn't really answer".The "didn't really answer" interview is perplexing from the start. Lazaridis shows up with a - or possibly the - RIM PlayBook, its tablet that's going to launch.. when's it going to launch, Mike?"We're tracking Q1."Right, so.. sorry, does that mean you're launching it then, or what? That people will be able to track their deliveries from then?Walt Mossberg: "But look, there's a growing consensus that your OS is dated. When will this [QNX OS on the PlayBook] become the new OS?"Lazaridis: "By focusing on the tablet market, we see it as a way of freeing where smartphones can go."WHAT??Kara Swisher tries to help by asking "So the tablet is the phone?"Lazaridis: "No, the tablet is what mobile computing is all about. In cases where we want a high performance smartphone, the tablet is perfect for it... A lot of markets are still on 2G. Even in 3G markets, BlackBerry is in its own space and becomes very popular. What the PlayBook allows us to do is jump into the next stage of mobile. In the US the PlayBook is perfectly targeted."This may have been the point where they should have begun applying a headlock and an Indian burn. Instead Mossberg said "I'm a little confused. You said it will free the smartphone to focus on communication. You mean it will free you to not pay as much attention to apps and video and music on the phone?"Lazaridis: "What I'm saying is that with BB 6 it's a great multimedia platform. But the difference is, rather than being all things to all people, we can present the best platform for the application. Full web, real multitasking... very few people can do it properly. The point here is in that environment, you can use it differently. But a 7inch screen is too big to be a phone."Swisher: "So you're saying that the strategy of Google and Apple -- making the phone with video and audio, that's not the right direction?"Lazaridis: "We're going to see different categories. You're going to see smartphones taking on multicore processing, you're going to see powerful tablets..."At which Engadget throws up its hands:"He isn't making any sense at all. Quite literally, we don't know what Mike is talking about right now."He does claim that "People want this [PlayBook] product" and that while it is building products "that meet the requirements for enterprise and government", that "...that appeals to the consumer".The price for the PlayBook, you'll be glad to hear, will be "very competitive". But overall, it is a car crash of an interview. And it looks no better inPeter Kafka's liveblog(given that he works with the ATD team, so would be expected to go gentle on the guests: instead it's got "[sort of unclear what he's saying here]" and "Kara Swisher is also confused" and "Walt is confused as well". The Q+A comes over slightly more clearly in Kafka's writeup than others'. But overall, it seems like there isn't a non-confused person in the room.Why does it matter? Because at a high-profile event like the ATD event, where corporate eyes are upon you, it really matters to be able to explain what your strategy is. Lazaridis signally failed to do that - which might not reassure corporations that are looking for a roadmap on the BlackBerry, or which are considering whether the PlayBook is for, well, play or serious work.Ifyoumanage to extract any meaning from it all about where RIM is going, do let us know in the comments.
In an alternative development timeline, Michael Jackson: The Experience is an RPG where you can add Uri Gellar to your party to level up on magic and the big boss fight is with the ghost of your brutal, domineering father.And that sort of inspiration is exactly why Ubisoft has turned over Michael Jackson: The Experience to a crack team of dance game creators and choreographers, rather than a crazy lady banging her keyboard and laughing. Instead, The Experience captures the furious perfectionism and physical exertion of Jackson's stagecraft and it is, unexpectedly, pretty good.Motion control is a satisfying step up for dance games after mats (you remember, that dusty thing that's rolled up in the cupboard under the plastic guitars). Rather than stomping down step after step, you're scored on how accurately you mirror the onscreen dancers performing Jackson's routines.Tracking is tied to the hand in which you hold the Wiimote, and is surprisingly effective – all things considered, it's preferable to pulling on the ping-pong ball motion capture suit in your front room, though future releases for Move and Kinect promise alarming levels of precision.The interface isn't wowingly pretty, with blank faced mannequins shaking it up in clip-art standard sets that vaguely recall the videos, but that's OK because it works. Upcoming moves float up the left-hand bar in the standard rhythm action get ready style, giving you a chance to pull off some really impressive stances.And the moves you do are tough. Jackson was obviously no slacker when it came to choreography, and even the Easy stuff will put you through a substantial cardio workout. Tougher routines such as Speed Demon require a combination of fitness, grace and co-ordination that makes pulling of even a few Perfects feel like a triumph. The incentive to practise and improve is strong and satisfying.If only the game gave you more encouragement to improve. The Dance School section is a collection of live-action videos in which an instructor takes you through specific moves and techniques. It would be a great supplement to the party game flailing encouraged by the main game, if only it wasn't sealed off as a series of unlockables. You've made the tutorials into the reward, Ubi? Here, let me explain some things I've learnt about game design while working on my pitch for the Jackson RPG …• Game reviewed on Wii
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byFreeCliDenton Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle has shown off its Chrome OS, the operating system that will power a new range of notebooks - but says its launch will be delayed until "mid-2011" with no indication of price or performance characteristics of machines that will run it.The idea behind the Chromium OS is that it will coordinate with cloud services, especially Google's, to minimise the amount of local storage required and to allow people to use any Chromium device to access the same cloud-saved data and synchronise locally-stored data to the cloud.The launch has been delayed because Chrome OS still has too many bugs -2,227 according to the official page, including "sync is not working" which was the top one at the time of writing.The huge question is whether Chrome OS will challenge Windows on low-end machines, particularly netbooks. But with thenetbook market shrinking as buyers shift towards tablets, there are questions too about whether Chrome OS is too little, too late: Android is doing remarkably well on mobile phones and tablets, while Microsoft has managed to persuade netbook makers to use a low-end version of Windows 7.Plus Chrome OS will require the user to have regular - though not persistent - connectivity to the internet."We think cloud computing will define computing as we know it," said Eric Schmidt, Google's chief operating officer, at the announcement - which falls notably short of a launch. "Finally there is a viable third choice for an operating system."Some Linux, and particularly Ubuntu fans, might wonder which three he's talking about, given that Windows and Mac OS X are the two OSs you can buy in the shops. Is Schmidt saying Ubuntu isn't viable, or just that you can't get it in the shops?Then again, Chrome OS is a Linux-based OS, so Linux fans might have cause to like it - the way that Google took Android, another Linux build, from zero to hero in the smartphone market could be seen as a good sign.Sundar Pichai, Google's head of product for Chrome, said that "This is a profound shift" and that Chrome is an attempt to "re-think the personal experience for the modern web". He told the BBC: "Chrome is nothing but the web."But rather than launching the OS, as had been expected, yesterday Google announced a"pilot programme"insisting that Chrome OS is "for people who live in the web" and announcing that everyone who takes part will receive a Cr-48 notebook, a new piece of reference hardware for Chrome OS, and will be expected to tell Google how they progress. (You have to be 18 and based in the US - sorry, UK folks.)Google has put up animage gallery of the Cr-48- whose black casing and keyboard make it look exactly like one of Apple's "BlackBook" (black MacBook) models from three years ago, though with barely any connectors - I spot a power lead, USB connector, display connector, but no Ethernet jack.You can take a quiz to see if youlive on the web sufficiently for Chrome: apparently most people (possibly most who have taken the quiz) get a 7.5 out ot 10, but it's very easy to game.There are some intriguing tweaks to the feature set of the devices: notebookswon't include Caps Lock keys("We expect this will improve the quality of comments across the web" - good luck with that).In addition the OS will have "verified boot" - meaning that it on startup it will ensure nothing on the machine or its software has been altered, by comparing hashes for the machine and a reference. If they differ, it could indicate malicious meddling - and at that point Chrome OS will alert the user.The idea is that that will preclude the possibility of viruses or malware infecting programs, or of malicious software being installed on the system without the user's knowledge.Data residing on the machines will beencrypted by default, at the home directory level. Google says that's for two reasons: so that friends can easily share machines without worrying about whether people can share their data; and to avoid the risk of data loss if you lose the portable device that Chromium runs on. (Of course, that protection will only be as strong as your password.)This does have its own wrinkles: what if there's a disk error?"If a user authenticates successfully, but all attempts to create or access an encrypted image fail, then login does not fail. Instead, the user receives an empty home directory that uses tmpfs. This means that all the locally stored data will be inaccessible, but it ensures that even though using an encrypted image wasn't possible, no sensitive user data will end up stored on disk."Which means you'll have to download it back from the cloud. But in the US Google is going to partner with Verizon to offer data plans, though it will be a contract-free scheme.
The most expensive wines in the world - $50,000 and up. Photo byArgenbergon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMcKinnon – the hacker obsessed with aliens – was not alone &gt;&gt; Future Intelligence"Gary McKinnon, the British hacker at the heart of an extradition battle with the US Government was not alone and was the most junior member of a hacking group largely ignored by the authorities."Intriguing analysis by Pete Warren, an award-winning security journalist who also pointed out in 2006 that Chinese hackers had attacked the UK parliament.Nokia trash-talks Android, gets rebuffed by analyst &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"You can go and talk to any enterprise IT analyst and none of them recommend Android for enterprise use today and that probably says it all," [Ilari] Nurmi [Nokia's head of buainess smartphones] said. "The capabilities, security and all of those areas that we have built into Symbian smartphones are clearly on a different level."Unfortunately ZDNet then had the bright idea of calling an enterprise IT analyst. Oh dear.Making the leap to SSD on a MacBook &gt;&gt; Remiel"It used to take 28 seconds for my 13-inch MacBook Pro to load the folders on my desktop after I logged in. Now it takes five seconds."Large-footprint apps like Photoshop and Dreamweaver now load near-instantly."Forecast: people will increasingly upgrade their computers by adding SSDs, rather than bigger rotating hard drives.Statistics Competition: Stanford Stats 202 Wine Price Prediction"Use wine vintage, varietal, country, ratings, and other information to predict price. The top 3 teams from Stats 202 will not have to take the final exam." Should now be finished: we await the results.The Smartphone Race Heats Up &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFor the US, showing what's actually being used, rather than sold. Dumbphones are 70%, smartphones 30%, of which Apple, RIM and Android are in a near dead heat at 27%; and Windows Mobile (remember that?) has a 14% share.FBI issues warrant for Russian Mega-D botnet controller &gt;&gt; V3.co.uk"A Russian man has been charged with running the Mega-D botnet, which the FBI estimates had been producing around a third of the world's spam."An FBI affidavit (PDF) revealed that Oleg Nikolaenko, 23, took millions of dollars from companies looking to advertise fake Rolex watches, herbal remedies and counterfeit medicines, and at one point was sending 32 per cent of the world's spam emails."Undercut By Microsoft, Russia Drops Piracy Case &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe Russian authorities raided a troublesom environmental group claiming it had counterfeit Microsoft software. But Microsoft declined to help it. Principled stuff by Redmond.As useful as a COBOL programmer &gt;&gt; The Joke ShopWhat happened to the Cobol programmer who decided to have himself frozen to avoid the millennium bug in 2000? Nice payoff line.Microsoft planning 'major overhaul' of Internet Explorer in next Windows Phone release &gt;&gt; WinRumors"In a job posting, dated November 22, the software giant is looking to recruit a team member for its Windows Phone Browser, Search &amp;amp; Maps team. "Our team builds the IE Mobile browser in the Windows Phone organization which is one of the most used applications on the device"reads the job posting. Microsoft also explains that the browser is the most "technically challenging" application to build for a phone.Encrypted: WikiLeaks_insurance (download torrent) &gt;&gt; The Pirate Bay"You can open it (when password comes available) by downloading aescrypt. Then this will be in your program files after install. Now open the folder where your "insurance.aes256" file is. Drag and drop this file upon your aescrypt file in your program files and it will ask you for the password."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
After a brutal storm destroys the boat she was travelling on, afrightened young woman is left washed ashore on an unknown beach. On her own but not alone she has only one goal, to survive.Sounds like Link's Awakening, doesn't it. But actually this is the promotional spiel for the new Tomb Raider game - Tomb Raider (yes, that's right, it's just called Tomb Raider).US magazineGames Informer broke the news yesterdayby releasing a teaser for their next issue's cover story, and it's clear looking at the promotional images that the franchise is moving in a more gritty, realistic direction."Forget everything you know about Tomb Raider, we are exploring thingsthat have never been done before in this game," said Darrell Gallagher,head of studio, Crystal Dynamics in an official statement. "This is an origins story that creates Lara Croft and takes her on a character defining journey like no other."More details have emerged on the catchily-titledNeoGAF forum, including Lara's age in the game – 21 – and the fact that the game will take place in an open-world setting. No release date has yet been set, though it's unlikely we'll see anything before autumn 2011 at the earliest.Lara was once a true pop culture icon, but she never had the timeless appeal of a Mario or Sonic – the reboot, to me, seems like the right thing to do. 2008's Underworld and this year's excellent Guardian of Light spin-off showed that there is life in the old bird yet, and let's face it, we're still just as in need of games led by strong female characters as we were in 1996.With the likes of Uncharted 2 and Assassin's Creed 2 raising the bar for the action-adventure genre, Crystal Dynamics are going to have to make something pretty special for Miss Croft to become the darling of the games industry once again. Such is my fondness for the first two Tomb Raider games that I, for one, hope they can do it.
If you're revelling in England's Ashes domination, you may already have searched the shelves of your local Game store for the latest cricket simulation – and probably come away empty-handed. EA Sports, the leader in the sports sim genre, hasn't produced a console cricket title for several years, choosing, instead, to concentrate on its successful Fifa and Madden brands. The company may well reconsider, though, especially as its decision to back the emerging sport of mixed-martial arts with the much-hyped EA MMA, has not gone quite as well as hoped – the game sold just 45,000 copies in its first month on US shelves.But therearesome decent Cricket games still around. I've gone for titles that you can play on current platforms, so that means no Brian Lara Cricket (there's a PlayStation iteration, Brian Lara Cricket 99, that should play on your PS3, but the original Megadrive version was the best) and no Super International Cricket, a great little arcade-style title for the old Super Nintendo console.If you have any of your own suggestions, feel free to add them in the comments section.Update:I was unable to find any good Android or Windows Phone 7 cricket sims (I'm not a big fan of IndiaGames' Cricket T20 World Championship, which is the only one I've found on Android). If you know of any, please mention them in the comments section below.You are the Umpire(Four Door Lemon, iPhone, £1.19)UK studio Four Door Lemon has already turned Paul Trevillion's newspaper comic strip, You Are the Ref, into an iPhone app, and now here's the team's take on the spin-off cricket version. In You Are The Umpire, you're faced with a series of challenging decisions based on the cricket rule book; it's your job to select the right course of action in each scenario. It's a simple and stylish conversion, which makes perfect use of the original illustrations, and even allows players to create their own comic strips using the images supplied. With hundreds of multiple choice questions included, it's a relaxing way to kill time on long commutes, or between innings. There's an iPad version coming soon.Big Cup Cricket(Eidos, iPhone, £1.79)A brand new cricket sim from Eidos, which is quickly pulling in ecstatic user reviews. Players select from 20 international sides and an array of game modes then use the touchscreen to bowl or bat, with the timing, speed and direction of your swipe governing the ball direction and velocity. It takes a while to get the hang of the controls, but once you do, it's actually a really involving little sim. The cute visuals and crisp sound effects add charm, plus there's Game Centre support for online leaderboards. A Wi-Fi two-player mode would have been a nice bonus, but as it is, this is possibly the best cricket sim on the App Store.Touch Cricket(On-Sea, iPhone/ipad, 59p)Not everyone appreciates this rather tricky batting sim, but I like it's physical control mechanic. Your aim as batsman is simply to achieve the highest score possible. There's a side on view of your player and you need to use your left thumb to alter his position and the right to swing your bat. Timing is crucial, as is getting in the right position to fend off tricky spin bowls. It's quietly satisfying when you get it right, and at just 59p (there's also a free Lite version), wannabe England batsmen won't be complaining about the limited structure.International Cricket 2010(Codemasters, Xbox 360, PS3, from £10)This was the last big console cricket sim, and although it only drew average reviews from the specialist press at the time, many fans rate it as a decent enough slogger, and I'd concur – especially as its easily available for much less than the original £39.99 price tag. It's officially licensed so you get 16 full international sides as well as 21 authentically modelled stadia. The analogue control system is well implemented allowing for a decent accuracy and a range of shots, and bowling, too, is well implemented and enjoyable. The visuals are certainly lacking, though – a shame as cricket isn't exactly the most processor intensive sport to simulate.Stick Cricket(Stick Sports, PC/Mac, free)The original Stick Cricket, a simple but thoroughly addictive Flash-based browser game, was released in 2004 and became such a cult success it has encouraged creator Stick Sports to produce a whole range of sports sims on its site. The latest versions of the cricket game remain true to their ancestor: you simply have to get as many runs as you can, using the cursor keys, and careful timing, to hit an array of shots. The games are free to play, but you'll need to register.Reader recommendationsFreddie Flintoff All-Round cricket(Player one, Java handsets, £4.50)I'd forgotten about this excellent street cricket game from Player One, originally released for Java phones about three years ago. It's still on the publisher's site and supports a whole bunch of familiar handsets.According to Pocket Gamer, the batting and bowling mechanics are easy to grasp and this is the only cricket sim of the bunch that'll reward batsmen for hitting objects like cars and buildings.International Cricket Captain(Childish Things, PC, £15.99)Several readers have suggested this long-running cricket management sims – and I was also berated by the Ben Wilson, the editor of Official PlayStation Magazine, for not including it. So here it is. It's essentially a cricket version of Football Manager, allowing you to take control of any English County, International or Australian Domestic side before guiding them through the season, choosing batting rotas and fielding set-ups, and recruiting new players. Another reader, charliepiper, also suggested the free online cricket management sim,Battrick.Little Master Cricket(Foddy.net, PC/Mac, free)This ragdoll physics batting sim was suggested by DmIsTheSaddestKey. Like Touch Cricket, you simply control the batter as a he fends off a series of balls, accept here you have more intuitive control over his movements useing the mouse. Very simple, but very compelling. And yes, there isan iPhone version. But not a Google Android one...
