Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Video GamesSteven PooleFourth Estate, &#163;12, 254ppBuy it at BOL"A pastime of illiterate wretched creatures who are stupefied by their daily jobs, a machine of mindlessness and dissolution." Seventy years ago the French novelist George Duhamel thus characterised the cinema. Such venom, argues Steven Poole, is a frequent reaction to all new art forms, particularly those which are dependent on new technology.Video games, an art form which now grosses more than cinema box office or video rental receipts, have attracted their share of opprobrium. The teenage killers at Colombine High School in Denver, Colorado, played Doom, the first-person shooter; ergo, video games cause violence. The New York police, on the other hand, commenting on the car-jacking, cop-killing game, Grand Theft Auto, told the game publisher: "We'd rather they did it in your game than on the street."Poole isn't afraid to confront the big issues that are most often associated with gaming in the public mind, but his major contributions are quite unique in the annals of writing on video games. In  Trigger Happy the phenomenon of games and gaming is soberly deconstructed. Plato is called as a witness on the role and nature of play and his concept of mimesis or representation shown to be central to the inner life of video games.Graphical realism or photorealism has long been the Holy Grail of both developers and gamers, but Poole warns us to be careful what we wish for. Video games bear little resemblance to reality and   are all the more entertaining for that. Much better the virtual interstellar dogfight, lasers blazing, than the prosaic reality: by the time you see the enemy's laser, you're dead. Reality, then, would be brutally short-lived, even with "infinite saves".Heidegger, Nietzsche, Sophocles, Shakespeare and Wittgenstein all make cameo appearances as Poole attempts to define the central components of the video game and the essence of its appeal. He examines in depth the convergence between gaming and films but concludes that, despite mainly superficial common elements, the "two media have been engaged in a wary standoff".The action genre in film has supplied video games with both form and content, but too many film licences translate into less than cutting-edge gaming. "Atari, having acquired the rights to produce an ET video game... produced nearly 6m copies. One fly in the ointment: the game was   terrible. Gamers aren't stupid. Most of the cartridges were eventually buried in a landfill site in New Mexico, where one hopes they will eventually provide some amusement for archaelogists in the distant future." Some tie-ins do work. Goldeneye 007, the Bond game for the Nintendo 64, almost singlehandedly kept the company's head just above water as it struggled to match the PlayStation software catalogue.Poole's thesis is not only that the degree of convergence is exaggerated, but that it is highly undesirable. "For the moment it is hard to see how video games and cinema could ever converge without losing the essential virtues of both." Cinema "is first and foremost a ride, like a fairground rollercoaster, part of whose pleasure is exactly that you are not steering, and you cannot decide to slow down. A video game, on the other hand, is an activity." Games are critically different from other art forms such as   film, theatre and literature. "What do you do with a video game? You play it."No book on games would be complete without the obligatory attempt to tackle that most problematic issue: why women don't play them. Traditionally it has been accepted that women prefer puzzle games, like Tetris. But as more young women drive fast cars, once the preserve of boy racers, it's quite common to see groups of women at trade shows queuing to go head to head in Gran Turismo, the racing game.However,  Trigger Happy's conclusion that women are quickly catching up has to be taken with a pinch of salt. "In 1998 in the US, female buyers accounted for the sale of fully 49% of PC games, and the purchasers of 51% of console titles were women." It seems much more likely that these purchasers are mothers buying games for their sons.Given his profound understanding of the history, design and appeal of video gaming, and the central role of social play in our lives, it is disappointing that Poole does not deal more widely with online gaming. Playing games with your friends on a local area network is surely the highest form of play, but internet gaming, albeit mostly with strangers, is at last beginning to deliver.Despite this one shortcoming,  Trigger Happy is a critical contribution to our understanding of a still growing entertainment phenomenon which just won't go away. Universities and colleges in the UK are now offering courses on game design: Poole's work should be marked essential reading.
How much are the letters of the alphabet worth and who owns them? Unlike the radio spectrum (parts of which were auctioned off for &#163;22.5bn earlier this year), no one owns them and they are worth nothing. Unless, of course, you bundle them up in a way that bottles the zeitgeist and then register the result with the authorities which control names used on the internet. Peter Littke, a businessman from Bookham, Surrey, has just turned down &#163;4.4m for the name e-buy.com that he bought a year ago for &#163;63. We are used to seeing brand names -like Coca-Cola - being valued in tens of billions of pounds. But the companies owning them have taken decades to build a global reputation that prompts customers to order a Coke rather than one of its rivals as an almost Pavlovian response. In this case the paradigm is being reversed: they are trying to buy a brand off the shelf so that the business can be injected at a later date.What is surprising in these circum stances is why such quintessentially e-commerce names like e-buy.com - and ebuy.com which Mr Littke also owns - were still available only a year ago when the purchases were made. Since then there has been an eruption of cybersquatting during which the names of famous people, not to mention the whole of Manchester United's first team, have been registered by fortune-seeking speculators. Jeanette Winterson, the author, recently won a landmark ruling against a squatter who had registered her name, but it is not clear whether other victims will be as successful.Even after all this publicity, no one among Whitehall's finest spin doctors thought to register the name Leoblair.com before an outsider, one David N George, got there first. But then Alastair Campbell, the prince of spin himself, was not quick enough off the mark to register alastaircampbell.com. Britain's slowness to keep up with the culture of the internet knows no bounds.
Hans Snook is almost too easy a target for lampooning. There he sits in his feng shui'd office with moustache, receding rockabilly hairdo and black Nehru shirt with an Orange motif in the middle that makes him look faintly like a vicar, joking about his fondness for colonic irrigation.I am sure it must be here somewhere. Either a mug or a sticker on his computer bearing the old saw: "You don't have to be mad to work here ..." - and without the slightest hint of irony.Snook's studied eccentricity is stamped on the image of the mobile telephone company which he has run since it launched in 1994. He literally wears his offbeat personality on his sleeve - those funky Orange cufflinks - his office has a large fishtank and some aria or other is blasting out when I arrive.Snook, though, clearly has his talents, not least one for survival. In the past few weeks he and his senior management team, led by Orange's deputy chief executive and finance director Graham Howe, have managed to emerge from three changes in ownership at the helm of a larger, stronger, independent company.Serendipity's partThe revival of fortunes has been an astonishing turnaround. Just eight months ago Orange was bought for some &#163;20bn by the German telecommunications and engineering company, Mannesmann, and Snook's hangdog expression at the presentation of the deal was enough to say he was none too happy.Snook the showman did not like play ing second fiddle to the rather dull Mannesmann chief executive, Klaus Esser.Snook, 52, says that serendipity has always played a large part in his life - and it was certainly good fortune that his larger British competitor Vodafone then bid for Mannesmann and won what had become an ugly takeover battle.Regulators demanded the subsequent divestment of Orange, and along came France Telecom with an offer of &#163;26bn - certainly one that was too good to refuse.If all goes according to plan, France Telecom's mobile businesses will be bundled in with Orange, and the combined operation will be refloated on the London, Paris and New York stock markets with Snook and his management team in the driving seat.The combined business will have around 20m subscribers, with 6m in Britain, 10m in France and the remainder in start-ups or joint ventures throughout Europe, Hong Kong and Israel.Snook concedes that if Vodafone had not intervened he would no longer be at Mannesmann. Cynically, he could afford not to be - that tendency to rely on good fortune paid off doubly in the Mannesmann acquisition, which converted to hard cash some &#163;45m worth of share options and long term incentives that Snook had in place.When Orange is floated once again - and a likely date for that is early next year - Snook and Howe will no doubt be awarded a fresh tranche of options which will swell their bank accounts further."With France Telecom we had a brief courtship; we're now engaged and we are going to be married," Snook says in his mid-Atlantic accent."With Mannesmann it was more of a   shotgun wedding. It was very unlikley that we could have stayed part of Mannesmann."It was clear in the rapidly consolidating telecommunications market as long as a year ago that something had to happen to Orange. Its weaker British competitor, One2One, had just been snapped up by Deutsche Telekom and Orange had the choice of either making an acquisition or becoming the target of a predator itself.Snook recalls: "At the time we were very close to buying E-Plus &#91;the German mobile telephone company&#93;, so our board was ready for growth."They understood Germany and even Hutchison &#91;Orange's then largest shareholder&#93; was ready to dilute. Mannesmann then came in to talk to us. If we had done E-Plus it would have put a bit of a stretch on our financial resources. It would have been the right thing to do, and our shares would have rocketed."But look at the conditions of the Mannesmann offer: they were offering cash and shares. It was a good price and our shareholders wouldn't have had to worry about increased debt. Mannesmann had promised something similar to what France Telecom have indicated, but Klaus was not able to deliver those elements simply because the management structure in Germany didn't allow it."It also quickly became apparent that Snook and Esser were singing from different song sheets. "We would actually give different answers on the platform - even though we had an agreed position; with Michel Bon, who runs France Telecom, we have an agreed position and we tell the same story." Esser, he adds, misjudged just how much Vodafone needed to do a deal with Mannesmann in order to retain its own independence.With typical self-assurance, he suggests that the Germans underplayed the Orange card during the hostile bid process.Likely contenderSnook was clear that he would not be lured into another deal unless it was on his own terms. Advisers to the company made it plain during the negotiations with France Telecom that, unless their demands were met, he and his management team would quit. Orange had wanted a demerger from Vodafone rather than being put up for sale."My concern was that Chris Gent &#91;Vodafone's chief executive&#93; would have liked to have sold Orange to a weaker competitor, and sucked a lot of cash out of that competitor and made it even weaker."Hopefully it would also be to a competitor that we didn't like, so a lot of senior management would leave. It would have been a triple win for Vodafone and I said that can't be allowed to happen, and if that does happen we are going to walk."We wanted a company that was public again. We knew we would have to move very, very fast and use the currency of our   shares to either acquire companies after that, merge with companies or find a strategic investor - all we've done is reverse that position and got France Telecom in as a strategic shareholder up front, and when we float now we will be a much larger company."Howe adds that the company could possibly do its next deal ahead of flotation. Finnish mobile telephone company Sonera, KPN of Holland, and Bell South and MCI Worldcom from the US are mentioned as candidates."Because of our circumstances we know all these companies extremely well now, and if there is something possible we remain the more likely contender. We know who our management team would fit with and who our vision is aligned with. This won't be the end of the road."They shrug off any suggestions of possible culture clashes with France Telecom, which after all is still half owned by the French government. Its mobile business, which trades as Itineris, was- Snook says - born in competition and shares all the same entrepreneurial, youthful characteristics as Orange.Snook is often dubbed a visionary and his enthusiasm for the future development of mobile phone technology is admittedly infectious. One of his favourite fancies is an ear stud or lapel badge that will not only be a communications device but help to organise the wearer's life, reminding them of appointments and so on.Snook waxes lyrical about a hologram on his desk and says the company is investigating ways of using the technology which comes from a New York-based   firm. Why not, for instance, have holographic projections of the management team at roadshows instead of the real thing? Unsurprisingly he cannot leave his phone alone and in between chomping on a toothpick he repeatedly checks his handset for incoming text messages.Snook refutes the suggestion that Orange follows the cult of his personality. Howe, dressed in a white version of Snook's eyebrow-raising corporate shirt, could have been deliberately trotted out to present the team and underline that this is not a one-man show. "Hans's eccentricities are his alone," Howe adds. "We are not all into colonic irrigation."Corporate cultHowever, the intense admiration for Snook among colleagues and advisers means that many of his traits are repeated, without much charm, among others in the company.His favoured phrases - one is "wirefree future" - are used with depressing regularity. Press conferences are arranged on cramped double-decker buses painted orange (what a jape!) because the company likes to do things differently. Staff at Orange do not call you on their mobile phones, they call you on their "Orange", but do not appreciate jibes suggesting they verge on the Moonie-like.Snook's unconventional beginnings are well documented. Born in Germany to an English father and German mother, he grew up in Canada. At 35, he was backpacking in Asia with his Chinese wife when he took a job in a paging business in Hong Kong to raise funds for further travelling. He was convinced to stay, and that company was eventually bought by Hutchison Whampoa - which moved him to Britain for the launch of Orange.Howe, 39, was a fellow founding director and previously worked at Hutchison Telecom, First Pacific and Touche Ross management consultancy. The two appear genuinely fond of each other.Certainly their achievements in launching and stewarding Orange are not in question - although suggestions that Snook came up with the name are wide of the mark.The company launched as the first recognisable consumer brand in mobile telephones, and with an iconic advertising campaign. It also challenged the way in which users were charged, introducing per-second billing. In recent months it has regularly topped the rankings for signing new customers.Snook's mantra is customer service - which, he will tell you at length, is the key to winning and, equally important, retaining customers.Endearingly, however, his evangelism slips at least once as he recounts the launch of Orange. "We needed a brand with new values from Vodafone and Cellnet," before drifting off with a wince and noting, "God, I'm starting to sound like Tony Blair."
What's in a name? Millions of pounds, apparently, if you register a lucrative domain name on the internet.Peter Littke, a businessman, has turned down a &#163;4.4m offer for e-buy.com, the name he registered three years ago for $100 (&#163;63). It is the second offer he has rejected from the Californian company of the same name.Domain names can be registered on a first-come, first-served basis for as little as &#163;30 a year.Mr Littke, from Bookham, Surrey, decided that he could make more money by using the name for his own project, to be launched in September, even though "it felt like a lottery win".He said: "It was a very tempting offer, but I have been working for three and a half years on a different concept, whereby e-buy.com only forms part of it. I had to say no because we are too far down the road."But there is a flip side to the name goldrush. Jeanette Winterson, the Whitbread prize-winning novelist, won a legal battle for her name last month. Her name and those of 130 other novelists had been registered as domain names by Mark Hogarth, a Cambridge University academic, in the hope of selling them back at a big profit, a process known as cybersquatting. But an intellectual property tribunal ruled last month that Mr Hogarth had acted in bad faith.Other companies have paid a high price for names. Halifax paid &#163;600,000 for If.com, the brand of its new internet banking service. BAA claimed that a cyberpirate demanded &#163;2m for Baa.com, a site devoted to all things woolly.
Softbank, the web corporation woven by Masayoshi Son, appeared to be unravelling yesterday with the partial sale of its most prized asset.The Tokyo-based holding company - which is one of the world's biggest e-investors - announced that it had sold 3.1m shares in the American internet portal Yahoo! for a $336m (&#163;225m) profit.Although the shares represent only 2.5% of Softbank's total stake in Yahoo!, the unloading of stock in one of the few undisputed money-spinners in the company's portfolio raises fresh doubts about Mr Son's ability to generate sufficient revenues to keep his business on an even keel.Largely thanks to the strength of its holdings in Yahoo!, Softbank has been able to invest in more than 400 internet start-up companies around the world.By nurturing these young businesses Mr Son has said his aim is to build an internet corporation that will soar in value when the firms are ready for public stock flotations."Our company is a bet on the internet," he has boasted.This strategy helped Soft bank's stock soar twentyfold in the 12 months until February, when Mr Son appeared ready to overtake Bill Gates as the world's richest man.The worldwide collapse of the internet bubble, however, has hit the Japanese-Korean tycoon harder than most, and his empire is now contracting fast. Yesterday, Softbank's stock price was &#165;17,200, less than a tenth of its peak. Its profits last year were 70% down and it is believed to have been forced to sell off assets to stay liquid.But there is a limit to how quickly Softbank can unwind.The company has promised to hold on to many of its shares for six months. A further brake is that overseas sales would result in punishing taxes of up to 60%.In another sign that Mr Son is scaling down his ambitions, Softbank appears to be pulling   back from a proposed buy-out of the Nippon Credit Bank.On Wednesday the government said it would no longer give a Softbank-led consortium exclusive rights to negotiate for the nationalised bank. The two sides had failed to hammer out a deal despite an extended deadline.Mr Son - whose Korean background has always made him something of an outsider in Japan's conservative business world - is said to have hoped the purchase of such an institution would boost his prestige among Japan's business establishment.He intended to convert Nippon Credit into an internet bank that would be positioned at the heart of his conglomerate and offer seed funding to start-up companies.With the government's latest announcement that dream is fading fast.Yesterday evening Japanese newspapers were suggesting that survival was now Mr Son's priority: "Anxieties over possible collapse of Softbank," read one headline.But Mr Son, who has ridden out several previous credit crunches, is far from finished because Softbank remains Yahoo!'s biggest shareholder.
My learning-disabled sister, Marcy, is a keen surfer and fan of electronic or virtual greeting cards. She's a sociable person who sends a constant stream of birthday, holiday and "hi there" cards from her home in Florida to friends and family across the world, and I am one of the lucky recipients.Cybergreetings are big business in the United States. An Infoseek search showed more than 2 million cards sites, catering for every conceivable sentiment and holiday.Hallmark's Online Card shopis currently offering cards for father's day, graduation day and memorial day, whileegreetings.comreminds us that in the US national tea month and national fishing week are coming up.In the past year, I have seen cybercards progress from illustrations or simple, silent animations to 120 second extravaganzas with specially recorded soundtracks needing Media Player and Flash downloads to enjoy them properly. Many of these are free and you can also send postcards, interactive games, I Ching readings, horoscopes and virtual gifts.Blue Mountain.com, the largest and most visited card   site on the web became the target of a virus hoax last year. The hoaxer claimed that customers could be infected by sending or opening a Blue Mountain card, which is a complete impossibility. Online success can breed envy and ugly business tactics.The site was started four years ago to publicise Blue Mountain's paper cards; it now sells gifts, flowers, chocolates, gourmet foods and virtual gifts, as do many others. The free ecards are a potent draw for visitors.Once on site, you can choose your category - and there are dozens of them - pick a card and personalise it, adding names, messages, stamps, colours and fonts which the software integrates into the format. The cards are emailed to the recipient as a hot link which he or she can click on to see the card.Another free site,E-cards.comspecialises in animal and artist designed cards; it makes a donation to the World Wild Life Fund for every card sent and also functions as a virtual gallery for the artists. Cards are free since advertising and sponsorship pays online and site costs.Greeting Cards.comwill send "free" cards if you fill out a membership form and suffer the resulting   advertisements. For $1.45 (approximately &#163;1) paid by credit card, you can take a card "home" with you and send it as many times as you wish, although it can be customised only once.Its sister site,Zing,  specialises in photo cards and has software facilities for users to upload and customise their own photos, integrating them into card formats.The variety of sites and cards ranges from the excruciatingly sweet Hugs Placehttp://members.aol.com/penny2849/hugs.htmlwhich sends "virtual hugs and kisses" to your recipients, to the raunchiest of adult sites.All~4~Freeis an excellent directory that lists more than 6,000 card sites connected by hot links and divided into useful categories.But if you want to make your own e-cards to send as attachments, there are publishing kits like Sierra Print Artists Plus (&#163;14.99www.sierrahome.co.uk). The more sophisticated Microsoft Home Publishing 2000 package which has a section for making and sending e-cards and other web projects. (&#163;29.99-&#163;69.99www.Home-Publishing.com).These kits are an electronic version of the childhood collage technique, cutting bits out of magazines and pasting them on paper. Of course, they   are complex and sophisticated, offering hundreds of fonts and colours plus thousands of graphics. But they are great fun and easy to use, once you've mastered the basics.For those who really get into card design, All~4~free helps potential e-retailers by providing a free online course,Greeting Cards 101which gives all the information and links needed to set up your own online card business. They also host a graphics vault and other design services.This is an area crying out to be developed by UK companies and designers. The Americans dominate the market but their products are too sentimental and too saccharine for British tastes and are oriented to American holidays.With a few honourable exceptions, such asGiftstoreandWicked Moon, there are almost no well run, innovative UK sites.At Hallmark or Blue Mountain, fierce competition has forced designers to create something approaching a new artform - fine art animations and mini films that can be saved and savoured. This is a developmental forum that has no parallel in this country despite the UK's reputation for producing world class designers and animators.No central body or design council, no art school seems to have noticed and filled this gap in the global market. Perhaps I should send our prime minister a "Let's do something about this" card. I can probably get one at BlueMountain.com.
The UK is to get a Home of the Future, thanks to two Belgians. Peter Bongers and Frank Beliën have been working on a     project called Living Tomorrow for a decade, and last week they opened their second futuristic home on the outskirts of     Brussels. Now they're planning a series across the globe, starting in Amsterdam in 2002. "We think that if a project like     this can work in Brussels then it can work anywhere," says Bongers with a grin."We're also working on a Living Tomorrow in Berlin and, in the near future, we aim to develop projects in the United     States and China as well. Our ambition is to become world number one in a market that doesn't really exist at present."      Bongers hopes the development of the London version will parallel the one in the Netherlands. "We are very very close     to a deal in London, near the Millennium Dome," he says. Whether the Dome will still be there is another matter, but     Living Tomorrow isn't aimed at passing tourists so much as groups of professionals who are given customised tours.The future homes can't handle more than about 200,000-300,000 visitors a year, and there isn't room for all the people     who want to see them.      Bongers and Beliën started their project in 1991, and Microsoft boss Bill Gates - well known for his own futuristic home     near Seattle, Washington - opened their first house of the future in 1995. Living Tomorrow 2 (seewww.livtom.com) is also     scheduled to last five years: even though the installation is continuously upgraded, the pace of development is so rapid     that the future soon goes out of date.The house - which is a house, a laboratory and a showroom - covers 3,700 square metres, including a lecture theatre     and meeting rooms. It cost Euro 14.5m (£9m) to put together, and there's another € 8m (£5m) in the "media budget". Even if it     attracts the expected 200,000 visitors a year for five years, that's £14 a head: not cheap.      About half of the products in the house are already on sale, the other half are prototypes and research products. The     project's 96 commercial partners (four places are still available) use the house to find out how their products can work     together, as well as for marketing purposes. For example, MXK (Moulinex-Krups) had to develop ways to network its     microwave oven so that it could be controlled from the house's kitchen computer.Of course, not all the partners are developing electronics products. A lot of them are working with paints, tiles and other     building materials. Heating, plumbing, and waste disposal problems need more than microchips. Nonetheless, it is     possible to apply electronics in interesting ways. Sleepy's Ergosleep bed, for example, is computer controlled: it raises     and lowers a series of slats to match the bed to thesleeper's profile.Obviously the whole house is wired to the internet, and Joachim De Vos, the project's information and communications     technology manager, says everything is done using IP, the internet protocol. The television sets, telephones and     computers don't have separate connections as they would today: everything is delivered via the net.De Vos says the problem with using IP is that it has no "quality of service" provision that would enable different traffic to     be given priority: you might be unable to phone the police because the TV set is using all the bandwidth to download a     movie. However, he says this will start to change with the next version of the protocol, IPv6.      The house is currently controlled from a series of small wall-mounted touch-sensitive panels with LCD screens, but De     Vos says he expects more use to be made of hand-held personal digital assistants (PDAs) such as the Palm range.The result is not very futuristic from some points of view - it's almost within reach of the rich, and beyond the wildest     dreams, or needs, of the majority of the earth's inhabitants. But as the novelist, William Gibson, once observed: " The     future is already here: it's just unevenly distributed."
The music business has been overrun recently by get-rich-quick dot.com businesses looking to profit from the high perceived value and easy digital transferability of music. For some, music is a limitless source of cheap content, just waiting to be exploited. Many of these companies are run by people with little or no experience of the music business, and still less understanding of why people buy music.With so much emphasis on the digital recording and distribution of music, it's easy to forget that the essence of music is in giving and listening to a performance. When we treat music as an industrial commodity, and young people as merely consumers, we overlook the joy of participating in music... of learning to play an instrument, of joining a band or an orchestra, and playing gigs.Whatever the means of delivery, whatever the technological and corporate structures, music will always be about groups of talented individual performers communicating emotionally with individual fans.  As a musician, I'm less concerned with how music can sustain the growth of online commerce than with what the internet can do to solve musicians' everyday problems. The new technology has thrown up new ways of creating and consuming music.As the basic unit of musical creation shifts back from the album to the single, relationships between musicians are becoming more fluid, especially in the dance arena. Musicians increasingly work on short projects of one or two tracks, rather than planning multi-album careers based on a fixed band of players. In this fast-moving environment, many artists will have to resume control over the legal and business aspects of their work... the smaller scale of projects will no longer justify the detailed and expensive input of lawyers and accountants.The huge potential of the internet will be realised only as musicians and musical entrepreneurs gain control of the new technology for their own benefit, rather than a few city investors chasing a quick flotation. Of course, it's already happening, but at a grassroots level, so it generates fewer headlines than high-profile corporate activity.The do-it-yourself spirit reminds me of the explosion of punk and new wave in the late 70s... it's a very exciting world to be in.  My chief concern is to foster this spirit among young people. In January 1999, I proposed an initiative to the Music Industry Forum which I called Communities In Tune. Its aim was to bring community centres to the internet generation.To provide a national network of local centres, which young people could participate in running, where they could have internet access and learn, rehearse and perform music in the heart of their local community.  The emphasis was on small-scale self-help projects in which all sectors and age-groups of the community would have a stake. Its first phase would be the creation of an online information service for those interested in running centres. This would offer advice on all aspects of management, including sources of local, national and European funding.This is not a plea for more government money. The issue is not so much about funding as access to funding. Public funds must be spent more wisely. Naive councils, encouraged by greedy consultants, have wasted millions constructing lavish venues for which there is no local demand.  Obviously, you can't claim funds if you don't know they're available. Recent research commissioned by Youth Music confirms that more information and more local facilities are the two biggest requirements for attracting young people to participate in making music.The Youth Music research also confirms that young people find websites and CD-roms the most useful music resources. The internet is the most natural way for young people to learn about music and the music business. I strongly support Paul Brindley's ArtistRight initiative (see page 2), which has the potential to transform the lives of amateur and professional musicians alike.  As part of the Youth Music's Instrument Amnesty, a network of 20 centres around the country has been established to collect and distribute the instruments.I am hoping that this might form the nucleus for my Communities In Tune scheme. Incidentally, if you haven't donated an instrument to the Amnesty and you have one available, please do so; there is still time.  I have also been told about the work of website designer Arksoft, which is working on software that will provide online do-it-yourself contract drafting with automated legal advice, for those who can't afford to see a lawyer.An organisation called Jazz Services is trying to establish a national network of venues with good quality facilities for performers, and fair business attitudes to musicians. A few tens or hundreds of thousands of seed funding to initiatives like these and ArtistRight would do far more good than millions invested in another unwanted white elephant venue.  Paul Brindley's report is the first I have seen which recognises that modern musicians are entrepreneurs... running micro-businesses, creating copyrights, generating economic activity and employment throughout the leisure and hi-tech sectors.They take huge financial and personal risks for the distant chance of wealth and stardom.  But that is not their real motivation. Their real motivation is hinted at in an ode by Arthur William Edgar O'Shaughnessy, which is the origin of the overused expression 'movers and shakers':We are the music makersWe are the dreamers of dreams...We are the movers and shakersOf the world forever, it seems.
&#149; Bidders: 11 companies including Deutsche Telekom, Mannesman, Vivendi, Viag and WorldCom will join Germany's third-generation mobile phone licence auction, starting on July 31.&#149; Wired: Export promotion is getting connected. Embassies, the DTI, Business Links and chambers of commerce are coming together at atwww.tradepartners.gov.uk.&#149; Each way: Flutter.com and Lastminute.com are to market each other's services. Flutter enables people to bet against each other, as in pub wagers.
"Welcome to the future." These could be the words of the electronic door-keeper in tomorrow's flat - a flat that already exists in Rennes, France, where a team of researchers from France T&eacute;l&eacute;com is working at the design of a futuristic home. Just imagine...Your job takes you to France for six months. Friends of yours, M and Mme Dupont, are away and lend you their flat. On your arrival, the electronic door-keeper recognises you thanks to its biometrics program, giving you the video message the Duponts left for you. A few hours earlier, this virtual Jeeves had received Jacques, who delivered food for you from the local supermarket.Inside the house, the   Duponts programmed a latino decoration, because they know you love the ambiance. In the kitchen, a culinary assistant outlines menus you can cook with the food delivered by Jacques. And if you don't know the recipe, a video-chef gives you an entertaining lesson.Star Trek-style fantasy? Not so, insist the researchers. "This could be the future," says Laurent Ponthou, who heads the Studio Cr&eacute;atif at France T&eacute;l&eacute;com's research and development department. "We come up with services France T&eacute;l&eacute;com could offer its clients in the future and we compare our ideas to our clients' expectations and to experts' advice."Some 30 experts from different disciplines work on three sites. In Rennes, in   Brittany, they are trying to realise a futurist flat. In Issy-les-Moulineaux, Paris, a team works on mobile services, while another group based in Grenoble in the Alps designs communicating clothes fitted with a micro-chips."We try not to impose too many constraints on ourselves," continues Ponthou. "That is why we are working at simulating these services, rather than really bringing them into focus and testing them. It enables us to go faster   and to identify which are worth development."Freedom and imagination are the keywords in the Studio Cr&eacute;atif. "We do not have our ideas filtered by experts," says Ponthou. "We gradually build our vision. At the beginning, we don't know where we are heading to, but we believe it is going to work out." Enthusiasm is the buzz word.The psychologist, the marketing-man, the ergonomist and the multimedia designers have to pit their ideas against those from IT, finding what would be the most credible use for modern technology."It is not always technology that makes the difference when we deal with services," says Bernard Marquet, head   of the Rennes lab. "Added value means that we have to invent uses that have a meaning for the customer."At the centre of the electronic home vision is a network, accessed through a Palm Pilot-style control pad.The housekeeper manages everything with it, from video messages to the baby-sitter to the alarm system, via the heating and the watering of the garden. Webcams let parents keep an eye on the children's homework and the unit can even simulate the owner's presence in the house when he or she is away on holidays, making sure vital tasks are carried out.Focus groups regularly come to try these inventions. Their reactions provide valuable information for the Studio Cr&eacute;atif. "We often find   that people are not as surprised as we thought they would be," says Marquet. "They tell us they have already seen the services we show them. But it's not possible. Nevertheless, for us this is very positive - it means we are close to reality."Simplicity of use is essential," continues Marquet. "Techniques have to disappear behind services." Because of this demand for simplicity, the lab had to drop a sophisticated system to manage food stocks which involved scanning the   bar codes of all food bought and eaten. It was simply too demanding for consumers.Another problem the team has identified is security, and the protection of the private environment. All domestic functions are linked on an intranet, but they are also accessible from outside the house. So PIN numbers and passwords will have to be integrated into the system.But the researchers are also realistic about how far they can go. They know that, no matter how positive they are in focus groups, consumers will only allow technology to go so far. "The housekeeper has to master all situations in his home," remarks Marquet. "He cannot accept being dependent on technologies for his everyday needs."
I thought it was just me. About half an hour into the Ridley Scott action picture Gladiator, I got a strange sort of headache. It began somewhere behind my eyes, and quickly travelled back into my brain. I had a vague memory of the sensation, and as the burly characters hacked at one another inside a computer-rendered Roman Coliseum, I realised when I had experienced this same headache before: travelling to Jar-Jar Binks's underwater home city in Star Wars, The Phantom Menace.I have been similarly plagued by a kind of unsettling dizziness whenever I listen to MP3 music files - the format into which songs are compressed for easy downloading on the internet. The ease with which I can obtain music using programs like Napster is more than outweighed by my inability to listen to them. They don't sound like music at all to me, but like the idea of music. Shallow, fuzzy, and unreal.An increasing number of my friends are reporting the same phenomena. Could we be allergic to digital technology? Or are we simply too old for my brain to process and understand it? When we were kids, our parents used to complain about not being able to watch the quick-cut videos on MTV. We laughed at the inability of their ancient cerebral cortex to cope with the rapid-fire film grammar of the   late 20th century. Could it be that we thirty-somethings are now in the same position? Are our brains obsolete?Perhaps. But a little research into the technologies behind today's digitally simulated sounds and visuals may just reveal the opposite. What's bothering our analogue-era senses is our ability to see and hear what's really going on. Digital graphics and audio compression routines amount to little more than tricks. Like those Magic Eye 3D pictures that require viewers to un-focus their eyes in order to perceive the illusion, today's digital trickery demands that we blur our senses to experience the simulation.In digitally generated movie scenes, for example, the individual objects are often rendered quite flawlessly. A graphic artist might slave for weeks on the shape and texture of a single sword or shield. It's when all the different parts are put together that digital filmmakers run into trouble, particularly when they're placing all these computer-rendered objects into a computer-rendered environment.As long as the objects are placed in a blank void, like the dark nothingness of space, our brains can cope. All we need to do in order to figure out what's going on is relate one spaceship to another against a black background. When digitally rendered   objects are supposed to be moving around in real world environments, however, the simulation falls apart.The result looks about as real as a Hieronymous Bosch painting: a swarm of crisp images against an equally high-definition backdrop. And even though everything is moving about, reflecting light, and rotating in a way calculated to conform to the rules of three-dimensional motion, the whole image never quite comes together. The individual pictures are never made part of the same world. Our eyes and brains are supposed to make this leap, blurring it all together into a single event. When our sensory apparatus refuses to   accept this compromise, pain is the result.The same is true for compressed digital music files. MP3 is not a simple digital sound format, but something known as a "psycho-acoustic algorithm". Rather than reproducing music as accurately as possible given its space constraints, a psycho-acoustic algorithm attempts to fool the brain into hearing what is not there.By eliminating the real overtones associated with different instruments and the environments in which they are being played, then replacing them with set of similar frequencies, MP3 files save a lot of space. The algorithm imitates some of the qualities   of good sound production, even though it can't actually achieve it. Ultimately, our brain must use the sonic clues it receives to imagine the real musical event. We fill in the blank spots.Again, this might succeed with electronic music, which exists in a vacuum with no real world basis for comparison. But MP3 re-creations of recorded instruments and voices do not impact our body in the same way that a real recording does. Our brain might be fooled into believing that it's hearing an accurate reproduction of sound, but our body resonates about as much as it would with a cheap AM radio. It's the disparity between what we think we're hearing and what we're actually hearing that causes the confusion and discomfort.As market realities dictate the development of digital techniques, it may prove more economically efficient to push human perception towards the acceptance of these compromises. If the popularity of Napster is any indication, we already have.Hopefully, new digital techniques and formats will be developed that spend the processing power of our computers on reproduction instead of simulation. Until that time, however, I'd prefer it if such media came with warning labels: "Digital simulations employed."
Sim makes its city slickerSim City 3000 World EditionPC &#163;34.99 Maxis/EACynics might view the World Edition of Sim City 3000 as Electronic Arts cashing in on its purchase of Maxis, the software house behind one of the all-time classics. After all, it's only a year since SC3000 came out, and much of the stuff in the new version has been available for downloading. But judge it by what's in the box: you get almost everything you could ask for, and a lot of the awkwardness of earlier versions is taken away.The basic game is the same as it was in 1987 when it first appeared on the Commodore 64: zone land, build roads, set taxes, and let simulated citizens build the city of your dreams, or nightmares. A huge amount of detail has been added since then, and the World Edition... called Sim City 3000 Unlimited in the US... integrates hundreds of new buildings, a building editor, a terrain editor, and a scenario editor.You no longer have to build American cities, and you can quickly flip them into a Euro pean (German) or Asian (Korean/Japanese) style. You can add landmarks such as the Brandenburg Gate and the Eiffel Tower. And you can edit the terrain as much as you like before you start, which makes simulating real or ideal cities a lot easier.The amount of detail in the 3D buildings, cars and pedestrians is stunning, especially for anyone who remembers the flat 'classic' version.So SC3000WE is a great packaging job, but it also introduces a new web sitewww.simcity.com. There you can download even more buildings, such as the Chrysler Building, New York, and the Transamerica pyramid in San Francisco, and swap files, buildings, city photos and scenarios with fellow fans.If you've bought SC3000 recently, you might be a bit annoyed. But if you gave up on SC2000, this will restore your faith; and if you haven't played Sim City before, this is a good place to start. (JS)Dishing the dirt on bikesMotocross Madness 2PC	&#163;TBA  Rainbow Studios/Microsoft  ***Well, "Madness" is a bit strong: Motocross Rashness might be more accurate.The most bonkers thing about MM2 is the range of options. As well as three modes of play (practice, single race, and tournament), you can choose from five types of race, 70 different tracks, 22 bikes, four multiplayer modes, and a zillion colour schemes. The partridge in a pear tree hadn't surfaced at the time of writing, but I wouldn't bet against it.You can custom-build your own bike, and fine-tune any of the pre-set models.You can watch the action from an astonishing number of angles (as if staying on two wheels   wasn't challenging enough), and even take your opponents' point of view.The possibilities, then, are almost endless: the question is, will anyone be inclined to explore them all?There are two ways of approaching the game, depending on the kind of race: go for all-out speed, or pull off the most sensational stunts. The game mechanics are weighted more towards the stunts, and these appear (to the non-motocrossed eye, at least) to be fairly well realised. The catch is that, in terms of execution, there's no real difficulty curve - once you've mastered one stunt, you've mastered them all.More serious objections arise with the load times - you could do the hoovering and the dusting in the time it takes to start one race, even with a full install - and the graphics, which (oddly enough, coming as this does from Microsoft) are disagreeably reminiscent of a flight simulator.But if dirt bikes and/or showing off yank your chain, this is probably the best you can hope for.  (AB)Evil gets really wickedResident Evil: Code VeronicaDreamcast	&#163;39.99 Capcom/Eidos	****Marketing men will tell you that Resident Evil is a triple-A brand. Any game released under this banner will storm the charts, bringing comfort to retailers and industry types everywhere. Unfortunately, this can lead to a certain overspreading of the jam- see the execrable Resident Evil: Survivor for a case in point.Until recently, the Dreamcast had remained free of obscure puzzles, fixed camera angles and the undead, but following April's conversion of Resident Evil 2 comes the first proper "next-generation" instalment - Resident Evil: Code Veronica. This is the fifth game in the series and undoubtedly the best. Gone are the rendered backdrops   of yore, replaced by gorgeous real-time locales where you can freely interact with the surroundings.Even the camera has been released from its positional vice. As it swoops this way and that, you never know quite what is behind the next corner, and at 1am, with the lights off and the sound up, there are enough shocks to scare any cynical doubters.The sound is crucial, too. Stuttering heartbeats and creaky doors combine with superb lighting effects, making for some tense moments.However, it's not all action. While there are still zombies everywhere, the puzzle aspect has been beefed up, and thankfully, the conundrums seem more logical than before.Sadly, the controls remain defiantly un-analogue, but with most Dreamcast games requiring the attention span of a gnat, it's satisfying to play a game on the console that does not need the reflexes of a 12-year-old cola addict.  (GH)
In privateThe struggle for privacy on the web has a new assistant:IDcide's Privacy Companion. It's a free browser plug-in that can distinguish between temporary and persistent cookies (tags stored on your hard drive), and can block the "tracking cookies" used mainly to target advertising. However, the program still needs some work.Also, it doesn't really provide privacy. Anyone who wants that should use a paid-for service such asAnonymizer.But not many people seem to be struggling for privacy: just the reverse. There's now an interesting collection of accessories that provide communal surfing facilities with or without a guide.TourBar.comlets up to 1,000 people browse together in MasterSurfer mode. (The site is looking for MasterSurfer guides.) SideTalk, another "groupware" add-in, has also started to offer guided tours hosted by eJs, who work like DJs - seewww.sidetalk.com.Bubbling upNicholas Hall has already experienced three failed start-ups, so he is well qualified to runStartupfailures.comwhere learning from failure is what it's about. And if it fails, it could always feature in its own Failure of the Week slot.This is not the only site that stands to benefit from the "new economy" bubble bursting. Thomas Goetz's BubbleEconomy.com is providing links to the best web disaster stories atwww.bubbleeconomy.com.Search hereGoogle's minimalist design seems to have inspiredIxquick'suseful metasearch site. It combines rankings from 14 different search engines and stars the best. It might be    worth bookmarking in caseGooglefails. Another example is the UK-basedXrefer.comsearch site is based on reference books published by Oxford University Press, Bloomsbury, Macmillan and Penguin. However, real results fall some way below the site's potential.Fun to failMost people don't pay much attention to the 404 Not Found messages that come up when their web browser fails to fetch a page, but the 404 Research Lab has built a great web site out of them atwww.plinko.net/404. It's useful, amusing and probably the only site whose success depends on broken links.Betty BusBetty is the London bus that, in 1994, took four men to Hong Kong. In September it's off to Tierra del Fuego with a new crew of three men and three women. The Big Bus Ride will be filmed as an eight part documentary, will link to schools world-wide through Schoolmaster.net, and also aims to raise &#163;200,000 for the WarChild charity. Climb aboard atwww.bigbusride.com.JournaListasIf you likeCEO Expressfor its quick links to useful websites, you might also like its companion,JournaListExpress. However, the latter requires registration, which will put a lot of people off.Go greenTalkcast Corporation is churning out websites at a rapid rate, including GoodAndGreenGoodAndGreen.com, QuirkyWorldQuirkyWorld.comand 80sworld.com80sworld.com. GoodAndGreen is worthy while 80sworld is the opposite. QuirkyWorld could have been produced by a bored 15-year-old. Presumably Talkcast is doing something else with the &#163;20m in start-up funds it raised in October.New and notedWebCheck, the desktop search system, has teamed up withMoreover, the British news feed site. The Fielding Group has moved into e-commerce with TFG Sports atwww.TFGSports.com, selling leisurewear and accessories. Left-handed people can shop online atwww.anythingleft-handed.com. Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) has just exploded into US cinemas with Mission: Impossible 2, and the old website atwww.missionimpossible.comis bang up to date (UK release date: July 7). Bad site of the week:Honest, devoted to the new film by David (Eurythmics) Stewart starring three All Saints.Six of the bestParisOfficial Tourist Officewww.paris-touristoffice.comInfo for Britswww.paris-anglo.comTransportwww.ratp.fr/index_eng.htmFrench Portalwww.inside-paris.comThe Louvrewww.louvre.fr/louvrea.htmQuick linkswww.excite.com/travel/countries/france/paris
Goodbye to videotapeHitachi is promising to take camcorders into a new dimension by launching a model that records on to mini DVDs. Due in October, the camcorder, which will retail for around &#163;1,300, can store up to an hour's worth of MPEG2 standard digital audio and video on an 80mm DVD-ram disc.The camcorder's trump card is its unique electronic album. This enables the user to instantly access various stages of the recording by touching a still image of the start of the footage on the model's LCD screen.Hitachi is unlikely to be the only manufacturer with a disc-based camcorder for long. Both Sony and Sharp are considering launching models that record on to newly developed high capacity MiniDiscs.In spite of its disc innovation Hitachi hasn't given up on tape-based camcorders. Due next month is the VM-D865LE which uses the Digital 8 system as pioneered by Sony. This offers digital recording on to analogue Hi8 cassettes.An office in your pocketBT Cellnet has announced the June 26 launch of its GPRS high speed wireless data system for mobile phones - but only for business users. It is accompanied by the first GPRS service PocketNet Office, that gives users mobile access to their company's intranets.GPRS (General Packet Radio service), which has been dubbed G two and a half by the phone industry,   delivers internet information at least five to 10 times as quickly as current GSM Wap (wireless application protocol) phones.The system also offers instant access to the internet as the phone is permanently connected to a data network - either a company LAN or an internet service provider.GPRS will significantly improve the speed and functionality of Wap services as well as offering access to full HTML pages.BT Cellnet's GPRS services will only be available to businesses with a large number of mobile phone users. They will pay a subscription fee of between &#163;35 and &#163;70 a month for a certain amount of download time. A GPRS-equipped version of Motorola's Timeport phone will be available for around &#163;200, although businesses will also be able to invest in GPRS cards for their PCs.PocketNet Office, the first GPRS application to be rolled out by BT Cellnet, will allow users mobile access to their company intranets through a PC and a mobile phone. Previously these services could be   accessed only via a fixed connection.BT Cellnet hopes to launch the consumer version of GPRS by the end of the year.NikeNike has created a new division dedicated to producing hi-tech gadgets for athletes. Due first is an MP3 player, the PSA/Play that goes on sale in the US next month and will reach the UK in October.It will be accompanied by two variations on the Nike Triax watch: one with a heart rate monitor and the other boasting an altimeter/ compass.Nike is also working on a clothing range with dedicated pockets for its gadgets. There's no news yet on MP3 equipped trainers, but we're keeping our fingers crossed.Power to the portableYour kitchen trannie has finally succumbed to the digital revolution. Roberts Radio has announced the launch of the world's first portable digital radio.The Classic 2000 tunes into the DAB (digital audio broadcasting) network to deliver crystal clear versions of stations like BBC Radio 1-5 and Classic FM. The service also allows digital data to be transmitted simultaneously with audio signals. So, for example, the radio can display the name of the track and the artist while a tune is playing.The bad news is that the Classic 2000 costs &#163;800 and is available only in very limited numbers.  (AN)The price of fameIt was billed as the loneliest phone box in the world - and now it's gone, thanks to the fame it found on the web.From the 1960s this fully functioning Pacific Bell phone box stood in the middle of the Mojave desert in California, at the junction of   two dead-end desert tracks. It was 15 miles from the nearest main road, and a million miles from anyone's thoughts.That was until a website owner chanced upon a reference to the box in a magazine in 1997, and began calling every day in the hope someone might answer.It took a month of daily dialling, but eventually someone did answer - and   an obsession was born.Over the years, more and more people heard of theMojave Phone Booth siteand began calling - and visiting - the phone box themselves.But after three years of rapidly growing web-fuelled fame Pacific Bell, the box's owner, said in a joint statement with the Mojave National Preserve that   "increased public traffic had a negative impact on the desert environment". It had been installed only because of a legal requirement to provide phones in remote locales. But its removal has sparked an outcry, in the park and on the web.Phone calls to the booth's number - 001 760 733-9969 - are now greeted by a recorded message.  (NM)Protected by printsAn MI5 trainee agent gets drunk in a tapas bar and leaves her laptop behind. A government official has a laptop stolen crammed with details of a new top-secret Stealth fighter.The ease with which laptops containing sensitive information are proving a security headache for governments and companies. One solution being offered is to make the machines fingerprint sensitive so they will respond only to an authorised user.Such a system is being offered by Veridicom, a US company spun off in 1997 from Lucent/Bell Labs, the telecommunications manufacturer.The system is based on a small silicon sensor which captures the image of a fingerprint then identifies details unique to it - ridge endings and bifurcations -and stores the information as a template.Anyone wanting to use the computer must offer a fingerprint for a live reading. The sensor compares the print to the information that was stored.If the data match, access to the computer is allowed.Other security systems are on the market, notably optical scanners featured in the Mission Impossible movie.But Veridicom believes it has the edge over optical systems because fingerprint sensors are cheaper, smaller and easier to integrate. Seewww.veridicom.com.  (MT)
If you're one of the growing band of supermarket cyber-shoppers, there's something missing from your life. How long is it since you were hit by the smell of fresh-baked bread, pumped to the store's front entrance? Take comfort: e-smell is on its way.Digiscents, a Californian company, has released a scenting kit to software developers in the gaming industry.The company is keen to promote itself as a science-based concern, even if its products seem better suited to the joke shop. Founded in February 1999 by Dexster Smith and Joel Bellenson, it boasts academic experts in human odour perception, food science and neuro-biology among its employees and advisors.At the end of March, Digiscents and Clontech laboratories, a Californian biotech firm, announced that they had isolated, cloned and sequenced 126 human olfactory receptor genes. That means they now have the instructions for making nearly half the "working parts" of the nose: olfactory receptors   allow us to detect and distinguish between smells.Digiscents already has a partnership with RealNetworks, which means its software will be auto-downloaded to almost 100 million RealPlayer users. Rob Dyer, president of Eidos Interactive, says the demo pack has convinced him that smell has huge possibilities; Eidos programmers are already playing with the smell of Lara Croft. Eventually, you'll smell those dank caves as you roam through the darkness.Race games will get a new dimension with the smell of burning rubber to spice up your living room. The possibilities are only limited by the game developer's imagination.Game players have always been among the premier drivers of digital technologies, says John Williams, business development manager for Digiscents, and their take-up will be important for pushing digital smell forward. While we wait for the first batch of "scent-enabled" games - Williams thinks they should be out next year - the company is also trying   to get in on digitising supermarket scents.The real killer application, Williams says, would be in making the web shopping experience much more pleasurable. Last week he met Nick Lansley, Tesco's internet shopping manager. Although Williams is confident that he can make Tesco a better place to shop online, Lansley is not convinced. "We don't have any plans to proceed with this at this time. It's a bit of a gimmick and I'm not sure where it will go," he says.One of the main problems, Lansley says, would be in convincing people to invest in the new computer peripherals. A scent-enabled web page would send instructions to your PC, detailing the recipe for the required smell. A software driver converts those instructions to a form that can be   interpreted by your particular brand of "smell-speaker". That would then release a smell by heating oils or essences contained in a cartridge within the "speaker". Finally, a fan blows the scent towards the user.Digiscents has two hardware prototypes: one contains 36 different scents, and the deluxe has 128 essences that can be mixed to provide - in theory - millions of different smells. They have just finalised the design specifications for a commercial smells "broadcaster" that should be available early next year.But the crucial part of this system is the software: getting the smell mixture right. For an ambience - such as a damp cave - exact recipes are not so crucial. However, to create the scent of real strawberries as you order them online is going to be rather difficult.Our noses are superbly accurate gauges of the molecules that make up a smell: miss one ingredient from the hundreds in a strawberry smell recipe and we would notice immediately."Creating smells from scratch is very challenging," says Firooz Rasouli of the Illinois Institute of Technol ogy. He holds a patent on the device that may deliver the first web-smells: the "tele-aroma drive". It is very much like a CD-rom drive, he says. An alphabet of smell molecules is embedded in the surface of a polymer disk, and a laser heats the polymer at specific points, releasing and vapourising the right combination of molecules.But he admits that optimising the accuracy of a concocted smell is difficult. What they can do now is package "scratch and sniff" smells on a disk: wine companies, perfume houses or coffee producers might care to mailshot disks of their product smells to potential customers. Stick the disk in the tele-aroma drive and you can experience the delights of the product while you consider an online purchase.Digiscents is in talks with the Illinois Institute of Tech nology about licensing the tele-aroma drive system; it wants to concentrate on developing software, not hardware. That means writing code for programs and drivers for the peripherals, describing the necessary ratio of certain scents, and at what intervals they should be pushed out. The aim is world domination - &agrave; la Microsoft - of the smell operating system. "We're trying to set the standard for delivery of smell through any connected device," Williams says.He believes that its technology could become a standard on new computer packages within a few years. Odour experiments of the past - pumping appropriate smells into cinemas to enhance the viewing experience - were flawed because no one could stop the scents lingering and mixing, sometimes to malodorous effect.Such technology really works only on small scales, says Williams: "We have a small device emitting nanolitres of liquids: it's perfect for a personal experience."Of course, it will also be perfect for schoolboy pranks: security on scent-enabled sites had better be tight. Chemists and hackers could join forces to alter the driver recipes, turning electronic greeting cards into digital stink bombs.To the gaming world, of course, that's just another opportunity. Multi-player games that can ruin your opponent's concentration with a well-timed stink bomb? Now that's progress.
Small but snappyAgfa ePhoto CL18 camera&#163;99 plus VATAgfa's ePhoto CL18 - a palm-sized digital camera for   snaps and videoconferencing - isn't exactly disposable. But at &#163;99 plus VAT, it could reach a new market of people for whom existing models are both too expensive and too hard to use.This is unashamedly a snapshot camera, and it has the minimum number of controls. The main decision you have to take is whether to push the button to set the so-called High Quality mode - 640 by 480 pixels, the same as a VGA screen, in 24-bit colour - or use Standard Quality.HQ lets you take 16 pictures before the memory is full, while SQ lets you take 32 before you have to download   the results to a PC.Sorry, no removable storage so you can keep shooting. Sorry, no colour screen on the back so you can see what you have taken. Sorry, no zoom lens. The CL18 does have a small monochrome LCD screen for numeric read-outs, but just about the only extras are the 10 second self-timer and the built-in   multi-mode flash.But, the CL18 does have more potential than this suggests. It comes with a video cable so you can display your pictures on a TV screen,   either PAL or NTSC. It also comes with a fast USB cable and a tiny tripod, so that you can use it for video conferencing, for capturing video images, and as a webcam. All these features rely on connecting the CL18 to a PC running Microsoft Windows 98.While there are cheaper webcams for video-conferencing with Microsoft NetMeeting, the CL18's advantage is that it works as a snapshot camera as well. And while its 0.3 megapixel resolution may look weedy compared to the 3.3 megapixel beasts now   taking over the camera market, it's certainly good enough for most web page uses.The CL18 also comes with a selection of software on CD-rom, including Corel Photo House 5 image-editing software and Corel Print Office 2000.Bare facts: The Agfa ePhoto CL18 measures 95 x 65 x 35mm and weighs 120g (4.2oz) without its two AA batteries. It has 2MB of non-removable Flash memory that can hold from 16 to 32 colour pictures, depending on resolution.The fixed focus f/2 lens is the equivalent of a 45mm lens and provides sharp pictures from 50cm (20in) to infinity.
How difficult is it to do something original in the games market?I really don't know! Maybe the real question is "Do the publishers want something new or special?" Of course, some ways do exist to by-pass the publisher's desires ... mainly low production costs and huge sales. A good relationship between developers and publishers, based on mutual respect, dialogue and creativity, could be sufficient to explore new universes.How does the UK games audience compare with the rest of Europe?Very reactive, smart and demanding on quality, technologies, interface and gameplay. At first it's very intimidating to come to the UK to present a game. Fortunately, regarding Devil, things seem to be going well.Can you tell us about THEO?THEO is an in-house technology developed at Gamesquad by Christophe Nazaret. It's a tool designed for graphics and allows animators to produce sets, characters, animations, SFX, choose cameras, lenses and paths and, last but not least, test very simply the look and feel of the game. THEO is the result of three and a half years of hard work because no tools really exist specifically for games - whatever platform you choose to develop it for. Graphic tools employed by developers are designed for TV or movies but not for games. THEO has overcome this difficult challenge.Any games that you wished you'd been involved with?There are a lot -especially the things I don't know how to write or design such as Age Of Empires, Populous, Sim Life or Starcraft. I also really like Black &amp; White (cross-genre strategy game for networks) but I'm very impatient with it as I've never worked on this genre ... even although that's the type of game I prefer to play. In reality I'm far from being a perfect gamer. In fact, if I'm honest, I'm pretty bad and always seem to lose when I play against other gamers!Is there an online option with The Devil Inside?Not for this particular opus - the Devil universe is designed to be a trilogy. Regarding Gamesquad, the online option demands between 8 and 12 months of intense hard work. We preferred, for our first "baby", to work on a one-player design. God willing, Devil 2 is supposed to be an online game.Is the future of gaming online?I think so. The idea of gamers' communities, group adventures, characters and universes is technically possible now. It's a real revolution. In a few years one can easily imagine gaming TV channels structured around hits and news products. It might end up as "pay as you play" or possibly you might be able to test freely before buying.What would you like to be able to do technologically that you can't at present?An online game finished for the day after tomorrow!&#149;  For more information on Gamesquad visit:www.gamesquad.fr
ProvocateurI take my hat off to David East (Feedback May 25). Having often wondered which controversial phrase would guarantee the most responses to a Guardian letters page, I had pondered over "Man U are actually quite a good team", "Wasn't life better under Mrs Thatcher", and "thin people are obviously more intelligent than fat people". However, "Microsoft products always work first time" is simply the best.I will now stand aside so you can fill the rest of the page with the endless responses from disgruntled PC users and smug Mac-heads.Derek Chelleyderek.chelly@prudential.co.ukNo winDavid East has obviously had better experiences with Windows than I have. Last year, as a 40-something computer novice, I decided to get a PC and learn how to use it. It wasn't long before I was feeling an increasingly strong urge to throw my computer through the nearest window every time it froze up.At this point I bought a book on Linux which came with a free copy of Red Hat 6.0. Installation involved some mental effort (I had to read part of the book) but wasn't beyond my limited abilities.I haven't used Windows since. In six months my system hasn't frozen or crashed once, and I've been able to configure it in exactly the way I wanted (not possible with Windows 95). Linux is cheap, reliable, versatile and leaves my glazing intact.John Rigg:john@soundman.demon.co.ukDavid East should play the National Lottery. With luck like his, he should win the jackpot every week!Meanwhile, the rest of us suffer regular software crashes caused by the myriads of bugs and subtle incompatibilities within Windows. Eventually, we see the infamous "blue screen of death" of Windows NT one   time too many, and our patience snaps.Then we replace Windows with Linux, and enjoy a stable, reliable and stress-free computing environment, just like the fortunate Mr East.Dr David Harperadh@sanger.ac.ukWhat's this obsession with Linux? Well, Mr East, having read your letter you are obviously the luckiest man on the planet - please buy my next lottery ticket for me.My computer crashes constantly, usually in MS Word or Explorer - the wonderful blue screen saying: "Your system is busy, please wait. If you hit Ctrl, Alt, Delete again to restart - because I certainly will be 'busy' for the rest of the day - then you will lose all unsaved information".Then there is the amount of disk space consumed by Mr Gates' products - 410 Mb, after a fresh reinstall (which took an entire day to do - internet connections, applications, network etc to sort out) due to my machine slowing down to the speed of a snail on dope. Computers are a tool, but they certainly should not be a chore.The reason Mr Gates is so wealthy is that up until now he has stifled the "innovation" he goes on about by buying up every competitor he can. I was told the other day that only creative people use Macintoshes. I think I shall get a Mac next time, as then I will obviously become one of a rare breed.Charles Hendersonce.henderson@virgin.netWhy Linux? My estimated average reboot statistics:Windows 3.1 - 4 per dayWindows 95 - 3 per dayWindows 98 - 6 per dayWindows NT4 - 2 per 				 weekLinux 2.2.12 - 1 per 3 months (due to power failure).Lionel Barnettlionelb@cogs.susx.ac.ukTake the blameTony Fogarty's contribution (Online, May25) to what appears to be the growing issue of the misapplied miracle of IT adds to one's sense of despair.All this obvious intelligence both human and machine yet so often, so little common-sense. What on earth is wrong with we humans that we regularly promote to power those who are quite unable to implement potentially beneficial systems? The example he quotes is one of a   number of high profile messes that were "sold" in every sense of the word. What are rarely seen are the numberless occasions this example is replicated in smaller, more private situations.The UK needs a structure whereby those who stand to benefit directly from IT change, be they personal or corporate, must be prepared to bear some significant financial responsibility for a bad outcome. God knows they certainly bear the profits.The last two words of Dr Fogarty's letter were "critical analysis" and they should be carved on the arses of all who sit on the decision committees for such schemes.David Pricedp003@watford.netNot wantedI find myself in a similar position to John Thorpe and his struggle to find work during this supposed IT skills crisis. Having graduated three years ago with a computer science degree I now find my skills dismissed by the industry that demanded them not so long ago, and without an IT job in six months. I have cancelled my subscriptions to industry publications after continually reading about the difficulties of finding enough skilled workers in today's IT marketplace, the effect of IR35 legislation on the skills shortage and how the government plans to relax work permit regulations.  Perhaps employers should be looking for longer-term solutions to their staffing needs rather than the "six months here then I'm off" candidates encouraged by recruitment consultants.Steve Maysteve_d_may@hotmail.comSit properlyYour article on IT for oldies (May 25) shows a venerable user sitting at a computer looking slightly upwards at the screen in an attitude which can quickly induce pains in the neck and back.I am typing this while sitting in an easy chair with the keyboard on my lap, and the mouse mat on the arm of the chair. This is no more fatiguing than watching the telly.The secret is to get a keyboard extension cable and then,with suitably placed equipment, you can even compute with your feet up!Peter Barkerpeterbarker@bcs.org.uk
Chuck D, Public Enemy's frontman and internet entrepreneur, predicted last year that by 2001 there would be a million artists on the internet, spelling an end to the current stranglehold of the music industry by a handful of global corporations.As leading new music site MP3.com's roster reaches 70,000, such a figure is no exaggeration. But the democratising power of the net alone is unlikely to alter the basic economics of reaching the mass market. As Al Teller, founder of Chuck D's internet-based label, Atomic Pop, commented: "In 10 years it's going to be as easy to make a recording and post it on the net as it is to talk on a telephone today, but having a phone on your desk doesn't mean that anyone interesting is actually going to call you."So don't believe the hype about the imminent demise of the record companies. After all, the new media world is still awaiting the emergence of the first true MP3 superstars.But these are early days, and though the process of industry fragmentation may not be quite as quick as some had forecast, at the grass roots level things are beginning to change. The net is not simply about Napster, Gnutella and the threat of music   piracy. Artists, as well as music fans, are beginning to harness the vast potential of the net.Take two homegrown examples. Firstly,Silverman, yet to play a gig, but after only eight months on the web, they have already been over to Playboy Mansions in Los Angeles to collect an award fromStreamsearch.comfor a song recorded in a friend's bedroom in Cheltenham. Then there'sStargirlfrom London, who managed to sell nearly 4,000 copies of their first single - totally self-financed and with most of the purchases in the US.Aside from the fact that the quality of the music is clearly above that of most of the new music on the web, their experiences also show that there is no obvious route to building an online following. For whereas Silverman chose to offer their material to a variety of   intermediary sites including MP3.com, Peoplesound, IUMA , Riffage and Besonic to build up their presence, Stargirl refused to sign up to any, relying upon the band's own website as their principal source of exposure.Stargirl's Seb Lee-Delisle sees the sheer size of some of the sites as their main drawback. As he explained: "Unless they actively promote us, there really is no incentive." He particularly credits the US-based net forum'electric minds'in triggering interest in their music.Silverman's Martin Williams is more optimistic about such sites, pointing to examples such as mp3.com's Payback For Playback scheme that is bringing in thousands of dollars for some artists.Both bands are quick to point out the limitations of the net in its current state. Even the most hardened techno-evangelists such as Scott Meldrum, of I-Music Promotion, PR man behind   MP3.com's Fisher, stresses that "unsigned artists need to be able to compete in all of the mediums available - live performance, print press, CD sales/distribution and radio as well as the internet".But what both Silverman and Stargirl have achieved is to prove that the internet can help build a loyal and international fanbase in a way that would have been almost impossible only a few years ago.The potential power and organisation of the online fan base was well illustrated recently by another UK- based band,Ooberman. Still relatively unknown but with a strong internet following, they beat rivals such as Doves and Embrace to win Best Live Act at the recent NME.com Carling Premier awards.This was then followed by a concerted bombardment of Radio 1 with spam email and viruses (not at the band's request) when the station refused to playlist their last single. Despite the lack of airplay, it still got to number 47.Of course, these bands are not exactly typical. Each has had members skilled in both website design and self-promotion, and each stresses the amount of time, effort and money needed to build and maintain interest in the band. Like most bands now, they have to balance the freedom of the DIY approach against the obvious benefits of some   serious investment from a traditional record company.But at least there are choices to be made, and as broadband net connections spread and more established artists choose the go-it-alone option, the net will begin to represent a much more viable commercial alternative.Bassic, a popular electronic   artist on MP3.com's site, points out how simple licensing deals can be concluded in a matter of minutes in the online world without the need for any intermediaries. With the advent of more sophisticated search and tracking technologies such as MPEG-7, it should be easy to monitor each and every usage of individual songs from broadcasts to sales with instant payments through micropayment systems.There is certainly no shortage of sites targeting their services at new music producers. And there is no real lack of training, advice or even   grant funding. Improving IT skills is a government priority, the new deal for musicians is up and running and there is an increasing number of publicly-funded bodies offering both money and support. If there is a problem, it's more a question of deciding which sites to choose or how to access help and advice.One of the great advantages of the web is its ability to cut across organisational boundaries to make the seeking and provision of information more efficient. And it is this concept that lies behind ArtistRight, a key recommendation of the IPPR New   Musical Entrepreneurs report: the need for an aggregated online information resource for musicians and composers, to encourage entrepreneurship in music creators.As an initial entry point to information, ArtistRight could provide a basic signposting service to web-based companies, services and resources as well as industry organisations and national and local advice, support and grant-awarding bodies. It could offer an independent survey of the various new music sites and provide basic advice on anything from building a website to rights issues.Rather than reinvent the wheel, it could roll out innovative local initiatives at the national level - such as the musicians' introduction and grant management services being developed by the Liverpool-basedbitibizinitiative, run out of Paul McCartney's Liverpool Institute for the Performing Arts (LIPA) and part-funded with European regeneration money.Some seedcorn public money may be helpful in getting ArtistRight get off the ground, while co-operation from industry organisations that represent the interests of musicians and composers would be important in establishing credibility in the quality of information on offer.But, like Mick Hucknall's excellent Communities In Tune idea, it should be supported mainly by private funding.Despite this country's illustrious musical past, we cannot afford to be complacent. Last year, for the first time in more than 30 years, not one British record made Billboard's Top 100 selling singles of the year in the US. The net is no cure-all but it is already beginning to make a nonsense of the current distinction between "signed" and "unsigned" music.Soon enough a net-based band will emerge into the mass market to pave the way for the next generation of go-it-alone New Musical Entrepreneurs. and both the government and the music industry should be doing all they can to ensure that they are from the UK.&#149; For copies of New Musical Entrepreneurs, contact Central Books on 020 8986 5488 orippr@centralbooks.com
Shares in Atlantic Telecom continued their modest revival yesterday and may rise further next week when its deal with First Telecom is finalised.Atlantic stock has been submerged since March, when investors lost faith in the media and telcoms sector.The small but fast growing company saw its shares plunge from &#163;12 to almost a third of that value. Last night they ended the day up 10p at   465p, moving in line with the rest of the sector.Graham Duncan, Atlantic's executive chairman, hopes to allay sceptics' fears on June 7. He will explain how the First Telecom deal will enable it to become a leading provider of broadband data services in Germany, Europe's largest telecoms market.Mr Duncan's entrepreneurial style has brought the Aberdeen-based company an   army of supporters. But its rapid expansion makes the more cautious nervous.The &#163;520m takeover of First Telecom also entails increasing financial commitments and management issues which have led some analysts to recommend selling the stock.Atlantic uses wireless technology to bypass BT's loop network and has access to Marconi's national network. Marconi holds a 27% stake in   Atlantic but that will be reduced to 18.9% when the First Telecom deal goes through.In July Atlantic will be opening in Frankfurt, thanks to First Telecom, and will spend a further &#163;100m rolling out the services to small businesses in other major German cities.There are also plans to open up competition against BT in the provision of asymmetric digital subscriber lines.Jim Ross, analyst with ABN   Amro, is one of the enthusiasts for Atlantic. He is impressed with Mr Duncan's drive and rates it a "buy".Almost everyone agrees, the telecoms sell-off has been overdone with some investors linking the sector with internet start-ups. So it might take the inevitable rerating of the telecom sector for the bears to finally ride any wave in favour of Atlantic.
Vodafone AirTouch chief executive Chris Gent yesterday said his group expected a "very acceptable" rate of return from its investment in a third-generation mobile network in Britain despite the high cost of the licence.He also promised a slowdown in the pace of corporate activity which has seen the group more than quadruple in size in the past year.Vodafone has a string of disposals and flotations in the pipeline to help finance its ambitions to bid for third-generation mobile telephone licences and has not lost its appetite for growth.During the past financial year Vodafone tied up its acquisition of AirTouch in the US, sold its stakeholding in E-Plus and, shortly after the year's end, concluded its alliance with Bell Atlantic to create Verizon Wireless and took over Mannesmann.Since then it has sold parts of Mannesmann's engineering business, found a buyer for Orange and plans to sell 15% of France's Cegetel to Vivendi, and has deals pending in Germany and Italy.The deals left Vodafone with 39.1m customers at the end of March - an increase of more than 50% - although that rises to 53m when Mannesmann's subscribers are included.Pro forma results for the group - excluding Mannesmann but including AirTouch for the full year - showed turnover up 134% to &#163;7.87bn while pre-tax profits rose by 37% to &#163;2.47bn. In Britain it added 3.2m customers, taking the total to 8.8m and its market share to 32%.
Deutsche Telekom and its majority-owned subsidiary,T-Online, yesterday proved that silence can be golden when their refusal to deny rumours that the latter is preparing a &#163;6.5bn bid forFreeserveprompted a 24% surge in the internet service provider's share price.Dealers returned to their desks in London after the bank holiday weekend to find Freeserve shares marked up sharply on speculation that a 650p per share bid from Germany's largest internet outfit was imminent.Although both German companies refused to comment on the reports, Deutsche senior vice-president Thomas Winkler added fuel to the fire by    confirming that T-Online was searching for acquisitions, saying: "We are not a sitting duck   - we want to take active part in the consolidation process."Freeserve has been the centre of intense takeover speculation since the start of this month, when it was revealed that retailer Dixons had appointed investment bank Goldman Sachs to review the future of its 80% holding in the company.Analysts believe that Freeserve -the only leading domestic European internet service provider not owned by a telecoms company - is most likely to be sold to the Deutsche-backed T-Online.Cable company NTL, British Telecommunications and Energis have both been mentioned as possible counter-bidders but T-Online is seen as favourite to strike a deal.Peter Misek, an internet analyst at Chase H&amp;Q, said a deal between Freeserve and T-Online would give both a much needed pan-European presence, generate significant cost savings across a number of technology platforms and allow the combine a critical mass of users. "It's a deal that makes a lot of sense," he said.Analysts believe that BT, which also recently announced a restructuring, is seen as having enough to do without entering an auction for Freeserve, while it is unclear whether NTL shareholders would be prepared to fund such a large bid.Dixons has promised not to sell any of its shares before June 27 - Freeserve's first anniversary as a public company   and the date that it reports its full-year results. But observers believe the stock exchange may be ready to wave through a bid before then, providing it represents a healthy premium for Freeserve shareholders.Although Freeserve shares have traded as high as 950p this year they tumbled in the sell-off of tech stocks. Analysts believe that a bid of about 650p could secure a deal in light of recent turbulence. Last night Freeserve shares closed up 95p at 487p, with Dixons shares up 28.5p at 302p.
National Grid and ScottishPower have joined a group of 12 leading European utilities to form an e-business industry procurement exchange.An independent company will be created to own and operate the exchange. Initially around 80% of the equity will be owned by the founding partners, who also include Northern Electric, United Utilities, Edf of France and RWE in Germany.Ken Vowles, executive director of ScottishPower's UK power operation said last night: "These leading European utilities have come together to improve performance, productivity and capital efficiency."He described it as "an exciting example of the application of the internet to promote efficiency in an industry and throughout the supply chain."The founding partners are estimated to spend upwards of &#163;20bn collectively each year on procurement. The exchange will provide an elec tronic marketplace open to buyers and sellers in the utilities industry. The intital focus will be on the European electricity and water industries.The founding partners will work together to make the exchange attractive for all companies by establishing a collaborative platform for all industry participants.In the first phase, the focus will be on catalogue purchasing, auctioning of goods and also procurement management information. Any supplier can participate. The approach is aimed at benefiting suppliers, giving them greater market reach and reducing transaction costs.Members of the new procurement exchange claim that "a robust, scalable, open and independent technology platform will be chosen after a thorough evaluation of alternative providers."The consortium plans to begin internet-based trading by late summer. The partners will use the exchange for a substantial proportion of their procurement.
Pauline Wilson-Copp is a mature student at Cheltenham College of Higher Education who recently protested outside the Tate Modern by parking her mirror-covered Ford Capri, entitled Dog On, in front of it. It was removed by the police and placed in their car pound, but they have now decided to release the car.What's so special about your car?It's a spectacular piece of popular art accessible to many people.How did the idea come about?I kept finding pieces of broken mirrors in my trawls through scrapyards and derelict car businesses. I then went looking for   a car - any car - and the first that hit out at me was a Capri. The scrap value was &#163;250 but, as I had no money, I had to wait two months for one I could have for free.What was your protest outside the Tate about?It wasn't a protest exactly. My basic plan was to deliver it to London and just live with it. It's difficult to get into establishment art but I wanted in some way to link the car to a major art event and the opening of the Tate Modern was perfect.What reactions did the car get?Initially people thought it was a legitimate Tate exhibit. Then, everyone congratulated me on it. Others   made a special visit after reading about me in the press. Some said it was sexy and liked its unofficial position. The workers on the site liked it too and even brought me sandwiches. Lots of people fed me - which was lucky as I arrived with no food or money.What does the name Dog On mean?Dog is a name for an old banger. Apart from that I'd like people to make up their own minds about its meaning.How long did it take to make?I started it in October last year and finished it just before the Tate opened, working round the clock.Why was it to be crushed?I couldn't afford to pay the rent at the police car pound.Why did the police decide to save it?I think they understood what I was doing. The car made people smile - it had a personality.Is it roadworthy?No. It had to be transported by a lorry to London.What will you do with the car once it's released?Cheltenham and Bristol Councils are interested in displaying it in the town centres. I'd love to see it outside the Pompidou Centre or included in the Tate exhibition. I'd also like to take it past Buckingham Palace as the Queen didn't get to see it at the Tate opening.Do you have any other vehicles?A Vauxhall hatchback that has broken down so I'm currently carless. I only need a car as a means to carry my junk around. When I get some money I will buy myself a new Capri.
Shares in Freeserve, Britain's leading internet service provider (ISP), are likely to regain lost ground tomorrow amid speculation that Germany's T-Online is preparing a bid for the business.T-Online, the ISP spun off from Deutsche Telekom last month, is reported to be preparing a &#163;6bn offer. It hopes to pre-empt any rival bids from the likes of cable companies NTL and Telewest, which have been cited as potential buyers.Interest was ignited after Dixons, the high street electrical chain which founded Freeserve less than two years ago, appointed investment bank Goldman Sachs to review its holding in Freeserve, a move widely interpreted as signalling a sell-off.Dixons is able to sell half its 80% stake in Freeserve from June 27 when the company presents its annual results.Freeserve's management is said to be resistant to a sale to T-Online, fearing the company would be subsumed within the larger group. T-Online, which is believed to have first ap proached Dixons earlier this year, has 4.9m subscribers. Freeserve has just under 2m.It is suggested that T-Online would be prepared to offer 600p to 650p a share, representing a large premium on Friday's closing price of 392p.Freeserve shares reached a high of 920p in March but tumbled after a clutch of rivals announced the launch of unmetered internet access. It has also been affected by the sell-off of hi-tech stocks.A deal between T-Online and Freeserve would be the latest in a rapidly consolidating internet industry. Earlier this   month Spain's Terra Networks agreed to pay $12.5bn (&#163;8.4) for US portal Lycos.&#149; Nina Brink, the founder and former chairwoman of the pan-European ISP World Online, said she was not warned by her advisers, ABN Amro and Goldman Sachs, that selling her World Online shares just before a stock market launch would send a negative message to investors.
Well done Prudential. While lesser e-businesses are cancelling their flotation plans and bemoaning the fickleness of investors, it is bravely pressing ahead with its plans to list Egg. The Pru is raising only a tiny amount of money and could easily afford to finance the &#163;150 million that Egg itself will raise for future expansion.The decision to go ahead with the float, despite the jittery markets, presumably reflects Pru's confidence that others will share its faith in Egg's business model and prospects.Its confidence is at least partly justified. In the 18 months or so since its launch, Egg has expanded its customer base faster than anyone, including the Pru itself, would have predicted. It now has more than a million customers, with almost &#163;8 billion of deposits between them, and the much-derided name is one of the best-recognised brands in financial services.It has done the easy bit. Offer generous enough rates - Egg is still losing money on every deposit - and wealthy customers will flock to you, whether they have to do it through the Internet, the post office or the high street.Egg will also have won a bit of kudos for being the first serious Internet player. But the real test will come when it moves rates down to more realistic levels, as it will have to eventually. The chances are that much of that &#163;8bn will be off in search of the   next sucker keen to build a customer base.The Pru is well aware of the risk, and Egg chief executive Mike Harris and his team are putting their effort into finding ways of keeping its customers, and attracting other less fickle ones, by offering extras such as credit cards, insurance and a service to help you choose investment products.There is a surfeit of companies offering these things, so it is questionable how much loyalty such products will command. Egg now acknowledges that the only way to get customers and keep them coming to the site is to offer them a current account, and it will launch one within the next 12 months.It is a pity it waited so long. Had it offered one even 12 months ago, it would have been virtually the only true Internet bank. Now, however, it will have to fight off every one from Halifax to the Co-op, who watched Egg's success and decided to get their own customers online quickly.Egg's reluctance to move early was understandable. Running current accounts is expensive, time-consuming and will probably require an agreement with a high street bank. There is not even the compensation of big profits - although Egg will benefit from not having branches, the real rewards will come from selling other services.Egg may build a profitable online bank, but that is by no means guaranteed. The &#163;1.1bn to &#163;1.4bn price range may be well below the &#163;4bn estimated just months ago, but is still a lot of money. Based on the average rating of the banking sector, it would need pre-tax profits of &#163;120m to justify that valuation. In fact, it lost &#163;150m last year - and its income was just &#163;24m. It is promising to break even as late as the end of 2001.Only retail investors with Egg accounts can apply for the shares. Only those with real faith in its ability to beat the banks should bother.Not yet in focusFocus Do It All was doing its best to scare Wickes investors into accepting its 430p-a-share offer for its rival do-it-yourself operator last week. It will not sell its 29 per cent stake, which will rise to 35 per cent if Wickes carries out its promised tender offer. And, it warns, it will 'remain an active shareholder' if it loses: in other words, its tanks will remain on Wickes's lawn.Focus clearly has its mind on Blue Circle, which escaped the clutches of rival Lafarge despite the French group owning a 29 per cent stake. Like Blue Circle, Wickes is   promising great things, in the form of a 33 per cent rise in profits this year. It is also following the cement group by proposing to buy back up to a quarter of its shares. And, like Lafarge, Focus is not offering enough to secure the bid.Focus is right that the DIY market is consolidating. The problem is, it needs to react to that consolidation much more than Wickes does. Focus made much of the competition from B&amp;Q's Warehouses, and Wickes admits its sales do suffer when one of these giants opens alongside. But Wickes's distinctive offering, which targets the jobbing builder rather than the  Changing Rooms addict, means the impact is relatively small and short-lived.Can Focus say the same? Wickes's limited product range means it is already enjoying many of the buying benefits which Focus claims the combined group would achieve. And putting the two businesses together in one site, as Focus proposes in some areas, would be likely to help neither brand.Wickes chief executive, Bill Grimsey will have to work hard to achieve his profits forecast for the year. If he suc ceeds - and Focus will be waiting to pounce if he doesn't - the 430p bid would represent just 12 times this year's earnings. That is not high enough to reflect Wickes's strong market position and potential for further growth. Reject.Hard slog aheadRod Eddington, the new chief executive of British Airways, must be wishing he had cut the group's final dividend. Luc Vandevelde, the new man at Marks &amp; Spencer did, and the retailer's shares jumped 16 per cent on the week while BA made up half that ground.M&amp;S is still making money, while BA made its first loss since privatisation, but both of the new bosses face similar challenges. At M&amp;S, a 1.5 per cent rise in clothing sales in the past few weeks is hardly exciting, given the scale of investment in getting the product right. While the look of the stores is improving, and some of its ranges are getting closer to what customers want, Vandevelde admits that winning customers back will be a long, hard slog.At BA, Eddington will have to devote as much effort to cost-cutting as his predecessor Bob Ayling did. A glance at past accounts shows how big a challenge that is.BA claims to have delivered 'efficiency improvements' of &#163;1.1bn over the past three years. Yet BA has slumped from a &#163;640m profit to last year's &#163;244m loss. Costs in each of those three years have risen ahead of sales. Shares in both companies are now trading at less than half of their 1997 peaks. If the new chiefs live up to their promise, they should recover, but only the brave will bet on when that will be.
It's Tuesday morning and things seem to be going relatively smoothly in the offices of the fledgling dotcom company Flametree. All right, the builders over the road from the company's offices in London's Victoria had banjaxed the offices' computer and phone systems a few days earlier - temporarily rendering the business inoperable, but there is a feeling among the staff of this online zine for working mothers that the start-up will hit its early summer launch date.The company's brand is now taking shape, helped by a serious spot of freeform thinking initiated by an outside consultant. Flametree's founders, having experimented with a number of words and concepts, have decided that, if the business were, er, a car, it would be a Volkswagen Golf. 'It's not flashy: it works, it's solid, it meets expectations, it can carry the family, but you can drive it yourself,' explains Rosemary Leith, who has a background in investment and is a company co-founder.And the 17 investors (including Seattle Coffee company founder Ally Svenson) who have ploughed nearly &#163;1 million of their money through an initial 'friends and family' round of fund raising, will be relieved to know that the founders also believe that, if it were, er, a colour, it would be lavender.'We felt that represented the right combination of emotions and balance between feminine and masculine,' says Jayne Buxton, the other co-founder and a former consultant with Gemini Consulting who specialised in analysing the changing nature of women in the workplace. 'In-terestingly, we ended up with a lot of lavender on the site.'Flametree's brand must also live up to a number of key values if it is to succeed, the pair argue. Integrity is, Buxton and Leith believe, vital. It is a value that they, as working mothers, aspire to and hope to communicate to staff. 'It's about not missing a football match or a ballet show,' Leith says. Practicality and relevance are also considered vital brand components.'Inspiration' is another word bandied around at company meetings. 'It's giving people a sense of what can be done,' Buxton says, 'providing them with case studies of what people, some famous, some not, have achieved.'The name, like the elements which make up the brand, was carefully chosen. Buxton and Leith, both 38, trawled hundreds of alternatives before deciding that Flametree hit all the right buttons. 'It represents a combination of rootedness and inspiration, which is what we want to be,' says Buxton.The name Flametree was actually suggested by the site's editor, former  Sunday Times journalist Hannah Charlton, who has been charged with the tricky task of building the firm's profile. On Tuesday one issue she was focusing on was what to put on the 3,000 postcards the company will shortly be sending to potential users.The company has commissioned a photographer to take around 300 images, which Flametree hopes will help users understand what it stands for. The photographs range from a hand reaching for a dishwasher dial to a child's book balanced on the corner of a computer keyboard. 'The photos are very iconic,' Charlton says. 'We didn't go for faces.'One image - a picture of two pairs of Wellington boots, one for an adult, the other for a child - seemed to be suitably evocative of the Flametree brand.It sounds a little bit like a new version of Ab Fab (yes, Lynn Franks, the PR guru who inspired the comedy series, is a contributor to the site), but to have got Flametree to this stage has been no laughing matter.The idea for the site was conceived only late last year, and since then Buxton and Leith have been frantically hunting around London for staff, offices, brand experts, web designers, technology gurus and, most importantly, business partners.The company intends to make money from a number   of e-commerce sources. Flametree believes that the quality of writers it has on its site will make it a must-visit destination for busy mothers (chiefly in the A,B and C1 categories) who will be able to order everything from home-helps to party arrangers.In addition, there will be a recruitment site which will concentrate on advertising jobs for women. Each time a user buys a service, Flametree takes a commission.   Working out what this should be and drawing up legally binding contracts has taken many hours of Buxton and Leith's time. 'Ultimately, if you own a business, it's up to you to check every detail; and it's up to you to get them delivered; and it's up to you to sit there and make sure they sign them,' Buxton says. The company is also talking to a number of companies about sponsoring its site.Flametree has decided to go for what is known in the trade as a 'soft' launch before embarking on a PR blitz announcing Flametree's    inception to the world. The plan is to stage a series of soir&eacute;es at the company's offices. The invited 'friends of Flametree' will test the site and help Flametree learn what can be improved. Charlton wants the site's online discussion forums 'to be a busy hubbub' right from the start. As an inducement to join in, Flametree plans to pick participants from the forums and offer them useful rewards, such as free life   skills courses or one-on-one chats with Flametree's band of online experts.Getting the tone of Flametree's content right - from case studies to celebrity interviews - is another of Charlton's key concerns. 'Everything has to feel that it is written in the Flametree way,' she says. 'It's about customer intimacy. But Buxton acknowledges the difficulty here: 'It has to be relevant; it can't be too gossipy.'Over the past few weeks vast realms of content have been loaded on to the site section by section. Flametree has   identified five key advice areas as being of interest to its core market. These are careers, pregnancy issues, stress problems, elderly care and a service called 'life coach' which is, crudely speaking, an online agony aunt.However, just weeks before the launch, only one section has so far been loaded on to the site. Gremlins have conspired to prevent the company's outside technology partner from loading the content automatically, so Flametree's staff have had to do it manually.As the company moved into its new offices only three weeks ago, this set-back couldn't have come at a worse time. Computers and other office paraphernalia have yet to find a proper home - and some staff have yet to arrive.The company's offices, just up the road from London's Victoria station, were chosen because Buxton and Leith refused to pay the sky-high rents demanded in some of the capital's plusher locations.The &#163;1 million the pair have raised is enough, they believe, to cover all of the company's start-up and running costs for the next 12 months, providing that they don't start spending with the profligacy of some well known internet companies   (mentioning no names - anagram of obo).With this in mind, Flametree deliberately avoided taking money from venture capitalists when seeking initial financing - despite the fact that it was available.'You have more flexibility to implement your own vision of the business, instead of being pressured by a VC about when you should float,' Buxton says.The business model was drawn up by February and the pair then spent two months visiting the homes of potential investors to sell them the idea. Some bought in because they knew the two women, others because they liked the company's concept. Some declined. Whether the latter were right will become apparent very soon.Next week: The focus groups deliver their verdict
Shares in Baan, the troubled Dutch business software group were on a roller-coaster ride yesterday amid fresh speculation that a takeover bid could be on the way.The shares, which almost doubled in value on Thursday, continued to climb sharply in early trading on the Amsterdam stock market yesterday but then fell back despite the bid rumours.The latest name to be linked with Baan is that of UK industrial automation group Invensys. The Wall Street Journal described talks between the two companies as "serious" . However both Baan and Invensys declined to comment.Baan shares have slumped from a high of &euro;49 (&#163;30) two years ago - when it rivalled Germany's SAP as the leading European provider of business software - to as low as &euro;1.16 in recent days. The share price has been undermined by a string of losses stretching back over seven successive quarters   and doubts about the company's recovery prospects.Baan has recruited investment bank Lazard Freres to consider its strategic options but has yet to make any announcement. One possibility could be the sale of its customer relationship management software arm.On Thursday news that the US software group Oracle could be interested in buying at least part of Baan sent the Dutch company's share price up to more than &euro;3, although many analysts were sceptical about a tie-up.Yesterday's report sent Baan shares up 14% in the first half hour of trading before it dropped back to &euro;2.40 then recovered to end at &euro;2.80. "Today it's Invensys, yesterday it was Oracle. &#91;Baan&#93; is a very volatile stock," said one trader in Amsterdam. Dealers say the sharp price movements are being driven by demand from retail investors.Microsoft and the data network equipment maker Cisco Systems have also been tipped as possible suitors for Baan.
NewMediaSpark, Europe's largest quoted internet and seed investment firm, said the purchase gave it an edge by bolstering its balance sheet as well as offering a window to the strategically important Indian market, on which Softtechnet is particularly focused.The offer, equivalent to around 24p for each Softtechnet share, represents a 65% premium over Thursday's closing price of 14.5p.Yesterday, Softtechnet shares climbed 3.5p to close at 18p, while NewMediaSpark eased 6.5p to 53.5p.The combined group will have more than &#163;145m in its investment portfolio and cash resources of more than &#163;45m."The specialist internet and   technology strategy of Spark complements our strategy of pre-IPO investments, resulting in a combined ability to nurture investee companies from inception to IPO &#91;initial public offering&#93;," said Softtechnet chief executive Tony Sarin.NewMediaSpark has offered four new shares and one new warrant for every 10 shares in Softtechnet, which was only founded in January. It floated on London's Alternative Investment Market in March.NewMediaSpark also announced a maiden pre-tax profit of &#163;2.85m for the period from July 26 1999 to March 31.Softtechnet.com is an internet investment firm with a particular focus on investments in India's burgeoning internet sector. Shekhar Kapur, the Indian film director behind the camera for the Oscar-nominated film Elizabeth, is a board member.The company raised around &#163;26m through its Aim flotation in March.
There was an interesting discussion on Channel 4 News this week between a campaigner for privacy and Tom King, who was in the cabinet in those distant happy days when we looked forward to getting rid of the Tories.The discussion was about the government's plans to snoop on our email correspondence - something I'll be stunned if they're not doing already. King said that the interception of private electronic correspondence is essential to the fight against terrorism. That is one of those neat little phrases intended to bring discussions to a close, akin to "Because I said so" and "I'm afraid that's all we've got time for".Our rulers invite us to believe that our safety is their over-riding consideration and that they therefore fight a lonely fight, day in, day out, against crime, drugs and a host of other menaces, such as people from other countries   wanting to live here. They tell us that they can and will beat these things but that it will need eternal vigilance on their part and complete subordination on ours. For these threats to be overcome, the state must know everything about us and we must know nothing about the state. And if we're not happy with the relationship, it can only be supposed either that we have no regard for the safety of our children, or that we are up to no good ourselves.Clearly, the state is highly selective. If the government launches a big drive against some new danger, we can be almost certain that we are statistically more likely to die from choking on a stamp or drowning in the shower. Moreover, for something to scare us, and for us to be reassured that the government is tackling it, the less we know about it the better.One of the things that the internet has done is to widely disseminate enormous   amounts of factual information. It also disseminates racism and pornography, but so do newsagents. The muck that appears in mainstream newspapers defaming refugees and promoting intolerance is far more insidious in its effect than the neo-Nazi dementia appearing on the web. And one can use the web to find out about the way neo-Nazis hound eastern European Gypsies with impunity, something you won't hear about from the lips of ministers or in the editorials of many newspapers.I'm sure the government will make great play of intercepting racists' emails but,   given the way it has assisted the resurgence of racism around the asylum issue, we should not be impressed. And I doubt whether the government feels threatened by fascists in the way it feels threatened by anti-capitalists. In fact, the new laws to deal with "terrorism" define it pretty much as anything that interrupts the smooth operation of the market.As the threat of paramilitary violence recedes, the government has thrown the dictionary out the window. "Terrorism" now incorporates what we used to call criminal damage and dissidence.It is events like Seattle that put the wind up governments - not the fear that an as yet unknown Islamic fundamentalist group is planning to kill us all with a matchbox full of poisoned couscous, so deadly it can wipe out Middle England and so portable it can be delivered by a suicide driver to a boot-sale in Leamington Spa.Jack Straw did not invent state paranoia. It has always been the case that even the most respectable and well-behaved activists are put under surveillance. But the more seriously the sovereignty of Whitehall is challenged, the more vengeful the state becomes. The police are still looking for people who were in Trafalgar Square when the poll tax was brought down. I'm sure they have computer generated pictures of what the people look like 12 years older and sitting at a computer. And Cherie Booth QC did very well helping councils pursue those who refused to pay the poll tax, in the days before she was known as the mother of our first hereditary prime minister.Today, the government seems more worried than ever by direct action, perhaps because it has done so much to convince people that direct action is now the only way   forward. The government will not even reform capitalism: only the power of the informed consumer and protestor will do that.The fact that the government dislikes the exchange of information was made clear by Clare Dyer in this paper on Monday. The local government and freedom of information bills ensure that people are only entitled to privacy when taking decisions that affect the public. And the terrorism bill means that the job of journalists is not to inform us but to inform  on us. So obviously information by email is something the government would be keen to discourage.And information openly displayed on the web can be removed by those with power. The Police Federation had a whole site dedicated to miscarriages of justice taken down in February. I only found out because someone emailed me about it.
Japan's nascent love affair with the internet suffered a blow yesterday with the announcement of a sharp profit decline by Softbank, the country's largest investor in the web.The vast holding company, run by internet tycoon Masayoshi Son, posted net income of &#165;8.4bn (&#163;670m) for the year ending March 31. This was 77% down on the company's performance last year.According to analysts Softbank was only able to stay in the black thanks to a one-off &#165;220bn sale of some of its prime internet assets, including anti-virus software developer Trend Micro and the e-commerce system provider Softbank Technology.With major holdings in Yahoo!, E*Trade and more than 300 other internet firms, Softbank is one of the world's biggest e-investors. But this has made it particularly vulnerable to the ups and downs of dot.com share prices.After rising more than twentyfold in the year to February, Softbank's stock price has plunged by 75% as investors have turned their backs on internet shares.The shift back towards the old economy of more estab lished Japanese firms has been accelerated by the latest corporate results, which have shown many big manufacturers returning to the black after years in the doldrums. According to one survey, Japan's listed companies racked up an average profit growth of more than 90% in 1999.Despite Softbank's slide in the opposite direction Mr Son was unrepentant, and vowed to focus even more closely on   web-related businesses. He said the company's decision to sell holdings in Kingston Technology, a US motherboard manufacturer, and Ziff Davis, a media group, were proof of the company's intentions."We are now closer to becoming a pure internet company," he said. "With our pool of investments we will catch on to the fast growth that is the internet."In an effort to regain in vestor interest, Mr Son announced that the Softbank group will float several of its group companies - including the financial unit Softbank Finance, which racked up some of the group's most impressive growth. Reports about the plan helped to push up Softbank's share price yesterday by the maximum daily limit of 12.4% - suggesting that Mr Son may succeed in recovering from this latest setback.
First Boo.com. Then Net Imperative. Who next? With investors losing faith in the hi-tech sector it will not be long before others join the list of dot.com casualties in Britain. For sceptics unable to hide their glee, such moments reinforce their prejudices about the hype surrounding the so-called new economy.But a few high profile collapses that are probably due to flawed business plans and poor management rather than a systemic crisis should not hide the very real potential benefits of the internet.In a paper published this week Ben Broadbent and David Walton of Goldman Sachs argue that Britain is already two-thirds of the way towards rebuilding itself as a new economy, boasting greater stability and lower unemployment.It is still missing the final building block - faster productivity growth - but Broadbent and Walton argue there is plenty of scope for investment in computers to pick up, and that this will facilitate the spread of e-commerce, particularly in business to business, where the real action is taking place.They think business to business could boost growth and productivity by 0.5% points annually over the next decade, creating a cumulative increase in output of &#163;45bn. Their predictions seem more than just pie in the sky: anecodotal evidence suggests many big established businesses are embracing e-commerce enthusiastically, not always knowing where it will lead.At a conference on the digital economy this week organised by the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Mark Hunter, chief executive officer of Axon consultancy, said he was working with many   FTSE 100 companies to help them adapt their business models to the net, breaking down corporate barriers and redesigning supply chains.While mocking predictions of sales people becoming irrelevant and large profitable companies being vanquished by unprofitable start-ups, he argued that the net was bringing customers and suppliers closer together - often for mutual benefit. He cited the example of WH Smith - which, instead of a linear supply chain with publishers at one end and newsagents at the other, now had a much more integrated approach.Other big companies reinventing themselves as clicks and mortar operations included Wal-Mart, which had set up a dot.com competitor for itself, and Unilever, which was becoming a house cleaning company, he said.Research published today by consul tancy London Economics suggests the same benefits of greater internet use are waiting to be grasped by small and medium sized business, which account for nearly half of Britain's turnover and the working population.Commissioned by GroupTrade, a new firm planning to use the net to buy goods and services on a pooled basis for smaller businesses, the report estimates the savings from business to business e-commerce could eventually reach as much as &#163;24bn a year, which is equivalent to 3% of national output - although it stresses progress will be gradual.Of the estimated savings around 30% are accounted for by discounts negotiated by bulk-buying intermediaries, such as GroupTrade, chaired by Adair Turner, the former director general of the CBI.The remaining 70% come from reducing the time and expense of searching, or dering and accounting for purchases. "These reductions are comprised of savings in search costs, time saved in procurement, reduced errors in ordering and invoicing, intelligent stock management, lower ordering and billing costs and reduced inventory costs," says the report.Cost savings for firms with between five and 250 employees average &#163;37,000 a year and businesses employing more than 200 could benefit by &#163;600,000 a year."These are substantial sums with immediate benefits for a company's bottom line," said Mr Turner.In competitive markets Turner says he would expect the benefits ultimately to accrue to consumers in the form of lower prices. But the potential rewards in the short term of being a first mover should not be underestimated.Investors spotted that potential some time ago, pouring millions into speculative hi-tech ventures. Many made costly mistakes, taking a punt on almost anything with a dot.com in its name instead of making sure the company had a sensible business plan first.Boo.com is a case in point. While its founders had plenty of glamour, they appear to have lacked basic business skills and were trying to sell a product - fashion wear - that has proved difficult to shift on the net. In that case investors' greed got the better of fear. Now, with hi-tech share prices collapsing around the globe, it is the other way around.Fear is in the driving seat and speculative funding is drying up. But it does not mean there was no substance to the internet goldrush in the first place.As Sushil Wadhwani of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee told MPs on Tuesday: "Valuations in some sectors have looked a bit racy and you are seeing an inevitable correction, but behind the hype there is a real transformation occurring and we need to focus on that."
&#149; Cheap connection An Oftel study shows that British consumers are benefiting from some of the lowest prices in Europe for internet access, fixed-line and mobile telephone calls. The report reveals that Britain has the lowest prices available for off-peak net access, and much lower than Sweden, the next best country surveyed.&#149; Faithful Venture capitalist 3i yesterday reaffirmed its faith in the technology sector despite recent market jitters, although it was far from a ringing endorsement of e-commerce. The company's finance director, Michael Queen, said: "It's important to focus on where the technology investment is, if you look at where we've got money invested, the smallest proportion is in e-business." The group said technology investment made up around 40% of its portfolio. However, the vast bulk of 3i's technology investment is in areas such as software, computer services, electronics and communications.
An Australian murder retrial was abandoned after a supreme court judge ruled it could be prejudiced by information published on a controversial crime website.Judge George Hampel made legal history in the state of Victoria by saying he feared the jury may learn of information about the accused man's criminal past from CrimeNet, a new website which offers details on 4,000 criminals convicted in Australian courts.Victoria's attorney-general Rob Hulls yesterday called for the closure of the site, which has received one million hits since its launch less than a month ago. Mr Hulls is to meet other state attorney generals and Australia's federal attorney general about the matter on July 27.In a letter to CrimeNet's managing director, Ken Schultz, Mr Hulls expressed concern that the site could be used by jurors to obtain details of convictions of accused people or witnesses."If this occurred, the accused would not get a fair trial. The community may also lose confidence in the integrity of criminal trials," he said.But Mr Schultz said yesterday he was appalled at the suggestion that the site, which compiles information that is in the public domain, should be closed down."We have a legitimate business operating within the law," he said. "Perhaps Mr Hulls could close the public libraries and ask the &#91;Melbourne&#93; Age to close until this is sorted out," he said.Judge Hampel refused to call off another murder retrial two weeks ago after the defence complained that the accused man's case was featured on CrimeNet.Criticism from the Australian government and civil libertarians has already lead the site owners to restrict access to the site after criticism from civil libertarians, the federal government and the New South Wales privacy commissioner.The site plans to get users to sign a declaration that they are not jurors looking for information as well as pay a fee before being able to access any information. Previously they could see search information before paying for the full details.
Script cueWhat is this Scripting Host I read about? I don't find anything about it in the Help of my Windows 98. How can I turn it off if I can't find it?Roger Gilesrogermg@lineone.netJack Schofield:The Love Bug virus that swept the world exploited a feature of Windows insecurity that most people didn't know they had. It arrived as a Visual Basic Script (.vbs file), and any computer that runs VB   scripts was and is potentially vulnerable, whichever email software is installed. The obvious response is to remove the software that runs VB scripts, and Roger Giles is not the only reader who asked how to do this.Although removing the Windows Scripting Host (WSH) software is a good idea for most people, it also removes the program's benefits as well. For example, the synchronisation programs that enable handheld computers to update desktop PCs (and vice versa) may be affected.WSH is installed as part of Microsoft Windows 98 and Internet Explorer 5, and can also be downloaded from Microsoft's website.To disable WSH in Windows 98, select Start|Settings| Control Panel and double-click the Add/Remove Programs icon. Click on the tab for Windows Setup, select Accessories, and double-click to expand the section. Find the entry for Windows Scripting Host and click the check box so that it is not selected. Then click OK.If you have installed WSH with Internet Explorer 5 or downloaded it, you can simply disable VBS scripting. Double-click the My Computer icon to open a window on your desktop and select   View|Options. Click on File Types in the resulting tabbed dialogue box, then scroll down to the bottom. Select the VBScript Script File entry, and click on the Remove button. If there isn't an entry, don't worry about it. This approach should also work with other versions of Windows, including Windows 98.Please note that disabling WSH and/or VBS will not prevent any email program from downloading viruses sent as attachments, and it will not stop you from running them.In fact, it just makes it more likely that the next virus will use a different type of file instead. But while disabling VBS will not protect you fully, it will help protect other people: viruses will no longer be able to run a VB script that exploits the Microsoft Outlook address book to email themselves to everyone you know.This week, Microsoft is also releasing a patch that makes Outlook 98 and 2000 (not Outlook Express) more secure, and users should now be able to download it from http:// officeupdate.microsoft.com The patch blocks the operations of a huge number of different types of file, not just VBS.However, Microsoft Office users who want the extra security also have to install the large Office Update SR-1a service pack, which is perhaps   best obtained from a computer magazine cover disc. They will also need their original copy of Microsoft Office.Incidentally, the Outlook patch increases the default setting of the security zones within Outlook from "trusted" to "restricted", and this disables most automatic scripting. People who don't download the patch should do this manually by selecting Tools|Options and clicking the tab for Security.USB for allMy computer with Windows 98 does not have a USB port. Is there any way one can be installed as many new devices seem to require this?Dr Donald GauDGau335533@aol.comJS:In theory it should be easy to add two or four USB ports on a PCI expansion card, which can be plugged in to your PC after opening the case. Suppliers include Busby, Belkin and Entrega. Some USB cards will work with later versions of Windows 95 but Windows 98 works much better. (The need for USB is one reason for upgrading to Windows 98 or to Windows Millennium, which should arrive in a few weeks.)Apple Mac users who lack USB ports can often add them via PCI expansion cards too.Off messagesI signed up for various newsletters and reports which all have methods of unsubscribing - upfront and obvious until you try to use them. I am now having problems with Oprah Winfrey's Oxygen2. Where's the secret button that will free me from Oprah's clutches?Mary Wildewilde@kt66lw.freeserve.co.ukJS:When you subscribe to a newsletter or mailing list, you should always get a welcome message that tells you how to unsubscribe, so file that away for later use. The main problem with getting off mailing lists is that subscribe and unsubscribe commands have to be sent to a different email address from messages - they have to be sent to the server computer, not the list owner or the entire readership. It's easy to send unsub message to the wrong address.However, many mailing lists and publications now have websites where readers can subscribe and unsubscribe more easily. Oprah has one atwww.oxygen.com/newsletters/unsubscribe.htmlDownloadSmall irritating problem: when downloading some   software from the net, my Windows 95 presents a choice of where I want to file it. If the software is to be used by a program, how can I find out where to store the software so it can be found by the program?Eliot Wright100756.3352@compuserve.comJS:I always download things to a folder called Downloads, otherwise I wouldn't know where to find them. Once downloaded, the file can be checked for viruses then copied to an empty directory such as C:\tempIf the download is actually several files combined into one package, use Winzip or something similar to look inside for Install.txt, which should tell you how to install the program. If that doesn't tell you to run the installation from somewhere specific, it should be OK to run it from C:\tempOnce the program has been installed, you can delete the contents of the C:\temp directory and remove any subfolders.
The US judge presiding over theMicrosoftanti-monopoly trial gave the first indication that he is considering breaking up the software group.In his first public remarks since finding Microsoft guilty of breaking US anti-trust laws, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson asked lawyers for the US government and 17 US states why they had not proposed breaking the company into three rather than two.He praised an "excellent brief" submitted by two industry associations which proposed dividing Microsoft into three companies.The justice department and states had proposed turning Microsoft into an applications company and a company to sell Windows, the operating system used on more than 90% of the world's computersDavid Boies, government senior counsel, said yesterday that a two-way split would be "quicker and more effective than a horizontal divestiture".Judge Jackson asked if the government's proposals would not "simply create two separate monopolies which have no incentive to interfere with each other's profitability".In a sign that the judge would like the trial, which started more than two years ago, to be over quickly, he said when offered further legal disclosure that he "did not want to see any more briefs".John Warden Microsoft's chief counsel, said the company "fully expected to prevail on appeal wherever that appeal will be held".The judge commented: "It is somewhat ironic that if you think you will prevail when you get to the court of appeal, you nevertheless, are asking to spend more time in this court."Mr Warden continued to argue that the government's break-up proposals were "extreme" and "punitive", which is not allowed under the relevant anti-trust laws.He said: "There is absolutely no precedent for what is proposed here. The court has long understood that splitting up unitary companies is an enormously complicated and disruptive process and one which neither the court nor the justice department has any natural inclination."In a heated exchange Mr Warden and the judge discussed the consequences of Microsoft's conduct, which the judge had ruled to be unlawful.In a typically dramatic presentation, Mr Warden argued that the government was siding with Microsoft's corporate rivals. He described a group of them, including some micro systems, and Novel, as "corporate pygmies".Mr Warden also described the economic benefits created by Microsoft and said that a break-up could harm the future developments of the economy. "The court is thus presented with a situation in which benefits of the existing organisation are substantial and known and the benefits of busting it up are speculative and unknown and may be negative."In presenting its argument, the government criticised Microsoft's proposals for a remedy based on business constraints as inappropriate. An email sent by Bill Gates after an earlier so-called consent decree had been agreed read: "This anti-trust thing will blow over and we haven't changed our basic business practices at all except it may change our e-mail policy."
How will visitors to the Tate's online gallery feel if they find a hairy black ear replacing substantial parts of a Turner? Or a Constable carved up to let in "Mum's chin"?This is the puzzle being pondered by the Tate's curators after they commissioned their first web project. It was due to go online this week but the launch has been postponed, possibly until next month.The artist they commissioned is Harwood, a member of the Mongrel multimedia group. This was either quite a gutsy or a truly naive move, for Harwood's work is always "gloves off". He proposed to make a mock version of the existing Tate website, to which one in three visitors towww.tate.org.ukwould be diverted. Clicking through the various categories of the museum's site, visitors would be dropped into Harwood's version produced in the same structure and design, but with the "hacked" artworks.Matthew Gansallo, senior research fellow for the Tate's national programme, did not plunge headlong into the new media project. Before giving the first commission, he and other Tate curators went to the Zentrum fur Medientechnologie in Karlsruhe, Germany, to visit the Net Condition exhibition, a   comprehensive survey of the current state of net art, showcasting 69 projects. They held extensive talks with the ZKM's director Peter Weibel and drew up a short list of suitable artists.Harwood of the Mongrel multimedia group and Simon Patterson were invited to develop the first web projects. Harwood's was to have been the first to go online. "We are now in the stage of reviewing the project," says Gansallo. "We're editing it at the moment. Of course this is done with full respect and in consultation with the artist."It is clear, however, that the decision makers at the Tate feel uncomfortable with Harwood's work. The artist says they have asked for 25 changes, the most important being "Mongrel" Tate banners inserted in all the places the Tate is mentioned. This would take the sting out of the project and Harwood objects vehemently. And steering the concept through the Tate hierarchy might prove tough. He has to deal with press, marketing and communications departments before presenting the site to director Sir Nicholas Serota.How would other international art collections view such a project? Christine van Assch, Centre Pompidou's new media curator for 20 years, wouldn't even dream of thinking up a "sub" site of the official Beaubourg one. Her comment is terse: "The Press Office would not allow it."Van Assch acquired Rehearsal Of Memory, Harwood's first individual net art project, for the Parisian museum. It is on permanent display in the new media section on the first floor.   Harwood made this   CD-rom project in 1995 with inmates of Ashworth maximum security mental hospital. It is a powerful and evocative piece of work which uses digital techniques to   create an unsparing   experience of closeness to the inmates of Ashworth. To activate the material on the CD-rom you move your mouse over prisoners' bodies, as if you were touching their skin.Mousing over a nose which was broken many times, cracked skin and thick rough lips set in a Rembrandtesque sombreness makes for an arresting sensation of intimacy. You are forced to bond with these thwarted lives and to listen to their tales of   horrific crimes uttered without any charm or need to please. The wonder of Rehearsal Of Memory is that it has an uplifting quality.   If Rehearsal Of Memory plays out the nightmarish existence of disturbed prison inmates, the Tate project is an acting out of a boy's dream of becoming an artist. Harwood frolics about with the Tate's treasures, messing with a Constable to make space for what was left out. Although these desecrated images bear Harwood's signature, they don't, as yet, have the concentrated gravitas of Rehearsal. At worst they recall tourists' snapshots - "Two cheesemakers in typical Dutch costumes with head of Aunt Daphne" - and tend towards silliness.In the accompanying texts Harwood states his strong views on the social and economic circumstances under which the Tate collection was formed. This is the core theme of all Mongrel's work: to voice the lives and cultures of people who are not being valued by society at large.Asked about the postponement, Gansallo says: "The Tate has never been averse to criticism. We are interested in creating good work that will be engaging. The discussion will not be about people being offended."If the Tate goes forward with Harwood's project, the museum shows it really means its new slogan: "Tate is changing". If not, there is a possibility that the site will go online anyway. That's the radical openness of the internet.Web addressesThe Tatewww.tate.org.ukMongrelwww.mongrel.org.ukZentrum fôr Medientechnologiewww.zkm.dePompidou Centrewww.centrepompidou.fr
WebRewardsThe something-for-nothing economy gained a new player this month.WebRewards.co.ukhopes to take on the likes ofiPointsandBeenzby offering a small number of high-quality gift items in exchange for online purchases at its partner sites, such as Car Phone Warehouse and Easyshop. Registration is particularly easy and there are plenty of reward points on offer just for joining and alerting your friends. However, to get the really good rewards such as helicopter flying lessons or a micro skate scooter you are either going to be very rich or have access to a corporate expense account.Director's cutThe website for director Michael Winterbottom's loose adaptation of Thomas Hardy's The Mayor Of Casterbridge is probably the most obsessive ever built, especially as it promotes a film deep in pre-production. Visitors towww.kingdomcomemovie.comcan not only download trailers and take a virtual tour of the set but also review the rushes and keep tabs on the production schedule, thanks to daily bulletins. It has enough detail to satisfy even the most die-hard of movie buffs.Kookiest film site doing the rounds? Lars Von Trier's Cannes-winning Dancer In The Dark, which stars Bjork. Seewww.dancerinthedark.com.EuroSoccerEuro 2000 is nearly upon us and a flurry of new footie sites has been launched. Soccernet has added a micro-site atwww.soccernet.com/euro2000with its own front page and content. The most novel feature, and the one most likely to cause a rumpus in the pub, is the score prediction service. OneFootball.com also tries to offer in-depth coverage, which means a lot of text-heavy pages, but it does have good travel and ticket facilities. Footie fanzine When Saturday Comes has launched a "fans think tank" atwww.dottwo.com/onetouch, and there is an official site atwww.euro2000.org.The Fiver, Football Unlimited's irreverent tea-time 
take on the world of football, will be producing a special Euro 2000 newsletter. Seewww.footballunlimited.co.uk/eurofor subscription details.Computer loveFans of the arch-priests of Kraut rock and single-handed inventors of techno will be delighted withwww.kraftwerk.de. Refreshingly, the site has very little information, and the link to Kraftwerk's record company, KlingKlang, seems to be broken. However, a number of interactive pages "play" segments from the group's music. Which all leads to lots of fun, fun, fun on das internet.Card guardWorries about credit card security are often cited as the main reason customers are unwilling to shop online. Nowwww.card-guard.comhopes to allay security fears by offering a browser plug-in that records every transaction you make on the web. The basic service sets you back £17.50 a year, but will provide documentary evidence should the worst happen and your goods do not show up.Web for zilchNet4nowt.com, a directory devoted to free internet service providers (ISPs), includes exhaustive tables comparing them. Of most use is the comprehensive list of unmetered ISPs. Seehttp://net4nowt.com/unmetered.Afore ye goAnywhereYouGo claims to be "the world's largest independent community of wireless developers" and has launched a Wap (wireless application protocol) testing service. It claims nearly one in four Wap applications has significant coding errors and offers tests for a variety of platforms. Seewww.AnywhereYouGo.com.New and notedFootage of live births can be seen atwww.motherandbaby.com, but not that one;www.wowgo.comis a portal for teenage girls and clothes horses will want to look atwww.style365.com. Last but not least,offers a comprehensive travel site.
Sean Dodson
New research confirms anecdotal evidence that silver surfers are an increasingly important online constituency. Nearly a quarter of the UK's 18 million over-50s are active computer users; more than four million of them own PCs and a further 600,000 have access to computers at community centres, colleges and libraries. But, until now, there has been little information about the electronic habits of the growing numbers of older people regularly using information and communications technology (ICT).The national charity Age Concern, supported by Microsoft, has attempted to fill that void by commissioning a study of ICT use among the over-50s. During April   2000, the British Market Research Bureau surveyed 1,250 older people, asking them about their use of, and attitudes to, technology and its effect on their lives. The charity says that the survey, published last week, is the largest of its kind undertaken in the UK.Unsurprisingly, the study shows that some trends in the population as a whole are reflected by the older generation: for example, males from socio-economic classes A, B and C1 are the predominant group of computer users.The study also found that people in the 50-64 age bracket are much more likely to be ICT-literate than those aged 65 and above - the proportions for each age group are 38% and 11% respectively.   Even so, that's a lot of over-65s, and Age Concern claims ICT is now the fourth most popular leisure pursuit among older people.Keeping in touch is cited as the greatest benefit of ICT, according to respondents - over 80% of users rely on word-processing applications for letter-writing and nearly 60% regularly send and receive e-mail.Roughly half of all users also surf the internet, and among this group education scores highly: 64% use learning, fact-finding and reference sites; 58% research travel; 28% seek financial information and 24% visit news and current affairs sites. However, only 22% are willing to shop online - in fact, 70% are put off by   worries about internet credit card fraud.The survey reveals that other popular uses for home computing include gaming (39%) and keeping personal and household accounts (35%). The over-50s spend an average of nine hours each week on their computers, although men devote more time to their screens than women (ten and seven hours respectively). Few users find the technology intimidating   with more than 80% saying it is very easy to use. Two-thirds of users claim ICT has made a positive difference to their lives.Of those interviewees who do not use computers, 60% give "lack of interest" as the reason, although nearly one-fifth feel that computers are "too expensive" and 15% believe the new technology is "not for people of our age". Only 8% admit being "frightened of computers"."IT can bring enormous pleasure and benefit to older people. I don't know how I'd manage without it," says Peter Cook, 68. He bought his first computer in 1987 and has had six machines since then. "I use the computer to keep in touch with family and friends, to do my accounts, for inter net banking and to help my son with his IT A-level studies," he says. Although Cook retired in 1991, he has turned his interest to good use as a freelance webmaster producing an internet advice page for DIY chain B &amp; Q.Older people are often introduced to new technologies by the "trickle-up" effect from younger family members. Dieter Wolfskelh, a 75-year-old former foundry worker from Rugby, is typical."My daughter and her husband use computers every day for work and they both have machines at home," he explains. "What's more, my son has become a dab hand at renovating cast-off computers and he and his youngsters are keen internet enthusiasts."And it's not just PCs that are bringing technology into Wolfskehl's retirement: his daughter has just bought him his first mobile phone.Having studied the findings, Age Concern intends to encourage more over-50s to exploit new technologies by collaborating with Microsoft to bring ICT training to older people. The charity's Mobile IT Training Sessions (MITS) scheme will be piloted in six areas - Blackburn, Hampshire, Staffordshire, Okehampton, Hereford, Worcester and Warrington - before being rolled out nationally. The initiative will provide skills tuition at day-centres and residential care homes, and builds on Age Concern's earlier series of outreach IT taster sessions.
Zap the zombies, win a cheerThe Devil InsidePC 	&#163;34.99 Cryo Interactive	***Never mind wearing its influences on its sleeve, The Devil Inside has nipped down to Bond Street and turned them into a rather smart suit.But before lawyers from Resident Evil come calling, it must be remembered that Hubert Chardot, Devil Inside supremo, was also responsible for Alone In The Dark - the ageing PC title cited as a major inspiration for, you've guessed it, Resident Evil.Confused? Actually, Devil Inside doesn't just pinch from RE: the third person action is equally reminiscent of Tomb Raider and the rest.   As Dave and glamorous alter ego Deva, your aim is to investigate a good, old-fashioned, haunted mansion.But what lifts this from run-of-the-mill to Running   Man is the gameshow backdrop. Your every move is followed by a ravenous studio audience that's kept in touch by cameramen who follow you throughout the game.The cheesy Leslie Crowther-isms of the host and the whooping of the crowd are offset by some genuinely unnerving moments when, in true Blair Witch fashion, the picture starts breaking up.Apparently violence is popular - shoot the head off a zombie and the ratings soar. Dally, however, and the watching millions grow impatient as you struggle with some occasionally obscure puzzles.If you can get the nausea-inducing camera to calm down then the meticulous d&eacute;cor will impress while the ironic spot effects do their job.The cross dressing element throws in a wee bit of strategy - Dave is better with guns, catsuited Deva can cast the odd spell - but really this is an old fashioned zombie blaster in post modern clothing.  (GH)It's simply not good enoughMartian Gothic: UnificationPC &#163;29.99 Take 2/Creative Reality  *How refreshing. In an age when your average manual can flatten a hamster, here's a game with documentation that's positively bijou.There's one good reason for this: with only 11 in-game controls, Martian Gothic is very simple to learn.What's more, the explanatory text runs to a princely 167 words (summary: you are on an expedition to investigate a disaster on a Martian outpost).Saves time, saves trees - and utterly fails to create any atmosphere.You'd have thought all this economy would mean Martian Gothic was easy to play. Alas, nothing could be further from the truth.The lack of mouse control means you're stuck with   cumbersome keyboard commands, and instead of highlighting hotspots with your cursor, you have to manoeuvre your three characters around the screen until they are facing an object they can interact with.Your surroundings do not update dynamically; instead, the field of play is divided into hundreds of tiny areas, so after half a dozen steps the screen changes and you're viewing the action from a different angle. As well as being disorienting, this makes interacting with objects even harder.Worst of all, the developers have taken the bewildering decision not to allow free saves. You can save your progress only at certain places in the game, and even then the number of slots is severely limited. In a particularly perverse touch, the first save point is in a room occupied by a hungry zombie - and at this stage, you don't have a weapon.Cheers, Creative.The difficulty of saving is all the more frustrating when death comes so easily. Ammunition (once you have a weapon, that is) and health   boosts are thin on the ground, and your principal enemies are - get this - indestructible. Your best long-term ploy is to run away, which, with the fiddly control system and the fast, limpet-like zombies, is akin to crossing a tightrope on a tricycle.The rest of the "enjoyment" consists in hunting down various keys for various doors, which involves scouring walls, searching dead bodies (which may not be dead) and sending items to your pals through a base-wide   network of vacuum tubes.At this point you may be starting to wonder why this is all sounding so familiar. Non-dynamic view, save points, switching between characters, undead nasties, no mouse, poor noticeability of usable objects... yup, it's Resident Evil in space, complete with all the old annoyances, and the added minus of mediocre graphics and music.Why?  (AB)Wario Land 3Game Boy Color 	&#163;24.99 Nintendo 	***In the 80s, Nintendo conquered the world with platform games based on its Mario character, and in the early 90s, Sega did even better with Sonic the Hedgehog on the MegaDrive.But hile the days of the two-dimensional sideways-scrolling platform game are long gone on most systems, the genre lives on on Nintendo's hand-held Game Boy Color.But you quite often wonder if it's worth the effort.Wario Land 3 continues the Game Boy-only series of platform games featuring Mario's badder alter ego, and it offers pretty much the   mixture as before. As in Wario Land 2, the invincible Wario has some amusing reactions when attacked by certain enemies. He may, for example, burst into flames; he may turn into a vampire, or a snowman, or even a ball of string. The animations are nice but the designers are in danger of scraping through the bottom of the barrel.One novel feature - the alternation between day and night - falls foul of the Game Boy Color screen, which lacks a brightness control. Even the "day" scenes are too dark for me.To add insult to injury, you can turn also into "Blind Wario", which makes the screen turn black. Unless you've memorised the scene, it's rather hard to move around.Still, one mustn't be too churlish. Wario Land 3 has excellent graphics, acceptable sound, and packs a lot of activity into a very small space. If you missed the great age of platform games, this is a terrific example of the genre.If you loved Super Mario Bros or Sonic 2, finishing Wario Land 3 will not bring back your lost youth, but it might remind you why they were such fun at the time.  (JS)
The government is worried that one third of people between the age of 50 and the state retiring age of 65 are not working. Worse still, a recent report stated that the age at which executives in large companies are commonly made redundant has dropped from 46 to 42.I was lucky. In 1981, I was made redundant at the ripe old age of 51, by a computer company for whom I had worked 28 years. My wife feared that I would never work again. However, living by my wits, I am still gainfully employed in the computer industry, and celebrated my 70th birthday last month.This is somewhat miraculous, and makes me, I suppose, having seen off all my contemporaries and most people up to 20 years younger than me, an expert on the art of survival in the IT industry.It is therefore my duty to offer some advice to people approaching 40. My first tip is: start networking now. Get to know people in your field in other companies. Attend meetings of your local branch of the British Computer Society or other professional body. People in your own company will be no use at all. If you get the chop, they will not want to know you.I have given this advice before, and been roundly   berated by programmers, deep into complex projects. They think I am trying to distract them from their serious job, which will be inevitably recognised by their management as being a big contributor to the company's success. OK, maybe the management is grateful, but the next project needs Java or XML expertise. Terribly sorry, but you don't have that, so we are hiring a new team of teenage scribblers. You are out.I have seen this before. There were the people who would not accept Cobol or Fortran because "machine code programming gives you more control". There were those who saw PCs as Mickey Mouse, because they were not as massive as mainframes, and could be used by human beings, not just PhDs in white coats. There were those who saw no point in colour screens or graphics. More recently, I have seen people reject the internet as impossibly insecure, and some who cannot see the importance of full-screen video.I have come to the deeply worrying conclusion that the majority of computer people are like that, particularly those who work in the IT departments of large companies. They learn whatever is the flavour of the year when they start, become very arrogant of those with older skills, and five or 10 years   later, reject anything that follows. They seem to resent the computer's increasing ease of use, because it decreases their priestly power. These people, and I estimate them to be 80% of the profession, deserve to be made redundant at 45, or to play only menial roles in the computer industry, the industry of perpetual innovation.But I am concerned about the remaining 20% of perpetual innovators, who are in danger of getting thrown out with the dross, just because they are over 42.For starters, get out of large corporations if you work in one. As a journalist, I meet a lot of corporate "suits" and few of them are over 50. Do not ask so-called "human resource" consultants for help. They are even more ageist than those who hire them.Small start-ups are different. I interviewed Michael Dell when he was 22, but he had a 50-year-old minder alongside him. I find this a pattern. Whiz-kids need the wisdom of a   greybeard somewhere close.This is particularly important now. The dot.com entrepreneurs seem to think that a sexy website will make them a fortune. They are wrong. They need a greybeard who can do the plumbing behind the website, to give a smooth flow of data down the supply chain. And somebody, also probably of an advanced age, who will make sure that the goods get delivered.The trick is to find a whizkid before he becomes over-confident and thinks he can rule the world without your help. So, you have to suss out the next decade's technology and its pioneers, and latch on to them. Most people tag along with today's technology until it runs out of steam in five years time. Being ahead of the game is risky, but, if you choose correctly, can   add 10 years to your career.You do not have to hitch your wagon to someone else's star. The people I have met in the past 20 years who have impressed me the most are aged visionaries who saw e-commerce coming decades ago, and have laboured with little reward to get the standards and legal infrastructure into place.One of these was a guy no one will have heard of: Bernard Wheeble. He produced, through bodies like the International Chamber of Commerce and the United Nations, most of the ground rules for the legal acceptance of electronic signatures and electronic bills of lading, which are now incorporated in e-commerce legislation across the world.Wheeble was one of the most electric speakers on the international e-commerce conference circuit into his 90s. I used to be pinned back in my seat by the crisp logic of his arguments.I asked him once why he kept at it. He answered that he had to move fast to get the legal infrastructure in place before the e-commerce revolution took off. He died two years ago, but, by the skin of his teeth, had just had time to do what he had planned.If you have a vision, age is no barrier. The only barrier is death.
The smart card was invented in France, so it's fitting that the US-based director of Microsoft's nascent smart cards group, Philippe Goetschel, is a Frenchman. His job is to use Microsoft's huge mindshare - and Bill Gates's speeches - to do what the smart card industry has failed to do in the 25 years since Roland Moreno demonstrated the first example: turn the hype into reality.Jane Adams, managing director of Advanced Card Awards, which hands out the annual "Oscars" for smart card developments, says: "The smart card industry has the same level of scepticism about Microsoft's motives as anybody else in IT, but equally the fact that Microsoft is interested is a very big validation for the smart card. It means the industry is actually getting somewhere."Hyperion's Dave Birch, who has been involved with some of the world's biggest smart card projects, says Microsoft's entry is "good news for all of us. Irrespective of the technology, there's the mindspace thing at the top. Now Microsoft has in essence said that smart cards are the way forward, that puts them on to the agenda, and it doesn't really matter how things work down at the lower level."Goetschel certainly sees    Microsoft's entry as redefining the industry, in the same way Intel and Microsoft redefined the computer industry. Before the PC, it was "vertically integrated" with each company producing entire systems that were incompatible with one another (Acorn, Apple, DEC, Prime etc). After the PC it was "horizontally integrated" with   companies assembling compatible systems using parts from many different suppliers."A lot of our customers were asking us when we were going to introduce the DOS/Windows model to the smart card world, so they could mix and match their suppliers," says Goetschel. "Our aim is to establish a horizontal platform that will draw in new entrants, lower the price to the consumer, and to create new and exciting applications. So that's what we did."Microsoft's main vehicle is a $199 smart card toolkit that Goetschel claims will make it easy for people who use   Microsoft's Windows development system to create smart cards. "We're not targeting smart card programmers - there are probably less than a thousand world wide - we're targeting Visual Basic developers, of which there are more than four million."Of course, Microsoft hasn't really put Windows on a smart card - it's far too big. Its smart card operating system, which was delivered at the end of last year, is a simple 8-bit system written from scratch, and it takes up less than 12K of memory. But Goetschel says the company isn't simply exploiting Windows' brand name: it does offer about 30 applications program interfaces (APIs) "that look and feel like Windows APIs".Smart cards are going to become important for e-commerce and computer security, but with a toolkit that supports GSM mobile phone commands due to appear next month, Goetschel is also looking at the market for SIMs, the smart cards used in mobile phones. "We've developed a browser in the SIM, and an Outlook &#91;personal information manager&#93;   in the SIM, so you can use your phone to check your email and your tasks," he says.The "nanobrowser", which takes up another 12K of space, talks WML (Wireless Markup Language) over SMS (the Short Messaging Service). Goetschel says the phone companies could therefore use $12 SIM cards to upgrade existing mobile phones instead of replacing them with Wap (wireless application protocol) phones at 10 times the price. "And they can retrofit their entire installed base in a month," he adds.The industry experts don't think Microsoft's strategy is as revolutionary as Goetschel makes out. Both Dave Birch and Jane Adams say that the industry started changing to a horizontal approach long before Microsoft appeared, with the Multos operating system from Maosco, a non-profit consortium, and the Java Card API from Sun Microsystems.Adams says: "all three have their advantages and disadvantages, though so far Microsoft's stuff has all involved high cost and exceptionally high-spec chips for the card industry."But Microsoft's business is not based on pioneering small-scale applications that   deliver benefits to small numbers of users at relatively high prices. If it succeeds, it will be by delivering mass-market technologies in high volumes at low prices. So the real question is whether its smart card initiative is too early.Smart cards won't always be restricted to banks, phone companies, transport systems, government projects and other high-profile implementations. In the long term, millions of companies both large and small could be cranking out smart cards for ad hoc applications, and the millions of programmers who use Microsoft software will be grateful to use familiar tools. But that market barely exists at the moment, and Microsoft needs to create it.That's why Goetschel isn't running any courses to teach the smart card industry about Windows for Smart Cards, but is teaching 500 Windows programmers a month all about smart cards."One of the reasons we've been so successful with Windows," says Goetschel, "is that we've created a lot of profitable opportunities for independent software vendors to write applications with our tools for our platforms, and that's what we're applying here."
ChuChu dueDreamcast owners can forget about saving up for ChuChu Rocket!, a Japanese puzzler that has been touted as the first multiplayer, online console game. Sega has decided to give it away to promote Dreamarena, its games portal. ChuChu Rocket! will   be released on June 9, with online versions of Lionhead's Black &amp; White, id's Quake III and a Dreamarena-exclusive, Phantasy Star Online, to follow. Dreamarena will aim to cater for other platforms, too, not just the Dreamcast.PC games players may also find something to do on June 9. That's when Ion Storm's long-delayed Daikatana - the game John Romero wrote after leaving the Quake team - should finally reach UK shops, according to an Eidos spokesman.Walkie talkieGame Boys could work as walkie-talkies if Wireless-Imaging's LookAbout cartridge finds a manufacturer. US-   based websitePocket.IGNsays the system will have a range of about 150m (400ft), and provide real-time, two-way video conferencing with a dual picture display. Seewww.wireless-imaging.com.Dark nighA game written in the UK for a Japanese games console will naturally appear first in the US, and that's what has happened with Rare's follow up to Goldeneye 007, Perfect Dark. It's a first-person shooter (FPS) for the Nintendo 64, with two- and four-player modes for people with big TV sets where there's some chance of spotting targets in   the moody, atmospheric gloom. Still, at least British players have time to save their pennies for the publication date, June 30.Sims aliveThe next version of The Sims will cater to a slightly older audience, says Maxis's chief   designer, Will Wright. New features in The Sims: Livin' Large will apparently include a coin-operated vibrating bed, though you still won't be able to see what's shaking under the sheets.FreeloadingFreeloader, the online games site that goes live on May 31, will offer Grand Theft Auto and Hidden &amp; Dangerous among its line-up of about 50 games. The games site will be "funded like an independent television channel through advertising", with users being targeted using a "patent pending profiling engine". Seewww.pure-ent.co.ukandwww.freeloader.com.
What's the idea behind Telme.com?We had an online server to client business information service called Tell Me. We knew that the internet was going to overtake us so we bought a travel company which had been connected with the development of a server to client travel management system and created a new product called Tell Me Global Traveller.Is the travel industry suited to e-commerce?No question. The net gives the consumer the added advantage of being able to research properly, In the old days you'd walk into your local travel agent's and there would be three people sitting on the stools, eight people waiting, and not enough brochures.Does the future of the net lie somewhere other than the PC?Yes -anywhere you can access it. We're up on interactive TV through Telewest so you can actually book a flight or a hotel via your television. We're also very close to completing technology that will be Wap (wireless application protocol) enabled.Did the "I Love You" virus show up a vulnerability to the net?If someone comes into a WH Smith's with a shotgun are the customers vulnerable? You are no more vulnerable than anything else. You have as much ability to take precautions against viruses as anybody else.Does the future of the net belong to the portal?I think the future of the net belongs to the company who best understands the individual. So you have to establish a relationship with your client. If that means that you're delivering to them through a portal because that's what they want then the future is in portals!Has the IT industry lost a little of its egalitarian streak?If you grow a huge business in revenue terms through the internet by being a lovey and not wearing a tie, then suddenly you have to go through an IPO (initial public offering) process and file quarterly results on the Nasdaq stock exchange then it's all the old disciplines that come into play. You have to change because you can't run a big business without discipline. I hope it doesn't affect the creativity but, if businesses grow, they have to run like every other business.Any favourite websites?Probably theBBC. I readCity Wiresometimes, which is quite good, and also theInternational Investor Interactivesite. I also look at our competitors sites such asExpedia,Travel StoreandLastminute.com. My kids loveAsk Jeeves.What about measures such as the Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill?If my MP was standing outside my front door reading my letters before they came in then I wouldn't be very happy!&#149; More information about TelMe can be found atwww.telmeglobaltraveller.com
IT scandalI suggest extreme caution in hoping for success for John Harper's vision of the NHS as a user of IT (Online, May 18). For the past 10 years GPs have been encouraged to install computers with 50-100% grants towards their cost. More than &#163;500m has been spent.There has been no authoritative body guiding the use these computers;18 different companies are licensed as suppliers, none of whose systems interact. There is no common goal for GP practices or even within practices.You can find a practice of four doctors where one puts all the consultation onto the computer only, another puts it into the written notes only and the other two put it into the computer and the notes.About 10% of practices are paperless - using computers only - while the other 90% still use paper records with or without the computer.The benefit to patient care has been zero to negative, where some of the records are in the computer and some in the notes, so that there is no continuous record.This scandalous waste of money far outstrips the Home Office passport fiasco or Social Security's bumbling chaos. The mere mention of IT is enough to switch off all critical analysis.Dr Tony FogartyElizabethMartyn@compuserve.comUsing technology to revolutionise the way the NHS works is all very well; I can see why techies and some doctors might think it's a good idea, but what about the patients?The scenario John Harper describes of a woman with a positive smear test for cancer being "reassured online" is truly horrific.Given the choice between waiting to see a consultant in person or having a video image of my cervix relayed down the line to some unknown person (or persons - how do we know who else is looking?), I'd opt for the   former every time. Some things just can't be done at a distance, no matter how good the technology. And this is one area that needs good interpersonal skills applied face to face.Lesley WarnerIlford, EssexWhy Linux?What's this obsession with Linux? The reason Bill Gates is so wealthy is that every Microsoft product his company produces works first time (it has for me, at least) and goes on working.That's the reason computer nerds don't like it: it restricts their income. If we all fiddled around endlessly with a system that doesn't allow a mouse to work, and can't use PCI modems, we'd all have techies living in the spare bedroom charging us rent.When will journalists realise that the computer is a tool, not an end in itself?David Eastdmeast@aol.comNoises offThe new version of Voice Xpress 5.0 discards spoken noises when interpreting speech (Online, May 18). So what? Dragon Dictate Classic has been doing this for me for several years!Lindsay Jacksonl.c.jackson@itd.maff.gsi.gov.ukSkills ignoredI empathise with graduate Andrew Doidge (Online, May 18) in his search for jobs in the engineering industry. I've encountered the same opportunity brickwalls in the IT industry.I graduated with a BSc honours in 1979, spent the next 20 years developing commercial applications for a large company before the job became redundant after downsizing then went to university to retrain in the latest software skills allegedly needed by the industry (C++, Java, internet programming, Oracle, etc).Like Andrew, six months on and despite many letters to agencies and employers, I have yet to get my first job interview. It is extremely frustrating, especially after all my efforts to re-skill at my own expense.There are many good people in the UK, with or without experience, who have the potential and a strong desire to become valued professional workers in their chosen field.   Sadly, many of them are being overlooked and, more worryingly, forgotten.When I hear "we cannot find talented people" or "there is a skills crisis" then there is something seriously wrong.John Thorpejt.lovesit@virgin.netVirus threatLast week's letters stating that a computer becoming infected by a virus should be no more likely than catching "syphilis by reading pornography" and that now "any moderately competent programmer" could create a "Love Bug" virus point towards an inevitability.It took legislators some 70 years to start to control the car. Vehicle testing, seat belts, drink driving and emission control laws are now widely accepted as in the interest of society.At the moment legislators are more concerned with limiting the monopoly power of Microsoft and gaining access to our information. Should they concentrate rather on the key issue of safety? They could deter manufacturers from introducing operating systems that enable a virus to arrive on an email and take control of a computer.In today's wired but unregulated world it is too easy for the dishonest to infect the community at large. The billions of pounds cost attributed to the Love Bug is the price we pay for a "free for all" computing and internet environment.Of course the industry could attempt to control itself. Returning to the car analogy, this would result in computers that can be used on the "public highway" and unrestriced computers intended for "off road" use only. But what's to stop the irresponsible driving their off-roader on public roads?Ultimately a role for the rule of law exists and that in turn will enable governments to police and tax e-commerce. Now I wonder who really was responsible for the Love Bug?Len Millermiller@ndo.cam.co.ukLet's drop itI've been away and come late to the correspondence about hailstones, but, just for the record, Galileo never dropped anything off the Leaning Tower. Somebody else did, in an unsuccessful attempt to prove him wrong!John Gribbinjgribbin@biols.susx.ac.uk
Can I take your order?A Japanese university has unveiled a robot waitress which brings a glass of ice water, politely takes orders, and brings dishes from the kitchen to the table."It is the first intelligent, autonomous robot in the world, as far as we know, which is working in the real public environment with unspecified, and untrained human beings," claims its creator, Professor Eiji Nakano director of the Advanced Robotics Laboratory at Tohoku University in Sendai.Currently working a two   hour daily shift without specified pay at a Chinese restaurant in Tokyo, the 140cm-tall robot, named Mei Mei, can move from its base station to the tables without guidelines and is able to talk to children or entertain them with games.Safety was the most important consideration when designing the robot, said the lab. An infrared sensor and "human-detection sensors" are installed in the front of the wheeled robot.Another 30 ultra-sonic sensors are fixed around the body enabling it to stop autonomously when a person goes into its path. It can also ask for right of the way by saying: "Excuse me, please."Mei-Mei joins a growing band of autonomous robots being built around Japan - a country with a special fascination with robots, particularly those that mimic humans.Another Japanese robotics lab recently developed a shopping robot that can push a shopping trolley and can be programmed to pick a jar of coffee of the supermarket shelves. Motor manufacturer Honda has come up with an $80m autonomous human-configured robot capable of walking over rough, uneven terrain and even climbing stairs.  (MF)Sony's stickSony is continuing the UK rollout of products that use its high capacity Memory    Stick storage system. Hot on the heels of the Memory Stick Walkman comes the ICD-MS1 - a digital recorder targeted at business users. The &#163;300 ICD-MS1 enables the user to easily transfer the pearls of wisdom they have recorded on to the Stick to a PC via a card or floppy disc adapter.  It features a 16MB    Memory Stick which is capable of archiving up to 131 minutes of speech. The ICD-MS1 is also supplied with software that lets users play back, edit and re-organise the data on their PC.Net chicHigh-tech married high fashion at this week's Internet World Show in Earl's Court and gave birth to a range of wearable internet products.  The event, organised by Los-Angles based Charmed Technology, featured cyber-models parading all manner of devices from an ear-ring that blinks whenever messages are received to a smart badge that electronically exchanges business cards. The Catwalk Queen proved to be the Charmed Communicator, pictured, left, a wireless internet device deigned to be worn around the waist. The Communicator can be controlled by voice, pen or via a keyboard. It will send and receive still and moving images as well as allowing the user to download and    listen to music files. For that ultra high-tech finish, the Communicator can be hooked up to a specially designed monocle for what Charmed describes as discreet web surfing.  Also on display was a necklace with a built in vocoder that allows the owner to dictate emails, a ring that glows whenever an email is received, and a wearable LCD monitor. Charmed Technology hopes to have the majority of the products on sale in the UK by mid 2001.Non-stop videoPanasonic has answered every couch potato's prayer. Its new pair of VCRs, due in the UK soon, give video addicts the option of pressing play and being able to watch the same tape all day long.  For in addition to long and standard play, the &#163;350 NV-FJ760B and &#163;300 NV-FJ710B boast a third recording speed, Extended Play or EP, which enables viewers to squeeze as much as 12 hours of footage on to an E-240 cassette.  Fortunately, given the number of programmes each tape can archive, the VCRs also sport a Tape Library system. Each time a cassette is    inserted into the VCR it automatically displays on screen the names of the programmes recorded on to the cassette and when they were taped. Hi-fi lovers will also be relieved to hear that DVD-Audio is back on Panasonic's agenda.The format's original January launch was scuppered by a Norwegian teenager who hacked its copyright protection system.  Panasonic is promising two players, the DVD-A7 and DVD-A10, and a DVD-Audio equipped micro system, the SC-HDA710 in September or October. DVD-Audio discs boast a significantly higher frequency capability and wider dynamic range than standard CDs.  Panasonic has also given a sneak preview of some of the products it is launching in Japan this year and hopes to bring to the UK in 2001. Top billing went to the DMR-E10, a DVD recorder that uses the DVD-RAM format to store more than two hours of high quality video on a 4.7GB disc.  Also on display were products that use Secure Digital (SD) storage cards including a tiny internet audio player and a digital camera that can be worn as a pendant. (AN)
For 12 days, Hector the Protector kept loggers at bay as he sat in a platform 25 feet up a gum tree in northern Tasmania.His reports of the devastation of the landscape - "for the sake of a few million pizza boxes which we'll buy back rather expensively from the Japanese mills which process the woodchips from our publically-owned forests" - were sent to the world via his website atwww.nfn.org.au/up-a-tree/which he updated daily by cellular phone.Now only the stump of the tree remains. But Hector's legacy lives on: the website is still campaigning against the assault on Australian and Tasmanian eco-systems and other green causes have embraced the net."The overwhelming benefit of the web to environmental campaigners is getting relevant information out to people in an accessible form," says Mike Childs, theFriends Of the Earthtoxics campaigner who has helped set up FOE's toxic watch map on the web."If people can see what pollutants are being released in their area, they can get angry about that and help to do something about it. Previously that information was very difficult to access."For grassroots community-based campaigns too, the web is proving an invaluable tool. The National Association forCleaner Kilns, which is fighting the burning of toxic chemical wastes in cement kilns, is able to link up with similar campaigns both in the UK and overseas to share information and tactics.But one of the most significant benefits of the web is that it lets people think on a much larger scale."Globally the web has unified the environmental movement in a way that I only dreamed of when I first started using email over 10 years ago," says Brent Hoare, an activist from Sydney who now runs an ozone-friendly fridge companywww.greenchill.org. "It has made possible the development of global days of action such as Reclaim The Streets and the World Trade Organisation protests in Seattle."McDonald's, the multinational fast food chain, spends $2bn a year promoting its products. But its green-unfriendly aspects have been highlighted by the operators of the McSpotlight website,www.mcspotlight.org.And it's this information-free-for-all that has been such a gift to activists the world over:www.oneworld.organdwww.envirolink.comboth offer a planet- and people-friendly daily news service, while the award winningwww.urban75.comdishes up the latest from the squat and rave end of the environmental activist spectrum.Innovative, sustainable environmental solutions sites abound on the web too, most notablywww.london21.orgfrom the UK, andwww.sustainable.doe.gov,www.cnt.organdwww.ilsr.orgfrom the US.To deal with the volume of environmental websites, sites such aswww.ethical-junction.orgare being launched specifically to guide surfers through the increasingly congested eco-cyberspace.But not just die-hard eco-freako activists are benefitting from this information-fest. "The boost in the quantity and quality of information available is shifting power to the environmentally aware consumer," according to Rob Harrison from theEthical Consumer."Consumers now have the ability to track a company's environmental and ethical record, and as a result have an increased say in how companies are directed in the future."Aside from the benefits that the web offers environmentalists, a US report now suggests that e-commerce itself is generating massive environmental benefits.The report from the Centre for Energy and Climate Solutions atwww.cool-companies.orgclaims that the emerging economy created by the internet will reduce the amount of energy and materials consumed by businesses and increase overall productivity.So while the web is delivering on many fronts environ  mentally, Barry Coates from theWorld Development Movementdoubts though whether the web can single-handedly change hearts and minds. This, he believes, can happen only through decidedly low-tech face-to-face encounters."If we put information on the web and ask, 'is this somehow magically going to create a constituency for the kind of issues that we think are important?', then the answer is no. What the web does do, though," says Coates, "is to give more information to the people who are already sympathetic."David Boyle from the New Economics Foundationwww.neweconomics.orgis a lone voice of caution amid the clamour of web frenzy. He says: "It's just too early to know whether the web's benefits will outweigh its disadvantages. Just left to itself, it's easy to see a situation arising where the people who would really benefit from the web - those currently at the margins of society - would miss out."The danger of the socially excluded missing out on the technological revolution has led to a number of innovations around the country, most notably theRedbricksproject in inner-city Manchester. This was the first scheme in the UK to get a whole housing estate online at a minimal cost to the residents.But Boyle says it's up to all of us to come up with new ideas of managing the web in a positive way, otherwise "it could so easily benefit wasteful, large multinationals".
Since last week's collapse ofBoo.com, the prophets of doom have been out in force predicting the end of the internet is     nigh and are taking bets on where the virtual grim reaper will strike next.The announcement on Monday that online information provider Netimperative is calling in the receivers only whetted     their appetite for even more culling.      But Boo's fate was little surprise for senior, wiser figures within the e-world. It's like any business in any sector, if you     start off with a fundamentally flawed business model and manage it badly it's highly likely you will go out of business,     insists chief executive of Just-sites.com, Allan Davies.But what was flawed about the business model? After all, when Boo.com was launched it was feted in many parts of the     media as a revolution in e-commerce."I am amazed that any investor would have believed the stories about this business," says Davies. He says it was like     deciding to open a clothes store on the high street with M&amp;S on one side and C&amp;A on the other, then selling a reduced     range of goods at the same price and making it very difficult to get in the front door.      He admits his comments are more acidic than most, fuelled by the fact that he has spent the last six months working     hard to raise money from venture capitalists, despite the fact his online business is making money.Just-sites.com, is in the more fashionable business to business (B2B) sector and provides information for companies     on anything from market research to the clothing industry.      Davies suggests there are lots of online businesses based on solid business propositions, but they do not grab the     headlines.Visiting the Boo.com we site now is a sad experience, which highlights the disappointment of its brief but notorious life.     Boo.com generated huge expectations but failed to fulfill them: in the About Boo section, the site still predicts it will     become the world's leading online retailer of fashion and sportswear, and create an awesome virtual shopping     experience surpassing anything else on the web.Is the merciless criticism justified? Boo has been pilloried, says independent internet consultant, Naunton Dickins. But     that is nothing unusual. There are companies going belly up every day of the week.      The only difference is Boo made so much noise that everyone wanted it to fail. It was young, attractive , had huge     amounts of money and great dreams and the public was keen to see the first public internet failure.Internet analysts argue that Boo was flawed because it could not offer discounted products, its range was limited, and     the snazzy graphics meant pages took ages to download. The service was designed for computers with 56K modems.     Without one, you suffered.      The company was hugely over-ambitious in its attempt to launch in 18 countries simultaneously and burned cash at rate     guaranteed to make any traditional bank manager choke on his lunch.A nother criticism was that Boo concentrated too much on the glamour side of PR and marketing - including lavish     parties around the world - but ignored the boring and essential stuff: ensuring you can efficiently fulfil your customers'     orders.      Management consultants will probably present Boo as a classic example of how not to launch and run an internet     company. But it is easy to put the boot in and ignore any positive contribution Boo could have made to the development     of the online industry."I think its most positive contribution is to press the re-set button on people's thinking about investing in internet     companies," says Davies. "There is a lot of garbage talked about the dot.com businesses. The best thing to come out of     this will be that people will be much more aware that fantasy business plans are things of the past. No one is going to     invest in silly business ideas any more."News of Boo's collapse spread panic through the new dot.coms. Morale-raising internal meetings have been held at     some, and PR companies have rushed out press releases emphasising the strong business credentials of the     companies they represent.      Simon Steward, vice president of the venture capitalist company, Think Ventures, says Boo has taught investors a lot.Now they should know they have to invest in high quality businesses because the perils of unproven internet ventures     have been made quite clear.      He explains: "You need to be looking for experienced people to operate online businesses. You need to be looking for     real talent and well-argued and well-reasoned business models."      In the light of the sudden departure of Miss Boo, many industry insiders are suggesting that traditional bricks and mortar     companies are starting to strike back. Traditional players like M&amp;S can watch pioneers like Boo fail and learn from them.     They can move more gradually as they have more secure funding, and they can also move at the pace of their     customers as they become more used to the idea of shopping online.Bricks and mortar companies have an advantage because they have a brand. People are able to guess the web address     and the brand gives some security and trust. E-commerce begins with silicon and ends with trust.      They also have a reassuring high street presence where customers can go if they have a problem. Neither do they have     to spend millions on brand recognition in each country.New technology companies are realising that they can learn a lot from old style land-based businesses in the retail     sector. Last year Amazon was rumoured to be in the process of striking deals which would have seen Amazon-branded     bookshops in supermarkets. Recently ThinkNatural.com, the health and nutrition e-tailer, attracted £3 million worth of     investment from Kingfisher, the retail group which owns the Superdrug and Woolworth chains.      In chatrooms on business sites, directors of established companies have been reiterating that the internet is no different     to any other form of business and needs to follow the same rules. They charged Boo with making the basic business     error of not ensuring it had adequate demand and supply to survive its short term start up costs.Despite Boo's high profile failure, most senior financial analysts remain utterly convinced that e-commerce is the future.      "I think the speed of the transition to the internet has been over-hyped but it will inevitably have a huge impact," explains     Steward. The internet is fundamentally altering how we communicate: the revolution has just started. "In any promising     new market," he adds, "there is a natural tendency for expectations, investments and prices to overshoot."The growth of the internet is being driven now by the introduction of interactive TV and mobile phones that will all     create new markets and new waves of activity.      Despite the fact that Boo crashed in the highly-competitive clothing sector, the vast majority of analysts do not think     selling clothes on the internet is doomed.      They say many people are still stuck in the mindset of a traditional retail environment, but forecast that this will change.      For example, it is suggested that people could go shopping offline and take photographs of themselves wearing an     outfit. After showing it to their friends, they might make the actual purchase online because it is more convenient.Some e-commerce directors argue that men can be very conservative in their shopping habits, and could be persuaded     to buy online for a reduced price as they know what they like and usually find shopping boring.      But it is still not all over for Boo. With the liquidators trying to auction off the company's remains, some people still     harbour hopes for Europe's first high profile internet casualty.      "Boo is probably the biggest known internet brand now," says Naunton Dickins, an independent internet consultant.     "Everyone knows about Boo.com. I have a weird feeling they might rise again."
It's time to winch in the crates of beer, plump up the sofas, debag the tortillas and crudit&eacute;s, and lower the blinds. Your friends are coming round this afternoon to watch the match, and everything must be perfect. You'll spend an emotive couple of hours cheering on your team, and afterwards you'll discuss the tactics and drama in increasingly boozy, argumentative fashion. A great sporting afternoon.But this ain't football. You're watching a videogame tournament. And videogames are the new sport.Yeah, right. Surely videogames are played alone by "young men sitting in their stained, darkened bedrooms"? That's the smugly ignorant view of crumbly punk kid Tony Parsons, and typical of wider prejudice. But the largest growth area in videogames over the last few years has been social play. Tens of thousands of people all over the world regularly meet on the internet to play against each other, and the large majority of "casual gamers" - the affluent, intelligent twenty- and thirty-somethings that the videogame industry has succeeded so remarkably in seducing over the past five years - use videogames together, sitting around the PlayStation just as earlier generations might have gathered round the wireless or the cribbage board.So we have a new form of game that is highly social, fast-moving and competitive. If shooting real guns is an Olympic sport, why not the railguns and rocket-launchers of Quake, which, moreover, incorporates elements of high-speed spatial tactics and teamplay? In the US, the groovily named Cyberathletes' Professional League already organises regular tournaments at which the prize money exceeds $100,000. Qualifying rounds for these tournaments are also held here, at The Playing Fields videogame bar in Whitfield Street, London, and now we have our own version of the league, the UK PC Games Championships.But surely, in order to qualify as a sport, an activity must involve hard, sweating   physical activity, rather than just sitting at a table with mouse and keyboard? Edward Watson, manager of The Playing Fields, doesn't think so: he calls this prejudice "sports fascism". And this isn't because he's biased against the physically excellent: he used to be a modern pentathlete, and a soldier, himself."When I was an athlete at school," Watson remembers, "we were effectively fed all the non-athletic people as targets. I'd have a great time playing football because I'd just power past these guys. But now I look back at it and I think, 'That guy who always played at left back, who was a slightly tubby fella - he   must have had a miserable time.' And here we are with a sport &#91;videogames&#93; where for those guys it's kind of their revenge, because you don't need to have any physical, god-given right to be good at it."So a game of multiplayer Quake 3 or Unreal Tournament is actually a revolutionary democratisation of the nature of sport. Laurels are no longer determined simply by the tyranny of genes. As Watson points out, in this new sport there is no need to segregate women and men, because physical strength doesn't come into it. And one of the top players at the recent Birmingham UK PC Games Championships, he says, was disabled, happily beating off the able-bodied on a level playing-field.But just what is it about fragging that is particularly sport-like? "Take away what's physically happening," Watson insists, "and you couldn't tell the difference between what's going on here and a professional sports tournament. The tactics that can be employed in a videogame are as varied as those that can be employed in any game. There's always going to be that human element where the best player gets beaten by someone who's not expected to beat him, because he uses a surprising tactic, and the other guy's slightly off his aim because he was on the beer the night before..."The crucial question is how you could make Quake 3 work    as a spectator sport that people might want to watch as well as play. Watson points out that they make exciting television coverage already out of the Tour de France and Formula One racing, both of which are actually incredibly boring. He acknowledges that it's the   personalities that really get people interested in any sport: Schumacher versus Coulthard, the glory days of snooker with Alex Higgins and Steve Davis, or Eric Bristow chucking darts against Jocky Wilson.The videogamer personalities of the future are already bubbling under among the elite group of professional videogamers who tour the world and making a living out of their "sport". Two of this country's best are Sujoy Roy and Amir Haleem (Haleem won the $10,000 first prize in the Dallas Frag 3 competition last year). They are now based in Stockholm, building a "gamer lifestyle" website, xsreality.com, which is already attracting huge interest from sponsors.Being a pro gamer is a serious business: like any other sportsperson, you have to devote hours every day to practice to have a hope of winning big. "I was getting lazy after I won the last event," Haleem admits wryly. "But now we're doing two to three hours a day of playing. It might seem fairly hilarious to the average person that we actually sit and talk about tactics after playing games. But if you want to be the best then you have to do these things."Haleem also points out that the increasing popularity of teamplay tournaments, rather than one-on-one fragging contests, brings videogames even closer to   sport: "It's kind of like a game of football, 10 players on 10, with the whole teamwork aspect. I think teamplay is going to be the standard now."It is an extraordinary sign of the increasing commercial viability of videogames as a competitive sport that Haleem's partner, Sujoy Roy, gave up a lucrative career as an investment banker with JP Morgan in order to concentrate on his Quake. "To be honest, it was just dull," laughs Roy of his "proper" job. "This was an opportunity to do something I enjoy. There's lots of companies pumping money into gaming, it's just getting bigger all the time, and we knew there was a living to be made here."Television companies are catching on. Edward Watson is currently in negotiations with British terrestrial channels to televise the next UK PC Games Championships at the end of this year. And even buttoned-up old Auntie is eyeing the bandwagon, with a programme called Bleeding Thumbs in early development, which will apparently incorporate celebrities playing videogames against each other. Wayne Garvey, head of entertainment features at BBC Manchester, is guarded about the show's exact content at this stage, but he will say that the aim is to produce "a really special entertainment   show that happens to be about computer games, and tries to incorporate that tournament feel".So what will a televised videogame event be like? Edward Watson happily imagines the apparatus of commentary and argument working just as it does for other sports: "You have slow-motion replays. You get an expert who says 'This is really a key moment in this game. Let me draw a few things on this map ... Look, he did completely the wrong thing. Let's look at the reverse angle - you can see where the rocket went. This was never gonna work!' And then another guy says, 'Well, I think you're being a bit unfair there, he was really trying to do this', and the first guy responds, 'But that's the point - he should be calculating that angle, he should not have exposed himself...'"Forget darts. Forget, if you will, golf and synchronised swimming. This is what sport will be in the future. Des Lynam commentating on Half-Life: Team Fortress? Can't wait.&#149;  Steven Poole's Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames is published by Fourth Estate (&#163;12)
Prudential is to defy the market scare over dot.com stocks and press on with the flotation of its loss-makingEggbanking subsidiary, albeit at a reduced price.While the market had been expecting Egg to be valued at &#163;1.5bn to &#163;2bn after the share sale, analysts said yesterday they expected &#163;1.5bn to become the upper end of the price range.As Pru insisted that the flotation was "proceeding as planned," it began to run into controversy over its intention to let only customers and employees buy shares over the internet with a debit card.The insurer, which clarified its position after speculation that the deal was in jeopardy, intends to issue a prospectus by the end of the week.The document will be scrutinised for an indicative price range for the share sale, further details of when Egg might break into profit, and the terms under which Mike Harris, the bank's founder, and his management team have been locked in.Egg has already promised to give its 1,400 employees &#163;100 of free shares as well as &#163;900 in options but has yet to reveal any longer-term bonus schemes for its senior staff.They are expected to be generously rewarded as the Pru, which is expected to retain 80% ownership of the banking unit, has already admitted that one of the reasons for the share sale is to make it easier to retain staff.To avoid the problems over pricing and demand for shares incurred by Lastminute.com, Pru is conducting the share sale over the internet and restricting purchases to applicants who have debit cards. To cope with potential demand, Pru is restricting the share sale to &#163;1,000 for the 1m customers of Egg and Pru bank and all of its employees and will accept applications only over the internet.Industry sources believe that Goldman Sachs, which is advising Pru on the flotation, has decided to proceed with the share sale after receiving indications of sufficient demand from institutional investors.Pricing the shares is expected to be more difficult than usual given the volatility of the market for technology shares, which is languishing at half its record high of three months ago.One leading analyst said that the Pru would be more concerned if it failed to incur enough demand for shares, rather than the amount of money it stood to raise.
