Many of the speakerphone systems for cars we have tested recently have worked well when the vehicle was stationary, but were less impressive on the move, with complaints of muffled responses. Jabra hopes to change that with the SP500, its latest wireless Bluetooth speakerphone. The SP500 is an oval device that comes with a suction-powered clip, a sunscreen clip and a charger that fits a car cigarette lighter. You speak into a pull-out microphone that sits atop the device.Once in place, it is simple to use. To take calls, you punch the large multi-purpose button that sits adjacent to the speaker.Jabra has kitted out the SP500, which costs &pound;59.99, with a digital sound processing system that gauges how much background noise there is and then enhances the user's voice or adjusts the volume to make it sound clearer. On this evidence it works, too. The only downside is the poor number of new Bluetooth phones it is compatible with - so check the Jabra website before you buy.www.jabra.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Better late than never dept: today wasBlogday 2005.For one long moment on August 31st, bloggers from all over the world will post recommendations of 5 new Blogs, preferably Blogs that are different from their own culture, point of view and attitude. On this day, blog surfers will find themselves leaping around and discovering new, unknown Blogs, celebrating the discovery of new people and new bloggers.Or maybe not...
The Onion has another brilliant exclusive,here
I'm just back fromGames Market Europe, the rather ponderously titled new UK event for the games industry. With only 35 exhibitors and a large percentage of the floor plan taken up by a bar, it's clear that networking, not flashy stands, was GME's focus. But thankfully there were some new games on show that made the heat – the show was held under the glass roof of Islington's Business Design Centre – more bearable. The pick was probably Ubisoft'sKing Kong. A 30 minute play on this was enough to appreciate the lush forest atmosphere which made whacking at dinosaurs with a spear all the more enjoyable. A level where you control Kong was also playable and the overall impression was positive – this could be that rare thing, a decent film tie-in.Elsewhere FIFA 06 was pleasantly surprising. The game still lacked the exquisite player control and accurate ball movement of Pro Evo, but FIFA 06 felt much more rounded than previous incarnations. The pace seemed to have been upped from last year with the ball zipping around in a more satisfying manner. As you'd expect, the presentation was spot on – despite the ugly sisters on the packshot – and the package as a whole seemed to offer more. There was an amusing retro section with a playable version of FIFA 94, while the management elements looked even more prevalent this time round. I say look because, as is normal at games events, the queue to get on the game meant a closer look at these sections was impossible. Perhaps most telling of all though, was the option to map Pro Evo's controls to the game – EA Canada's final acknowledgment that Pro Evo is the benchmark.Elsewhere the pickings were slim. The new EA Bond,From Russia With Love, crashed before I could get a proper look, but if the thought of Sean Connery with a machine gun doesn't put you off then this looked solid enough. The Nintendogs demo showed off the cute n' quirky canine action, but whether anyone older than 12 will actually play it in public remains to be seen. Eidos/SCi/whatever were showing some stuff, including the rather amusingTotal Overdose. Amusing, mainly because the game is so utterly shameless in its "influences". So we get a GTA-style free roaming environment, Max Payne slo-mo shooting and aSands of Timerewind time function. However, a quick go suggested this could be decent post-pub entertainment.As an event GME is clearly a stopgap until the political wrangling which prevented a real successor toECTShas been sorted. The low key atmosphere and relatively sparse attendance were a shame considering the imminent launches of PSP and Xbox 360. But as a place to gossip and grab a go on some pre-Christmas titles it was worth the journey.
Using a mobile phone for up to 10 years seems to pose no extra risk of brain cancer, scientists said yesterday.There is no substantial risk to phone users of developing acoustic neuroma, a rare tumour which occurs close to where mobiles are held to the head, according to the largest study so far.Researchers could find no link between the risk of developing a tumour and the number of years for which mobile phones had been used, the time since their first use, or the total number of calls. Whether the phone was an analogue or digital model did not seem to matter either.But increased risk after 10 years could not be ruled out because the technology was still so new, the team from the Institute of Cancer Research in London said in an article published online in the British Journal of Cancer.Researchers collated data on adults from five countries - Britain, Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden - where mobile phones were introduced particularly early.One billion people use mobiles worldwide, and there remains concern that children may be more at risk of cancer because their nervous systems are still developing and they will be exposed to radiation for longer during their lives.There is very little evidence of the effects on users aged under 16, although studies are planned.The Department of Health said the latest report, which it part-funded, found "no hard evidence at present that the health of the public is being adversely affected by the use of mobile phone technologies".But it advised people under 16 to keep calls short, not to use phones frequently, and to send text messages where possible.This year Sir William Stewart, chairman of the Health Protection Agency, went further, suggesting parents should ban children under eight from using mobiles.Eight studies on the risk of acoustic neuroma and mobile phones had been published before yesterday's, of which two suggested a significantly increased risk. One of the two concluded that this risk applied to relatively short-term users of analogue phones. Another, from Sweden, raised the possibility of risk for long-term users.The latter research was subjected to fresh analysis for the results published yesterday. It compared mobile phone use among 144 people who had acoustic neuroma with that of others who did not.But the "risk effect" was wiped out by the larger numbers of people examined by collating information from other countries. For yesterday's study, information was collected from 678 people with acoustic neuroma and 3,553 who did not have the tumour. All were questioned on their mobile use. Over the next year, data from another eight countries is expected to be added.Acoustic neuromas are slow-growing tumours which affect the nerve that connects the ear and inner ear to the brain. They can cause loss of hearing in the affected ear and loss of balance but do not spread to other parts of the body.Anthony Swerdlow, a professor who is senior investigator at the Institute of Cancer Research, said: "There has been public concern about whether there is a link between brain cancer risk and the use of mobile phones. The risk of acoustic neuroma is of particular interest in this context because of the proximity of the acoustic nerve to the handset."The results of our study suggest there is no substantial risk in the first decade after starting use. Whether there are longer-term risks remains unknown, reflecting the fact that this is a relatively recent technology."The Mobile Operators Association said: "This study outcome is consistent with the significant body of research and expert reviews reporting no health effects from the use of mobile phones."Scientists have yet to explain how radio-frequency fields from mobile phones might cause tumours. Unlike ionising radiation, the fields from handsets do not have enough energy to break chemical bonds or damage DNA.
GDC Europeis kicking off today with notable keynote speeches from Sony's Executive Vice President of Development, Phil Harrison and Keita Takahashi, creator of Katamari Damacy. I was there yesterday, though, for the dedicated mobile gaming sessions, where once again a series of industry luminaries fretted over how to capture the mainstream audience. Two candidates – 3D graphics and online community elements - were put forward time and time again, as they have been for the last three years.I disagree. Sort of. 3D graphics and multiplayer options are methods, they're not solutions, and thinking like this is fundamentally at odds with how casual users view games. What the industry should be asking itself is "how do we create compelling experiences that are absolutely unique to mobile phones?" Endless console conversions and retro ports are not significantly widening the audience at the moment and neither will 3D console conversions, or retro ports with online high score tables and two-player options. And you can quote me on that.Games industry people love to think of themselves as pioneers and innovators – the phrase 'thinking outside the box' is so over-used, it should be translated into Latin* and worked into a coat-of-arms to be hung above the GDC stage. But I encountered little in the way of innovative game design thought at the event. Indeed, during a group session entitled,'Mastering The Mutable Mobile Platform'Robert Tercek, the founding chairman of GDC Mobile, brought up an oft-referenced Korean Tamagotchi game that lets you photograph differently coloured objects to feed your virtual pet (if it wants a banana you have to take a photo of something yellow) – not an amazing game, but an interesting use of unique mobile technology. Well, there was an awkward pause, some brief references to another camera game, Mosquitoes, and then the subject was quickly changed. Back to 3D graphics then, eh?There were several highlights, though, including a chat with EA's CTO of Worldwide Mobile Gaming, Lincoln Wallen, who revealed a little more about the company's wireless agenda. So here goes…*Actually if anyone CAN translate this into Latin, I'd be interested to know what it isThings I learned at Mobile GDC1. US developer Floodgate Entertainment is working on a massively multiplayer online pirate game (that's MMOPG) for mobile phones, named Swashbuckler. It definitely contains boat fights, but no word yet on grog. Or parrots. The company's founder, Matthew Bellows, told us that 3G networks now allow for ping times of less that 500 milliseconds, fascilitating the transition from turn-based to real-time play.2. The new mobile game version of Need For Speed Underground 2, developed by Ideaworks3D and recently released on Verizon'sVcastgaming service in the states keeps loads of the game content on a dedicated server. When players open up a new car or upgrade, it is downloaded on the fly from server to phone. This keeps the size of the initial download relatively small and will also allow developers to keep adding new content to their games. An interesting development.3. In May, Motorolaannouncedthe development of the first ever Nano Emissive Flat Screen Display (NED), which could produce mobile phone screens of 40x the current highest resolution by 2010. You know those photos you take of your mates/partner/pets when you're very drunk? Image them in 40 times more detail…4. Vodafone's head of games Tim Harrison recognised that operators still have a way to go in terms of designing "the ultimate gaming handset". He also argued that "there's room for fully immersive games, but the biggest success will be short, episodic games used to fill dead time". He reckons that the reason video calling has failed is that it demands too much of the mobile users' attention – we've become comfortable with texting and talking while we're doing other things, so applications that demand 100% of our attention are doomed to failure. This goes for games as well.Vodafone is also looking at introducing a channel-style games subscription model into Europe. In other words, customers pay a flat monthly fee and then download all the titles they want.5. According to Roberto Saracco of Telecom Italia Lab, the University of Genoa is conducting research into mixed reality games – i.e. games that somehow employ elements of the player's real-world surroundings. Saracco reckons thatthisis the future of mobile gaming, as cellphones are such an intrinsic part of our personal environment. I think he has a point.6. EA is looking at building community elements into its mobile titles. The Sims Mobile for example will feature some online components, although Lincoln Wallen, EA's Worldwide Mobile Gaming CTO didn't specify. He also said that they're broadening the range of EA brands coming over to mobile. At the moment it's Tiger Woods, FIFA, NBA, Madden, The Sims and Need For Speed, but more announcements are due by the end of the year…Finally, he told me that EA has definite ambitions to link the mobile and PC/console versions of its games so that, for example, you'll be able to manage squad data in a mobile version of FIFA before uploading that data to the console version. He also discussed linking the PC and mobile Sims communities, possibly so that they can share downloadable accessories. I asked for a timeframe and Wallen stated that interplay between mobile and console versions of EA titles will be in place for the next iterations of the key titles – i.e. FIFA 2007, etc. This could be areallyinteresting development.7. John Cahill, Director of Games Operations at Yahoo! gave a talk on connected communities, centring aroundYahoo's new gaming servicewhich allows cellphone owners to play simple parlour games against PC owners. It's currently only available on the Sprint network in the states, but we're likely to see similar services operating in Europe soon.Meanwhile, EA is looking at making itsPogotitles playable between mobile and PC participants. This kind of multi-platform connectivity makes a lot of sense – casual users are familiar with services like Yahoo Games, so feel more confident and enthusiastic about downloading the games to their phones, plus they have a ready made community of hundreds of thousands of people to play against…Notes from Mobile GDC part two coming later today!
Microsoft today directly challenged Google in the burgeoning internet telephony market by buying Teleo, a firm that allows users to make calls from their computers to normal telephones.Microsoft's acquisition of Teleo, a privately owned firm in San Francisco, was always on the cards as the company's service is closely integrated with Microsoft products such as Outlook and Internet Explorer.Microsoft's entry into internet telephony follows the launch earlier this month by Google, the world's leading search engine, of Google Talk, an instant message and voice chat service to compete with the likes of AOL, Yahoo and Skype.With 51 million registered users and more than 2 million customers who pay for services such as voicemail and connections with outside phone numbers, Skype currently holds the lead in internet telephony, also called voice over internet protocol (VoIP).Google, Microsoft, AOL and Yahoo all offer voice calls between computers, but not to outside phone lines. Competition for digital calling from technology, cable television and satellite companies is fast making VoIP a reality for consumers.The Teleo acquisition gives Microsoft a boost in its race with Google, Skype and other telecommunications companies, including BT."Given that the space is so hot at the moment in terms of activity, the competition is going to be great for customers," Will Collins, global product manager for MSN Messenger, told the New York Times.Microsoft did not disclose the financial terms of the transaction. Mr Collins said MSN Messenger PC, the Microsoft chat software that includes some voice features, would be the first offering to adopt some of the features that come with the purchase of Teleo, which is only two years old.Teleo's click-to-dial feature is already compatible with Microsoft's Outlook software. Users can click on a phone number in those programmes, and Teleo dials it.Earlier this year, Skype's chief executive, Niklas Zennstrom, said his company had to build its user base as quickly as possible because much larger rivals were certain to enter the market."The biggest threat are the portals such as Yahoo and Microsoft MSN," he said.
Another big Microsoft release, anothermysterious viral marketing campaign. Echoing the cloaked message of Halo2's hugely successfulilovebees, and certainly hoping to garner as much publicity as that well-received tactic, a new website has cropped up with an XBox name, Xbox colours (TM) and a non-specific date.Origen Xbox 360silently crash landed on a non-descript website, featuring nothing but a bare tree and a countdown timer. Any amateur Enigma-breakers out there?Over the weekend, the tree grew fruit (apples) and an Xbox-green rabbit.Curiouser and curiouser.Quick-fire games have been used as advertising for things as varied asBudweiserandPresidential hopefuls(seeWater Cooler Gamesfor more info), passing a message rapidly around the Internet to office workers in need of an inconspicuous mental break from daily drudgery. It's strange, then, that such campaigns have evaded the marketing of console and PC entertainment, particularly as they've proven effective time and time again, both in terms of gathering new converts and keeping the bottom line low. There are a few notable exceptions, however.IlovebeesPossibly the most successful viral marketing campaign in computer game history, this seemingly innocent webpage about "Margaret's" love for bees createdmuchmediaattentionafter the address was broadcast at the end of a Halo 2 trailer. It was a superb Alternate Reality Game that left enough cryptic treasure hunt-style clues across the ilovebees.com to inform players where the next Halo 2 preview event would be held.ESPN NFL FootballObviously a US-based marketing campaign (bar those few others interested in American Football), thisaward winningeffort was aimed at pitting the Sega underdog against the massive marketing cash coffers of rival EA's Madden. The plot involved an escalating altercation between a supposed beta tester of the game against Sega Corp, when the company recalled "faulty" beta versions of the game which, when played, resulted in mysterious blackouts and unpredictable behaviour. A forum stooge named Beta7 lashed out at Sega across multiple sites and newsgroups, created aweblogto document his struggle and then mysteriously "vanished", leaving a ransacked apartment and a truly terrified fan base.Resident Evil: Outbreak's T-VirusMore a misjudged attempt than an effective campaign, the idea was to plant SMS code on mobile phones which would jack into the mechanics of any phone that was then called or SMS'd, resulting in a zombie-groan ringtone. I admit that I had my mobile phone "infected", but darned if I know what happened to it; the virus was never passed on to any in my contacts list. All the press this campaign managed to get was negative.Sega Saturn (UK campaign)Odd, arty posters cropped up in Glasgow, Scotland'sClockwork Orangein the late 1990s, bearing nothing but a strange orb. Can't find proof anywhere that they existed. Was it only a dream?Please tell me there are more. Preferrably offline.
Japan's obsession with manga is about to take on a new dimension as firms prepare to woo mobile phone users with hundreds of comic-book titles that can be read on 3G handsets. Although the market for mobile manga is barely a year old, major players in new media already see the potential for massive growth.This week Sony Pictures Entertainment said it planned to double the number of manga titles it offers for viewing on mobile phones, which will make it the biggest provider in Japan. It will add the titles as they are completed and will soon offer more than 300, twice as many as its major rivals, Toppan Publishing and NTT Solmare.Sony's list is dominated by horror stories and other titles mainly from the 1970s and 1980s. "They don't all appeal to teenagers and people in their twenties, so we want to expand our library to bring in new readers," said Hidekazu Tanaka, a spokesman for Sony Corporate Communications. "We aim to increase the selection so it better reflects the variety of conventional comic books."Sony has contracts with 10 manga artists, including Shotaro Ishinomori, Reiji Matsumoto and Shigeru Mizuki, whose Mizuki no Kowai Hon series (Mizuki's Scary Book) is among the most popular downloads.Rather than depend on established publishers to reproduce old works, the firm says it also wants to use original stories from new and little-known artists.Sony charges &yen;315 (&pound;1.50) to download five titles a month by the same artist and is said to be planning unlimited downloads for a fixed price of about &yen;1,000 a month. The charge is added to the monthly phone bill.The firm's existing content is distributed for use on KDDI cell phones, but negotiations are planned with Vodafone and NTT DoCoMo, Japan's most popular mobile phone carrier.The manga frames are formatted to fit on mobile phone screens. Using a technology called Comic Surfing, users are taken through each story at carefully calculated speeds. Some stories use pop-up frames and vibrations during action scenes, and at least one firm plans to introduce sound effects.Yoshiya Shimada, a spokesman for Toppan Publishing, said the company did not keep records of its most popular mobile manga titles by download but added that those aimed at the teenage and youth markets were the most popular.With Sony now competing for the attentions of online manga lovers, Toppan says it plans to respond by expanding its titles from the current 50 through tie-ups with publishing houses.Online providers say their aim is not to eat into the huge market in conventional manga, which, according to the Nomura Research Institute, was worth an estimated $905m (&pound;500m) last year."It's not a question of one or the other," said Mr Shimada. "We believe there is plenty of room for both markets to expand together." Mr Tanaka played down talk of competition between the two media. "Downloadable manga are a new and different way of enjoying comics," he said. "You can take your time reading ordinary manga but we see the mobile versions as something for people with limited time and who are often on the move."Enthusiasts say the appeal of mobile manga is no different to that of any other service now available to the Japanese via their handsets. "They can be read anywhere and you don't need to go to a particular place to buy them," said Mr Shimada. There are other obvious practical pluses: the myriad conventional manga titles include single volumes slim enough to fit into a pocket, but among the most widely read are weekly series the size of breeze blocks.To succeed, Sony, Toppan and others will need to convince people like Kanako Hosomura. Ms Hosomura, 23, who is a waitress in Tokyo, belongs to one of the demographic groups - single, working women in their twenties - that analysts believe are most likely to adapt to reading manga on handsets. But she has mixed feelings about the medium."The picture quality is great, but I don't feel that I'm reading at my own pace," she said. "I can't scan really quickly across the page like I do when I read comics at home. I'm also wary of having my handset permanently open on the train; you get funny looks from some people."
This morning a somewhat enigmatic email from Apple appeared in my inbox. "1,000 songs in your pocket changed everything," it said. "Here we go again". On September 7, it told me, Apple would be making an announcement in San Francisco.Then I spotted the first leak: the New York Times is reporting that this is the date for the launch of the long-awaited iTunes compatible phone that's being made in conjunction with Motorola.Apple Computer and Motorola plan to unveil a long-awaited mobile phone and music player next week that will incorporate Apple's iTunes software, a telecommunications industry analyst who has been briefed on the announcement said on Monday.Roger Entner, a telecommunications analyst with Ovum, a market research firm, said he had been told by an industry executive that the new phone, to be made by Motorola, would be marketed by Cingular Wireless. Mr. Entner said it would include iTunes software, which helps power the iPod.As rumors go, this one looks fairly strong; but we're unlikely to know the exact details until the launch. I should be there in spirit, if not in person (satellite link-ups are a great thing) and will let you know what's happening next week.Update:There's a brief story on the rumourshere- money quote: "people might be disappointed, because I don't think it will be much more than a phone that can play music"
Well, how many sites publish reviews ofpencils?
From our SIAT (Storm In A Teacup) department:"A splinter faction of Flickr photo-sharing community members is threatening a symbolic "mass suicide" to protest closer integration with the website's new owner, Yahoo," reportsWired News."At stake is a new user-profile stipulation that reads: 'We will be migrating all independent Flickr accounts to Yahoo's network in 2006. At that time, if you have not done so already, you will be asked to create a Yahoo ID (or link your account to your Yahoo ID if you already have one) in order to continue using your account.'"Flickr co-founder Stewart Butterfield told Wired News that Flickr users "can be as distinct as they want it to be in terms of how other users see them -- it just means that they sign on using different credentials. The integration will make it a lot easier to most new users, since so many people already have Yahoo IDs, and there will be lots of benefits for everyone. It doesn't make sense to run both systems in parallel forever."
Thenewsthat China's government isplanningtolimitonline game players' virtualsessionsto three-hours per day hasricochetedaround theweb-waves, resulting in commentary and occasional outrage by Western bloggers horrified at the nanny-state tactics of the Chinese, ahem, Reds. True, this kind of thing wouldn't go down well in the UK, the US, Oz and other areas of capitalist, individualist ideology, but the situation is rather different on the (relative) other side of the world, as news stories and first-hand accounts demonstrate on a regular basis.Firstly, it's difficult to comprehend the role that online games play in the everyday lives of Chinese people, but it's pretty evident that their MMOG market is pretty hefty, with hundreds of viable products raking in subscriptions (andhundredsmore to come). Secondly, the only place that has witnessed dramatic, legal real-life consequences from online game play has been in China. Let's not forget the headlines made last week about the arrest of anonline mugger, or the suspended life sentence of a man whomurderedanother player for a stolen virtual sword, or the $1,200 recompense that Li Hongchenwonfrom Chinese game publishers because someone had hacked into his online game account.Sure, the Chinese government's response appears to be dramatic, but this is the same government which controls which games getmade(andmade), which games getbanned, and has already set upclinicsfor "addicted" online game players.But for those of us with Western proclivities, there is alreadyChinese gamer consternationin the ranks.
Car number plates used to change once a year, sparking a frenzy of buying activity across the country in August as drivers waited to get the new registration letter. That changed four years ago when the registration system ran out of letters. After discussion with car dealers, the DVLA and manufacturers, a new system was developed to calm the autumn glut and spread car buying more evenly across the year.As a result, it is now numbers not letters that denote when a car was registered. The two-digit number in the first six months of the registration year, March to August, differs from that used on new cars sold between September and February. Cars registered since March 1 2005 have 05 on their number-plates, while from September 1 registrations will include 55, the year of registration plus 50. The system is designed to last 49 years, from the 01 and 51 number plates issued in 2001 to the 51 and 99 plates which will be issued in 2049.The new "55" number plates start rolling off forecourts on September 1, setting in motion the sale and resale of up to 1.9m cars. Getting a new car will always be expensive, but some drivers will be spending hundreds, maybe thousands of pounds more than they need to. Follow our guide to make sure you're not one of them.What is the best way to pay?According to dealers, you'll get the best deal if you walk in to their showroom with cash in January as staff are desperate to make a sale. But for those without that option, credit will have to do. Hire purchase, credit cards, and unsecured personal loans combined with savings and the trade-in value of your old car can all be used to finance your new car. Most people, however, will use some sort of unsecured personal loan, either arranged through their bank or building society, or through the garage where they buy the car.Is there anything wrong with getting a loan from the garage?Arranging finance at the garage is easy, but can also be very expensive. The AA reports that most buyers simply accept the first finance deal they are offered, with one in four going for the dealer's package. But this is a mistake that can cost you dear. According to price comparison website Moneysupermarket.com, dealer finance packages typically charge interest of 13.8% APR. This does not compare favourably with typical high street bank personal loan charges of 6.4% APR.Lloyd East, general manager at AA personal finance, says most people are prepared to haggle over the price of a new car. "But savings made on a garage forecourt can quickly get swallowed up by paying over the top for finance."Alliance & Leicester says that over the life of a four-year &#163;12,000 loan, the dealer's finance package will typically cost you &#163;1,700 more than a personal loan. Nationally this means &#163;2.33bn a year is wasted on high interest payments. Typical APR rates offered by dealers include BMW and Audi at 10.9%, Vauxhall at 11.8%, Mercedes at 13.5%, Peugot at 14% and Reg Vardy at 19%. The AA on the other hand lends money at 5.8% APR.So I should shop around for a loan as well as a car?Yes. Mike Senior, head of personal lending at Bradford & Bingley, says: "How you're going to pay should be &#91;a consideration&#93; in pole position alongside the make and model." Decide how much you want to spend - and how much you can afford each month - and shop around for the best personal loan rates available on the internet before you go to the garage:www.moneyfacts.co.ukis useful for this.Getting approval for a loan before you visit a garage means you won't fall for any dodgy car salesman's patter about your "bad credit rating" which only he can rectify with his expensive deal. If you are worried about this, check your credit record withwww.experian.co.ukandwww.equifax.co.ukbefore looking at cars and you will be one step ahead of the dealer.What about the trade-in value of my old car?It is not unusual to be offered what appears to be a very good price for your old car if you sign up to a dealer's finance deal. But be aware this can cost you in the long run. There is often a balance to be made between what your car is worth and what your finance deal will cost you.Used-car price checkers on websites likewww.autotrader.co.ukgive you the price to expect for part-exchange or private sales. This is based on industry information and is what the dealer will use - if you are offered above this price you have a right to be suspicious about the finance package.I'm buying a second hand car privately - what should I consider?For every new car sold, three and a half old cars are traded on the second hand market, many of them privately. Look for loans which offer more than just the money: the AA, for example, offers borrowers a six-month warranty for your car, new or second hand. This covers mechanical breakdown, which is handy if you drive round the corner and the exhaust falls off.What if I'm already tied in to a high-interest loan with my dealer?Swap it for a low-interest deal. This is easy, says Andy Bayes, head of personal loans at Alliance & Leicester: "Those who are already tied to a finance deal from the showroom should consider switching the debt. It is quick and simple to do." In the same way as you can consolidate loans, or switch credit cards, it is simple to take out a low-interest personal loan and use it to pay off the double-digit finance deal. Despite the possibility of an early settlement penalty from the original finance company - this is typically one month's interest - you may find you can save money in the long run.More onmotoringYou can compare loan rateshere
A group of UK academics including Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of the world wide web, has called on the government and public bodies that fund academic research to ensure anybody can view publicly funded research for free on the system he helped develop.In an open letter to the science minister Lord Sainsbury and Research Councils UK (RCUK) - which brings together Britain's eight public backers of research - Sir Tim and seven other academics have launched a stinging attack on moves by traditional scientific publishers to prevent the public dissemination of research.They call on the RCUK to press ahead with plans to mandate its funded researchers to place a copy of their research in an online archive, usually connected with a university, as soon as possible and preferably at the same time as it appears in a subscription-based journal."Due to the current constraints on the accessibility of research results, the potential of British scholarship is not being maximised," the letter reads. "Yet the constraints on accessibility can now, in the digital age, be eliminated completely, to the benefit of the UK economy and society, exactly in the way RCUK has proposed."The letter is the latest move to introduce open access to academic research, using the internet to open the doors to academic thinking. Last year a committee of MPs threw their weight behind the movement but the government rejected their proposals amid pressure from the highly profitable scientific publishing industry.The letter is a response to the consultation on the RCUK's proposal to promote what has become known as open access to academic research through the use of institutional online repositories. That consultation by the RCUK, which provided about &pound;2.1bn for research last year, ends tomorrow.Earlier this month the Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers (ALPSP), which represents not-for-profit academic publishers, warned that pressing ahead with open access "would accelerate the move to a disastrous scenario in which the free availability of 'good enough' versions of journal articles will allow cash-strapped librarians to save money by cancelling subscriptions".The letter, signed by Sir Tim, chairman of the school of electronics and computer science at Southampton University, alongside open access proponent and fellow Southampton University academic Professor Stevan Harnad, includes a line-by-line rebuttal of the ALPSP's arguments against open access.ALPSP argues that mandating academics to self-archive copies of articles accepted for publication in traditional journals would lead to a drop-off in subscriptions to those journals. That would adversely affect the societies that rely upon their own paid-for journals for survival.In their letter, the supporters of open access produce evidence that in physics - where self-archiving has been carried out for years - major learned societies "cannot identify any loss of subscriptions to their journals as a result of this critical mass of self-archived and readily retrievable physics articles".The open access proponents point out that one of the reasons university librarians stop subscribing to journals is that they are no longer being cited by academics. But they argue: "Self-archiving increases citations, so journals carrying self-archived articles will perform better under this measure."So far no evidence of serious and irreversible damage inflicted by self-archiving has been presented by ALPSP. This is unsurprising because none exists," the letter concludes.
"Nanny" computer software, intended to shield children from offensive internet content, often fails to protect them from viewing pornographic and racist websites, according to a new survey.The consumer magazine Computing Which? gave two programs, Norton Internet Security 2005 and Microsoft's MSN Premium, scores of below 35% across a series of tests.Nanny software is a popular way for parents to control what information can be accessed, using blacklists of proscribed websites. "Software can help make the internet a safer environment for children, but there's no substitute for parental involvement," Sarah Kidner, acting editor of Computing Which?, said.Neither Microsoft nor Symantec, which makes the Norton program, commented on the findings.Although such programs are suites of security and monitoring applications, they are used by many as a way of keeping tabs on internet use.Ms Kidner advised that parents take a more practical role in their family's use of the web, and that they should choose programs that that allow them to create "whitelists" of approved sites rather than relying on the intervention of filtering systems. "Parents need to take an active role in monitoring what their children are looking at online, so they don't inadvertently put them at risk," said Ms Kidner.Control over the information children can access is becoming an increasingly important issue for many families, as the spread of technologies such as broadband internet access and 3G mobile phones continues.Last week the chairman of the mobile phone manufacturer Motorola said that parents should be concerned about what their children accessed on their phones."Mobile phones today are more like television when I was a kid," said Edward Zander as he revealed plans to incorporate tracking controls into handsets to allow parents to keep a closer eye on their children's habits.
A child-shaped humanoid robot that can recognise about 10,000 words and work as a housesitter will go on sale in Japan next month.The Wakamaru robot, which is a metre (3ft 3in) tall, can recognise the faces of up to 10 people and talk to them.When linked to mobile phones, it can also check for problems, such as a burglary or illness, Mitsubishi-Heavy Industries said yesterday, adding that it would be the first robot to be sold with communication ability for home use. It is planned to sell 100 of the robots, which weigh 30kg (66lb), for about 1.58m yen (&pound;7,960).Wakamaru can give a wake-up call and a reminder of the day's events.
We've all reached that moment, at some point in our working lives, when it's time to tell our bosses to  stick their job where the sun don't shine. I reached this milestone a month ago. I spent my notice period doing what I do best, ie no work and surfing the net in company time, so I feel well qualified to point out a site that helped me through the tedium of that final month.The websitei-resign.comis truly an inspiration. Everything you need to know (and everything you don't) about quitting your job  with flair is here. Need a resignation letter? Templates ranging from the dignified to the hilariously insulting are ready for use. Or how about an online calculator to work out your holiday pay? With these tools there's no way you can get shafted with your final pay cheque.Of course quitting is only the first part of the process. Now there's a month to look forward to in an atmosphere so frosty you could lose your fingers and toes. The website encourages you to actively enjoy your notice period. To make the time go faster and keep the smug look on your face, you can have a daily resignation email sent to you. Each morning a message will arrive with the number of days remaining, a handy hint of things you need to do and  a featured member of the  I-Resign Hall of Fame (Bill Gates was my favourite). To satisfy your inner clock-watcher, set up your own notice period countdown timer and watch your remaining seconds fly by.Helpful articles include how to remove all that incriminating, personal  stuff from your work PC.  You are also prepared for all the pointless torture you will have to endure, such as your exit interview.So if you want to raise  two metaphorical fingers to your boss, click on to this site and clock off from your job from hell.
Nobody, give or take the  occasional blues musician, likes to admit to being lonely. People who study loneliness, like Harvard psychiatrist Jacqueline Olds, typically have to rely on anonymous surveys to gauge the size of the problem; when you ask people to identify themselves by name, they tend to use words like "independent" and "self-sufficient" instead. On the internet, though, anonymity is the default position, which  explains the extraordinary story of what  happened on the website Moviecodec.com.It wouldn't be unfair to call Moviecodec a website for geeks: codecs are pieces of software that transform audio or video files from one form to another, and discussion on the site is usually technical to the point of being incomprehensible. But in July last year, at 9.49  one Wednesday morning, someone posted a  message with an incongruous subject line, no less heartfelt for its lack of punctuation. "I am lonely will anyone speak to me," it read. Half an hour later, the first reply arrived, bearing  another hallmark of online anonymity: mindless abuse. "OK so how are you," the respondent wrote. "Are you a piece of pig's bollok?"But then something remarkable began to happen. Within a week - for reasons having to do with the way Moviecodec's tech-literate owner had made it easily accessible to search engines - the loneliness discussion had become the number-one result if you searched Google with the phrase "I am lonely". And judging from the messages on the board, a lot of people were doing so."Dude, I typed 'I am lonely' in Google and your post was the very first response," wrote someone using the name Wetfeet2000. "Does that make you the most popular loneliest  person on the planet?"The messages grew from a trickle to a  torrent, as visitors who had stumbled on the site posted their own thoughts. "I'm surrounded by so many people every day but I feel strangely disconnected from them," one wrote. "I used to have a big family and now am down to a few aunts and uncles," explained somebody else. "The friends I have had moved on and got married. I must have done something to  deserve this." "It's 3am here," read another  contribution. "Just woke up next to my boyfriend and felt so incredibly lonely and sad."What was revelatory was not so much the well of unwanted solitude, as the way that  participants were discovering it. We have  become accustomed to relying on Google as a gateway to information of any variety. But countless people seemed to be using it for something more profound - as a source of oracular wisdom, and for answers that the internet was surely unable to provide.Or was it? Only days into the life of the Moviecodec discussion, which is still going on today, the benefits of finding people in the same boat began to make themselves apparent. "I feel so much better that I am not the only one that typed in 'I am lonely' on Google," one  person wrote. And: "Can't believe I typed in this message and found so many people feeling the same way."Of course, many people might argue that spending too much time on the internet was one of the causes of all this loneliness. Some of them argued that on the website itself, even though they must have come there in a similar manner themselves. Others just seemed  disgusted that the topic had been raised, and a taboo broken: "My suggestion to your problem is two things," wrote SAGoon. "First, buy a gun. Second, shoot yourself in the head. Fuck you and don't post faggot shit like this again."As summer turned into autumn, though, the discussion began to adopt a pragmatic tone. "Maybe some volunteer work is the right way  to go," wrote someone under the pseudonym LonelyMan. "At least then I'll be doing something to help others, instead of feeling sorry for myself." Another participant said he felt suicidal, and a fellow site visitor tried to talk him back to calmness. Bjarne Lundgren, who runs Moviecodec from Denmark, added his own thoughts. "I'm the webmaster/owner of Moviecodec.com and I'm also quite lonely," he wrote.For as long as people were still accessing the site by typing "I am lonely" into Google, the  discussion had the air of a shared secret. Most visitors, by definition, had already overcome the hurdle of verbalising their feelings and typing them into the search engine's little white box. Then, the week before last - after the discussion had grown to 107 pages, and thousands of messages - a brief article about it appeared in the New Yorker magazine.The website suddenly had a whole new  audience, many of them presumably curious, rather than lonely - and the site's regular visitors responded with all the hauteur that might be  expected from the followers of an underground phenomenon that had suddenly entered the mainstream. (The New Yorker article, at the time of writing, has even replaced Moviecodec as the first Google result for "I am lonely".)"I'm outta here!" wrote FrenchToast. "This used to be a pretty cool site. People discovered it through serendipity and wound up sharing some very personal stuff. But since that %@&amp;* New Yorker story there have been a flood of idiots."If that judgment was overblown, the tenor of the discussion was certainly beginning to show signs of intellectualisation. One contributor last week took a moment to note the distinctions between the words athazagoraphobia (fear of being forgotten) and eremophobia (fear of loneliness).A hierarchy of loneliness began to emerge with the old guard at the top - something new contributors felt obliged to acknowledge. "I read about this site in the New Yorker . . . guess I'm not an authentic 'I'm so lonelier'. In fact, I can't say I've ever thought of typing in emotions on Google." Before long, the number of participants who had discovered the site through the New Yorker appeared easily to outnumber those searching with the phrase "I am lonely".For more than a year, Moviecodec had provided an unlikely connection in a world in which there aren't enough of them. But by last week, the discussion was beginning to feel  disjointed, oversubscribed, as if it had outlasted its usefulness. The site's original participants seemed to be discovering that, while it is definitely distressing to feel as if one has too few friends, it can also be possible to have too many.Some of the messages so far ...In NYC, millions of people, but here I am:  quite overweight, single, nearing a big, ugly birthday. Time to stop the pity party, I know, but terribly lonesome in the meantime -NYERREADERI was reading one of the posts at this site a few hours ago. It said a good thing to do was just go out walking. So I did and ended up on the main strip in the city, all bright lights and hundreds of people having fun. Nothing worse. But then I bumped into a friend of a friend and his friend. We talked about nothing for a while. I suddenly felt a lot less lonely. So, yeah, point is getting out of the house worked for me -I googled tooThis is quite the little postmodern community, lonely people who find each other at the touch of a button ... Do I feel less lonely now? I knew there were lots of lonely people out there before. Now I am in conversation with some of them, but maybe I am just saying my little piece, congratulating myself . . . Maybe no one will read my post and understand it. Maybe I haven't said it right. Maybe someone out there will read it and understand, and maybe she will write back- oddkodI'll be everyone's friend!!!- Kristenwhy do so few lonely people get along with other lonely people?- jingosome of u talk to damn much! no wonder u lonely- Jac the Kingthis thread is so beautiful...it feels like humanity crying out in one voice... I'm lonely tonight too. Anyone in montreal? I wish we could go for a walk together ...- alonetonight
I'm just a citizen, a consumer, a guy who has my own printing press - my weblog,BuzzMachine.com- and I get to use it however I want. In June, I used it to whine about the lemon of a computer Dell sold me and the customer service I didn't get.I wrote a blog post headlined, "Dell lies. Dell sucks." There was a method to my mad rant: I learned some time ago that you can search Google for any brand, followed by the word "sucks", to find out just how much ill will is attached. (I fancied taking over this discovery and naming it, like a star I'd found in the heavens: "The Jarvis Sucks Index". But somehow, that didn't sound right.)All I wanted to do was warn off other unsuspecting customers by joining in Google's wisdom of the crowds, adding just one more critical consumer opinion. But my post snowballed into a saga, a weblog miniseries. Scores of readers left comments with their stories of Dell hell and scores more bloggers linked to my post with their wails of woe. I updated my audience with my latest tales of transoceanic frustration: I'd paid for home service but couldn't get it; Dell replaced half my machine but it still wouldn't work; my emails and entreaties went unnoticed ... and so did my blog posts.I decided to turn this into a test: Was Dell reading blogs? Would Dell respond to me in our public forum? Would it recognise the PR crisisette that was brewing? Simple answer: No. Dell was silent. Dell failed the test. I emailed its marketing department: Anybody home? Anybody blogging? Nothing. I finally sent (and blogged) an email to the chief marketing officer and US VP (and the chief ethics officer, for good measure), begging for relief.At the same time, I decided to follow the light and went shopping for an Apple. And, sweet irony, I happened to be in the store fondling Powerbooks when I received a call from a nice Dell lady whose job it is to deal with bozos who complain to vice presidents. She offered me a new machine. I refused and asked for a refund. She agreed.But this is more than a sort-of-happy ending to a consumerist nightmare. This is a story of customer relations in the new age - an age when, to quote blogger and Cluetrain Manifesto co-author Doc Searls, "'consumer' is an industrial-age word, a broadcast-age word. It implies that we are all tied to our chairs, head back, eating 'content' and crapping cash". Now consumers don't just consume. We spit back. We have our own printing presses.My blog saga garnered not only comments and links but also press coverage from tech blogs, newspapers, and magazines (seewww.buzzmachine.com/?tag=dell). But the most telling moment came in a blog post by Toronto venture capitalist Rick Segal, who overheard a bank teller in his office food court saying, "I was going to buy a new Dell but did you hear about Jeff Jarvis and the absolute hell he is going through with them?" Says Segal: "Lots of people are making the assumption that 'average people' or 'the masses' don't really see/ read blogs, so they can take a little heat and move on. Big mistake."As I sent my computer back, I blogged one last open letter to Michael Dell and his chief marketing officer with a few simple, free pieces of advice:1Read blogs. AtTechnorati.comorIcerocket.com, search for what people say about your brand. Don't think of bloggers as strange beasts blathering, but as people, just customers. Beats any focus group.2Talk with your consumers. A Dell PR executive told blogger and Houston Chronicle columnist Dwight Silverman that the company's blog policy was, in Silverman's words, "look, don't touch". How insulting: You ignore you customers. How much better it would be to ask their advice. Beats any consultant.3Blog. If execs at Microsoft, Sun, and even GM can, you can. Show that you are open and unafraid to engage your public. Beats PR.I can't take credit or blame for this, but in the midst of this silicon opera, Dell's customer satisfaction rating, market share, and share price in the US all shrank. And so it should come as no surprise that Dell's blog policy just changed. The same PR exec who kept blogs at bay suddenly toldMediapost.comreporter Shankar Gupta that Dell would contact customers who blog complaints. Dell spokeswoman Jennifer Davis said the company is "looking at the best way to respond" to my open letter: "We'll also be glad to talk with him about the broader issues - we have not outreached as of yet, but we're looking at the best way to do so."Email works.
It could be the solution for anyone trying to give up their iPod. A surrogate mp3 player carved out of wood has been created by a Dutch artist to mark a new exhibition featuring bronze laptops filled with genetically modified grain.The artist, known only as Pii, claimed that his "PiiPod" solves the problem of mp3-related muggings and the risk of deafness by being "specially designed to be unable to play music and sound files". Crucially, however, the recycled wooden device still delivers an iPod-style "fix" by producing a bulge the size of a personal music player in the carrier's pocket.Pii, who creates familiar objects from unexpected materials, said any satire was in the eye of the beholder. "I am trying to make people think about what they are missing out on by spending their free lives and transportation periods - travel - locked into their own musical worlds. People do become addicted and dependent - whether there are really health problems or not. It is a basic part of treatment for any serious addiction to attempt to provide a substitute of some kind."The PiiPod was created to celebrate another sculpture inspired by Apple that forms the centrepiece of an exhibition at the Spectrum gallery in central London. Twelve bronze casts of laptops set out on tables laid with knives and forks make up a piece called Laptop Dinner, in which the model iBooks are stuffed with GM rice and corn.Pii said he was inspired by the fact that GM crops are widely seen as unacceptable in the west but may be the difference between starvation and survival in the developing world. "Putting GM grain into symbols of luxury and spending reminds people of our good fortune to be able to make judgments and have debate on a full tummy," he said.Pii, who works on an Apple Mac, said: "I admire the Apple design, but I also find it wonderful that we have a piece of technology here that is also named after a source of physical sustenance and food - while we use Apple computers in the west, people elsewhere have no fruit to survive. This is not the fault of Apple Computers, but should certainly encourage people to think."While the wooden PiiPod can be won in an online competition atwww.piipod.com,only serious collectors will be able to get their hands on Laptop Dinner: it is priced at &pound;65,000. The exhibition runs until September 17.
Although I'm in the office today (the news never sleeps, yadda yadda), I don't begrudge anyone their bank holiday. After all, who wouldn't want to be enjoying a sunny August afternoon?But, it seems, Microsoft's press office seems to be taking the holiday vibe a little too far."Thank you for calling the Microsoft press centre," says a recorded message when you call their PR team. "We are now closed for the Christmas break... we will be reopening for normal service at 9am on Friday the 2nd of January."
Mark Thompson, the director-general of the BBC, has laid out a vision for the future that includes more commercial partnerships for the public service broadcaster as it expands into new media services.In comments to the Edinburgh television festival, Mr Thompson said the broadcaster needed to expand out of its traditional TV and radio services in order to justify its licence fee in the coming years.The renewed focus on broadband or on-demand services is likely to alarm commercial rivals, who fear the BBC's expansion provides unfair competition.Mr Thompson recognised those fears when he said: "The BBC's a large beast and the sound of it trampling through the undergrowth apparently in your general direction can fill the stoutest hearts with dread. So it's important to say that in all these developments we want to work with, rather than against, the market."He cited the deal between the BBC's commercial arm and Universal Music to exploit parts of the BBC's music archive as an example of such partnerships.As part of its push into new services, the BBC will start trials of a new integrated media player in the next few weeks that will provide an opportunity to catch up on TV and radio programmes from the previous seven days. The service, MyBBCPlayer, will provide live streamed content from BBC archives.Commercial rivals, most of which are also working on plans to expand into on-demand services available over the internet, expressed concerns about the BBC's plans yesterday. One, who declined to be named, said: "The key issue here is how this is going to be regulated. The BBC has the capacity to absolutely swamp competition."Mr Thompson's speech, after a year in which he has announced swingeing job cuts, marks a greater emphasis on the BBC's growth plans. He described the idea of a "vast cordon sanitaire between the public service zone and pages or areas with commercial transactions" as "flying in the face of the way the public actually use new media".In July, there were 60 million requests for video footage fromwww.bbc.co.uk, up 31% on the previous month's figure.Some 1.4 million people downloaded the Beethoven symphonies which were made available for free.
Computers are widening the gender gap in schools, as boys spend their spare time playing games while girls use them for homework, new government research has found.The report, carried out for the Department for Education and Skills by academics at Leeds and Sheffield universities calls on schools to try to "redirect" boys' use of computers towards school work.It found that pupils who used computers for their school work scored higher grades in their GCSEs and national tests than those without access to computers at home.But children - mainly boys - who regularly played computer games achieved significantly lower grades.The research comes as the latest GCSE figures showed boys are still lagging behind girls in many key subjects.The academics, working with BMRB market researchers, said their findings reinforced the view that computers are "boys' toys"."Girls were more likely than boys to use home computers for school work, reflecting their more conscientious attitude to study rather than a preference for ICT," they said."This pattern has implications for the gender gap, given that high leisure use was a negative factor for progress."Computer games were played every day or at least once a week by 61% of boys compared with 44% of girls. And 70% of boys said they use games consoles every day or at least once a week, compared with just 32% of girls.The report added: "Some children pretended they were using the home computer for educational purposes when they were using it for fun."Teachers and parents feared pupils would use computers to cheat by cutting and pasting text from the internet.The academics researched computer use among pupils aged 11, 14 and 16 at 12 English schools, interviewing a sample of 111 children and their parents. They found 89% of pupils had access to computers at home and English was the subject pupils used computers for most often.
Blogger Aaron Wall ofSEO Bookis being sued for $10,000 over comments left on his blog by persons unknown.Comment:Handling comments is a tricky issue because even the kindliest regime is likely to remove blog spam, pointless obscenities and open-and-shut libels. Dave Taylor recently posted a good article about this,Crafting the Ideal Business Blog Comment Strategy. Of course, the sitution is complicated by the fact that different countries have different laws while blogs are global.But as Microsoft blogger Robert Scoble points out, this really isn't a free speech issue.Todayhe writes: "Want free speech? Get a blog of your own. That way only you are responsible for your words. If you're writing on someone's comment area, though, the standards are (and should be) different."Update:The Wall Street Journal has now reported the case inBlogger Faces Lawsuit Over Comments Posted by Readers, dated August 31.
Yahoo! has launchedYahoo! Music Unlimited, offering more than a million songs for $5 a month.Comment:Neat name. I wonder where they got the idea?
"It so happens that the United States and Great Britain have taken the lead in broadcasting. If that lead is maintained it follows that English must become the dominant tongue. Compared with our efforts at mass entertainment and mass education, European competition is pathetic. All ears may eventually be cocked to hear what the United States and Great Britain have to say. Europe will find it desirable, even necessary, to learn English." -- Waldemar Kaempffert, The Social Destiny of Radio; 1924.The New York Timeshas dug up a selection of comments from the early days of radio, film and television, some of them eerily similar to comments from the early days of computing and the Internet....
"Ten years ago, the new Denver International Airport marched boldly into the future with a computerized baggage-handling system that immediately became famous for its ability to mangle or misplace a good portion of everything that wandered into its path," reportsThe New York Times."Now the book is closing on the brilliant machine that couldn't sort straight. Sometime over the next few weeks, in an anticlimactic moment marked and mourned by just about nobody, the only airline that ever used any part of the system will pull the plug."
In his celebrated dictionary, Samuel Johnson defined 'pastern' as 'the knee of a horse', which - as every right-thinking foxhunter knows - is incorrect. (It is the part of the leg between the fetlock and the hoof.) When asked by a polite lady how he came to make such an obvious error, the great doctor replied candidly: 'Ignorance, madam, pure ignorance.'One is tempted to apply the same explanation to last Wednesday's media hoo-ha about Google's launch of its Instant Messaging (IM) service, Google Talk. The leading culprit was the Financial Times, which devoted its front page lead to the story and suggested that Google had launched a direct attack on the telecoms companies. Other papers (notably the London Evening Standard) took their cue from the FT, presumably in the belief that the boys who write the pink paper must understand all that guff about technical standards, interoperability, VoIP and Session Initiation Protocol.Here's a more prosaic version. All that has happened is that Google has launched an instant messaging service to compete with similar services offered by the Big Three: AOL, Yahoo and MSN. Like some of these competitors, it also offers voice communications: if your computer has a microphone and a sound card, you can talk to any of your similarly equipped friends ('buddies' in the jargon) who happen to be online.To enter this brave new world, all you need is a Google Mail account and the willingness to download a small piece of software. As with some other Google services (Google Earth satellite imagery and Picasa image management), the new software is available only for computers running Microsoft Windows.Why all the fuss? Well, August is a slow news month and anything Google does is newsworthy. After all, its stock has gone from $85 to nearly $300 in less than a year. It must be doing something right. Second, there are some modest innovations in Google's approach to IM. The main one is that it is designed to be an open system, whereas AOL, Yahoo and MSN all go to great pains to ensure that their systems do not 'interoperate', thereby making it difficult for someone with an AOL IM account, say, to communicate with someone on MSN. The Big Three, in other words, want to keep users inside their own walled gardens.Google, in contrast, has decided to base its system on the open Jabber protocol, which means that anyone who uses a Jabber-compliant IM system can communicate with people using Google Talk, and vice versa.So Google is making a bid to reverse the Balkanisation of the IM universe engineered by the Big Three. That would be a relatively good thing, though it would have some downsides - for example, virus epidemics which spread at lightning speed across the world. It might also put a spoke in the wheels of companies such as Reuters, which have been hoping to build precisely such an 'interoperable' IM system for the world of financial services.It wasn't interoperability, however, that got the mainstream media excited, but the incorporation of online telephony into Google's new offering. Here, Google has given a vigorous push to a bandwagon that was already rolling quite nicely - and which will, one day, really change the world. It's called 'Voice over Internet Protocol', or VoIP, the technology that enables one to transport voice conversations over the internet, rather than over the cables of traditional telcos.VoIP is actually a very old story (a version of it was envisaged by Paul Baran, the guy who first conceived the Arpanet, the precursor of the internet, in the early 1960s). In the 1980s and 1990s it was the province of geeks, but in the past 18 months it has appeared on the radars of teenagers and other early adopters.If you doubt that, ask the nearest kid about Skype, which now claims to have over 50 million subscribers making free voice calls to one another over the net. (They can also make calls from their computers to traditional phones, but to do that they have to pay a call-out fee.)Although Skype is good, it is a closed system in two senses: you can only make free calls to other Skype subscribers, and the technical protocols it uses are proprietary. So alternative, more open, systems like the Gizmo Project are already spreading like wildfire and are offering facilities - one-button call recording, call mapping, voice mail, online chat, integrated weather information - which conventional telephony cannot even begin to provide.VoIP has all the characteristics of a profoundly disruptive technology - that is to say, one which threatens to undermine the business models of huge companies. And because its potential victims are telcos which have invested billions in specialised networks and infrastructure for carrying revenue-bearing voice and data communications, it potentially makes Napster look like a tea party.Nobody I know in the industry doubts that, in the long run, almost all telephony will be done via the net, simply because it's the obvious way to do it. The $64 billion questions are: how do we get there from the Skype/Gizmo chaos of today, and how long will it take? By throwing its hat into the VoIP ring, Google has signalled that a really big player has arrived on the scene - and that could indeed be significant in the long run.Before last week's announcement, there had been much feverish commentary among techies about what Google was up to. It was known that the company had been buying broadband cable capacity on a large scale in the US at fire-sale prices. Then there was the news that it was making a secondary offering of shares to raise about $4 billion. Given that it already had $3bn in the bank and is making profits hand over fist, this led to speculation that it was poised to make a major acquisition.But that is not the Google way. It is very different from Microsoft, which innovates by acquiring companies that have developed new technologies. Google prefers to grow its own. So the distinctive approach to VoIP unveiled this week is entirely in character.Since its inception, Google has stuck to three basic principles. The first was to build and maintain the most powerful computing cluster ever seen. The second was to employ smart engineers and marketers to figure out revenue-bearing services that could be provided with such a system. The world knows Google for search, but that merely happened to be the first application that came along. The third (and perhaps the most important) article of Google faith is that the internet will in the end become the world's operating system - the hub of everything (including telephony), with the web browser the dominant user interface.Up to now, it's all gone more or less to plan. Google's right on track. And that $4bn stock sale? Oh, that's probably an indicator that insiders think the market has peaked. Best to get out while the going's good.Dialling a revolutionWhat is VoIP?It's short for 'voice over internet protocol', which is geek-speak for using the internet for voice communication.How does it work?Software converts voice signals into data packets that can be sent across the internet like email. These are changed back to voice signals at their destination.What does it cost?Nothing, if you are using your computer and calling someone on another computer. The cost is effectively bundled into the monthly fee you pay for broadband access.Do I have to use my computer?No. You can buy a special handset - called an IP Phone - which you plug into your broadband router.Can I use VoIP to call people on their ordinary phones?Yes, but you will have to pay someone for providing a gateway between the internet and the standard phone networks.What's the sound quality like?Mostly good, but it varies with quality of the internet connection.Must I have a broadband?Yes, and the faster the better.Are there firms providing VoIP service?Yes. Vonage (www.vonage.co.uk), for example, provides a residential service for &pound;9.99 a month and supplies the necessary kit.Who are the big players?Apart from Vonage, there's Skype (www.skype.com) and the Gizmo Project (www.gizmoproject.com).Where does BT fit in all this?Good question. What it will do in future isn't yet known, but for now it has teamed up with Yahoo to offer a VoIP service.
A telephone ringing in an empty call box; a classified advert for a missing cube; a website of bloggers who reply to your messages from a city that does not exist. This is the strange world of alternative reality gaming - usually an innocuous way of wasting time on the internet, but now offering the very real prize of &pound;100,000.Tens of thousands of people across the world are taking part in what could be the biggest treasure hunt in history: a part-real, part-virtual game which will lead one of them to an object buried somewhere on the planet.To find the Receda Cube and claim the cash reward, players of Perplex City have to spot clues in the real world, collect puzzle cards and enter the solutions on a website, interact with fictional characters and other players, then use powers of deduction worthy of Sherlock Holmes. The competition is intense: everyone in the world can take part.In the era of The Da Vinci Code and Sudoku, it is an idea whose time has come, but the game's creator, Michael Smith, was inspired by a book published in 1979. Masquerade, by the artist Kit Williams - which contained clues to the whereabouts of a jewelled golden hare he had buried at Ampthill in Bedfordshire - sold more a million copies and sparked a frenzy of nationwide digging. One German sold his home and moved to Britain to join in, while Fred Hancock drove 120,000 miles, digging scores of holes hundreds of miles from the treasure.The people of Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, had gardens dug up and Haresfield Beacon, a National Trust site near Williams's Gloucestershire home, was carved up by diggers. Williams had to issue a statement saying the treasure was not buried on private property. The hare was found after nearly three years by a man linked with one of Williams's ex-girlfriends, prompting the author to say he felt 'conned'.Perplex City has already gained nearly 40,000 registered players since its launch in April. Stunts so far have included a series of cryptic messages, asking for help in locating 'The Cube', in the Guardian, Times, Los Angeles Times and South China Morning Post.One character turned up at the Beatles-famed zebra crossing on Abbey Road in north London to hand over clues to around 20 players who had worked out the time and place of the rendezvous.Smith, who has spent two years constructing the virtual city, which even has its own newspaper, said: 'We're trying to create a modern version of Masquerade - a game that spills off the internet. We're hoping millions of people will get involved and turn this into a massive international experience. When the cube is finally found, we'll start another game.'
In a post entitled How to Save the Web from Splogonoma,Doc Searlspoints out that many newspapers give away content when it's published (it's paid for by advertising) but put it behind "paywalls" later. That's "inside".Outside will be the free markeplace where bad behaviors increase the value of paid content, while decreasing the availability of free content by burying it under a sea of money-making camouflage.The "bad behaviors" that threaten Doc Searls in particular are the various forms of splogs and blog spam.Comment:It's not clear -- at least not to me -- whether this is a serious threat at the moment. However, spammers and phishing already mean mail is almost useless for many purposes, such as letters from the bank, and Google is more or less useless for many product searches, where shopping services and "supplementary results" are making it increasingly hard to find real information.
"The BBC is to accelerate plans to broadcast programmes and entire channels on the internet and on mobile phones, using popular shows such as Doctor Who in a series of pilots designed to assess public demand," reportsThe Guardian."Ahead of the Media Guardian Edinburgh Television Festival, which begins today, the BBC's director of television, Jana Bennett, said she was asking programme makers, commissioners and schedulers to get to grips more rapidly with the evolution in technology. She said consumers were ahead of broadcasters in their take-up of new technology."
Playstation Portable&pound;180Traditionally, Nintendo annihilates anyone foolish enough to challenge its 20-year dominance of the handheld gaming market. From worthy contenders like the Sega GameGear to peculiarities like the WonderSwan to complete jokers Gizmondo, no one seems capable of wiping the grin from Nintendo's corporate face. This year, they might be in trouble. Starting as Sony's undisputed reign of the console market did, with a break from the usual, the PSP is the first mainstream handheld not to use cartridges, meaning its surprisingly large high-resolution screen can also be used to watch films, supplied on the machine's Minidisc-looking UMD discs. It also comes with a web browser and the ability to connect to wireless networks, so you can play games, listen to music, surf the web and watch films - albeit not for terribly long, given the unit's three- to four-hour battery life. Bringing the effective power of PlayStation 2 to bear on the stop-start world of portable gaming is a double-edged sword, though, showing how hard it is to play games with the intensity of Wipeout Pure on the bus while also trying to keep an eye out for your stop. Despite all that, the sheer beauty of the machine itself, along with its all-new level of graphical finesse, will make this a tough bauble to resist.GamesWipeout Pure&pound;35Immaculate track and menu design perfectly suit the PSP's science fiction looks, and an absolutely superb racing game to boot, playable solo or against similarly equipped fellow train passengers.Everybody's Golf&pound;35Eschewing the fancy analogue-regulated shot-taking of Electronic Arts' Tiger Woods series in favour of club selection and play mechanics, this is pleasantly cartoony golfing fun.F1 Grand Prix&pound;35Going for simplistic arcade-style handling, this often feels more like stock-car racing than F1 as you yet again plough into the pack at high speed only to bounce off playfully and carry on racing. Weak.Ridge Racer&pound;35Drawing tracks from every title in the venerable Ridge Racer series, the handling in this one is perhaps best of the lot. Some of the most compelling arcade racing currently available, and in a very small box.Ape Academy&pound;35Monkey-themed mini-games galore as Sony's escaped apes get another outing on PSP. Although nowhere near as colourful and original as Wario Ware, there's enough here to waste an hour or two.MoviesFilm playback on PSP is excellent, with pictures looking satisfyingly crisp, and audio (better via headphones to avoid sharing the joy with fellow commuters) sounding just as rich. The initial batch of UMD movies includes Spider-Man 2, vintage comedy-horror Evil Dead, Paul Verhoeven's scarcely watchable Hollow Man and heavily-edited classic Donnie Darko. The bigger question however, is, since replacing your entire VHS collection with DVDs, whether you're willing to do the same again with UMDs so you can watch them on planes. Either some visionary will launch UMD-movie rental businesses at Gatwick and Heathrow, or film playback may be one of the PSP's least used features.
If you were one of the half a million people who downloaded BBC's free Beethoven MP3s (bbc.co.uk/radio3/beethoven/downloads.shtml), here are a few more interesting classical music sites for your enjoyment. We likeclassicaljunk.net, an on-demand radio station that champions lesser heard symphonies, and free download siteclassicalarchives.com.For more low-brow offerings,bohemianopera.comhas a brilliant section dedicated to classical music in the movies,tinyurl.com/5q9r5lets you hear what Led Zeppelin's Stairway To Heaven might have sounded like had it been composed by Schubert, Holstz or Mahler, andbeautyinmusic.comis a guide to "hot" female soloists like Vanessa-Mae.theovergrownpath.blogspot.comis a wonderful classical music blog filled with interesting links.
MondayAn official forum for interactive jiggery pokeryPossible game of the yearTuesdayBeing inclusiveSaturday night TV replacementWednesdayGorillaz checking into Habbo HotelPSP UpdateMoving and shakingReally the revolution?ThursdayCan glamour and gaming mix?Gaming for charityReviews in OnlineFridayGetting seriousSony not shySega takes on yakuza
"The Bullshit Protector flaps are a great way to protect yourself from GOP or punditry bullshit and spin," saysWiseass, which has a selection of designs to download and print out.
"A 16-year-old boy invented a hamster-powered mobile phone charger as part of his GCSE science project," reportsAnanova, with picture.
Earlier this week Sega launched adedicated websitefor its forthcoming PS2 yakuza adventure, Ryu ga Gotoku, and finally I've had five minutes to take a look. There's a nice little video of the game on there, and lots of stylish animations that take an age to load. The game itself is an intriguing prospect - both GTA and Shenmue have been name-checked by those seeking to classify it. Looks to me like an interactive Beat Takeshi movie complete with smartly dressed men shouting at each other before breaking out into deliciously choreographed violence. Frankly I'll take any combination of those three possible influences, although Sega Europe told me that the whole Shenmue comparison is way off the mark - apparently, in Ryu ga Gotoku, you spend hardly any time looking for sailors or playing Hang On in the arcade...Anyway, it's good to see Sega getting its talented hands dirty with a mature adventure title, and the depictions of a neon-drenched Tokyo look spot-on.
"VA Software describes itself on its Web site as sitting 'at the center of the open source technology revolution.' Seems to make sense. After all, the company operates SourceForge.net, a site where developers collaborate on open source projects. It also runs Web sites, like Slashdot and NewsForge, where the anti-Microsoft crowd rails against the evils of proprietary, closed source software," reportsForbes. But as the article points out: "VA Software's main product, SourceForge Enterprise Edition, is as closed-source and non-free as anything made by big, bad Microsoft."Officials at VA Software say they can't release SourceForge Enterprise Edition as an open source program, because, if they did, copycats could create knockoffs of the program, and that would hurt sales. "Our own code could be used to compete against us," says Colin Bodell, chief technology officer at VA Software.VA Software used to be called VA Linux, and sold Linux hardware, until it discovered that wasn't a very profitable business.Responding to comments from Richard Stallman, the founder of the Free Software Foundation, Bodell says: "He is welcome to his beliefs. But to me it is not a moral issue. To me it is a matter of commerce. If people are performing work, what is the model for compensation?"Comment:Corrected following useful comment.
"Hollywood studios filed a new round of lawsuits against file swappers on Thursday, for the first time using peer-to-peer companies' own data to track down individuals accused of trading movies online," reportsCNet."The Motion Picture Association of America said it filed 286 lawsuits against people around the United States based on information acquired from file-trading sites shut down earlier in the year. Most of those sites were hubs connecting people using the BitTorrent technology, a peer-to-peer application designed for speeding downloads of large files."As the story notes:"BitTorrent creator Bram Cohen has warned in the past that using his technology to distribute material illegally is a 'dumb idea,' because the file-swapping tool is not designed to hide the identity of anyone using it."
You could never accuse Sony of under-confidence when it comes to the PSP. In today'sMCVtrade magazine Sony's Phil Harrison described the competition from Nintendo as "irrelevant". He continued, "with the DS it's fair to say that Nintendo stepped out of the technical race and went for a feature differentiation with the touch screen". Phew. Of course this is all part of the pre-launch hype, but does Harrison have a point? Yes, there are games on the DS that, thanks to the touch screen, offer something unique. But on a graphical level the DS titles aren't in the same league as the PSP. When you throw in the obvious design disparities - hopefully whoever was responsible for the shocking look of the DS will be barred fromRevolutionduties - you can easily predict which of the handhelds is going to appeal more to the average person in the street. Having said all that, the success ofNintendogsin Japan shows that accessibility is just as important as technical prowess when it comes to handheld gaming. But with next Thursday's launch of the PSP heralding the start of the pre-Christmas handheld rush, (the Game Boy Micro enters the fray on the 4th November) consumers are going to be spoilt for choice. PSP, DS,Game Boy Micro, GBA SP, er, Gizmondo - the choice is yours.
Hidden in the back of the Wall Street Journal Europe, I spotted a little piece on Vonage, the internet telephony firm, looking to launch on the stock market.Vonage Holdings Corp, a fast-growing provider of residential-phone service over the internet, is planning to file for an initial public offering to raise as much as $600m, according to a person familiar with the matter.The company, based in New Jersey, provides discounted local and long-distance phone service to about 800,000 households, making it the US's largest internet-based phone company.Vonage is one of the few firms that lets home consumers user VoIP through ordinary telephone handsets: and with the war for internet telephony really beginning (apropos Google Talk and Skype's reaction) then it looks Vonage needs a war chest to enforce itself on the market.
For those of you who had your interest piqued by the posts aboutseriousgamesover the past couple of weeks, and if you're going to be in the London area on Monday, there's a "Serious Games Mixer" happening at d.café @ the DANA CENTRE in South Kennsington.This event celebrates these innovations by showcasing some of the most interesting new examples of 'serious games' from the UK, the US and beyond in an informal and network-friendly setting. The event will bring together top UK games developers, educationalists, cultural heritage experts, public information and museum curators; government departments, ngo's, publishers, financiers and many others.They're serious. Quite seriously. I betcha some of the government departments present will be military.Head over there if you want to see how games can make a difference beyond entertainment.
The BBC is to accelerate plans to broadcast programmes and entire channels on the internet and on mobile phones, using popular shows such as Doctor Who in a series of pilots designed to assess public demand.Ahead of the Media Guardian Edinburgh Television Festival, which begins today, the BBC's director of television, Jana Bennett, said she was asking programme makers, commissioners and schedulers to get to grips more rapidly with the evolution in technology. She said consumers were ahead of broadcasters in their take-up of new technology."The wake-up call was also the much anticipated Doctor Who arriving on people's screens over the internet via a leaked DVD from Canada."Ms Bennett said that after a trial offering "pre-television" episodes of the anarchic BBC3 comedy The Mighty Boosh - which were watched by 35,000 people - other programmes would get the same treatment.The new sketch show Titty Titty Bang Bang, plus Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps, and the Johnny Vegas comedy Ideal, will all be made available over the internet before being shown on television. Clips will also be made available on mobile phones.She said she hoped to "simulcast" either BBC1 or BBC2 on the internet within the next year. "It's a great way of getting public service content, which people have already paid for, out to people in a different way," she said.If the idea takes off, it is likely to raise again the question of whether the licence fee should be calculated according to whether people own a television set.Programme producers were also being asked for ideas about how to utilise new technologies, she said, such as viewing on the move through mobile phones and Sony's new PSP portable device. The new series of Doctor Who, now being filmed in Cardiff, has several such ideas at its heart, said Ms Bennett.In a third pilot, extra content will be filmed specifically for broadband to accompany BBC1's contemporary Shakespeare this autumn. Combined with the BBC's planned interactive Media Player, which will offer programmes on demand over the internet for seven days after first broadcast, this would open up new ways of bringing viewers to programmes, she said."How do you plan to dive into a shop window of very informational content? At the moment we do Picture of Britain as a big programme on BBC1 and then we do a companion programme like Digital Picture of Britain on BBC4 and then a website. Actually, there should be other ways of exploring different programmes we've done on the landscape of Britain."She said she envisaged an "Amazon-style" system where broadband viewers, whether on a computer or with a high-speed connection attached to a TV, would see recommendations for programmes on other channels and the archive.Emma Sommerville, head of interactive programming at the BBC, has been charged with overseeing the pilots."This isn't the end of linear television, it complements it," Ms Bennett said. "Look at big live events, whether that's sport or news or other celebratory events, they have a huge pull on BBC1. It's almost easier to communicate that message. The core proposition of linear channels has to become even clearer."One of the key themes of the festival is expected to be the ways in which new technology, from the acceleration in broadband use to 3G mobile phones to digital switchover, will alter viewing habits and programme making.
Let's talk about sexPodcasting, the often hit-and-miss art of DIY radio, continues its inexorable growth. Picking out the best downloadable shows is now far easier thanks to tools like Apple's iTunes or Odeo, the new service from Blogger founder Ev Williams that's in beta testing. Unfortunately for the prudish, it seems that sexcasting is proving one of the more popular genres - sex talk, sex advice and sex stories. Those wanting a dose of something more chaste could tune in to Catholic Insider, a daily download from Dutch priest Roderick Vonh&ouml;gen.www.odeo.comwww.catholicinsider.comBeyond the FringeFive thousand shows with no quality control ... no, we've moved from podcasting to Edinburgh 2005. With the festival season in full swing, Auld Reekie has been invaded by a host of bloggers swarming to enjoy overpriced drinks, middle-brow litwank and underwhelming student drama. Comedian Richard Herring is just one of the famous faces detailing his experiences of the Fringe, including yoghurt-related hijinks and online poker. He is joined by fellow comic Emma Kennedy, who is documenting her own trail around the Athens of the north. Guardian Unlimited, meanwhile, is running daily updates from Edinburgh on arts blog Culture Vulture.www.richardherring.com/warmingup/warmingup.phpwww.emmakennedy.net/blogblogs.guardian.co.uk/culturevultureMedia monitorsMedia watching is something of an obsession for many politically minded bloggers around the globe. In fact, that's an understatement: a large number of dedicated "watchblogs" follow a variety of bete noire, all splashed with venting spleens and purple-faced outrage. One early contender for king of this particular ring was Biased BBC, which details a litany of transgressions, problems and bugbears in the BBC's output. Those with a distaste for rightwing tabloids, meanwhile, might want to drop by Mailwatch, which chronicles some classic front pages from the Daily Mail. The Guardian, of course, gets more than its share of blog flack - but doesn't seem to have a dedicated watch site ... yet.http://biased-bbc.blogspot.comwww.mailwatch.co.ukTechnorati troubleTechnorati might be one of the leading blog search tools, as our article on page 16 points out, but it has been getting something of a rough ride from bloggers of late. Accusations of unreliability have grown - particularly among those enraged users who thought that energy expended on its blanket coverage of Live 8 would be better spent elsewhere. Uberblogger Jason Kottke has become the latest to stick the boot into the firm, saying its "URL will darken the door of my browser no longer". Founder David Sifry has previously said he is aware of problems, and is working to fix them.www.kottke.org/05/08/so-long-technoratiwww.sifry.com/alertsRevealing resultsEarlier this year, a survey of webloggers was conducted by researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After seven months and almost 500 responses, the results are in - and they make interesting reading for statisticians. Three quarters of bloggers, it says, use their real name in some way, shape or form, while more than a third have found themselves in some kind of trouble thanks to their writing. It seems to provide further evidence that people are still struggling with the ideas of expression and privacy on the web - particularly alarming when, "in general, bloggers do not believe people could sue them for what they have written on their blogs".http://web.media.mit.edu/~fviegas/survey/blog/results.htm&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
New approachI'm disappointed that the article on environmentally friendly PCs trivialised their significant damage to the environment (How green is your PC?, August 18). PCs currently consume massive amounts of raw materials, drain huge amounts of energy and have a short life-span. With estimates of 315m obsolete PCs in storage around the world awaiting disposal, the trite assurances of FCS and Dell that they are working towards creating a more sustainable model of computing is risible, if not an insult to our intelligence.A sustainable model of computing is not achieved by reducing the amount of lead on the motherboard but by creating a new approach to the design and manufacture of IT. We need to start to consider a "cradle to cradle" (see William McDonough's book of that title) approach to technology. If we are to reduce the risks and our negative contribution as an industry to climate change and the environment, the IT community needs fundamentally to redesign IT around what it does (delivery) rather than what it is (technology).Richard BarringtonSun MicrosystemsCompetitive edgeFinally it seems that the Guardian is getting open-source/free software (Public Domain, August 18). The threat of competition is clearly doing good things for IT. Prices are being reduced to win deals - good for the customer able to make those deals. If open-source/free software stops being a credible threat, a pressure to reduce price will be gone (as will a pressure to innovate, improve security, etc). The more credible a threat, the greater the number of customers that gain voice in the marketplace.Gerry GaviganLondonArtistic endeavoursThe brief article on Ico/Fumito Ueda was very good - if only it was longer (A break from the norm, August 18). Interviews with Ueda - and people like him - that are even half as interesting, exploring personal thoughts and grander artistic intentions, are painfully lacking in specialist games industry coverage, never mind mainstream newspapers.I know plenty of people who would agree that more in-depth features with such innovative figures in the industry would be greatly appreciated.Steve LeeJoy to the peopleIt's very nice finally to read an article on games that is positive and informative, instead of all the bad press that videogames tend to get these days. It's great to see a well-established paper look past all the bad press to see games as a media that bring a lot of joy to a lot of people.Chris BrownAddress the issueI note problems with a national database of addresses (Lost in the system, August 18). There are incorrect databases in use commercially. When I give my address over the telephone the person at the other end often comes back with the name of a business which operated at this private address for some time, but is no longer here since some years.A national database free to business and voluntary bodies conjures up the prospect of yet more unsolicited mail.Desmond DonovanPuzzling pointSteve Boxer says that Simply Sudoku is "an ideal and cheap present for puzzle fans" (Games watch, August 18). The game may be cheap but is hardly ideal since the website illustration that accompanies the review shows two printed 3s in the same row.Dr Jim DockingSurreyVisionary adviceLast autumn, I suffered a neck problem similar to Jack Schofield's, which required physiotherapy (Feedback, passim). But it was largely attributable to desktop PC use, rather than laptop use. An important factor was my spectacles. I wear varifocals to avoid carrying and swapping spectacles. Unfortunately, this means I tend to hold my head at a fixed, unnatural angle in order to view the screen, leading eventually to neck problems.I would recommend varifocal or bifocal wearers to invest in single-vision lenses, set to your working distance. I find they are a great help for correcting my working posture.George Mather&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so
Things are looking up. Not only is thecricketgoing well, but some decent games are on the verge of release. We cover a couple in thisweek's reviews- Everybody's Golf PSP and Super Monkey Ball Deluxe. The former is a top PSP launch title and one of the few that makes me eject Virtua Tennis World Tour. Super Monkey Ball Deluxe (PS2) is the latest in the series that made its name on the Gamecube. I've not played it yet, but it sounds like the same wonderfully balanced mixture of elation/frustration is intact. Last, and totally and utterly least, is the otherreview, Deep Sea Tycoon 2 (PC).
Wired has an interesting article aboutWhy Yahoo! will be the center of the million-channel universe. It points out that while the "old" Yahoo continues in Silicon Valley:In Santa Monica, 350 miles south, the Yahoo! Media Group has slapped down $100 million for a 10-year lease on the 230,000-square-foot Yahoo! Center, formerly MGM's home. The office park covers an entire city block, squatting amid the offices of HBO, MTV, Lion's Gate, and Universal. The company won't comment on its mission in LA, but in an internal email making rounds on the Web, Yahoo! COO Dan Rosensweig says, "The growing consumer demand for compelling content on the Internet and the proliferation of broadband is an exciting opportunity. We need to enhance our presence in the entertainment capital of the world."Unlike Google, Yahoo has long accepted that it's a media company, so it shouldn't have been surprising that instead of hiring an Internet guy, it took on as chief executive "Terry Semel, who spent 24 years as an executive at Warner Bros". Hehas recruited a crew of network personnel in Santa Monica to crack open the contractual vaults containing 50 years of rights-encumbered TV and film archives. And Yahoo! has already become the Internet home of broadcast fare like Fat Actress and The Apprentice. "They're clearly thinking of themselves as the fifth network," says Jeremy Allaire, founder of Brightcove, a Net video distribution startup.
Once again, those crazy folks inSecond Lifeare pulling off a good deed through the magic of virtuality. The online world, which encourages innovation and creativity from its residents, is going to play host to a"Race" for Lifethis weekend, as part of the annual offline Relay for Life for theAmerican Cancer Society. From the blurb:This adventurous new virtual setting will allow people to participate in Relay regardless of their geographic distances or physical limitations.Over the weekend, Avatars will run around the virtual racetrack in a region called Balance, earning sponsorship cash in Linden$, which will be transferred into US$ and donated to the charitable organisation. Non-residents can sign up for afree trialto take part or donate money in-world in a variety of unique ways, or can donate "real" moneyhere.Three cheers for Keith Morris andJerry Paffendorffor organising this event.This isn't the first time the virtual world has held events for offline causes. As Philip Rosedale from Second Life creators Linden Lab explained at theEIEF, groups likeVERTUhave been active in fundraising through fashion shows, discussions and others.via theNYT(reg req'd)
Illustration: Bill ButcherThis week's Online is out, and we've got a smorgasbord of articles for your techno tastebuds.In our lead story, Ben Hammersley examines the effect that theGrokster rulingis having on America's innovation industry, while elsewhere we're visiting one of the few remainingbedroom games firms. There's Jack's aforementionedhands-onlook at Google's new apps, and a look at what search companies arethinking about weblogs.And there's much more.Click herefor the complete listing.
