Nostalgia and games are rarely a good mix. Booting up childhood favourites like Manic Miner or some other similarly loved retro classic will usually cause massive disappointment and have you quickly scuttling back to Mass Effect 2 or Heavy Rain.However, Phantasy Star Online – admittedly only 10 years old – would still be playable today. OK, World of Warcraft and the rest have polished and refined the online formula but PSO had real character. When the original arrived on the Dreamcast it was many gamers first experience of online play – at least on a console. Now you can get a similar experience on your DS.Phantasy Star Zero is essentially PSO for the Nintendo DS. OK, the story (such as it is) and settings are a little different but the core mechanics are here. So you will spend most of the game out in the field, clearing out a pre-determined list of enemies before grabbing the loot and moving on.  Once you have killed the main boss character it's time to head back to the town to do some shopping and chat to the locals. All classic role-playing game stuff then.The visuals are bright but underwhelming and take some getting used to, especially after playing the graphically superior – though offline only – Phantasy Star Portable on PSP.  The online aspect is key though and really the only way to experience the game. There is some initial fun to be had in the single player but the effort required in coaxing your allies to do anything useful soon begins to grate. The AI shown by the in-game characters is, like most Phantasy Star games, practically non-existent. So multiplayer is where the game finally splutters to life. Get a good team together – not always easy given Nintendo's ridiculously cumbersome friend code system – and you can partially recreate those heady Dreamcast days on your DS. And thankfully this time without the phone bill.Sadly the lure of plunder and nostalgic action is lessened by some annoying niggles.  The camera is a pain and causes constant frustration, especially in single-player. Also the levels and missions are repetitive in the extreme.  Yes, this is a "feature" of the series, but this feels much more of an issue today than it did 10 years ago. Above all, the hassles in getting your team together mean that you may not make the effort to play online.Despite all this Phantasy Star Zero does have something. Nostalgic charm of course, but the combat/reward/upgrade gameplay is always appealing. Nothing will match the impact of the original online version but patient Phantasy Star fans should certainly give Zero a go.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Using programs that screen out online advertising is fairly popular - particularly among the sort of savvy readers who spend their time reading this blog. But how much of a problem is it for web publishers? Just ask Ars Technica, the technology news and analysis site thattried a bold experimentto show its readers the real impact of ad blocking systems... and opened up a number of issues for web users and publishers alike in the process.Ad blocking, if you aren't familiar, is a technique used in a number of browser plug-ins that basically removes advertising from the web. Similar systems are also used to block Flash content - but basically, it looks for ads on a given web page and removes them.That means if you're using ad or Flash blocking, instead of seeing a page like this:You see one like this:Now, the common argument put forward by users is that it makes their online experience better and that since they were people who would never click on adverts anyway, it doesn't make any financial difference to the site they visit.That myth has been exploded by Ars, which ran a post yesterday called"Why ad blocking is devastating to the sites you love". Last week the site, part of the Conde Nast empire which includes magazines such as Wired, Vogue and the New Yorker, tried an experiment so that users running ad blocking software also had thecontentblocked. Why?There is an oft-stated misconception that if a user never clicks on ads, then blocking them won't hurt a site financially. This is wrong. Most sites, at least sites the size of ours, are paid on a per view basis. If you have an ad blocker running, and you load 10 pages on the site, you consume resources from us (bandwidth being only one of them), but provide us with no revenue.The analogy they make is to a restaurant: ad blocking users are dining for free, even if they don't think they are.It's an interesting dilemma in a world where publishers are increasingly looking at paywalls, but users remain far from enamoured by the concept of having to pay for website subscriptions. So what do you do?Well, ad blockers are popular online - I certainly know from the comments that plenty of you use plugins like Adblock plus. Indeed, a few weeks ago during a discussion here about the iPad, somebody in the comments asked meif I used AdBlock, and if not, why not.I don't, not only for these reasons put forward by Ars Technica,because money made through advertising pays a good proportion of my wagesand other reasons. It would be more than a little two-faced to want people to pay formycontent with their attention and then effectively remove my attention from other peoples' sites. But I accept that it's an argument that isn't made enough by publishers - and that it may not brook much sympathy with you.None of this is to say that adverts aren't often annoying, intrusive or unwanted - but it's an argument that isn't made enough by publishers, and even so it may not brook much sympathy with you.So: is putting up with ads possible worth it to support the sites you love? Or are there other options?
&bull; Despite the squillions of iPhone apps out there,Applehas worked very hard to keep details of its contract with developers under wraps. No longer: the Electronic Frontier Foundation usedNasa's iPhone appas an avenue to file a Freedom of Information request to get apublic copy of the contract(PDF). And the organisationisn't happy with what it sees: including a ban on public statements, certain reverse-engeineering restrictions and Apple's lack of liability in case of something going wrong.&bull;Googleistesting a TV search service, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal. It suggests that there's a pilot scheme for an embedded set-top search service linked to a US satellite TV provider - not the first time that Google has shown television ambitions (here aretwo examplesin the UK). But still worth watching.&bull; Also in Google, meanwhile, ZDNet brings news ofthis Goldman Sachs notereducing expectations of sales of theNexus One- drastically. It now thinks the company will sell 1m handsets in 2010, down from a previous estimation of 3.5m. Why? "Possibly due to limited marketing and customer service challenges" - or, in other words, the decision to sell it online-only.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Video games publisher Ubisoft has apologised after thousands of players were locked out of its systems over the weekend.PC users started reporting problems accessing some of the French company's most popular games, including best-sellerAssassin's Creed 2, on Sunday afternoon.  It later emerged that attackers had targeted the company's controversial anti-piracy system, causing it to break down - which in turn left thousands of people unable to play.The chaos was so widespread because of the way that Ubisoft's copy protection system - which requires players who have bought the game to log in online and verify that they are not playing a pirated version - is designed. By flooding the anti-piracy servers with web traffic, the unknown attackers forced it to collapse and therefore locked out those players who tried to sign in.This angered many gamers, who felt that they had been punished for buying legal copies of the company's games - which cost as much as £50."We've had to agree to their draconian rules in order to play their game, however Ubisoft haven't given a single thought to what happens when their servers screw up," saidone disgruntled useron the company's web forums."[This] only penalises legitimate customers like myself who want to play your fantastic games but cannot," saidanother.The company initially blamed the problems on "exceptional demand" - but in a statement on Monday, Ubisoft admitted that it had been targeted."Ubisoft would like to apologise to anyone who could play Assassin's Creed 2 or Silent Hunter 5 yesterday," it said. "Servers were attacked and while the servers did not go down, service was limited from 2.30pm to 9.30pm Paris time.""Ninety-five percent of players were not affected, but a small group of players attempting to open a game session did receive denial of service errors."The attack itself brings into question the company's decision to roll out its controversial digital rights management (DRM) to try and stop its games from being illegally copied.Although the games themselves do not involve online play, the sign-in system is required for anybody playing titles like Assassin's Creed 2, which has sold more than 8m copies worldwide since it was release in November.The constant tension between publishers, consumers and pirates has caused problems in the past - such as when Electronic Arts releasedSpore, a highly-anticipated evolutionary simulator that required online validation before it could be played. Aftercomplaints from thousands of users, the company eventually relaxed the rules.But Ubisoft's system has caused extra irritation with players because it means that the titles cannot be used at all without a constant internet connection - a particularly drastic requirement given that the company says there are actually no cracked versions of the games in question in the wild.The same denial of service technique employed by the Ubisoft attackers is often used by hackers and blackmailers to threaten online businesses, or by those protesting against web sites or companies.And despite the company's assurances that only a handful of players were affected, however, it appears that the problems may not yet be over.On Monday some users reported similar difficulties, leading the company to confirmvia Twitterthat "our servers are under attack again" and that "we're working on it".
Last week began with two staff members allegedly being escorted from their development studio by burly security guards. It ended with amultimillion dollar lawsuitagainst the biggest games publisher in the world.And while gamers are frantically trying to work out what the Infinity Ward/Activision saga means for the Call of Duty and Modern Warfare brands, there are some much wider industry issues bubbling beneath the surface.Because when studio heads Jason West and Vince Zampella filed that astoundingly vitriolic16-page lawsuitagainst their former publisher, they slammed a question mark down over the nature of IP ownership in the modern videogame era. If, as West and Zampella allege, Activision granted them 'contractual rights' over the Modern Warfare brand, could theyreallydefect and take a Modern Warfare-like title to another publisher, asnews sources are indicating? And step back a little; would a multinational corporationreallysign off a massively profitable franchise extension merely to appease its workers?That seems massively unlikely, but the battle over the future of Infinity Ward and of the Call of Duty series is going to be long and messy, and it will have ramifications. "Whatever the outcome, this will be an event that will shape the developer/publisher relationship forever," says Jesse Divnich a leading US industry analyst and vice president of research firmEEDAR. Here's why..."The developer/publisher relationship has always been complex," continues Divnich. "But it is not uncommon to see publishers give their developers a certain amount of freedom and creative control. It is the price publishers pay for retaining top talent."Take-Two did something similar last year by giving the heads of Rockstar additional creative control and nearly complete freedom to produce whatever they wanted. The jury is still out on whether or not this proved to be a financially fruitful move, I'd argue it was."It's the exact nature of this creative control that's at the core of the Infinity Ward debacle. What the lawsuit seems to imply is that West and Zampella were effectively granted power of attorney over the MW brand, that subsequent titles couldn't be developed without their approval. Conversely, the document also suggests that Infinity Ward had been given implicit permission to pull out of the Call of Duty development machine. On page eight is this paragraph:"The MOU [Memorandum of Understanding] gives West and Zampella the right to operate Infinity Ward independently and to chose to develop new intellectual property after they completed Modern warfare 2"So if we're to accept the situation as presented in the document, West and Zampella had the power to both controlandwalk away from the CoD brand. Weird. And even if only half of this is accurate - the half about Infinity Ward possibly quitting Modern Warfare - that is enough of a nightmare scenario for Activision. Infinity Ward IS Call of Duty, it IS Modern Warfare. The Treyarch titles pull in a decent revenue, but they don't do one billion dollars each. So maybe a carrotwasdangled to keep West and Zampella onboard. It's just they tried to take a bigger bite than Activision expected..."It is a difficult undertaking to employ those who constantly think outside the box," says Divnich. "They can be very unstable. I am not criticising the creatives, I am instead saying that you cannot take outside-of-the-box thinkers and cram them into a cubicle only to have them work on repetitive projects/tasks. They'll go crazy."But back to the main subject, developers retaining creative control - it is no different than Hollywood actors who often retain creative control or input on the films they work on."In fact. I consider this event a positive for the industry. For years developers have been viewed by management as nothing more than programming monkeys with complete expendability. It is about time that we began to see some reach a 'celebrity' status to the point where their involvement on a title can impact sales."In some ways this is already happening of course. The likes of Molyneux, Miyamoto and Will Wright can open a game in the same way as Will Smith and Tom Hanks can effectively open a movie. But the future that this lawsuit suggests is one in which the members ofanysuccessful development studio may be able to leverage significant personal power for themselves.The thing is, that's good for them, but is it good for us? We may have seen the last of Modern Warfare in its current form, and if you're a fan, that's got to hurt. Developer power is positive, but it'll complicate things - it'll lead to more trouble like this.
Of all the RTS/Sim hybrids, Anno 1404 was one of the most enjoyable. It neatly combined the city-building tranquillity of The Settlers with the gunboat diplomacy of Age of Empires to make a deep and absorbing game.Venice is an add-on pack featuring 300 new quests, 60 new items and a series of new scenarios based around Venetian culture. There's also a new island type (Volcano) adding to the trading and tactical possibilities of your old European and Oriental cultures. Visually not a lot has changed – it's still great to look at, with your hoard of animated townspeople going about their business. There's also a new sounds and music, making the city building side of things curiously hypnotic when you've got bigger issues to take care of.Perhaps the biggest change with Venice is the addition of Spies to your diplomatic toolkit. Spies are available once you've built an Operations Base, but once done they can take care of policing your own city or creating mayhem in an opponent's. Depending on the level of the building you occupy you can launch arson attacks, sabotage the water supply, spread disease or sow dissent in the marketplace to (eventually) start a revolt. In Oriental bases you can also send out a belly dancer as a distraction or create false prophets to cause more widespread confusion. Naturally, others can do the same to you but this, and the option to buy Council membership in rival cities offers interesting new ways of expanding control without resorting to naval combat. There's also a decent multiplayer mode which can be played by up to eight people over the internet or local area network in versus or co-op mode. At the time of writing only a handful of people online owned the add-on, making this impossible to test, but it will be interesting to see how the more tranquil pace of Anno survives on competitive online servers.However there are disappointments. Not only is there no single-player Venice campaign (just 15 new scenarios) but you can't even replay the old 1404 campaign using your new units and abilities. For such a notable naval power there's only a disappointing two new trading ships, and keeping track of quests is still as cumbersome as ever, with the all-important Quest log still buried on a sub-menu. So, although Anno: Venice doesn't quite fix all that was broken, luckily there wasn't a lot wrong in the first place.
Every Monday from now on, I'm going to try to package up all the mobile, iPhone and Android news into one convenient post - that way you'll know exactly how to waste your commutes and lunch hours for the next five days...NewsFirst up, Asbjoern Soendergaard used to work at Crytek, but left to do something completely different - and he's not messing about. Just about the polar opposite of a bleeding edge PC first-person shooter is... an openworld pet sim for the iPhone, entitled Pocket Creatures. In what looks like a cross between Pokemon and Viva Pinata, your job is to nurture a cute creature living on an exotic island (well, thesettingis quite Far Cry, then...), teaching it what to eat, which animals are safe to talk to, and how to use seeds to grow a garden which will provide magical ability-enhancing fruits. Naturally, you earn new customisation elements with which to personalise your creature (horns, wings, flowers, jewelry), and in an eco-friendly touch, the critter's interactions with the world have wider effects on the environment.The visuals are rather nice, especially the way your creature's various moods are captured in the facial animations. There's a trailerhere, and it's due out later this month, courtesy of Soendergaard's studio,Tactile Entertainment.Eight years agonow defunct publisher Acclaim Games announced a hybrid brawler/top-down shooter based around the online comic, The Red Star. When Acclaim went down, the title was bought by New York boutique publisher XS Games, and now, three years after the PS2/Xbox release, there's a PSP and iPhone version on the way. Set in an alternative reality in which Soviet Russia has developed incredibly sophisticated weaponry, you guide one of three characters around a series of futuristic arena-based and scrolling environments, developing an ever more powerful armoury. It's sort of Streets of Rage meets Gauntlet, with a fewbullet hellstages mixed in for good measure. Release is set for early Spring and there's more info at theofficial site.Paperboat Raceis a promising little sailing game from I-Play. Due on iPhone later in the spring, it mimics the offbeat functionality of Nintendo DS games like Lost in Blue, allowing you to blow into the mike to simulate the wind hitting your sails. Apparently, you can also control your tiny delicate craft with a button-bashing interface, but in this mode an occasional blow into the mic provides a quick speed boost.The action takes place in a swimming pool, where flags and obstacles need to be avoided via precise use of the accelerometer. There's no word on whether you'll be able to customise your paper craft, but surely that's a no-brainer in this age of user-generated social content?Finally, the Wall Street Journal hasposted speculationthat Sony is, once again, ready to announce a PlayStation-branded mobile phone. This rumour has been floating about for years, but it seems the announcement of the iPad may have finally kicked the project from the R&amp;D labs to the release schedule. The handset is due to feature smart phone functionality, including ebook reading, and will apparently sync with Sony's (latest) answer to iTunes/App Store, which is launching in the States at the end of the month. It's not clear what sort of games the phone will be able to access - will it be dedicated iPhone-like titles or PSP Minis? Will the phone also have access to PSN? And will users be able to complete against PSP owners? That's assuming it isn't another false alarm of course...Astro Ranch: Harvest Moon meets Pokemon on an iPhone...Other stuffThere have been a couple of notable releases in the last few weeks that I've not had chance to get a good go on yet. At the end of Feb, Gameloft launchedBrothers in Arms 2: Global Front, an ambitious strategy shooter based on the console-based WW2 series and featuring a multiplayer mode for up to six competitors. You should also check outTag Games' cute 'n' colourfulAstro Ranch, an expansive combination of Harvest Moon and Pokemon (again!) for the iPhone. And if you get the chance, go and test driveRadio Flare Redux, a tuned version of the imaginative and absorbing rhythm action shooter fromChillingo.Pocket Gamer recommendsEvery month I askPocket Gamer's Jon Mundy to recommend a selection of the latest mobile and iPhone releases. Here's the best stuff from the last four weeks...Plants vs Zombies (iPhone)"PopCap's PC line-defence masterpiece makes its way to iPhone startlingly intact, and possibly (in terms of the touch controls at least) even a little improved."Parachute Ninja (iPhone)"A deliciously quirky slice of casual puzzling that sees you pinging your ninja around the screen with lengths of elastic, tapping to unfurl your parachute at key moments."Battle of Puppets (iPhone)"A brilliantly odd take on the action-strategy genre as you take your army of operatic puppets on a military tour of America."Space Miner (iPhone)"The controls might take a little getting used to, but they're well worth persevering with for the funny, involving story. A surprise hit."Riddim Ribbon (iPhone)"The developer of Tap Tap Revenge puts the 'game' back into 'music game' with this inspired effort. It should improve considerably with new (hopefully non-Black Eyed Peas) 'levels', too."
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPaul Carr on the Digital Economy Bill &gt;&gt; Techcrunch.comThe erstwhile Guardian columnist runs along with the people hating the bill but then suddenly stops and goes and reads it. His conclusion: actually, it only needs some modest tweaking to be really useful.Asus E-Reader DR-950: first look at CeBIT - PC ProHas a 9in e-ink display offering high resolution, 1,024 x 768 pixelsAsus Eee Keyboard review: first look at CeBIT - PC Pro blogTechnically a netbook with a vertical built-in secondary Windows monitor.Has the business press lost touch with the tech industry? - CNetA report shows that Apple and Google dominate, while Twitter and Facebook are far more discussed in the business press than Intel, Dell, IBM, or even HP. (The eight publications surveyed are: The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Forbes, Fortune, BusinessWeek, The Economist, Financial Times, and USA Today.)IE6 Laid To Rest. Pictures, Videos, And Flowers From Microsoft - TechCrunchWishful thinking because IE6 is far from dead, but it looked like harmless fun...Why Apple Deserves an Oscar Too - The Awl"Apple is essentially like Hollywood itself, beautiful, expensive and not at all representative of reality," says Abe SauerShanghai launches first Internet of Things center - China Daily"China's first "Internet of Things" center opened in Shanghai Tuesday, as part of the country's effort to enhance competitiveness in what is regarded as a promising industry."Microsoft's Courier 'digital journal': exclusive pictures and details - Engadget"It's under an inch thick, weighs a little over a pound, and isn't much bigger than a 5x7 photo when closed. Rather than Windows 7, we're told the Courier is built on Tegra 2 and runs on the same OS as the Zune HD, Pink, and Windows Mobile 7 Series," it saysYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
So how was your weekend gaming then? Still ploughing through Heavy Rain/Mass Effect/Bioshock? Clearing the gaming decks for Final Fantasy XIII or are the mixed reviews putting you off? Or maybe you splashed out on a DS XL? I've been on holiday for a few days so any spare gaming time I had was with the DSi and PSPGo. I'm reviewing Phantasy Star Zero later this week so the DSi got most of the attention. Apart from the fuzzy visuals - though what did I expect from a 3D game on the DS? - I've rather enjoyed the trip down memory lane. Yes, Zero isn't as revolutionary, or even as good looking as Phantasy Star Online on the Dreamcast, but it does have that nostalgic glow and an addictive Diablo-esque appeal. Continuing the nostalgia trip I also spent time with the splendid role-player Vandal Hearts on the PSPGo. Too many, games not enough time...What about you then? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; The never-ending war betweenGoogleandMicrosoftstepped up another gear today, asBing starts running UK TV ads. We've seen Google looking more towards traditional advertising channels recently, so it looks like the latest front could open on the airwaves - not the net itself.&bull; Talking of ads, afterannouncing the first iPad launch date last weekiPad advertising push has started, withApplerunning its first spotsduring Sunday night's Oscar ceremony. But while Kathryn Bigelow and her film the Hurt Locker came out as the night's big winner, it isn't a big mover and shaker online: according to TorrentFreak it was District 9 thatwas the most torrented movieup for an award.&bull; Bit of a quiet weekend by all accounts, but if you're looking for something to chew over, there's a really interesting piece in the New York Times about the online music servicePandora- and how it rescued itself. The site's struggled for most of its life, but after all that it could look to go public soon. A few questions remain, but plenty to learn there too.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Microsoft is to launch a multimillion-pound TV ad campaign for its search engine Bing, as part of a major marketing push designed to challenge Google's dominance of the UK search market, MediaGuardian.co.uk can reveal.The campaign to promote Bing, the so-called "decision engine" that Microsoft is backing with $2bn, begins with a series of TV ads this week."This is a big moment – we are taking out our slingshots and taking on Goliath," said the managing director and vice-president of consumer and online at Microsoft UK, Ashley Highfield, adding that he believed Bing met a real desire from both consumers and advertisers.The three-month campaign, which includes three TV ads created by the agency JWT, starts on Wednesday and uses the strapline "Bing and decide".The ads aim to show that Bing simplifies the "information overload" that accompanies the results of many searches."People feel overawed by the internet and what they turn up when they are searching," said Highfield. "We are also in a world where people have forgotten there is an alternative search engine."Microsoft will certainly have its work cut out winning over consumers – it currently holds about a 3% share of the search market while Google controls about 90%.The ads feature ordinary people asking for information and receiving nonsensical, "speaking-in-tongues" answers; one early spot has a woman seeking directions to Euston station.The TV campaign will run solidly for a month and then in two-week bursts until mid-June. It will be backed by a digital campaign across Microsoft's network and on media including social networking websites.Highfield said that a key aim of the campaign was to contrast the "visually rich" Bing with the relatively austere-looking Google."It is a battle not just of mind but of heart as well," he said. "We are wanting to make an emotional connection – we are ploughing a different furrow here."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Spare a thought for the poor venture capitalists of the world. Well, perhaps the word "poor" is not entirely appropriate, but there's no doubt that they seem to be having a torrid time at the moment. Over the past decade they have poured hundreds of billions of dollars into start-up technology companies – and have emerged with an average figure for five-year returns that has oscillated around, er, zero.This will come as a surprise to those who subscribe to the cartoon image of the venture capitalist as a hatchet-faced investor who invests in someone's dream in order to wind up effectively owning it – and then flogging it to anonymous shareholders by floating the company on the stock market.The stock scenario is simple: man (or woman) has Great Idea but lacks the money to develop it and bring it to market. Venture capaitalist has money, and provides it in return for a generous slice of the company's shares, thereby "diluting" the founder's stake in the venture. Because of Murphy's law, it always takes longer to get stuff to market than the business plan predicts, so the VC puts in more money by buying more shares at a lower price, thereby diluting the founder still further. And so it goes on until the company is floated, with the VC owning 98% of it and the founder trying to get by on the proceeds of selling his remaining 2%.I exaggerate, but not much. One of the things you learn from being in the technology business is that company founders regard venture capitalists as – at best — a kind of necessary evil. In his bookThe New, New Thing, Michael Lewis told the story of how Jim Clark, the founder of Silicon Graphics, became so convinced that he had been screwed by one of the VCs who had bankrolled the company that he refused to allow the same individual to invest in his next start-up, Netscape – with the result that the chap in question committed suicide.Our view of venture capitalists is skewed by the fact that it's only their spectacular coups that attract media attention. Most of these date from the original internet boom triggered by the flotation of Netscape in 1995. In 1996, for example, Silicon Valley venture capitalists put a few million dollars into a telecom-equipment startup called Juniper Networks. Three years later, Juniper floated and at the end of the first day of trading was worth nearly $5bn. Within months, it was valued at nearly $50bn. The original investment had yielded a 10,000% return. Similar stories can be told of the $50m that John Doerr and Michael Moritz between them invested in Google – or of the stake garnered by the $100,000 that Sun co-founder Andy Bechtolsheim gave the Google boys before their company had even been incorporated.But that was then and this is now. It's only in a bubble that VCs appear to be like alchemists – able to turn the dross of technology start-ups into pure gold. During the first internet boom, pension funds, banks and institutional investors – desperate for a slice of the alchemical action – showered money on those who ran venture capital funds. The result is an industry that still has far too much money – together with a dwindling number of ways of investing it which offer any prospect of the returns that their clients were hoping for.This is not because technological innovation has ground to a halt – au contraire: if anything it's accelerating, at least in the internet space. But this explosive innovation isn't offering VCs much comfort, for two reasons. One is that the conventional way for them to cash in – stock market flotations – has more or less disappeared.The second factor is that technology start-ups now need less investment than they used to. In the 1990s, a new internet company needed to buy large numbers of servers and computing infrastructure – and spend fortunes on conventional advertising – in order to gain market presence. Nowadays nobody buys servers and infrastructure – they just rent it from cloud-computer providers like Amazon, so the big players in a web 2.0 world such as Facebook, Twitter and Skype spend astonishingly little on kit and advertising. Their main requirement is investment that enables them to employ and reward talented staff, and that is orders of magnitude less than what the first wave of internet companies required.So what will happen to VCs? The most likely answer is that the industry will gradually shrink to more sustainable levels, and institutions that invest in venture funds will have more realistic expectations. Which, in the end, will benefit everybody. Except, of course, the poor founders of companies, who will still wind up getting screw… er diluted.
If a football team is to stand a chance of success then, at the very least, its players must respect one another. Without unity, even the most talented collection of individuals will struggle. Like children, they must learn to play together nicely or, like John Terry and Wayne Bridge, they shan't play together at all.Strangely prescient, then, that in among the more obvious positives to this year's must-have Fifa add-on (half the price of last year'sUTdownload, with a wider choice of players and leagues), EA Sports has now decided that "chemistry" is a huge factor in how successful a team can be. Individual ability will carry your squad(s) only so far in online competition. Without that elusive chemistry (am I playing in my preferred position? Do I like the players in front or behind me?) that is now needed all over the park, they're done for. It won't come as a massive surprise that few managers have so far found room for Craig Bellamy in theirUTteams…
The story so farRobotic lab assistant turns defender of the Earth as his creator and former boss becomes a maniacal tyrant.Long gameThe series started on the NES and these titles (Mega Man, 1987, to Mega Man 5, 1992) are considered the golden era. It's gone on to spawn more than 50 games that have together sold 28m copies, making it Capcom's most prolific franchise, of which Mega Man 10 is the latest instalment.Big in JapanWhere it's called Rockman, this 2D platform-shooter has a distinct Japanese style. Critically acclaimed and respected by games makers, it's played by relatively few outside Japan but adored by those who know it.What's new?Despite being a new game, Mega Man 10 is presented in classic NES-era graphics. It even features options that simulate the behaviour of old games consoles, so you can add effects such as sprite flicker, a brilliant touch for a series famous for its influential graphical style and 8-bit music.Why to buyMega Man is infamously zany and tongue in cheek. 10 is no exception, telling the story of an outbreak of robot flu and the resulting near-apocalypse caused by out-of-control service robots. It's nicely daft and self-deprecating.Come one, come allMM really does boast universal appeal, but as the series has aged, so has its fanbase, typically attracting old-school gamers with a taste for simplicity. But this version also features a completely redesigned easy mode that's welcoming to players not used to the difficulty of retro and arcade-game classics. A great introduction to a classic title.
Foreign states and terrorist groups are regularly launching cyber-attacks on the UK's computer systems with the potential to cause widespread damage, according to the government's security tsar.Lord West of Spithead, who is parliamentary under-secretary for security and counter-terrorism, told theObserverthat the UK was under daily cyber attack, often from agencies working on behalf of foreign governments.He said there had been "300 significant attacks" on the government's core computer networks in the last year and warned of chaotic scenes if one successfully targeted infrastructure such as the UK's communications systems.The security service, MI5, has warned that tackling espionage conducted by Chinese and Russian agents is taking up an increasing amount of its time.West declined to identify the states carrying out the cyber-attacks on UK computer systems, but it is clear that he shares the service's fears that some states are using communications systems and computer networks to seek confidential information held by government agencies and private companies in the UK."There is no doubt some state actors have sucked out huge amounts of intellectual copyright, designs to whole aero engines, things that have taken years and years of development," West said."The moment you mention a particular state, they will deny it," West added. "The problem with cyberspace is that attribution is extremely difficult. It's almost impossible to do it in terms of evidence that would be necessary in a court of law."However, he said the UK government had sufficient intelligence to be confident that it knew who the main perpetrators were. Russia has been widely blamed for launching debilitating cyber-attacks on Estonia and Georgia. West said such actions prompted new questions."If I went and bombed a power station in France, that would be an act of war," he said. "If I went on to the net and took out a power station, is that an act of war? One could argue that it was."And he warned that there might come a time when the UK would feel compelled to retaliate. "If some state sponsor keeps trying to get into your systems, probably for industrial espionage, are you going to go back into their system and bugger it up? We're all capable of doing these things. At the moment we wouldn't do that, but maybe this is where we need to have discussions."He suggested that the UK needed to be prepared to tackle a spectrum of threats in cyberspace, including those posed by criminal gangs and terrorists. "I'm very worried they [terrorists] may start becoming cuter and try to use our connectivity to have a go at our critical infrastructure, things [that control] our services, our food [distribution] and water supply," he said. Terrorists were currently "not brilliant" at attempting this sort of attack on infrastructure, he added, but they would learn fast and "we've got to be ahead of them".As an example of the potential effects, he talked about what would happen if time signals from global positioning system satellites were disabled. "Not a single cash machine would work, the Docklands Light Railway wouldn't work, you wouldn't be able to berth oil tankers, great chunks of our transport infrastructure would stop," West said.He drew comparisons with ice storms in the Canadian capital, Ottawa, several years ago. "All the power went down; there were riots with people smashing into stores," he said.The government is so concerned at the evolving threats in cyberspace that this month it launched the Office of Cyber Security, which draws on expertise from organisations such as GCHQ, the Ministry of Defence, the Home Office and the Serious and Organised Crime Agency.The OCS is engaged in planning exercises looking at warfare in 2015 and 2040. Another part of its remit will be tackling online fraud. West described the rise of "malicious" computer code as "exponential" and "mindboggling". "The more you realise the malicious elements that are out there trying things, the more horrifying it becomes," he said.Last week Spanish investigators arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called "Mariposa" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs. West acknowledged that the 2012 Olympics would be a target for cyber-attacks. "People will be trying to get into the Olympics [ticketing] site to see what they can do," he said.His comments come days after the director of the FBI, Robert Mueller, warned that militant groups, foreign states and criminal organisations posed a growing threat to US security as they targeted government and private computer networks. "Apart from the terrorist threat, nation states may use the internet as a means of attack," Mueller said. "They seek our technology, our intelligence, our intellectual property, even our military weapons and strategies."
Popped CultureThe term mash-up has become a part of the mainstream vernacular, but most of us still think of it in terms of musical collisions. The reality is that it's everywhere. This fabulous blog concerns itself with the fusion of art and pop culture in all its supersweet flavours. Here you'll find a clip of Weekend At Bernies as if filmed by Tim Burton; Mario Brothers calling cards if they'd been real-world plumbers; a beautiful painting of a Care Bear re-imagined as a grouchy urban warrior; and Star Wars propaganda posters. What links all the entries is imagination, fun and – particularly in the spoof McDonald's ads – healthy disrespect for our brand-obsessed world.Dollar Van DemosWordspit's Hello Good Morning, on Dollar Van Demos.You may be familiar with The Black Cab Sessions, in which rising stars and established artists perform their songs in the back seat of a London taxi. Well, this is the hip-hop American equivalent. The big difference is that the artists are performing in the back of a Dollar Van – a budget mini bus taxi service that travels across New York – with passengers getting on and off throughout their allotted three minutes of video fame. Performing in such trying circumstances takes guts, but some of the tracks are brilliant. Joya Bravo's rap over the top of the Ting Tings' That's Not My Name is incredible, as is Wordspit's Hello Good Morning, which has the whole bus bobbing in their seats.Blog roll: LocalFrom the Framley Examiner.Angry People In Local NewspapersTaking pity on the poor local news photographers cursed to take photos of people holding petitions.Birmingham: It's Not ShitThe backstabbers' guide to Wolverhampton and Stephen Tin Tin Duffy's bus pass.Angels With Grumpy FacesFrom seagulls fighting cats to wheelie bin disaster, the full horror of regional news revealed.The Nether RegionsNorman Tebbit's unusual habits, angry horses, and a poll to decide the best main road in Reading.Glum CouncillorsYou don't have to be grumpy to stand for local office but it helps.Framley ExaminerLess regular but still brilliant online spoof of local newspapers.What we learned on the web this weekHappiness is a fluffy rabbit (dailybunny.org).Happiness isa fluffy rabbitCurling isthe most metal winter sportNew Googleusers are called NooglersWhere the castof GoodFellas are nowThe evolutionof the sweet toothYou arenever too young for failureAbout earlyWoody Allen 1952-1971Where todiscover online radioRunway beatsred carpetHow tolive to 100Koalas areno longer cute
Apple's touchscreen iPad tablet computer will go on sale on 3 April in the US, but no specific date – beyond "late April" – has been given for its release in the UK and other international locations.The company declined to set either the selling price for its models abroad, or to name any of the mobile network companies that will be providing connectivity for the more expensive iPad systems, which have 3G data sims built in.US customers will be able to pre-order the iPad, which Steve Jobs described as a "magical and revolutionary product", from Friday 12 March, either online or in Apple's retail stores.The devices come in two basic forms – with Wi-Fi wireless connectivity, and with both Wi-Fi and 3G mobile connectivity. However, only the Wi-Fi versions will go on sale on 3 April; Apple said only that the 3G versions will be on sale in "late April".All the versions of the iPad will go on sale in the UK, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain and Switzerland at the same time.The iPad has excited huge interest because it expands the interface of the iPhone, Apple's hugely successful mobile phone, into a usable "slate" computer with a 9-inch screen. A number of content publishers have thought that it could be a completely new medium for sales of various products – including electronic versions of books, magazines, newspapers, music and films – that they will be able to charge for by selling them through Apple's iTunes store, which has been a source of revenue for music, film, TV, audiobook and notably "app" creators.In the US, the basic iPad model with Wi-Fi and 16 gigabytes of storage will cost $499. Apple says that it "lets users browse the web, read and send email, enjoy and share photos, watch videos, listen to music, play games, read ebooks and much more". The device is 0.5 inches thick and weighs 1.5 pounds – "thinner and lighter than any laptop or netbook" and Apple says it can run for up to 10 hours on a single battery charge. (Tests on other products suggest the figure may typically be only half that.)In the past few weeks there had been mounting speculation that there were production problems at Apple's factories in China. Apple had no comment on that, but the staged release to the international market compared to the US – which makes half of Apple's sales – suggests it is husbanding its resources.The announcement notably does not offer any pricing for the UK, nor any details about which mobile carriers Apple might sign up with. O2, Orange and Vodafone already offer its iPhone, but none of them are mentioned in Apple's announcement.Nor is pricing – which could be key to how well it sells. Since the announcement of the iPad in January, the pound has slipped against the dollar in international exchange markets, which has led to speculation that Apple is waiting until the last minute to announce the price in order to minimise any losses on exchange-rate volatility. Macworld magazine, which calculated in February that the low-end iPad selling for $499 in the US might have a starting price of £388 in the UK, recalculated on Friday that the downturn in sterling would now mean a minimum starting price of £400.
Overnight, Twitter flew past the 10bn tweet milestone, according to theGigaTweetsite, which tracks the microblogging service. It has taken more than three years to get there. However, Twitter's rapid growth means that the next 10bn should be knocked off in 203 days.GigaTweet, an independent project, graphs the number of tweets per hour and per day, as well as showing the grand total. Twitter also monitors its own progress andin a blog post last monthannounced that:Folks were tweeting 5,000 times a day in 2007. By 2008, that number was 300,000, and by 2009 it had grown to 2.5 million per day. Tweets grew 1,400% last year to 35 million per day. Today, we are seeing 50 million tweets per day — that's an average of 600 tweets per second.The system is not hard to track, because Tweets are numbered. You can seetweet 9,999,999,999 by Rafaela Marques from Brazil, who may now get some unexpected attention. Sadly, you can't see the 10 billionth because it was from a user who protects his or her tweets.Either way, this is going to lead to some very long numbers indeed, assuming Twitter survives another 10 or 20 years. It's also going to consume quite a lot of disk space if Twitter keeps all the tweets.Twitter's numbers are, of course, still relatively small compared to the sort of traffic hitting really popular sites such as YouTube and Facebook. Windows Live Messenger runs around 10bn "tweets" per day.
Rumours of Microsoft's Pink phone project have been floating around for a long time, and got a brief mention here in aBreakfast Briefinglast April. Now Gizmodo is trumpeting theFirst Shots and Specs of Microsoft's Secret Project Pink Phone. The blurry photos are nothing like as good as the ones it published inSeptember, but in an update, the blog claimed: "We've got our hands on leaked Pink firmware." In other words, this could well be serious.One thing we know from the announcement of Microsoft's forthcoming Windows Phone 7 Series at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona is that the Pink phone is not Microsoft's mainstream direction. The more likely scenario is that it's the follow-up to the Danger Hiptop (aka Sidekick) messaging phone: Microsoft bought the company in 2008, and very little has been heard from it since. (And what we did hear wasn't good: seeMicrosoft data loss 2009, at Wikipedia.)This hypothesis is supported by the tie-ins with Sharp, which manufactured most of the Danger devices. The Pink phones have also been fingered as the Sharp PB10ZU and PB20ZU. The main difference is that Verizon is listed as the Pink phones' carrier, whereas the Danger devices have commonly been on T-Mobile.But it's really not clear why Microsoft is doing this. When the Hiptop/Sidekick came out in 2002, it was a great device for instant messaging, and it had AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) built in. In the US, it also supported TTY/Relay Operator services that made it one of the best available phones for deaf users.But AIM isn't as important as it used to be (Windows Live Messenger now dominates that space), and there are plenty of more attractive phones for people who want to send SMS messages, access Facebook and follow Twitter. Today's teens would seem more likely to go for a BlackBerry, or a Google Android phone, if they want something with a usable keyboard.There is some logic to the Pink project because it moves Danger devices to Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, which is the basis for Windows Mobile, Windows Phone 7, Windows Automotive, and a wide range of devices. Presumably, it means it can be programmed using Microsoft's standard .Net approach.Moving acquired companies to your own systems is what big companies do. (Microsoft did it with HoTMaiL. Google did it with its bought-in Writely word processor, written using .Net but converted for Google Docs.) But it doesn't always make financial sense.Of course, there is sometimes more to developments than meets the eye. For example, Microsoft persevered with the Zune despite its poor sales. Only later did we find out that it was, in effect, user testing and honing much of what became the Windows Phone 7 user interface.
The 4.2 inch screens are a whopping 93 percent larger than those of the Nintendo DS Lite, the displays are beautifully bright and glossy and the combination of matt underside and gloss cover is a perfect marriage of style and gripping power. But will you be forking out the required £160 for a DS upgrade today?I've been playing on my JapaneseDSi XLfor a week or so, and it is a subtly enhanced experience. With the larger screen, I'm finding some elements of hectic action titles like GTA Chinatown Wars and Space Invaders Extreme 2 a little easier. Indeed, any action that requires pixel perfect precision is going to become a teeny bit less challenging with the XL's larger display, though, of course, there's no change in screen resolution (not that most gamers will notice). Space Invadersreallybenefits from the added visual impact, its psychedelic onslaught proving rather mind-blowing at 1am in the morning with your bedroom lights off.It's noticeably heavier than the previous iterations - 100g heavier to be precise, but what I really noticed is the change in balance, the upper screen weight slightly toppling the displays away from you if you have the hinges open as far as possible. But then, I like that solidity, and it also feels really comfortable to hold - plus, the fact that the buttons retain their size means there's more space for big, clumsy banger-like fingers.That's partly the point of the machine, obviously. It's not really meant as an essential step up for cool kids who carry a DSi around in their jeans pocket while riding a skateboard. Everything, from the wider viewing angles to the mature colour schemes hints at a product aimed at non-gamers. Families can gather around the screen and share games, while businessmen might feel a bit less self-conscious pulling a wine red or dark brown device from their briefcases rather than, say, a bright pink DSi with Hello Kitty emblazoned on the top.Onboard, you'll find A Little Bit of...Dr Kawashima's Brain Training: Arts Edition and Dictionary 6 in 1 with Camera Function, as well as a browser, which will naturally benefit from the larger displays too.So really, are you after a more impactful experience, with a grown-up sheen, or are you still happy nonchalantly jamming that cute little DSi into your coat pocket?
Life would be a lot simpler without expectations. Expectations lead to disappointment, disappointment leads to despair, and despair leads to you vowing never to watch an Indiana Jones film again.This is why it was with some trepidation that I approached the task of reviewing Final Fantasy XIII, which is out next week. The series – particularly iterations seven and eight – has provided me with many of my most cherished gaming memories. The game itself, more than five years in the making, is one of the most anticipated releases of the past two or three years. How could it fail to disappoint?The story follows fairly standard RPG conventions. You control a ragtag group of outcasts, granted special powers for mysterious reasons and charged with saving the world over 50-odd hours of battling, cutscenes and levelling up.  Pretty standard stuff.But what FF XIII achieves is to take this fairly conventional format and push it to its absolute limits. Never before has a game been so beautifully presented, a story as well structured or told, or a group of characters made so vivid and likeable.The graphics are what immediately impress – it doesn't take long to see that this was the game high-definition was made for. Stunning cutscene after stunning cutscene – both graphically and in terms of action direction – punctuate the intoxicating array of exotic locales you find on your journey. The colourful variety on offer, from the fluorescent blue PSICOM weapons facility to the lush greens of bucolic Pulse, is a breath of fresh air from the washed-out greys and greens that dominate the contemporary gaming palette.The scenery and character detail in these sections is simply astounding. Never before in a game have I with such frequency stopped to swivel the camera around, simply to marvel at the landscape. Even the mercifully Leona Lewis-less soundtrack is top-notch: it's effortlessly atmospheric and offers a number of pleasing tunes you'll have to prevent yourself from whistling around the office.Voice-acting and dialogue too is, on the whole, of the highest quality. The script has some lost-in-translation moments, but it's hard to quibble with the game's eccentricities. Sure, it's never really explained why Sazh has a baby chocobo living in his afro, or why each character has such exquisitely coiffured hair – but little touches like these make the Final Fantasy series memorable and completely distinct from other franchises.Most importantly, the gameplay itself is genuinely fun. The battle system – essentially a souped-up version of the turn-based system fans of the earlier games will be used to – requires both quick thinking and careful planning. It's all well and good having a gorgeous game with cinema quality FMV, but it's the exploring and scrapping that'll keep you playing long into the night. I've voluntarily gone back to retry fights on several occasions – aside from any levelling up value, it's just satisfying to get your tactics spot on and vanquish an opponent as quickly as possible.FF XIII probably won't please everybody. For starters, considerable patience and attention are required to make sense of the story and battle system in the early stages. It took me a good three to four hours just to work out the difference between a Fal'Cie and a L'Cie (god and warrior knight essentially, you'll thank me later) let alone the uses of "Paradigm Shifts", or the complicated weapons-upgrading system. Those looking for a quick thrill might be best off elsewhere.What many will find hardest to accept about FF XIII, though, is its unflinching linearity. Bucking the recent vogue for sandbox games and western RPGs with multitudinous paths and endings, here you have no choice in how the story progresses. You don't even get to choose which characters you battle with until you're about 20 hours in.There are (as far as I can tell) no hidden playable characters, and there's little incentive to grind your way to the best weapons and accessories. After 30 hours or so the game does open up somewhat, allowing you to wander and battle to earn upgrades and valuable items – but this is the one area where the game feels lacking in comparison with previous efforts.What this lack of freedom does mean, however, is that story and character are brought to the fore. Over the past couple of weeks I've laughed at Sazh's asides, been gripped by the narrative's twists and turns and moved by the foreshadowing flashbacks – the likes of Fallout 3 and GTA 4 never really achieved this level of emotional involvement. It's not often in a game you can say you genuinely care about the characters.Occasionally, just occasionally, things do live up to your expectations. Some things even surpass them – and, for fans of the series, Final Fantasy XIII does just that. While it may not be everyone's cup of tea, if you can accept its minor limitations and give it a few hours to draw you in, it could well be one of the best games you've ever played.
David Guo's solicitors get angry &gt;&gt; Bruce On GamesWhat's the name of the effect named after that singer whose first name is Barbra?Kasparov: The Chess Master and the Computer &gt;&gt; New York Review of Books"What if instead of human versus machine we played as partners? My brainchild saw the light of day in a match in 1998 in León, Spain, and we called it "Advanced Chess." Each player had a PC at hand running the chess software of his choice during the game. The idea was to create the highest level of chess ever played, a synthesis of the best of man and machine." Long but interesting about the state of chess and chess computing today.Cambrige startup produces Rapportive plug-in for Chrome &amp; FirefoxReplaces those ads in Gmail with details about the person who sent itA typology of (the many different kinds of) crowds &gt;&gt; Nicholas CarrYou say you've got a crowd - but for what? Data mining? Networking? Averaging? Nick Carr provides a useful reminder that there's more than one way to source a crowdGetting the Most Out of Twitter, No Posting Necessary - NYTimes.com"Even the most prolific users say Twitter has become more useful as a way to tap in to the discussions of the day than to broadcast their own thoughts," says Claire Cain MillerAndroid marketshare growing, iPhone shrinking, says QuantcastNumbers based on Web consumption in the US....Portuguese Prime Minister promises fibre for everyone - Samknows Broadband"Socrates said he wanted Portugal to be an "equal opportunities" provider of high-speed broadband, and make fibre connections available to 100% of the country including the rural areas."Technorati API Disappears: No Longer Representing the Technorati &gt;&gt; Programmable WebThese days, if your API disappears, then it's like you don't really exist.Argos exposes customers' credit-card numbers in emails | Security | News | PC Pro"The company has been including the customer's full name, address, credit-card number and three-digit CCV security code in order confirmation emails, which are sent once a customer has placed an order on the Argos website. Although the credit-card details don't appear in the text of the email itself, they are contained - in plain text - in the HTML code of the order confirmation." Which may be non-PCCI complaint - which would mean Argos losing its licence to process credit cards...This Apple-HTC Patent Thing &gt;&gt; Daring FireballJohn Gruber explains just why software patents are broken, and why Apple is behaving strangely in trying to litigate with them: "There's an argument to be made that software is inherently different than other fields of invention, different in such a way that patents should not apply — or, should apply for a significantly shorter period of time before expiring. You can't (or at least shouldn't) be able to patent mathematics, and there are good arguments that programming is a branch of mathematics."Opera downloads triple after browser ballot screen debut &gt;&gt; ComputerworldTripling is interesting.Source Code Repositories Targeted In Operation Aurora &gt;&gt; McAfee Security Insights BlogMore on Aurora, the Chinese attack that so unsettled Google: "As we continued our investigation, we realized that the SCM [source code modification] installations often aren't properly secured. Many organizations have tight security around financial systems and other mission critical systems, but leave their intellectual property repositories broadly accessible. The company might have strong perimeter security, but once you're in the SCM is readily available."An Open Letter to Steve Jobs Concerning the HTC Lawsuits &gt;&gt; Wil Shipley's blogShipley has more cause than most to feel annoyed at Apple: the "iBooks" product on the iPad looks astonishingly similar to his Delicious Library. But his point is broader: "If Apple becomes a company that uses its might to quash competition instead of using its brains, it's going to find the brainiest people will slowly stop working there. You know this, you watched it happen at Microsoft."Open source code from Twitter &gt;&gt; Twitter.comIf you're going to be building a microblogging system, perhaps you'd like to have a look at this code? Even if you're not, this is the sort of thing you find interesting.Confessions of a Windows 7 pirate - Ed Bott at ZD Net"Close encounters with some very nasty malware and some analysis on how the latest showdown between Microsoft and the pirates is likely to play out."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Turning films into video games is a potentially fraught exercise which risks leaving both gamers and cinemagoers unsatisfied. But Disney Interactive has been proclaiming its determination to make credible games for years, and this conversion of Tim Burton's update of the Lewis Carroll classic largely manages to back up the company's rhetoric.It's far more imaginative than expected, with some clever devices. For instance, you switch between various characters – namely the Mad Hatter, the March Hare, the Dormouse, the Cheshire Cat and the White Rabbit – which have different abilities. With some judicious gesturing and button-pressing with Wiimote and Nunchuk, the White Rabbit can temporarily freeze time, the March Hare can move objects telekinetically and the Cheshire Cat can render visible objects invisible and vice versa. The Dormouse, meanwhile, may be tiny, but he fights heroically; while, most intriguingly, the Hatter can bring his unique perspective to bear, reconstituting broken stairways and bridges, and removing seemingly insurmountable objects.Various combinations of those abilities bring about some surprisingly complex but always rigorously logical puzzles to be solved – you might, say, have to get the March Hare to raise two banners at the Red Queen's Palace, then switch to the White Rabbit to freeze them before sending the Mad Hatter to the right spot to use his perspective skill to turn them into a solid walkway. The puzzle element of Alice in Wonderland is exemplary – even fans of games like Tomb Raider will find it deeply satisfying. And the (French) developer clearly enjoyed making that aspect of the game: it often uses them as a welcome excuse to add new areas of Underland, including one gloriously surreal episode in which gravity is reversed.Alice in Wonderland isn't just about puzzle-solving: often portals appear through which playing-card soldiers materialise, who attempt to pull Alice through them if you don't defeat them. Sadly, the combat is annoyingly basic: you suffer no penalty for dying, and it's all rather clunky, even when you find chess pieces and cash them in to upgrade your characters' fighting skills. The game's graphics are about as good as possible given the Wii's limitations, and the game's look and feel conforms commendably to that of the film. Typically for such a game, though, the camera can often make proceedings twice as fiddly as they ought to be.As a game, Alice in Wonderland isn't going to win any awards – it has glaring flaws. But for the most part, it's inventive, fun and satisfying to play, and it will certainly keep young fans of the film occupied for long periods (parents note: it can be played co-operatively by two people). The only mystery is why it is rated 12-plus: there's nothing discernible in it to make it unsuitable for much younger children.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It's my PlayStation 3, because the games and graphics are so good – it's got proper games on it now.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Just before my Mum and Dad arrived – they're staying with me for a week. And as soon as they leave, I'm going straight back on it, baby.What additional features would you add if you could?It does quite a lot of stuff, but I guess I'd like to be able to play all sorts of games on it – if you could play cross platforms, such as Xbox games as well – but I suppose that will never happen. Also, it takes a long time to download things on it, such as a film.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I don't think it will be – I think it's got a bit of staying power, just for the fact that you can get on the internet with it.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I know people say that using computers is easy, but I still find things hard sometimes – uploading, downloading, installing software and so on.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I had a Sega DreamCast for a bit. I didn't hate it, but you knew that it was on its way out as soon as you bought it. And the games were expensive, too.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I would say read the manual. Don't skim read it, READ it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Luddite. I got a computer basically because the world has changed, not me. I would rather not deal with it, but I have to. It has made things easier, and I'm not complaining, but it's not my choice – I'm falling into line.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A laptop – it's a Mac.  I probably only use about 1% of its capabilities – looking at breasts and reading emails.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, because my brother told me that they were good. And as a result, I like iTunes.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I've never downloaded a film, because I like owning a box. CDs not so much. DVDs I like owning the physical box. My last purchase was The Hurt Locker on Blu-ray.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think butlers in general are a bad idea. You don't need a butler, man – just have a small house.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A hoverboard – that would be cool. Or an iPhone that was a remote control for your TV.•Joe Absolomstars as Al Large in the TV series Doc Martin. The DVD box set of Season 4 is out now.
Hey, have you heard? Apple's iPad is having production problems! And it's not having production problems! Also, it's going to cost £389! Or possibly less, or more. And in the UK the 3G version is going to be exclusively on Vodafone. As well as being on Orange and O2. Also, it's going to be released in the UK two weeks after the US, where it's being released on March 26, or actually 29th, except it's being released at the same time. And it's going to cost..Update:since this was written, Apple has announced that the iPad will go on sale on April 3 in the US, and "late April" in other countries. Prices haven't been set. Nor have carriers been announced. Which shows how correct the following analysis is...OK, enough breathless murmery. Let's clear the air. There is an astonishing amount of speculation going on about Apple's iPad. Very little of it seems well-founded - or even grounded in logic.The facts about the iPad: Apple hasn't given a precise launch date; "60 days" was the best Steve Jobs had on 27 January. It's not given one for the UK either. It hasn't said how much the various models will cost in the UK. It hasn't said whether the 3G mobile-connected models will be available in the UK (though it's expected) and it hasn't said which network(s) it will be going with.Which is about par for the course for some Apple products. And of course is enough for ever so many "news" stories.Let's start with some of the things where people are prepared to put their names to the claims.  The Registerreportsthat Vijay Rakesh, an analyst at ThinkEquity analyst, told investors in an advisory note on  Thursday that checks with manufacturers suggested "some minor delays" in ramping up production for the tablet. They can only make 200,000 to 250,000 iPads per month at present; production may not hit 800,000 to 1m units per month until at least April."We believe this is just a minor hiccup in a longer-term entirely new revenue stream and product road map for [Apple]," Rakesh wrote.Earlier this week another US analyst, Peter Misek at Canaccord claimed that "unspecified production problems" will hold initial availability to about 300,000 units - and said Apple may keep the iPad to the US only or delay the launch into April.This was then contradicted by DigiTimes - usually the fount of unspecified vague insights into the Taiwanese and Chinese computer manufacturing insights which turn out to be bang on 50% of the time, and completely off the other 50% - which was told by Foxconn Electronics that everything's on schedule and that it should be able to ship between 600,000 and 700,000 iPads this month.Apple said.. nothing. Conclusion: they all could be right. The iPad was announced in January, and if Foxconn has been making 200,000 for a couple of months, it's got a nice stockpile sitting waiting for a container ship. Meanwhile Foxconn could be ramping up production towards that 800K figure. So we conclude: forecasts of a US-only launch unlikely to come true. And "delays into April"? Remember thatat the launch(scroll to 7.22pm) Steve Jobs announced that they Wi-Fi only models would go on sale in 60 days, the 3G models in 90 days because they "require approval from carriers". 90 days from the iPad launch takes you... into April.OK. Assume that it is going to launch in the UK at about the same time as in the US. Two questions: how much will it cost? And which networks will the 3G version be available on?The cost question is interesting. Apple has told us itwon't announce the UK price until it launches at the "end of March". We'vedone our own calculation (helped by Macworld)which gives us a starting price guess of £424 for the 16GB Wi-Fi only (Macworld suggests £388), ranging up to £705 for the Wi-Fi/3G 64GB model (Macworld: £693).And which operators? No clues. Obviously, we speak to our contacts there; but so far they've had little to offer.So what then are we to make of the sudden flurry of emails recently from really small sites (and I do mean really small) which claim to know the launch date and/or chosen carrier?Here's an example I received recently: "We just got word on Vodafone being the official launch partner of the iPad in the UK, direct from Vodafone. Details in the below blog post. This is from the same guy who provided details that O2 would be the Palm Pre's UK carrier well before announcement."And a link to the site. But we're not going to link it here. I'll explain why in a moment.Then there was the email from another site which said it had the price for the low-end iPad: "We are pretty confident regarding the pricing, the tip came from a source who works closely with Apple UK, obviously we can't say much more about this."We are 99% sure that the base model will be £389, regarding the other prices of the 32GB and 64GB models, our source said that these are likely to be the prices, although he did mention that the prices on the last two aren't set in stone as yet."(I should point out that the other site didn't approach me; I contacted it to ask how sure they were of their sources.)Hmm, so have we missed a trick? Are we getting blown out of the water by dedicated bloggers running niche sites who have contacts in just the right places? Perhaps. But consider another possibility. I spoke to someone who has very good contacts in the mobile phone industry.The reply: "My source at Voda says nothing signed yet but is checking, also it's kinda weird but [the person quoted in the Vodafone story] left a year ago."So why the certainty in that story? My contact noted: "There are going to be more and more stories like this as the collapse in online advertising has pushed sites into e-commerce and they need the links from [the Guardian] to push them up the [search] rankings. There are quite a few mobile phone so-called bloggers already in the UK who are actually little more than affiliate channels for the mobile phone operators. That's often how they get their stories. Watch the links when you click through, it's often quite instructive. There is, for instance, a very well respected UK mobile phone blogger who gets a lot of very good Orange scoops. Of course he does, my mates at Orange point out, the other half of his business is a retailer for Orange so he finds out about new phones at the same time as the rest of the channel. Is that journalism? Who knows these days."We conclude: the maths suggests that the iPad will very likely come in around the £389-£399 mark (we like the Macworld number better than ours, which by being above £400 isn't a marketing-friendly price sticker). Networks? Whichever ones can handle the micro-sims that the iPad uses. Given that Apple is still with only one network in the US, but in the UK has signed up three (O2, Orange and Vodafone; Tesco is a virtual MNO), it's hard to know whether it will try to be a kingmaker again or prefer to spread the love like butter among them all. Rationally, being on all three (while making them think it's exclusive until it's announced) would be better for sales - people could just add an iPad plan to their existing contracts.OK? We hope that puts your minds at rest about prices and operators. As for launch dates... well, Apple traditionally goes with Tuesdays or Fridays. Strictly, 60 days from the iPad announcement puts you on Sunday 28 March, so take your pick: Monday 29th, or Friday 26th? Or might it get pushed further along? As for the 3G version, if there's a 90-day delay, then you're not going to see it until April 27 (on the 90-days-from-iPad-ground-zero principle). So even that US analyst could be right.And remind us what you'd be buying an iPad for? We're interested to hear.
The march of the mobile goes on and on but it is now taking off in a new direction with goodness knows what consequences. Until recently, the mobile phone's distinguishing feature was its ability to gobble up competing products in a way that no other consumer product ever has. I used to keep a tally of all the products that could have been sold separately but which have been cannibalised by the mobile: cameras, calculators, books, video cameras, music players, satellite navigation and so on. When the list reached 60, I gave up, because the arrival of the iPhone and iPod Touch made the list of extra products grow exponentially.Now the mobile is moving into new terrain. Having satiated its ravenous appetite for existing products, it is creating services that only exist because of its unique technology. For those who don't have one of the new smartphones boasting augmented reality – say 99% of all the people on the planet – it might be helpful to imagine the screen of your mobile as a radar device. When you are looking at the screen as if you are about to take a photo the "radar" (a mixture of wireless, satellite positioning and cellphone triangulation) picks up whatever data there is within whatever distance you choose. If you are looking at the screen using, say, Google's Layar, and rotating yourself 360 degrees, you might find dozens of messages left by twitterers less than a mile away, photos from websites, relevant data from the Wikipedia or whatever. One new iPhone app, Worksnug, gives you a panoramic view of all the public Wi-Fi hotspots around you: the idea is to build up a community of people working in public spaces. If you point Google's Goggles app on its new Nexus One phone at a picture of, say, the Mona Lisa on a computer it immediately recognises what it is and comes up with all sorts of relevant information. Google's SkyMap app enables you to see current patterns of stars in the sky. Owners of these smartphones in effect have a CCTV camera in their pockets, only with a far wider range than the static ones libertarians complain about. The only difference is that in this case people have (mostly) given their permission for the data they generate to be monitored, even if they are often unaware of what they have let themselves in for. We are only at the very beginning of a new era in the application of mobiles where the sky is literally the limit.Notice I have been writing about apps for once without much mention of the iPhone. This isn't because the landscape has suddenly changed. The iPhone family is still galaxies ahead in the popularity of its apps. But the arrival of Google is suddenly a big, big threat which helps to explain why Apple is suing HTC, the manufacturer of Google's Nexus One phone, for infringement of patents. Apple's own augmented reality screen can see a huge threat from Google looming over the horizon.Why? It is partly because Google apps are based on open source – balm for the bedroom coder – rather than being behind Apple's beautiful though closed wall. But it is mainly because Google controls the world's information. If data is the gold dust of the new era, then Google will own the deepest mine. If, like me, you are willingly immersed in a snowstorm of Google products from GMail to mapping and Google Earth, then a phone like the Nexus One (sold from Google's website) which has access to everything about me is both a potentially awesome product in its own right and a huge threat to my liberty if Google misuses that information. It may be of significance that my cameraphone comparison site – which reached a peak of more than 21,000 views a day this week – shows a far higher level of initial interest in Google's Nexus One phone than in any previous one. Apple, be warned.Google is nicking one of the secrets of Apple's success: the more you can control, the better user experience you can give. This is very bad for individual freedom and for the openness of the web but it probably won't worry most users if it delivers a great experience: you can always change your phone every 18 months or sooner on pay-as-you go. But what if years from now Google's monopoly of search is extended to the phone itself? Or what if Nokia – which has been agonisingly slow to get its apps store together but still has a claimed 37% of the global market for phones – exploits its latent strength with more vertical integration? There may not be any danger to the world economy as a whole if there are a cluster of vertically integrated silos as long as one – whether Apple, Google, Nokia orSamsung or HTC – doesn't become as powerful as Google is in search and Microsoft in operating systems. There is a kind of underlying paradox at work: the greater the user experience, the worse the dangers of an unacceptable monopoly developing.While on the subject of economics, the profession, distracted by the credit crunch, has a lot of work to do to understand the impact of phones on economic growth. There is evidence that the explosion of mobiles is a stimulant to GDP (gross domestic product) particularly in developing countries such as India, as a recent report funded by Vodafone showed.But what about the huge number of products not now being purchased because they are bundled into your mobile – let alone the thousands of products that come free? Since mobile devices are still falling in price in real terms, it is certain that far less is being spent on mobiles than would have been on the products they absorbed.Of course, GDP is not necessarily affected, because not having to purchase so many different products will leave more money in our pockets to buy other things. But it is almost certainly the case that GDP has fallen compared with what would otherwise have been the case while our personal satisfaction – with having so many products in a single device – will have gone sharply up. The disruptive power of the mobile knows no end.
A leading law firm is being investigated over claims that it bullied and harassed hundreds of people wrongly accused of illegal filesharing.The Solicitors Regulation Authority, an industry watchdog, said it is investigating a complaint brought against Davenport Lyons, the London-based solicitors' firm that has led a number of prosecutions against illegal filesharers.The consumer group Which?first made an official complaint in 2008, after a number of people contacted it to say that they had received letters from Davenport Lyons demanding payment for illegal downloads that were nothing to do with them.Which? said that the letters - which usually threatened legal action if immediate payments of hundreds of pounds were not made - were "excessive" and often rested on little evidence of wrongdoing.Earlier that year, the firm was instrumental in securing the country's record ruling against an alleged filesharer - a £16,000 judgmentagainst a London woman accused of illegally downloading a pinball game worth £26.Shortly afterwards, the company launched an anti-piracy campaign that involvedsending letters to thousands of peopleaccusing them of illegally downloading games, movies and pornography.But the nature of that action was the subject of heavy criticism when many alleged downloaders said they were wrongly targeted.The Guardian reported the case of a couple in their 60s who wereaccused of illegally downloading a pornographic film - despite the fact that they do not know how to do so, while the BBC alsoreported that similar accusations had left people feeling "upset, scared and angry".Deborah Prince, the head of legal affairs at Which?, said that she was pleased by the investigation - even if the complaint has taken more than a year to come under consideration."We're pleased to see some action at last from the SRA and hope the tide is finally turning in favour of consumers," she said. "We now want to see some decisive action to stop these bully-boy tactics."A representative of Davenport Lyons was unavailable for comment - but in the past, the firm has said that the accusations are "simply wrong".The news comes as the House of Lords considers the hotly-contested digital economy bill - which could give ministers the power to disconnect alleged filesharers andlet the courts block websites containing copyright-infringing material.On Wednesday a series of changes were pushed through which turned up the pressure on the already-contentious bill. While the controversial clause 17 -which potentially gave parliament the right to change copyright law- was dropped, a new amendment was added which critics say could end up with major websites such as YouTube being unfairly blocked by internet service providers.The music industry welcomed the move, which they said was a step in the right direction."We are pleased that parliament have recognised that legislation to tackle non-peer-to-peer piracy needs to be as robust as that planned to limit peer-to-peer," said a spokesman for the BPI, Britain's record industry association.However the Internet Service Providers' Association said that it was "outraged" by the changes, which it said were "hastily constructed".Under the new proposals, the high court could force ISPs to block websites containing "substantial" amounts of copyrighted material if the rights holder demands it - regardless of whether the website had any knowledge of the actions of its users."ISPA has been supportive of peers' excellent scrutiny of the bill to date," said Nicholas Lansman, the organisation's secretary general. "However, in this instance, our members are extremely concerned that the full implications of the amendment have not been understood and that the reasoning behind the amendment is wholly misguided."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; If the decision byActivisiontotake control of the Call of Duty franchise from its Infinity Ward subsidiarywas a surprise, then the next stage of the story is anything but: Jason West and Vince Zampella, the two executives who mysteriously parted ways with the company on Mondayhave filed a $36m lawsuit. In it, they allege wrongful termination and breach of contract and say that they are not being paid for what they have rightfully earned (the game has brought in more than $1bn in revenue).&bull; Forget the idea thatAmerica is losing a cyberwar, put forward by senior former officials at theRSA security conferencethis week. In fact, says Obama's cybersecurity adviserthere is no cyberwar. More accurately, Howard Schmidt says it's a bad idea to think of a 'war' at all. Tell that to Hillary Clinton, who dredged up a bucket load of cold war rhetoric ina recent speechlaying into China.&bull; Meanwhile the conflict between China andGoogle- the thing that really kicked off this whole bag of beans - seems to be gettingsomewhere.Chinese officials say they're working to alleviate Google's concerns. Remember, though: for all of the tough talk from the Silicon Valley company, we're now almost two months on from its threat to lift the censorship of its Chinese search engine... and there's been nothing. All talk and no action, or clever diplomacy?You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It's likely that you don't know a lot about John Herlihy, the head of global advertising operations for Google. He's not a publicly-recognised figure in the same way as Eric Schmidt, Larry Page or Sergey Brin, and - like many vice-presidents at big corporations - he doesn't get a great deal of time in the limelight.But he is certainly basking in it today, after a series of comments -reported by Silicon Republic- caused a stir around the web."In three years time, desktops will be irrelevant," he told an audience at University College Dublin. "In Japan, most research is done today on smartphones, not PCs.""Mobile makes the world's information universally accessible. Because there's information and because it will be hard to sift through it all, that's why search will become more and more important. This will create new opportunities for new entrepreneurs to create new business models - ubiquity first, revenue later."Various camps reacted in a mixture of ways. Desktops? Irrelevant? What? What does this tell us about Google? What does it tell us about the future? What, oh, what does it allmean?The truth is, he's right.It's been obvious for a very long time that the traditional desktop computer is going to become an artifact of history, at least outside offices and hardcore nerds. Laptops and netbooks have become much more important parts of the computer market, and the volume of powerful mobile phones continues to rocket. The writing has been on the wall for desktop PCs for a long time.Three years may be pushing it, but in fact, this development issoobvious that stating it in such fist-pumping terms borders on the inane. It's as if he stood yelling "Communism is a bankrupt philosophy!" a decade after the Berlin Wall fell.Perhaps I'm being a little harsh - but the point stands.Despite that, though, there are other interesting twists in what he said that are worth examining more closely.First off, there's the fact that he's toeing the party line. In many ways, Herlihy was echoing thecomments made by Eric Schmidt at Mobile World Congress a couple of weeks ago, when he said the company was moving to a "mobile first" strategy."Culturally it is time to figure out a way to say yes to the emergentnew services and ideas that will not come from Google but from thoseliterally millions of companies and programming shops that will bebuilt on this new platform,"he said."Now is the time for all of us to get behind it. What I would suggestto you here, right now, at Mobile World Congress is to understand thatthe new rule is 'mobile first'; mobile first in everything.. it's time for us to make mobile first the right answer."So what we're hearing is the mobile drumbeat from Google. They want us -and their rivals- to know that they're serious.Secondly, there's the fact that this mobile drumbeat conflicts with everything that Google is doing in the PC business. If the desktop is irrelevant,what does that mean for itsChrome operating system? For itsweb browser? For all the people relying on its desktop business?Google doesn't have a great track record of keeping products alive once they're outside of its target area... so should the users - and developers - attached to those systems be worried?Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly,there's a level of hubrisin all this that leaves me more than a little concerned.The implication of Herlihy's words is not simply that there will be "new opportunities for new entrepreneurs". The coded message is that there will be new opportunities for Google. And with $24bn in the bank and an acquisitive hunger that seems insatiable, you wouldn't bet against them trying to dominate these new markets just as they do search.Indeed, Herlihy also said that Google's culture is based on "relentless brutality and execution" - the kind of warning to rivals that is not easy to miss (it's worth readingour extract from Ken Auletta's book on Googlefor more insight here, too).Thanks to the European commissionand theUS regulators, we're already seeing a few chickens starting to look at their watches and think about heading home.When you've grown up in a culture of "don't be evil", it's easy to see everything you do in a positive light. But if you're in Google's path,the conflict between these two images- a quirky web business and a relentless machine - is hard to overcome. Perhaps Steve Ballmer wasn't so out of step earlier this week when he saidGoogle's success was largely the product of incumbency, not culture.Ballmer's probably in a better place to judge, since he will recognise the attitude of making sweeping pronouncements about the future while simultaneously intimating thatyouare that future - because it's precisely what his company did while it watched its in-built advantages slip away. To me, Google's language today sounds eerily reminiscent of Microsoft at its peak.So, there's little doubt in my mind that desktops will be irrelevant sooner rather than later. But the bigger question is whether Google making that sort of statement sounds like the dawn of an empire, or the end of one?
Yes, I'm already beginning to regret that headline, but what the heck, let's go with it. Electronic Arts has announced today that it'll be publishing two promising independently produced titles via its EA Partners arm. The wonderfully namedDeathSpankand the slightly darker sounding Shank, will both appear on Xbox Live Arcade and PSN later this year.The former is a comical action RPG, written by Monkey Island genius Ron Gilbert, and developed by Vancouver-based newcomer,Hothead Games. The press release describes it as, "an epic adventure game that includes collecting loot, crazy puzzle solving, witty dialogue, collecting loot, over-the-top animations, fun, accessible action combat, and of course, collecting loot." Yep, that sounds like Gilbert alright. It has the look of a cartoon-ified Diablo, or an RPG-erised Castle Crashers, both of which sound pretty inviting.Shank, meanwhile, is a side-scrolling brawler with a bright graphic novel look that seems to combine Sergio Leone, The Gorrillaz and Streets of Rage into one irresistible package. Indeed, the game is up for the "Excellence in Visual Art" award at this Independent Games Festival. Klei Entertainment is another fresh-faced Vancouver-based studio, best-known for its brilliant XBLA titles N+ (alongside Slick Entertainment) and Eets: Chowdown.DeathSpank: Ron Gilbert does Diablo...This is heartening stuff from EA, which is extending its reach ever deeper into the emerging casual, social gaming and digitally distributed realms. The EA Partners division was previously all about forging marketing and distribution deals with larger developers - i.e. working with Id on Rage, Harmonix on Rock Band and Grasshopper Manufacturer on its unannounced forthcoming survival horror title. Now, however, the remit has been extended to supporting small studios with offbeat design concepts. It's testament to the growing importance and creative energy of the indie sector. Next stop -War Twaton Wiiware...
Can you recommend a good broadband speed checker? I've used the Broadbandchoices.co.uk checker for over a year, getting average download speeds of around 6Mbps with a TalkTalk deal that gives me "up to 8Mbps". Last month, however, this dropped to 2.7Mbps and stayed there. TalkTalk took me through some checks and finally directed me to their own test site, which returned a speed of 6Mbps. Checking with some of the other testers available, I receive answers ranging from 2.4 to 5.3Mbps. Who's right?Robin O'ConnorBroadband speed checking is variable. If you get similar results on several checkers, then that's probably a reflection of your real internet speed. If you get different results, there's no way of knowing which is accurate, but I'd generally assume that the majority view is more likely to be correct -- if there is one.However, I don't expect this would cut much ice with a supplier, who should have more insight than anyone else into which checker best reflects that particular ISP's performance. Or, possibly, provides the most flattering reflection, because the ISP has optimised its network for the test site.Chris Marling from Broadband Genie reckons the two best online speed tests are the ones from Think Broadband and Speedtest.net. "We have the Think Broadband one on oursite athttp://www.broadbandgenie.co.uk/speedtest," he says. He also suggests using a cable for the test, not a Wi-Fi connection: "it's amazing what speed you can lose over a wireless network, depending on what is around you. Someone may even be leeching your connection!"Broadband Genie has its ownBasic guide to speed checking.I've also usedBroadband Speedchecker.co.uk. If you enter your post code, you can see what speeds other people in your neighbourhood are getting, plotted on Google Maps.Bear in mind that real internet bandwidth will vary with the time of day, the time of the year, whether any "traffic shaping" is being applied, and several other things. Speeds will be slowest at peak times, especially early in the evenings. (ISP's use traffic shaping to share out the available bandwidth, and often to limit the use of peer-to-peer file sharing.) If you want speed tests to be comparable, you need to do them on the same PC at about the same time.Also, as Alex Salter from theSam Knows Broadbandsite points out, "a web-based test cannot take into account anything inside the home such as the quality of the wiring, the power/age of the pc, whether it's wired/wireless, and so on." If a speed test result doesn't look good, how does it compare with a different PC plugged directly into the same router? How does your result compare with one from someone else on the same street?In the future, there should be a better answer to "Which is the best broadband speed checker?" Alex Salter says that Sam Knows Broadband is working with theInternet2 consortiumin the US on a checker that "uses a test developed by serious academics and runs on the Google infrastructure." Have a look at the useful if geeky tools atGoogle-backed M-Labmeasurement lab.The finished version will have something like the traditional speedometer look-and-feel.
Crime mapping - overlaying the sites and times of crimes onto maps - turned out to be one of the crux topics where it became clear that the Free Our Data campaign was actually getting some traction.First, the two parties vied with each other to push it - in mid-2008 Boris Johnson said he'd introduce it if elected mayor (he was, he did) but not to be outdone, the then home secretary Jacqui Smith mandated crime mapping by all police forces by the end of December 2008. They did.However, those implementations weren't very satisfactory (despite what ministers might tell you) because they were limited in how much they could tell you. And you also couldn't plot the raw data yourself; you were presented with the maps.Now, however, there is going to be a crime mapping API - meaning that developers can plot them onto maps of their own choosing, and in their own way.The API is athttp://policeapi.rkh.co.uk/, and explains itself simply enough:"The Police API allows you to retrieve information about neighbourhood areas in all 43 English &amp; Welsh police forces. All forces are required to keep this data accurate and up to date, so the API provides a rich and definitive data source for information such as Neighbourhood team members; Upcoming events;  Crime levels &amp; statistics; Nearest police stations"The API is implemented as a standard XML REST web service using HTTP GET/POST requests - which means that it should be easy for developers to create mashups quickly.There are also code examples provided (so if you want to report a crime around the Guardian's offices - against the English language, perhaps - you'd use somegenerated by this query). API requests are limited to 500 per day.You can pull out crime data for a specific area viahttp://policeapi.rkh.co.uk/crime-area/. In fact, as one of the developers points out, "The data available via the API covers almost everything you can access viaCrimeMapper."Which has good and bad points. Good, in that you can overlay it onto maps you choose yourself - perhaps theOrdnance Survey's OpenspaceAPI (which gives lovely OS maps down to surprisingly large scales), orOpenStreetMap, or evenUKMap(if you're using it, which we hear the Land Registry might - at least to accept property details).Bad, though, in that you still don't get any useful detail. Crimes often aren't actually assigned to real locations; they're made vague. Sometimes you see what looks like a crime hotspot; it turns out to be the police station, because that's where the crimes arereported. A strange mix of data protection wibblery and the British reluctance to let anyone know any sort of personal detail unless it's on page 3 of the Daily Mail or Daily Telegraph, in which case anything goes, seems to apply.So unlike the peerless original, chicagocrime.org (which nowrelocates to an Everyblock site), you can't seewherethings have actually happened - unless they're things you probably don't care that much about. By contrast, a random click on the Everyblock link there takes me to the 00 block of North Lamon Avenue in Chicago where there was a report at 9.50am on February 23 of "Narcotics: manufacturing/delivery of heroin (white)". Detailed enough for you? By contrast, you can find out that the level of robbery in London's W1 is high (http://maps.police.uk/view/metropolitan/, keep zooming in) - but nothing about where things have happened.But the police here have never really wanted to give away their crime reports, and the information commissioner, in backing up the claims that reporting the location of crimes would somehow intrude on privacy, has helped them. It's instructive to revisit the attitudes to this with the police, which were ably summed up by the former Met Police deputy assistant commissioner Brian Paddick, who you might expect (given that he was subsequently a Liberal Democrat candidate for London mayor) to be welcoming in his views.Not according to the interview he gave on the Today programme in May 2008, which wetranscribed on the Free Our Data blog.Here's part of how it went.Q: But it's just telling people where crime happens.Paddick: But we should be focussing on what will improve the effectiveness of police. The New York success of accountability didn't come through making the crime data available to the public, but to Comstat, where police commanders were compared to their peers in open forum. We have tried that in London, where we have half dozen commanders – we asked those who do better what the secret is so they can tell the others…. The police already use crime mapping data themselves, using it in a sophisticated way. The only difference between what happens [now] and what Boris Johnson is suggesting [in proposing crime mapping] is that of making it public.Q So the police already have mapping street by street to decide where to deploy resources – all Boris Johnson is suggesting is to make it public.Paddick: yes… there are systems to hold police commanders accountable though meetings. Making crime maps available down to street level is a lot of pain for very little gain.Q But if we do what New York did, why might we not get better results?Paddick: It has to be said that Comstat process – that is, holding local police commanders to account in one room and account for why crime had gone up or down – whether or not that worked depended who was chairing the meeting. It's not a very British thing to hold people to account in front of their peers. It had mixed results depending on how the chair held them to account.You have to love that bit about "It's not a very British thing to hold people to account in front of their peers." Then again, MPs are getting used to it....
Google's staff probably got lots of gold stars when they were in kindergarten, and they liked the idea so much, they've built it into products such as Gmail, Google Reader … and now, Search.The Official Google Blogsays: "With stars, you can simply click the star marker on any search result or map and the next time you perform a search, that item will appear in a special list right at the top of your results when relevant."The star marker that turns gold will also be familiar to regularTwitterusers. Using it on a tweet adds it to your Favorites folder.Stars also sync with Google Bookmarks and the Google Toolbar, if you happen to use either of those.Google says that Stars replace its SearchWiki service, which hardly anyone seemed to use. However, if you did, your SearchWiki data has not been thrown away.Stars also enable users to "favourite" things instead of bookmarking them. This could be part compensation for the unfriendly implementation of bookmarking in Google's Chrome browser. It also provides another example of a Google lock-in system, since you can take your bookmarks to another search engine, but you can't take your Google Stars with you.The Stars feature for Google Search and Maps will be rolled out in stages, so you'll just have to wait for it to appear. I haven't got it yet….
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Senior security experts have criticised the west's approach to online threats, suggesting that not enough is being done to stem the growing tide of cyberattacks.Michael Chertoff, a former secretary at the US Department of Homeland Security, said on Wednesday that current cybersecurity policies were a "recipe for disaster" that could inadvertently encourage a virtual attack equivalent to "the next Pearl Harbour".Meanwhile former White House counter-terrorism adviser Richard Clarke said that officials continued to underestimate the sheer scale of hacking attacks taking place around the world."What's really happening is that every day we are really being attacked, either by the government or by criminal gangs - and there's very little difference between the two - from China and Russia," he said."Every major company in the United States and Europe, every major government institution, has been successfully penetrated. Terabytes, petabytes of data have been stolen and our firewalls don't stop it. The day to day espionage is eliminating our economic competitiveness."The issue of online spying and cyberwarfare has become a hot topic in recent months, following reports of attacks on majorinstitutionsandmilitary projects.In January Google revealed that it, along with a number of leading American companies, had been subjected to a targeted attack over the internet, which investigatorsbelieve came from inside China.The attack - apparently aimed at stealing proprietary information from Google as well as emails belonging to Chinese dissidents - led the internet giant tothreaten to lift the censorship of its Chinese search engine in protest.Speaking at the RSA computer security conference in San Francisco, Chertoff said that tracing the source of hacking strikes was still too difficult – and that computer security was so complex that few felt able to tackle it."It's my belief that the solution seems so complicated to the average person, they can't really understand it and they feel disempowered and they ignore it," he said.Clarke, who became notorious for his damning criticisms of George W Bush in the wake of the September 11 attacks, said that not only was tracing the source of cyberstrikes difficult – but that the nature of online warfare was often lopsided."We know North Korea has engaged in cyberattacks on South Korea and the United States," he said. "They launched those attacks from China because they have so little connectivity in their own country. But to say you could have mutually assured destruction? There's nothing to attack in North Korea.""When we went into Afghanistan in 2001, I asked the National Security Agency to provide a plan to attack also with cyberwar techniques. They came back to me and said 'what the shit are we going to attack?'."Shortly before Christmas, the White House ended a six-month search to appoint a new cybersecurity adviser by bringing in a former Bush adviser, Howard Schmidt to coordinate America's responses to online attack.Meanwhile in Britain, the government announced plans last summer tocreate a new centre aimed at blocking foreign hackers.But Chertoff said action was too slow and often failed to come up with clear plans and ways to combat online dangers."We need a clear policy of retaliation, we need to say what the red lines are - what we do in this case or that case. Hard issues, and we may disagree, but we've got to start talking about this," he said.
&bull; The confusingDigital Economy billcontinues, with the Lib Dems and Tories forcing through a surprise amendment to the notorious Clause 17 -the one that had internet companies so concerned. Except it may turn out to be a pyrrhic victory because, whether well-intentioned or not, the change has certainly got up the noses of campaigners who say thenew version is even more draconian.&bull; After yesterday'sinformation about Facebook's revenue, today it'sTwitter's turn to have its numbers examined. Nothing on money yet, but their growth continues to be explosive. In an email to users, co-founder Biz Stone said that accounts have grown 1500% in the last year, the number of staff grew by 500% and there are now 70,000 registered Twitter applications. Where next?Trying to make money out of it all, of course.&bull; And that's a convenient place to segue into a quick housekeeping notice. We've relaunched our Games-related Twitter feed as@gdngames- an easy way to get all our stories, blogposts, reviews and commentary pinged to you - as well as contributions from the bloggers, Keith, Greg and Jack.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
One of the most contentious parts of the controversial digital economy bill was voted down by the House of Lords last night – only to be replaced by a clause that campaigners say is even more draconian.The Liberal Democrats forced through a surprise amendment to the bill's notorious clause 17 on Wednesday – in a move that dealt a defeat to the government but troubled critics, who suggest it will have the opposite effect that its creators intend.Instead of sweeping new powers thatthreatened sweeping alterations to British copyright law, the Lib Dems added a clause that gives extra oversight to the high court.The new proposal – which was passed in the House of Lords by 165 votes to 140 – gives a high court judge the right to issue an injunction against a website accused of hosting a "substantial" amount of copyright infringing material, potentially forcing the entire site offline.Putting forward the amendment, Lib Dem peer Lord Clement-Jones said that it would placate concerns over the so-called "three strikes" rule –which could see those accused of sharing files illegally online having their internet connections cut off– and added that it was a "more proportionate, specific and appropriate" way to approach infringement than the previous proposals made by the government."I believe this is going to send a powerful message to our creative industries that we value what they do, that we want to protect what they do, that we do not believe in censoring the internet but we are responding to genuine concerns," he said.But instead of making the proposed system more transparent and accountable, critics say it will simply leave it open to abuse."This would open the door to a massive imbalance of power in favour of large copyright holding companies,"said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group. "Individuals and small businesses would be open to massive 'copyright attacks' that could shut them down, just by the threat of action.""This is exactly how libel law works today: suppressing free speech by the unwarranted threat of legal action. The expense and the threat are enough to create a 'chilling effect'."In particular, there are concerns that the amendment could follow in the footsteps of America's controversial Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which has been accused of encouraging companies to file bogus copyright claims to block material they dislike.The high costs and dangers of dealing with copyright claims in court mean that many web hosts simply take down the material in question without checking whether the copyright case is legitimate – even going as far as shutting down entire websites in some cases.Just last week the well-known whistleblower websiteCryptomewastaken offlinewhen Microsoft attempted to suppress the publication of its so-called "spy guide" by issuing a copyright claim under the DMCA.When the site's service provider received Microsoft's request, it not only blocked the document in question but also effectively removed the entire Cryptome site from the web.Microsoft eventually retracted its claim in order to let the site – which had stayed online for years despite numerous run-ins with other companies and US government agencies – go back online.The new amendment could also have dire implications for websites like YouTube, where users can upload copyright-infringing material without the knowledge of the site's owners.The video sharing site, which is owned by Google, is already subject to a $1bn lawsuit by US media giant Viacom – but argues that it cannot screen every video that goes onto its site to check whether it infringes copyright. Given the large amounts of material hosted on the site, however, the whole thing could potentially be blocked by the high court.Lilian Edwards, a cyberlaw expert at Sheffield University,said that the new proposals had some benefits but also had sweeping downsides."For the first time, Sony and the rest can now go to court and demand that every ISP in the UK blocks YouTube," she wrote."There will in reality be no, or few, court applications - just non-publicised notifications. This is essentially legislation for cover extralegal censorship for the benefit of entrenched private interests."Such concerns mark only the latest controversy attached to the digital economy bill, which has caused upset since it wasfirst proposed last year.On Monday, Lord Puttnam said that the scheme wasbeing rushed through parliamentwithout sufficient scrutiny, and that legislators were subject to an "extraordinary degree of lobbying" from copyright holders.The bill must pass through the House of Lords before it can be put before the Commons and turned into law. Reading continues in the Lords on Monday.
As any good teacher knows, education is only partly about delivering information to young minds; the rest is helping children to work things out for themselves. Trying to solve a problem often helps to cement knowledge in the learner's mind far more effectively.It's no wonder, then, that one of the earliest uses for computers was creating educational games. I vividly recall playing an anti-litter computer game  at primary school: we had to choose between poster campaigns, fines or putting out extra bins. I put out bins until there was one on every corner. The virtual people still littered, but  I couldn't think why.Educational games have come a long way since then, and in the UK, broadcasters are providing a variety of games free online. The BBC has created a range forolderandyoungerchildren, although the educational value of some of these is dubious: a Blue Peter game consists of jumping from platform to platform collecting objects.Channel 4 has explored this area more ambitiously.Its game Routes, based on genetics, includes minigames such as Sneeze, about viral transmission, Breeder, a demonstration of heredity, and Ginger Dawn, which shows how recessive traits are transferred.Smokescreen, meanwhile, aims to improve knowledge about online safety, privacy and trust among teens, by simulating a Facebook-like site.Research suggests that more than 90% of children now play computer games, and there's nothing wrong  with games that are purely fun. But innovative educational games can be extremely powerful too. I still find myself wondering whether more posters or fines would prevent littering.
Spanish investigators have arrested three alleged ringleaders of the so-called "Mariposa" botnet, which had infected and controlled up to 12.7m PCs, including more than 500 of the US Fortune 1,000 companies and more than 40 major banks.The PCs, running Microsoft Windows, were spread among 190 countries, and infected by a computer virus that allowed the ringleaders to steal credit card details and online banking credentials, as well as sensitive data from the hard drives of the machines.The Spanish authorities worked with a number of private computer security companies, including Panda Security and Defense Intelligence, to track down the alleged controllers of the botnet, which seems to have been started in December 2008 and was first detected in May 2009. More arrests are expected in other countries.The arrests are significant because the masterminds behind the biggest botnets are not often taken down. And the suspects are not the stereotypical genius programmers often associated with cybercrime. Instead, they had underworld contacts who helped them to build and operate the botnet, Cesar Lorenza, a captain with Spain's Guardia Civil, which is investigating the case, told the Associated Press.Investigators are examining bank records and seized computers to determine how much money the criminals made."They're not like these people from the Russian mafia or Eastern European mafia who like to have sports cars and good watches and good suits. The most frightening thing is they are normal people who are earning a lot of money with cybercrime," Lorenza said.The three suspects, who were not named, were described as Spanish citizens with no criminal records. They face up to six years in prison if convicted of hacking charges.Spanish authorities identified them by their internet "handles" and their ages: "netkairo", 31; "jonyloleante", 30; and "ostiator", 25.Botnets are networks of infected PCs that have been hijacked from their owners, often without their knowledge, and put into the control of criminals. Linked together, the machines supply an enormous amount of computing power to spammers, identity thieves, and internet attackers, who can mount "denial of service" attacks against companies – or blackmail them by threatening to block them at crucial times.The Mariposa botnet, which has been dismantled, was easily one of the world's biggest. Christopher Davis, CEO for Defence Intelligence, who first discovered the Mariposa botnet, said: "It would be easier for me to provide a list of the Fortune 1000 companies that weren't compromised, rather than the long list of those who were."Davis said he noticed the infections when they appeared on networks of some of his firm's clients, including pharmaceutical companies and banks. But it was several months later before he realized the infections were part of something much bigger.After seeing that some of the servers used to control computers in the botnet were located in Spain, Davis and researchers from the Georgia Tech Information Security Center joined with software firm Panda Security, which is headquartered in Bilbao, Spain.Critically, one suspect made direct connections from his own computer seeking to reclaim control of his botnet after authorities took it down. Investigators were able to identify him based on that traffic, and were able to back up their claims with records from domains he registered where he would eventually host malicious content.It turned out that the people behind the botnet – its "runners" – had infected computers by instant-messaging malicious links to contacts on infected computers. They also uploaded viruses onto removable thumb drives and through peer-to-peer networks. The program used to create the botnet was known as Mariposa, from the Spanish word for "butterfly.""I don't think there's anything about this guy that makes him smarter than any of the other botnet guys, but the (Mariposa) software, it's very professional, it's very effective," said Pedro Bustamante, senior research adviser with Panda Security. "It came alive and started spreading and it got bigger than him."But, he added: "Our preliminary analysis indicates that the botmasters did not have advanced hacking skills. This is very alarming because it proves how sophisticated and effective malware distribution software has become, empowering relatively unskilled cyber criminals to inflict major damage and financial loss."While arrests of people accused of running smaller botnets are fairly common, the biggest botnet leaders are rarely caught. That's partly because it's easy for criminals to hide their identities by disguising the source of their internet traffic. Often, every computing resource they use is stolen.For instance, there have been no arrests – nor even any public idenfication of suspects – in the spread of the Conficker worm, which was set up in November 2008 and infected between 3m and 12m Windows PCs, causing widespread fear that it could be used as a kind of internet super-weapon.The Conficker botnet is still active, but is closely watched by security researchers. The infected computers have so far been used to make money in standard ways for such infected machines – pumping out spam and spreading fake antivirus software.
The relationship between developer and publisher, like the one between rock band and music label, is always going to be difficult, defined as it is by an unstable combination of exploitation, compromise and mutual incomprehension. The parties have different mindsets and, often, different long term objectives. It's like a highly dysfunctional romantic relationship – they need each other but, really, deep down, they don'twantto need each other. This tension often ends in tears.Two days ago, Activision madea filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission, citing "breaches of contract and insubordination by two senior employees at Infinity Ward." Infinity Ward is of course the developer behind the monumentally successful Call of Duty videogame series, and since 2003 it has been owned by Activision. Yesterday, it was discovered by numerous news sites that studio heads Vince Zampella and Jason West had been taken from the building by security personal (though the details have been subject to much fanciful decoration). The duo later updated their respective profiles on business networking site LinkedIn to show Infinity Ward as apreviousemployer.Kotaku published an image, supposedly from West's Facebook page in which his update states, 'Jason West is drinking. Also, unemployed.'Something bad happened. Nobody outside of the two companies really knows what. But that hasn't stoppedanyonefrom speculating...A US site named Binge Gamerrefers to unnamed sourceswho claim Infinity Ward has yet to see any royalties from Modern Warfare 2 (but the site acknowledges it has no idea about the financial details of the contract Infinity Ward and Activision have in place). There is speculation that the developer may have been in negotiations with other publishers. Certainly, tensions between the studio and its owner have been bubbling for a while - last year, when theOfficial PlayStation Magazine asked Jason West about Modern Warfarehe said, "We had to fight for everything... They wanted it to be World War 2. Again." Perhaps there were factions within Infinity Ward that just wanted to move on from the series. And as the last addition made $1bn, Activision possibly wasn't keen.Whatever the case, Activisionreleased a wordy press releaseyesterday in which it announced that Treyarch will be handling the main CoD release this year as expected, but after this there will be a fresh title in the series from a newly created wholly owned studio named Sledgehammer Games. From the release:"Sledgehammer is helmed by industry veterans Glen A. Schofield and Michael Condrey. Prior to joining Activision Publishing, Schofield was the Executive Producer of the award-winning game, Dead Space and Michael Condrey was the Sr. Development Director on the game. The Dead Space franchise has won more than 80 industry awards worldwide including the prestigious A.I.A.S. Action Game of the Year and two BAFTAS."Importantly, the press statement also reveals the fact that the Sledgehammer CoD title will "extend the franchise into the action-adventure genre." This, apparently, is part of a wider effort to expand this cash cow brand beyond its FPS stronghold. "We are excited about the opportunity to bring the franchise to new geographies, genres and players," said Mike Griffith, President and CEO of Activision Publishing.What of Infinity Ward? Well, news siteG4 now claimsto have seen an internal memo, in which Griffith assures staff that Infinity Ward is still central to Call of Duty, and that the Sledgehammer title will not be the CoD 2011 product mentioned in Yesterday's press release. It's quite possible, then, that Infinity Ward will still release Modern Warfare 3 next year and that Sledgehammer will work on a sort of spin-off that might arrive next year. Or the year after. However, all Activision has officially confirmed is that the Infinity Ward team is working on add-on packs for MW2. Is that perfectly clear?So what should we make of all this?Well, we know very little about the Infinity Ward situation, but it's something veterans will have seen time and time again. As Dean Takahashi of VentureBeatputs it:"A small developer creates a smash hit. They get acquired by a publisher. They grow that franchise to enormous heights, and then the disputes start about who gets more compensation, bonuses, credit, and whether the team that started the franchise is still the right team to carry it on past its ultra-creative pioneering phase. It's not unusual for game company founders to want to move on to a brand new idea for a game, and it's typical for game publishers to want them to work on the same franchise for the foreseeable future."What's interesting is that Activision has chosen this moment to announce expansion plans for the Call of Duty series and is desperate to assure allcomers that this is very much business as usual.Except it probably isn't, is it?Infinity Ward is filled with staff quite possibly loyal to their deposed heads of studio. I've visited dozens of studios like this and one thing is sure – they operate much more like families than factories. I've been to developers where the owners have done the clothes washing for staff during crunch periods, where the lowliest QA testers have made vital game design contributions overriding creative directors with years of experience. People matter.Beyond this are the familiar aims of brand maximisation. Activision's apparent belief that a strong franchise can simply be transferred from one studio or genre to another is a typical fallacy of the modern corporate mindset, in which individual creativity is a mere (if somewhat troublesome) cog in the money-making machine. When Bobby Kotick enraged gamers last year by declaring that he wanted totake the fun out of game development, he was merely expressing a familiar corporate distrust of the creative process. Because creation is messy and unreliable, and the parameters cannot be measured via spreadsheet tinkering or the algorithms of risk analysts.Sure, Call of Duty fanaticsshouldlap up Activision's proposed brand extensions. I mean, the theory is sound. But then it could be that those fanatics love CoD because it has made one marketplace – the movie-like battle FPS – totally its own. Will an action-adventure, an MMO, a Call of Duty casual Facebook dating service do the same?
Smartphone sales are growing fast, but "57% of smartphone users are disappointed with handset and application performance," claims a report from Fanfare (PDF: registration required). However, the results reflect a very small sample: "155 members of the public" and "the survey was conducted online and filled in anonymously," so don't bet your lunch on its applicability to the Great British Public.Most of the issues appear to be internet related, with streaming media, web browsers and social networking applications causing the most problems. And then there's the part that could be important to Fanfare, which offers automated testing services:"55% of respondents cannot tell whether individual problems stem from the handset or the mobile network and, as a result, 53% instinctively blame the smartphone manufacturer whenever an issue arises."Dissatisfied smartphone users typically tell their friends and family (57%) and social networking sites (58%), which could have a negative effect on sales. Indeed, it makes social networks much more of an influence on purchasing than "traditional media" (by 64% to 40%).Fanfare marketing man David Gehringer says: "The Apple App Store and Android Market have served up billions of app downloads, giving smartphone owners the ability to use their phones in new and exciting ways. But now that the novelty is wearing off, users want their applications to be more reliable."The report says:"Looking ahead, three quarters of respondents (74%) believed that handsets will become less reliable and that this is unacceptable. The vast majority (88%) said that they are happy to wait until handsets have proven reliability before purchasing – suggesting consumers are becoming more cautious as a result of negative experiences."I'd like this to be true, but I can't really see much evidence. It seems to me there's a big fashion element to smartphone sales and (based on a much smaller sample than 155) people like being one of the first to own a sexy new gadget. How well they can make it work it is another matter.Nor is this a criticism of media darlings such as Apple's iPhone, HTC and Google Android phones, various BlackBerry handsets and the odd Palm. All of these seem more reliable and usable than what I remember of the Nokia 7110 or8110(The Matrixphone), while disappointed iPhone owners seem to be a very rare breed indeed.So, are you happy with your smartphone, and if not, is the backlash about to start?
As many film critics have pointed out, Percy Jackson – Lightning Thief, the big screen adaptation of Rick Riordan's novel, is essentially Harry Potter does Greek myths. Jackson is an apparently average schoolboy who discovers that he has a magical secret – in this case, that he's the son of Poseidon – and so he must attend a secret school for magical beings, while coming up against dark magical forces intent on doing him a mischief.How this plays out on the DS is via lots and lots of turn-based team battles. Why, in this day and age, anyone would think that turn-based combat was interesting enough to base a whole game on is a mystery. In even the most poorly thought-out and lazily designed RPGs, there will generally at least be some elements of world exploration, or a smattering of tactics and planning to get to grips with, or some half decent graphics, orsomething.All Percy Jackson has is the fighting – battle after battle, interspersed with the most ham-fisted storytelling imaginable. In the many unanimated sequences interspersing the battles, uninspiring manga-esque characters pop up on screen and deliver pages of tedious expository dialogue, after which it's time to move on, board game-style (no exploration here), for yet another poorly animated skirmish.And these battles are hardly exciting – watch your energy gauge fill up; attack an enemy or heal an ally; every so often try to jab at the screen at the right moment to dodge or deflect an attack. After a spate of battles there's a spot of levelling up, followed by some more dialogue to read, then some more battles, and that's about it.It's slow, repetitive and, above all, boring. In the unlikely event that you happen to be a huge Percy Jackson devotee with a near-obsessive love of turn-based combat and lousy dialogue – congratulations, this one's for you. For everyone else, you're likely to have more fun setting yourself on fire and running around the garden screaming.
Let's be brief. You're a busy person. You can't be checking the@guardiantechTwitter feed all the time to see if there's a new games review or blog post up. No, you've got places to be, people to frag.So we've set up a dedicated Twitter account just for games coverage:@gdngames. It'll tell you when there's something new added on theGuardian's games page- vast globe-spanning thing that it is.So if you want to know when the latest reviews or columns or blogposts are up, it's the one to follow. Enjoy.OK, back to the fragging.
A new generation of radios could make it simpler for consumers to choose their station by name, regardless of whether it broadcasts on digital DAB or analogue FM or both. Listeners could then choose by content, without having to think about the different technologies used for broadcasting.In a demo of the prototype at Frontier Silicon's office in London yesterday, an off-the-shelf Roberts EcoLogic 1 radio was upgraded via a chip swap, given a factory reset, and then set to scanning for stations. It picked up the local DAB stations first, then the FM stations, and sorted them into alphabetical order. After that, you could scroll through all the available stations on its single-line display. It was simple, and it worked, even on a low-end radio.Update: Frontier Silicon's Pablo Fraile says:"While scrolling the station list, our software makes full use of the two lines of text available in DAB radios: the top line shows the station name, while the bottom line shows the multiplex name ("BBC National DAB" in this case) or the FM frequency accordingly. Once the station is selected and playing, the bottom line can show the multiplex/frequency, or additional information as selected by the user - scrolling text, signal quality, time/date, etc."The idea was originally floated in January by former media minister Siôn Simon in a parliamentary debate on the future of radio. He said that "the current generation of DAB sets has tended to make that move [to a new platform] a rather sharp distinction," and that "future sets will simply have a list of station names" (UK government prepares for DAB+ and proposes a new EPG for radio). He added:"We are already working with the industry on that system and encouraging its development and introduction as quickly as possible. That is a crucial difference that has not been widely promulgated or understood. It means that people can stay on FM and the new sets can service the same market."While planning a "digital switchover", the government has no plans to turn off FM broadcasting. It plans to use it for local radio. Future UK radios will therefore need to be able to handle DAB and FM, and preferably the new standard DAB+.Tony Moretta from Digital Radio UK said what I'd seen was a "proof of concept" demo, and that it didn't need additional hardware, so it didn't add cost. The system would now be refined by Frontier Silicon and the leading radio manufacturers, who were given the same demo last week at a Digital Radio Group meeting held by Intellect, the UK technology industry trade association."At the moment you've got a DAB mode and an FM mode, so manufacturers might want to add a 'mixed mode'," said Moretta. An alternative suggested by Frontier Silicon was to remove the band switch altogether. There were issues still to sort out, including what do with stations that appear more than once on FM. Should you just index the one with the strongest signal?The finished software would be offered in Frontier Silicon chip sets, which are used in most digital radios.Upgrading old sets would be hard, though some PC users could download the code and upgrade their DAB radios via the USB port, if fitted. Moretta did not think that most consumers would take this route, but it was something that needed to be addressed in the future. "What about over-the-air downloads like you do with a Freeview box? That's one of the things we're looking into," he said.Moretta would also like digital radios sold in the UK to meet the WorldDMB's Profile 1 specification, which is supported byFrontier Silicon's Venice 7 chipset, announced in September.The UK is still on DAB, and Moretta thinks France is going for DMB, while Germany ("with a few hiccups") and Italy will adopt DAB+. "So Profile 1 is a European standard in the sense that they're all going to be using systems supported in Profile 1," he said.The idea isn't that people will take their radios around Europe, though a few car drivers will. The issue is that radio manufacturers need standards that work over wide geographical areas, so they don't have to build different sets for different countries. With that being the case, a software system prototyped in Cambridge could reach a very wide audience indeed.Update: An expert reader pointed out that radio station naming wasn't always consistent. How would the software know that "Radio_1_" (as the station is called on FM) and "BBC Radio 1" (as it's called on DAB) are the same station? Tony Moretta says stations should be consistent, and "These are just some of the issues we need to work through as we develop it."
I have had a Dell Dimension 8250 for several years, and I have connected to it a set of speakers through which I listen to the radio whilst online. I am receiving a faint but audible music channel, which I can hear whether I am connected to the net or not.Jon GodfreyThis seems to be a common example (to judge by a Google search) of radio frequency interference or RFI, though it's not something I've heard on a PC. The speaker wires may be acting as an aerial and picking up a radio signal, which you then hear from the speakers. The loudspeakers may also be implicated: some models seem to have better shielding than others.You could try moving the speaker and mains cables, and folding up (rather than coiling up) any spare bits of wire, or changing to shorter, better-quality shielded speaker cables. If that doesn't work, try adding some ferrite rings to the speaker and mains cables. KSL Consulting has a web page,Solving Radio Interference (RFI) on Computer Speakers, which says:"Bunching the cables with cable ties to reduce their length will reduce the interference, as will winding each speaker cable around ferrite rings (winding at least 10 to 15 turns around the ferrite ring). The ferrite rings act as RFI filters, making the cables inefficient aerials. This reduces the level of the radio signal on the amplifier wiring. Ferrite rings can be purchased fromMaplin.co.uk under stock code QT26D."Maplin and similar stores also supplyclip-on ferritesandshielded cables.Note that Cat5 Ethernet cables can also act as aerials and deliver a radio signal to the PC motherboard.Ferrite rings are a cheap solution, if they work. Upgrading the speakers is a more expensive option.America's Federal Communications Commission (FCC) published the usefulInterference to Home Electronic Entertainment Equipment Handbook, which you can find online "preserved by KYES TV". It covers both radio and TV interference.
"Long-awaited" is an easy way to describe the forthcoming 360 (sadly not PC) titleAlan Wake.  "Silent Hill meets Twin Peaks" would be another. But perhaps the most useful is "hugely promising". I recently spent a couple of hours playing the early levels of the game and saw enough to suggest that at least some of the hype may be lived up to.Alan Wake, as you probably already know, is a survival horror/thriller/adventure game set in the US Pacific Northwest. The action sees you controlling the novelist and reluctant hero through misty woods and desolate lakesides in the search for his missing wife.From the opening scenes the influences are obvious and include Twin Peaks, The Shining, Steven King, and Lost. The later especially for the TV-style "previously on Alan Wake" recap which starts every chapter.  Twin Peaks is perhaps the biggest influence though and not just in the woodland scenery. There is a genuinely unsettling feeling when night falls in the game, reminscisent of the traffic light shots on the TV show.  One early section sees you outside your wooden holiday home fixing the power while the fog drifts in and the sun starts to set. Not the best situation to be in when your wife is inside the house and afraid of the dark. Cliched? Maybe, but there is a deftness of touch that keeps you on edge.The sections of the game I played were a mixture of chatting to the locals in the diner – damn fine cherry pie etc – and running round some dark woods. The latter involved bursts of combat and occasional sprints from light source to light source fending off an army of ghostly rednecks. Given that torchlight is a vital weapon – it holds the enemies at bay - most of the action I saw took place at night. Very quickly you get to love the healing and protective powers of the light, especially the glowing safe havens in the forest.The combat seems to work well. Unlike survival horror style games of the past there isn't the need – in what I saw any way – to scrupulously micromanage your ammo. You do need to be careful with the torch though. It recharges over time but in the panic of combat it is easy to over rely on the light and end up ploughing through batteries. Out of the weapons I saw the flare gun is an early favourite, especially for taking down more than one enemy. The game does seem to help you though. I died twice after running out of ammo and restarting with minimal supplies. On the third go the game took pity on me and armed with a full stock of bullets.  Clearly the adaptive skill level mentioned in myinterview with the developers Remedyseems to be working.Combat isn't all about the weapons though. For a start it did seem relatively easy to outrun enemies in most situations - or at least in those locations that were in the open forest. An early encounter with a chainsaw wielding maniac was less avoidable. It does throw up the question about AI though. Will we be fighting numerous, but unsophisticated, zombie like enemies throughout the game or will there more challenging foes later on? You would expect the latter of course, but I got the impression that the story and setting rather than the combat will be the defining memory of the game.Forget space marines or dusty brown combat zones,  Alan Wake is a beautiful looking game. The facial characterisation is almost up there with market-leader Mass Effect 2 but it is the environment that really impresses.  The Pacific Northwest setting is lovingly realised and there is an Oblivion-style urge to find a spot and gawp at the scenery. Talking ofOblivion, one thing that wasn't clearly obvious in the demo was how open-world the game would be. The section where I guided Wake through a dark forest to the sanctuary of a lit-up gas station did allow some deviation off the path, but the episodic TV structure would suggest that freedom may be relatively restricted. In practice this probably won't be an issue. Alan Wake is – seemingly – about playing a protagonist in a set plot rather than wondering off to choose your own adventure. Also, in an age of multiplayer free for alls, Alan Wake is resolutely single player.What else then? Well, the very occasional jumping parts were less successful with the controls not quite fluid enough. Let's hope there isn't too much platform stuff. Also the puzzles – for example moving some logs to get over a gate - seemed pointlessly easy, although I was at the beginning of the game. Elsewhere there is an excellent late-night radio chatshow that adds some GTA-style colour to the action. While more generally the script and voice acting are certainly above the gaming average – and given the importance of the plot to Alan Wake you have to hope they remain that way throughout the game.  What I have seen so far certainly puts it above Heavy Rain's occasionally clunky dialogue, though whether it matches that title's emotional intensity remains to be seen.Alan Wake was first announced in 2005 but judging by what I played so far it will be worth the wait. Just don't hold your breath for a sequel.
